-- Goldman Upbeat as Casino Bonds Withstand Crackdown: China Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-02-19T04:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/goldman-upbeat-as-casino-bonds-withstand-crackdown-china-credit.html
Goldman Sachs Asset Management says
Macau casino bonds that have rallied for 16 months are likely to
withstand any crackdown aimed at cleaning up the industry.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd.’s 8.5 percent dollar notes
due December 2020 rose every week this year for a 5.9 percent
return, with the yield touching a record-low 6.84 percent on Feb.
14, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on Galaxy
Entertainment Group Ltd.’s 4.625 percent yuan securities reached
3.48 percent yesterday, the least since they were sold in
December 2010. Casino stocks plunged the most since July after
the Times of London  reported  on Feb. 5 that a crackdown on
triad-linked junket operators was imminent.  “Previous cooling and policy measures have generally been
positive to the long-term health of the market,”  Salman Niaz , a
bond-fund manager in Singapore at Goldman Sachs Asset, said in a
Feb. 15 e-mail interview. “Given the high free-cash flow
generated by the operators and the limited leverage, the credit
profile is unlikely to deteriorate materially in the near
term.”  Record-low borrowing costs will help tycoons fund more than
$16 billion of expansion plans in the world’s biggest gambling
hub. Melco Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Ho, son of the
city’s former gaming monopoly holder Stanley Ho, said this month
he hadn’t heard of any crackdown and that his casinos were “jam
packed” over last week’s Chinese New Year holiday. Billionaire
Lui Che Woo’s Galaxy also had 100 percent occupancy.  Adelson, Wynn  Asian casino notes rose every month since September 2011 to
a record on Jan. 31, according to an  index  compiled by Credit
Suisse Group AG, and outpaced U.S.  counterparts  in January by
the most since May.  The former Portuguese colony ended Stanley Ho’s 40-year
monopoly on gambling in 2002, and by the end of last year it
played host to 35 casinos, according to government statistics.
The Hong Kong units of companies controlled by Sheldon Adelson
and Steve Wynn currently have plans to invest $6.6 billion on
new gaming tables and hotel rooms in the city.  Casino  revenue  in Macau rose 13 percent to $38 billion in
2012, according to data published by the Gaming Inspection and
Coordination Bureau, compared with $6.2 billion of takings on
the Las Vegas strip. CLSA Ltd. forecasts annual revenue in the
former colony will reach $100 billion by 2020.  ‘Substantial Expansion’  “The Macau businesses are highly cash generative and
there’s a substantial expansion in tables et cetera underway,”
 Edmund Harriss , London-based investment director at Guinness
Atkinson Asset Management, said in a Feb. 14 interview.
“Crackdowns are part and parcel of the industry. As a
bondholder, I see the businesses as attractive.”  Guinness manages $436 million of assets and owns Galaxy’s
yuan-denominated notes, Harriss said. Goldman Sachs Asset
Management oversees $854 billion globally, including emerging-
market debt funds that hold Melco’s Chinese-currency bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As middlemen and moneylenders, junket operators help bring
high-rollers to Macau, who account for 70 percent of casino
revenue. China will clamp down on the operators after the Lunar
New Year, the Times reported. Police detained people from at
least three of the biggest junket companies in December, the
Wall Street Journal reported in December.  “We haven’t heard anything like that,” Melco CEO Lawrence
Ho said on a conference call on Feb. 6. “We continue to be very
positive. This year is definitely going to be better than last
year.” Galaxy, Sands China Ltd., and MGM China Holdings Ltd.
all declined to comment when contacted earlier this month.  ‘Headline Risks’  Macau’s government will strengthen its licensing system for
junket operators and work with law enforcement to tackle
gambling-related crimes, Francis Tam, secretary for economy and
finance, said on Feb. 7.  “While crackdowns have resulted in headline risks, these
have only moderately restrained the fundamental story,”  Kevin McSweeney , a Toronto-based fixed-income manager at CI
Investments Inc., which manages $74 billion of assets including
casino bonds, said in an e-mail today. “Macau is an ever-
growing hub. While equities are subject to growth risk, cash
flow at these levels of gaming supply is excellent and pricing
power should provide a tailwind.”  China’s new leadership led by incoming president Xi Jinping
takes over in March, after pledging to cut lavish spending and
fight corruption. A crackdown on Macau junket operators can’t be
ruled out, Lantis Li, a Hong Kong-based gaming analyst at
Capital Securities Corp., said in an interview yesterday.  Visitors Surge  Macau received 994,192 visitors during the Golden Week
holiday from Feb. 10 through Feb. 16, with mainland Chinese
accounting for two-thirds of them, according to data published
by the tourist office on its  website . The total represents a 21
percent jump from same holiday in January last year.  “The trends on the ground are very strong, certainly with
the mass market,” said  Grant Govertsen , a Macau-based analyst
at Union Gaming. “Visitations and gaming levels are robust.”
Revenue will climb to as much as $44 billion this year, he said
in a Feb. 15 interview.  The cost of insuring Chinese sovereign bonds against non-
payment using five-year credit-default swaps dropped four basis
points this month to 65 in New York yesterday, according to data
provider CMA. It touched 72 basis points on Feb. 4, the highest
since October. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  New Resorts  The yuan was little changed at 6.2424 per dollar as of
12:14 p.m. in Shanghai, according to China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.02
percent to 6.3265, after gaining 0.11 percent last week while
the onshore market was shut for the Lunar New Year.  The  yield  on the government’s 10-year bonds was 3.60
percent yesterday, compared with 3.61 percent on Jan. 31. The
yield has climbed 25 basis points in the past six months as
growth in the world’s second-largest economy accelerated.  Wynn Macau Ltd. plans to invest $4 billion in a new resort
in Macau, which will add as many as 500 gaming tables, the
company said in June last year. MGM China Holdings will spend
$2.6 billion on its second casino resort in the gambling hub,
according to an October statement.  Galaxy is allocating $2.1 billion to add 500 tables by 2015,
it said in April. A new round of expansion could start by early
2014 on Macau’s Cotai strip, costing as much as HK$50 billion
($6.4 billion), spokeswoman Yoko Ku said in an interview in
December.  Casino Stocks  The Bloomberg Industries Macau (China)  Index  of six gaming
stocks dropped 6.7 percent in the two days through Feb. 7. It
made up most of that decline by Feb. 15 before falling 3.8
percent so far this week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Galaxy’s stocks dropped 5.2 percent today, snapping a
three-day gain since trading resumed in Hong Kong after the
Lunar New Year. Melco shares declined 1.9 percent, following a
6.9 percent advance in the previous three days.  “The recent noise about possible regulatory changes may
reduce growth expectations, which has affected the share prices
but has less impact on credit,” Goldman’s Niaz said. Further
efforts to improve controls, transparency and fair practices
would be long-term positive for the market, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  