-- Google Tells U.K. Court It Can't Pay for Foundem's Errors
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-18T16:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/google-tells-u-k-court-it-can-t-pay-for-foundem-s-errors.html
Google Inc.  told a London court it
shouldn’t be held responsible for a U.K. Internet company’s
commercial mistakes and be forced to pay damages for revenue
lost due to its low ranking in web search results.  The operator of the world’s largest search engine defended
itself against a lawsuit by Foundem, a U.K. shopping comparison
website, which claims it lost web traffic as a result of being
pushed down in Google’s search rankings, according to court
filings.  “Google cannot be responsible for commercial decisions or
mistakes made by Foundem and Foundem’s failure to mitigate is a
situation of its own making,” Google said in its defense to the
suit, filed in January and made public today. “Many of
Foundem’s rivals have a more sophisticated, and self-reliant,
business model based for example on extensive advertising.”  Foundem’s clash with Google over possible monopoly abuse by
the search-engine market leader is also being fought out in
Brussels, with the British company among complainants to
European Union antitrust regulators. Still, Mountain View,
California-based Google rejected Foundem’s claim that its
complaint was the trigger for a probe by the European
Commission.  Google said that the EU’s statement last May identifying
four areas of concern wasn’t related to Foundem’s complaints
about search or Google’s advertising service AdWords and was
“therefore to be inferred that the commission considers these
complaints to be baseless.”  EU Offer  Google last month submitted a detailed proposal to settle
the EU investigation and address allegations that the company
promotes its own specialist search-services, copies rivals’
travel and restaurant reviews, and has agreements with websites
and software developers that stifle competition in the
advertising industry.  Shivaun Raff , Foundem’s chief executive officer, didn’t
immediately respond to two calls seeking comment on the Google
filing. Google declined to comment beyond the public filing.  Stephen Kinsella , Foundem’s lawyer at  Sidley Austin LLP ,
said it was for the court to decide whether Google’s
“preferencing” of its own services was a monopoly abuse.  Google said in its U.K. filing that any change to Foundem’s
ranking in Google’s search engine were “the result of serious
quality deficiencies” that didn’t meet Google’s guidelines.
Foundem “offered little or no original content on its site,”
repeated the same data numerous times and had garbled or missing
text, it said.  Google also said that it provided “extensive feedback” to
Foundem on how it could improve its ranking.  U.S. Probe  Foundem made some of the recommended improvements and
Google also tweaked its search algorithms to credit Foundem for
some features Google’s system had previously ignored, according
to the court papers.  The U.S. ended an investigation into Google’s search
business last month, saying there was no evidence that the
company’s actions harmed consumers.  If EU regulators decide Google’s settlement proposal is
sufficient to allay antitrust concerns, it would have to be sent
to rivals and customers for comments before it could be accepted
and finalized. Such a settlement would avoid possible fines
against Google.  Antoine Colombani , a spokesman for the European Commission,
declined to comment on the importance of Foundem’s complaint to
its investigation.  The case is Infederation v. Google, High Court of Justice,
Chancery Division, No. HC12A02489.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  