-- Greek Heiress Sues After Chalet’s Picassos, Monets Vanish
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-02-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/greek-heiress-sues-after-chalet-s-picassos-monets-vanish.html
A Greek heiress is fighting a legal
battle in Switzerland to find out what has become of a
collection of  Picasso ,  Van Gogh , Renoir, Monet, Cezanne and
Degas art that she says should be part of her inheritance.  Aspasia Zaimis’s uncle, Basil Goulandris, was a billionaire
shipping magnate who spent the winter months in the Alpine
resort of Gstaad with his wife Elise. The Greek couple amassed a
billion-dollar collection that they displayed in their chalet.  Basil Goulandris died in 1994; his wife Elise in 2000.
Zaimis, a legatee in Elise Goulandris’s will, contends that one-
sixth of the collection should be hers after her aunt’s death.  “I am determined to find the paintings which were in the
Gstaad home before my aunt’s death,” Zaimis said by phone from
Greece. “I believe with all my heart that the paintings were
part of my inheritance.”  Her quest has uncovered a paper trail leading from the
Aegean island of Andros to Swiss depots; from a Panama trading
company to a Liechtenstein foundation, according to two people
familiar with the lawsuit who declined to be identified by name.  The case now winding through a Lausanne court is examining
whether a sale contract dated 1985 for 83 masterpieces -- at a
price far below their value -- is genuine, the people said.  “I do not believe that Basil sold his collection,” Zaimis
said. “They were so proud of it. I cannot imagine he would have
sold it for this price.”  Documents Claim  Swiss prosecutors opened a criminal investigation into the
Elise Goulandris Foundation -- Elise’s main heir -- and the
executor of her will, the art historian and curator Kyriakos
Koutsomallis, on suspicion of falsifying titles of ownership,
passing on false documents and duplicity in executing the will,
the people said. They declined to be identified by name because
of privacy restrictions in Swiss lawsuits.  “The proceedings in Switzerland are still in their initial
stages,” Zaimis’s lawyer,  Ron Soffer  of  Soffer Avocats  in Paris,
said in a telephone interview.  When Elise Goulandris left Gstaad for the summer, the
paintings were packed up and stored in a depot, according to the
two people familiar with the case. Zaimis said she hasn’t seen
them since Elise’s death.  A beauty who had counted the former French President  Valery Giscard D’Estaing  among her friends, Elise died while summering
on the Aegean in her yacht. She had written her will in Greek
and in code, according to the two people.  Art Museum  The Elise Goulandris Foundation, the chief beneficiary of
her will, plans to finance the construction of a contemporary
art museum in Athens, according to Koutsomallis’s lawyer, Jean-
Christophe Diserens of  Etude Villa Olivier  in Lausanne.
Goulandris also named six legatees including Zaimis, Diserens
wrote in a response to e-mailed questions.  Diserens denied any wrongdoing by his client.  “The manner in which Mr. Koutsomallis fulfilled his mission
as executor of the will has been approved by the heirs and Mrs.
Zaimis’s co-legatees,” Diserens wrote.  The critical sentence in Elise’s will is that all her
personal property that is not antique and fit for a museum
should go to her nieces and nephews, said the two people, who
have seen the will. Zaimis says the paintings aren’t antiques
and should be part of her inheritance.  Panama Connection  After she filed suit, Diserens produced a contract dated
1985 showing that Basil Goulandris sold 83 masterpieces to a
Panamanian company called Wilton Trading SA for $31.7 million,
the people said. The company belonged to Goulandris’s sister-in-
law Maria Goulandris, according to testimony given by her son
Peter John Goulandris, the two people familiar with the court
case said. Maria Goulandris died in 2005.  Yet a report commissioned by the Lausanne prosecutor found
that the contract was printed on a type of paper that didn’t
exist before 1988, according to the two people, who have seen
the report. Zaimis also said she doubts that Basil Goulandris,
who was suffering from Parkinson’s disease, would have been
capable of signing the contract after 1988.  “He couldn’t lift plates and glasses,” she said.  The Lausanne prosecutor handling the case, Nicolas Cruchet,
declined to be interviewed for this article. Diserens said he
wouldn’t comment on the disputed contract, as he didn’t wish “to
put into the public arena an inheritance conflict which should
only be of interest to the judges.”  Shipping Fortune  Basil Goulandris took over the family-owned Orion Shipping
& Trading Company in 1950, according to the  website  of the
foundation established by the couple. He was honorary chairman
of the Association of Greek Ship Owners and a member of the
board of directors of the American Bureau of Shipping, the
website says.  In 1992, Fortune magazine estimated his wealth at $1.5
billion. In 1995, the year after his death, Forbes estimated the
family’s fortune at around $1.6 billion.  The art historian Nicholas Fox Weber remembers visiting the
Goulandris’s Gstaad home in 1991 to research his biography of
the French painter Balthus, a friend of the couple. Goulandris
was weakened by illness and deteriorating physically and
mentally, Fox Weber said.  “Elise Goulandris was very beautiful, very warm and
welcoming and likeable” when he arrived at the chalet, Fox Weber
said by telephone from San Francisco.  “Then I saw this Cezanne painting from 1906 of his
gardener, and I was knocked off my feet,” he said. “Every
painting they had was of that caliber. They weren’t just works
by famous artists, they were the very quintessence of those
artists.”  Chagall, Manet  Among the artworks in the list of 83 attached to the
disputed sales contract are 11 by Picasso, three by Braque, five
Cezanne paintings, three by  Marc Chagall , two by Degas, two
Gauguins, two  Max Ernsts , two Manets, two Miros, two Monets,
three Renoirs, two  Jackson Pollock  oils, a Matisse, a Klee and a
Kandinsky, two people familiar with the document said.  An evaluation of a third of the works by  Armand Bartos, Jr.
Fine Art Inc. , put their worth at $781.4 million. That
evaluation includes a Van Gogh painting of olive pickers which
Bartos said could alone be worth $120 million, and a Cezanne
self-portrait that he valued at $60 million.  Peter John Goulandris, the son of Basil Goulandris’s
brother, told the court his uncle wanted to raise money to pay
debts and was therefore happy to agree to the $31.7 million
price for the entire collection, two people familiar with the
suit said.  Sale Terms  The paintings continued to hang in the Gstaad chalet until
Elise’s death, Zaimis said. Peter John Goulandris told the
Lausanne court that under the terms of the sale, his mother
Maria Goulandris allowed her brother-in-law to borrow paintings
for the chalet, the people said.  Yet Zaimis said that right until her death, Elise
Goulandris treated the paintings as her own.  “Everything was in Switzerland, in Gstaad, but not all of
it was on show,” Zaimis said. “She used to change the display
from one year to the next and she had some of the paintings in
France. She considered the collection as hers, and made a point
of telling everyone it was hers.”  Asked whether there was any suggestion that the paintings
he saw in the Gstaad chalet in 1991 were on loan to the
Goulandris couple, Fox Weber, who said he gave testimony in the
Lausanne court in 2010, replied “absolutely not.”  Sold Monet  Long after the date of the sales contract, Basil Goulandris
continued to dispose of the artworks on the list as though they
were his own, the people familiar with the lawsuit said.
Included among the 83 works are two  Claude Monet  oils-on-canvas
of Rouen cathedral.  Goulandris sold one to Galerie Beyeler AG in 1990, the
people said. Claudia Neugebauer, a spokeswoman for the Basel
gallery, confirmed that Goulandris sold a Monet in 1990 and that
Beyeler in turn sold it to  Nomura Securities Co.  in Tokyo that
year. She declined to reveal the price, saying the gallery
archive “does not indicate further information.”  Goulandris also loaned the paintings for exhibitions. The
Villa Medicis in Rome confirmed in a 2009 letter that he lent a
painting by Balthus for an exhibition there in 1990, according
to the two people, who said they had seen the documents.  In 1993, the  Museum of Modern Art  in New York borrowed a
Miro painting, “Paysage (La Sauterelle)” for an exhibition.
Though the painting is on the list of works sold to Wilton
Trading in 1985, insurance documents give the name of the
assured party as Basil Goulandris, the people said.  Bonnard at Auction  Since Elise Goulandris’s death, some of the paintings have
been sold, the people said. An oil by  Pierre Bonnard , “Jeune
fille s’essuyant” (Young Girl Drying Herself) was offered at
 Sotheby’s  Impressionist and Modern Art auction in London in
2005.  In the provenance section, the catalog named Basil P.
Goulandris as a previous owner and said the work came from a
private European collection. That description would apply
neither to Panama-based Wilton Trading, nor to Maria Goulandris,
who lived in New York.  Peter John Goulandris told the court that in mid-1992, his
mother Maria donated part of the collection to a foundation
registered in Vaduz, Liechtenstein, called Fondation Sirina, the
two people said. The foundation’s purpose is described in its
statute as “promoting art in Greece and financing charitable
organizations in Greece,” the people said. Goulandris said his
mother also gave some works to him and his sister, they said.  Andros Exhibition  In 1999, the  Basil and Elise Goulandris Foundation  held an
exhibition of 29 of the artworks on the list at their  Museum of
Contemporary Art  on Andros. Elise Goulandris wrote a foreword
for the catalog, “ Classics of Modern Art ,” which makes no
mention of lenders, though she does thank those who contributed
texts for the catalog and her colleagues.  Peter John Goulandris directed an e-mail enquiry to his
lawyer,  Dennis Glazer  of  Davis Polk  in New York. Glazer declined
to answer questions about the 1985 sale contract. He said he
considers Zaimis’s claims to be “baseless.”  “Elise’s other nieces and nephews have not joined in Mrs.
Zaimis’s actions, considering her claims to be invalid,” Glazer
wrote in an e-mail. Elise Goulandris’s “widely known wishes”
were for some artworks to be displayed in a museum to be
constructed in Athens, Glazer wrote.  “Property has been acquired for this museum and advanced
plans and preparations are under way for its construction,” he
wrote. “The paintings in question were part of a private sales
transaction agreed between Mr. Basil Goulandris and Wilton
Trading S.A. almost ten years prior to his death.”  Family Opposition  Zaimis and her sister, Evanthea Veroutis-Anastasadi,
together inherited a third of Elise Goulandris’s private estate,
the people familiar with the will said. Co-legatees are
Fleurette Karadontis, another niece of Elise, who inherited one-
third. The three Canada-based children of Elise Goulandris’s
brother, Robert and Edward Karadontis and Elise Karadontis
Oliveira, together account for the last third.  Jacques Haldy, a Lausanne lawyer, wrote in an e-mail that
he represents all the legatees aside from Zaimis. His clients,
he said, oppose Zaimis’s legal endeavors. “They condemn them
strongly and consider them completely unjustified,” he wrote.  Zaimis’s legal action is being partly financed by a New
York art dealer, Ezra Chowaiki, who described himself as a
friend and said that in return for his aid he has “a right of
first refusal to purchase paintings that she might obtain.”  The case has “stripped her of all her resources,” Chowaiki
said by e-mail. His gallery,  Chowaiki & Co. , specializes in
Impressionist and modern art.  “Aspa is fighting against very wealthy adversaries,” he
said. “I am not surprised that her adversaries are upset about
the fact that they were not able to incapacitate her.”  Zaimis said she can’t understand why her sister and cousins
are not joining her quest.  “It’s a big mystery,” said Zaimis. “Nothing makes any
sense.”  Muse highlights include:  Martin Gayford  on London
exhibitions,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris culture and Guy Collins
on  wine .  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 