-- Greek Police Detain Suspect in Thessaloniki Gold Mine Attack
-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2013-02-18T15:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/greek-police-detain-suspect-in-thessaloniki-gold-mine-attack-1-.html
Greek police arrested and detained a
person suspected of taking part in an attack on the Skouries
mine operated by Hellas Gold SA near the northern city of
Thessaloniki.  Thirty-three other people were arrested and later released,
according to a police spokesman, who asked not to be identified
in line with department policy. A group of about 40 masked
attackers burned cars and machinery at the mine after midnight
on Feb. 17, using Molotov cocktails, the police said in a text
message sent to reporters today.  One security guard at the mine was injured and hospitalized
and later released, according to a statement from Vancouver-
based  Eldorado Gold Corp. , which owns 95 percent of Hellas Gold.
Eldorado said temporary construction offices, trucks and heavy
equipment, most owned by local contractors, were burned in the
attack.  Hellas Gold took over the Skouries mine last year and
employs 1,200 workers there, according to a statement from the
company today.  The Skouries mine has reserves of 3.6 million ounces of
gold and 736,000 tons of copper, according to Eldorado Gold’s
 website . Eldorado Gold acquired three mines in Greece through
its $2.4 billion purchase of  European Goldfields  in 2011.  Greece must “ensure the potential of foreign investment in
the country” as part of its battle against “dramatic”
unemployment, Citizens Protection Minister  Nikolaos Dendias  said
in comments posted on the ministry’s website today. Unemployment
in November rose to 27 percent from 26.6 percent in the previous
month, according to a Feb. 14 statement from the Athens-based
Hellenic Statistical Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  