-- IBM U.K. Staff Say Change to Cover Pension Deficit Unfair
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-02-18T15:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/ibm-u-k-staff-say-change-to-cover-pension-deficit-unfair.html
International Business Machines
Corp . unfairly changed its U.K. pension plan in an effort to
reduce an 890 million-pound ($1.4 billion) deficit, according to
a lawsuit by workers who claim a breach of trust.  The 2009 changes, known within IBM as “Project Waltz,”
reduced retirement benefits for about 4,500 workers, lawyers for
some of the employees said in court documents setting out their
claim. In 2008, the pension plan went from a surplus to a
deficit as a result of stock market declines, IBM said in its
court papers from the trial.  “What IBM did not do, contrary to what it is accused of,
is either break any ‘promises’ or renege on any ‘assurances,’”
the information technology company said.  IBM’s pension plans had a deficit of about $10.4 billion at
the end of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company altered the plans to make them more affordable and less
volatile, it said in the U.K. trial documents. The employees
argue in their court filings the pension losses were a result of
investing in equities, “the risks of which IBM had knowingly
and willingly embraced.” A trial on the group’s claim started
today.  According to the workers’ lawsuit, Project Waltz closed to
most employees the company’s defined benefit plan, which
delivers set payments during retirement; changed early
retirement terms; and stopped plan members benefitting from pay
increases.  IBM said its pension trustee refused to enact the Project
Waltz changes until a court ruled on their legality.  ‘Perhaps Unsurprisingly’  “The changes proved to be, perhaps unsurprisingly,
unpopular with many of the affected members,” the company said.
Its U.K. business was “uncompetitive” and the Armonk, New
York-based company set a goal to increase profit margins there
to 34 percent by the end of 2012.  David Young, a lawyer for the employees taking part in the
trial, declined to comment. IBM’s U.K. spokesman Ken Saunders
didn’t immediately respond to e-mails and phone calls seeking
comment.  The case is: IBM United Kingdom Holdings Ltd., IBM United
Kingdom Ltd. v Stuart Dalgleish, Lizanne Harrison, IBM United
Kingdom Pensions Trust Ltd., High Court of Justice, Chancery
Division, HC10C01796  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  