-- Michelin Gives Third Star to St. Tropez Chef in New Guide
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-02-18T12:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/michelin-gives-third-star-to-st-tropez-chef-in-new-guide.html
Michelin today awarded a third star
to the restaurant of 35-year-old chef Arnaud Donckele in St.
Tropez, the only new top ranking in the volume for France.  The award for La Vague d’Or at  Residence de la Pinede  takes
to 27 the number for the gastronomic guide’s home country. Five
establishments gained a second star, for a total of 82. There
are 39 first stars, increasing that tally to 487.  “Arnaud Donckele’s cuisine provides diners with a unique,
unforgettable experience,”  Michael Ellis , international
director of the guides, said in an e-mailed release. “His fish
dishes are highly original and he has personally sought out
local producers to find the highest quality ingredients.”  Donckele, who arrived in St. Tropez in 2004, received his
second star in 2010. He was trained by Michel Guerard and  Alain Ducasse , and was formerly assistant to Jean-Louis Nomicos at
Lasserre in Paris, according to the hotel’s website.  The new two-star restaurants are: Yoann Conte, in Annecy;
 La Table du Kilimandjaro , in Courchevel; William Frachot, in
Dijon;  La Marine , in Ile de Noirmoutier; and Auberge du Pont
d’Acigne, in Rennes.  In Paris, there are new single stars for La Dame de Pic; Le
Sergent Recruteur; Itineraires; 114 Faubourg; La Cuisine au
Royal Monceau; Il Carpaccio; and  L’Instant d’Or .  Japanese Rivalry  The total of 27 restaurants with three stars means France
has caught up with Japan, where Michelin awarded top ranking to
15 establishments in the Tokyo area and 12 in the west of the
country.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two are for excellent cooking, worth a detour; one
denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie , the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
produced its first guide in 1900. It was free of charge until
1920 and intended for chauffeurs. The volume contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand, France.  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include:  Mark Beech  on music,  Martin
Gayford  on London exhibitions,  Catherine Hickley  on  art 
restitution and  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris culture.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 