-- Tiger Woods Joins Obama for Presidential Golf Vacation
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-02-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/tiger-woods-joins-obama-for-presidential-golf-vacation.html
President  Barack Obama  is scheduled
to return to Washington today after he wraps up a three-day golf
vacation that included rounds with Tiger Woods, business
leaders, campaign donors and a top-ranked coach.  Woods, who is working to rebuild his legacy after a 2009
scandal over extramarital affairs derailed his career, yesterday
joined the president, U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  and  Jim Crane , an Obama supporter who owns the exclusive Florida course
where they played, said White House spokeswoman  Josh Earnest .  The White House didn’t release the names of Obama’s playing
partners ahead of the round. Nor did officials allow reporters
or photographers traveling with the president to enter the
clubhouse or course at the Floridian National Golf Club in Palm
City, Florida.  The White House confirmed that Woods was golfing with Obama
hours after Tim Rosaforte, a correspondent for Golf Digest and
the Golf Channel, said via the social networking site Twitter
that Woods was awaiting Obama’s arrival at the club and that
duo’s first round together would mark a “historic day in
golf.”  Golf Digest, in a  report on its website , said that Butch
Harmon, who created the club’s instructional facility and is
Woods’ former coach, was also on the tee with Obama and Woods.  “The last tournament you played was fun to watch,” Obama
told Woods, Golf Digest reported, citing Harmon. “It’s good to
see you play well again.” The White House didn’t confirm
Obama’s reported remarks.  Woods, the No. 2 player in the Official World Golf Ranking,
holds 14 major titles and opened his U.S. PGA Tour season last
month with his seventh win at the Farmers Insurance Open in La
Jolla, California.  The Floridian National Golf Club, with a course designed by
 Tom Fazio , is owned by Crane, 59, who also owns the Houston
Astros baseball team and has donated and raised funds for
Obama’s campaigns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  