-- Light Hit by Surging Costs as Rousseff Bounce Wiped Out
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i
-- 2013-02-18T15:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/light-hit-by-surging-costs-as-rousseff-bounce-wiped-out.html
Brazilian electricity distributors
are getting saddled with 900 million reais ($457 million) in
monthly costs after power prices surged, wiping out gains
anticipated from a government initiative to cut energy expenses.  Reservoir levels at a decade low are curtailing the use of
cheap hydroelectric dams and forcing Brazil to fire up costly
thermal plants to avert an energy shortfall.  Light SA , CPFL
Energia SA, and other distributors, which buy the thermal power
at a variable rate and resell it for prices set by the
government, will have to shoulder the cost increase until their
next annual rate review.  Under President Dilma Rousseff’s initiative announced in
November, power generators cut hydropower rates in exchange for
early concession renewals, with distributors expecting to pocket
those savings until the rate adjustment. Analysts raised 2013
revenue estimates for the three biggest distributors after the
plan, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Now, higher expenses for
thermal power are paring profit margins.  Rate cuts “are a good thing -- it’s just too bad they
happened at a time of low reservoirs when costs go up,”  Joao Zolini , chief financial officer of Light, Brazil’s fourth-
largest distributor, said in an interview at his Rio de Janeiro
office. “Nobody’s cash flow can keep up with these kinds of
costs.”  Government Help  Light,  Eletropaulo Metropolitana Eletricidade de Sao Paulo
SA ,  Cia Energetica de Minas Gerais , known as Cemig, and  CPFL ,
the four biggest power companies getting most of their revenue
from distribution, are joining other companies in asking the
government for help in footing the bill. The distributors
association, known as Abradee, sent a letter to the energy
regulator and mines and energy ministry suggesting two possible
fixes: The government could offer short-term subsidized state
loans to distributors to cover cash shortfalls or a longer-term
plan would involve changing the way costs are passed on to
consumers.  “If there isn’t a solution, there could be defaults in the
sector,” Abradee President Nelson Leite said in a phone
interview from Brasilia. “We are meeting with the government.”  The energy ministry and the electricity regulator didn’t
respond to e-mails and telephone calls seeking comment.  Brazil has switched on natural gas-fired thermal plants
since November, after reservoir levels fell to the lowest since
2000, forcing dams across the Amazon, southern and central
Brazil to scale back output or shut completely. About 80 percent
of the nation’s energy is generated by hydro plants, according
to JP Morgan & Co.  Renegotiating Debt  “All distributors are impacted by this and it will affect
their cash flows in the short term,” Mauro Storino, a utilities
analyst with Fitch Ratings, said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo. “For Light, that could mean having to require more
capital, which may mean having to renegotiate covenants to
increase debt levels.”  Zolini, Light’s CFO, said the company has no plans to take
on  debt  that would require it to renegotiate covenant terms.  Light has covenants limiting net debt to 3 times its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or Ebitda. The ratio reached 2.7 at the end of the third quarter
after  debt  almost tripled to 4.1 billion reais in the past five
years.  Light was little changed at 20.19 reais at 12:32 p.m. in
Sao Paulo, CPFL slid 0.4 percent to 19.70 reais, Eletropaulo was
little changed at 13.60 reais and Cemig fell 0.1 percent to
22.91 reais.  While rising costs from thermal electricity will impact
earnings in the short term, long-term benefits from the
government’s package to cut generation costs should ease
investors’ concerns, said  Eduardo Carlier , head of equities at
Schroeder Investment’s Brazilian unit.  Revenue Estimates  Light’s estimated 2013 revenue will total 7.76 billion
reais,  according  to the average of 14 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s higher than an estimate of 7.72 billion reais
three months ago. CPFL will report sales of 14.9 billion reais
and Eletropaulo will post revenue of 9.71 billion reais, up
about 0.8 percent and 0.5 percent from previous estimates. Cemig
is estimated to report 17.4 billion reais in revenue in 2013, up
from 17.1 billion reais three months ago.  “Whether it’s consumers or the government, somebody will
pay for this in the end,” Carlier said in a phone interview
from Sao Paulo. He doesn’t own stock in utilities.  While distributors will probably be allowed to pass on the
costs to consumers once they receive their annual rate
adjustment from the electricity regulator, the increase will be
distributed evenly over 12 months, Zolini said.  Reducing Margins  With Light’s rate review scheduled for November, the
company won’t finish passing on the cost of thermal plants until
November 2014, according to Zolini. Cemig is scheduled for
review in April, Eletropaulo is up for review in July, and
CPFL’s different distribution units will get their adjustments
throughout the year.  Cemig and CPFL didn’t respond to e-mails and telephone
calls to their press offices seeking comment. Eletropaulo’s
press office declined to comment in an e-mailed response to
questions, citing a mandatory silent period before it releases
quarterly earnings on Feb. 26.  “This will reduce companies’ margins this year,”  Rafael Dias , a utilities analyst at Banco do Brasil, said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “It affects the operating capital.
With costs higher this year, income will be lower than
forecast.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Chiarini in Rio de Janeiro at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  