-- Miliband Calls For Corporate Tax Clarity to Cut Avoidance
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-02-19T00:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/miliband-calls-for-corporate-tax-clarity-to-cut-avoidance.html
A Labour government would force
companies operating in the U.K. to set out clearly how much tax
they’re paying on what income, said the opposition party’s
leader,  Ed Miliband .  Miliband, currently touring Scandinavian capitals to
strengthen links with European social democratic parties, said
he wants to learn from the Danish and Swedish experience of
increasing corporate tax transparency. He cited transfer
pricing, under which company units in different countries can
set the prices of products and services they buy from each other
so as to minimize tax liability, as a particular area of abuse.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  yesterday likened
“aggressive” forms of tax avoidance by companies to illegal
tax evasion. His comments come two days after Britain, Germany
and France called on other Group of 20 nations to curb tax
avoidance by international corporations that shift profits to
territories where they can pay the lowest amounts.  “We cannot use that international action as an excuse for
going at the pace of the slowest country,” Miliband told
reporters traveling with him in Bommersvik, southwest of
Stockholm. “There are lots of people whose living standards are
being squeezed, finding themselves in real difficulty. What they
don’t want is companies not paying their fair share in tax.”  Miliband, whose party leads Cameron’s Conservatives in
opinion polls, discussed Denmark’s experience with Prime
Minister  Helle Thorning-Schmidt  in Copenhagen yesterday. He said
her country’s requirement that companies produce a consolidated
tax return, stating their total profits and tax paid by all
their units in Denmark, had reduced avoidance.  Transparency ‘Non-Negotiable’  “Globalization has happened; the taxman has been left
behind,” Miliband said. “You’ve got to look at what action you
can take. What is non-negotiable is that companies are
transparent and are paying their fair share of tax.”  Amazon.com Inc., Starbucks Inc. and Google Inc. were
singled out by U.K. lawmakers last year for not paying enough
tax in Britain. Members of Parliament’s Public Accounts
Committee criticized them for using complex accounting methods
to reduce their U.K. tax liabilities.  Testimony by the retailers at a Nov. 13 hearing at times
drew laughter from lawmakers who queried how Amazon made 20
million euros ($27 million) profit on sales of 9.1 billion euros
across Europe and questioned why Starbucks remained in Britain
as it had recorded losses for most of the 15 years it had
operated in the country. Google paid 6 million pounds in company
tax in Britain last year.  Starbucks pledged in December to pay a “significant
amount” of U.K. corporation tax in 2013 and 2014 “regardless
of whether our company is profitable during these years.”  Under proposals published last week in the U.K., companies
bidding for contracts starting on April 1 will have to make a
declaration about their tax compliance, and departments will for
the first time have the power to refuse contracts on the grounds
a company has broken anti-avoidance rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Stockholm at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  