-- Independent News Plans $226 Million South Africa Disposal
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-02-18T15:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/independent-news-plans-226-million-south-africa-disposal.html
Independent News & Media Plc ,
Ireland’s biggest newspaper publisher, agreed to sell its South
African operations to a group of companies led by  Iqbal Surve  in
a shift of the division to black ownership.  The 2 billion-rand ($226 million) sale to Sekunjalo
Independent Media Consortium will require approval from INM’s
shareholders and South Africa’s Competition Commission, the
Dublin-based company said in a statement today. The business,
which includes the Star, Pretoria News, Cape Times and Cape
Argus publications, is South Africa’s largest English-language
newspaper group.  “We are in the final stages of this deal,” Surve,
chairman of Sekunjalo Group, said in an interview today. “It
will be good to bring this asset back to South Africa.”
Sekunjalo made an unsolicited bid for the South African unit in
late August. The deal has South African and foreign funders, he
said, without identifying them.  Surve sees print media in South Africa growing as new
community titles are added and as more people become literate.
He plans to invest in newspapers across Africa, with a greater
focus on digital, he said. There are no “immediate plans” to
change management, which has “performed well under difficult
circumstances.”  INM rose as much as 16 percent, the biggest intraday jump
since Jan.2. The stock was up 3.1 percent at 3.3 euro cents as
of 3:22 p.m. in Dublin. Sekunjalo rose 10 percent to 55 South
African cents in Johannesburg.  Competition Commission approval may take three to six
months, Surve said. Sekunjalo Group is based in Cape Town and
has assets in telecommunications, health care and fisheries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  