-- India’s 0.1% Online Market has VCs Seeking New Facebook
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-02-19T10:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/india-s-0-1-online-market-has-vcs-seeking-new-facebook.html
Tiger Global and Accel Partners, the
funds that made millions off early investments in  Facebook Inc .,
are betting on a surge in online shopping in India.  They’re going to need a lot of patience.  Indian shoppers shy away from credit cards, demand hefty
discounts, and occasionally never pay up for online purchases.
An unreliable postal system also means Web retailers have to
bear the costs of funding an army of delivery personnel.  Online sales account for about 0.1 percent of India’s
retail market, compared to 3.8 percent in China and 8 percent in
the U.S., according New Delhi-based consultancy Technopak
Advisors Pvt.  Tiger, Accel and others see that as an opportunity.  “This is an industry with a long-term horizon, and
customer acquisition costs in India are still quite high,” said
 Alok Mittal , managing director at the Indian unit of Menlo Park,
California-based Canaan Partners, which has also invested in
Indian e-commerce businesses. “In order to be successful, you
have to stay in the business and be capable of sustaining many
years of losses.”  None of the major e-commerce retailers are profitable right
now because ad expenses and costs to draw customers are at
“very high” levels, he said.  ’Next Generation’  Accel and Tiger have invested in firms including Flipkart,
an online retailer that sells everything from books to mobile
phones, and apparel retailer Myntra.com. Among the most recent
investments, Web apparel marketer Zovi.com received $10 million
from SAIF Partners and Tiger Global on Feb. 1, according to
 Manish Chopra , chief executive officer of Zovi.  London-based researcher Euromonitor estimates India’s
Internet retailing industry has expanded at an average 44
percent annually from 2006 to 2011 and will be worth 114 billion
rupees ($2.1 billion) in 2016.  The Internet “will produce the next generation of Indian
consumer franchises,”  Sameer Gandhi , a partner at Accel’s
office in Silicon Valley said in a Aug. 23 statement that
announced his firm was investing 1 billion rupees in the
country’s bookmyshow.com.  Brick-and-Mortar  Sales at online retailers are still rising faster than the
country’s brick-and-mortar industry, which Euromonitor estimates
expanded 13 percent last year.  Flipkart’s revenues rose to $100 million in 2012 from $15
million in 2011, according to Technopak. Revenue for Yebhi.com,
which sells everything from shoes to mobile phones, tripled to
$30 million in 2012 from $10 million in 2011, the researcher
estimates.  Sales at department store operator  Shoppers Stop Ltd . rose
28 percent to 27.9 billion rupees in the fiscal year ended March
2012, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Indian sites have so far faced limited competition form
the world’s largest online retailer,  Amazon.com Inc . Rules
prohibit foreign-owned companies from directly operating e-
commerce operations. Amazon has climbed 5.7 percent this year.  Amazon’s Indian operations began last year with
Junglee.com, which has links that take potential buyers to other
sites that sell products from mobile phones to toys.  The Enforcement Directorate, an Indian agency that
investigates violations of rules relating to foreign investment,
is probing whether Flipkart violated any rules pertaining to
ownership of e-commerce companies, Commerce Minister Anand
Sharma  told  parliament in December. Flipkart declined to comment
on the report.  Waiting for Payout  It can take seven to eight years to “build out” an online
retailer in India selling a single category of goods, while a
similar firm might be developed in under five years in the U.S.,
said Prashanth Prakash, a Bangalore-based partner at Accel
India, who handles its e-commerce investments. Accel has
invested $250 million in e-commerce deals in India since 2006,
he said.  “India is a much more challenging environment to make
investments work,” said Prakash. “I don’t think anybody will
disagree.” Some of the ventures Accel has invested in may turn
profitable in the next eighteen months, he said.  Accel has invested $250 million in e-commerce deals in
India since 2006, Prashanth said.  Only about two percent of the South Asian nation’s adult
population has a credit card, compared to eight percent in
China, according to an April 2012 World Bank report.  Flipkart and its competitors allow buyers to pay cash when
their order arrives at their doorstep. The risk: Shoppers can
refuse to pay when the delivery guy shows up.  “With cash-on-delivery, changing your mind is very easy
and at the end of the day that is a reality,” said Pinakiranjan
Mishra, national leader for retail and consumer products at
Ernst & Young. There are higher rejections or returns of
products when customers order through the cash on delivery
system, he said.  Offering Discounts  Retailers have a so-called acquisition costs of up to 1,000
rupees for each new customer and need purchases of three or four
times that amount to make a profit from that shopper, Pragya
Singh, associate director at Technopak Advisors said.  Most of the major online retailers have resorted to hiring
hundreds or thousands of delivery personnel to reduce reliance
on the country’s slow and unreliable postal system, Shabori Das,
a Bangalore-based analyst at Euromonitor, said.  Second- and third-round funding for e-commerce companies
has become “very difficult to come by” and that is leading to
a wave of consolidation in the industry, Accel’s Prakash said.
Zovi.com said this month it was merging with custom T-shirt
designer Inkfruit.com, Flipkart bought rival electronics seller
Letsbuy.com in February last year, and HomeShop18 bought
bookseller Coinjoos.com in 2011.  “It’s the survival of the biggest now,” Zovi’s Chopra
said.  Winning With Facebook  Accel won on its Facebook investments after the social
networking website went public last year. After investing about
$18 million in the site in 2005 and 2006, Accel earned almost $6
billion by later selling stock, according to data from PrivCo, a
New York-based financial information provider.  Tiger Global has made about $1.2 billion, PrivCo estimates.  Carolyn Sargent, a spokeswoman for Tiger Global with
Rubenstein Associates Inc. declined to comment on Tiger’s Indian
investments in an e-mail.  Options for existing investors in India’s e-commerce
industry are “hardly there right now,” Canaan’s Mittal said.  In 2010, travel site  MakeMyTrip Ltd.  became the first
Indian e-commerce company to go public by listing itself on the
Nasdaq ten years after it was founded. The stock has gained 14
percent so far this year. Facebook closed 0.6 percent lower at
$28.32 in New York trading on Feb. 15.  There have been no other listings to date because companies
need to demonstrate profitability before going to stock markets,
Ernst & Young’s Mishra said.  India’s “very different from Palo Alto,” said Accel’s
Prakash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  