-- India Cuts Borrowing as Chidambaram Curbs Spending
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-02-19T05:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/india-cuts-fy13-borrowing-program-as-chidambaram-curbs-spending.html
India cut its annual borrowing
program as Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram reined in
spending and raised as much as 220 billion rupees ($4 billion)
selling stakes in state companies.  The finance ministry canceled a 120 billion rupee bond sale
previously scheduled for Feb. 22, the last for the year ending
March 31, “on review of the government’s cash position and
funding requirement,” it said in a statement yesterday. Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration planned to borrow a
record 5.69 trillion rupees this fiscal year before scrapping
this week’s debt auction, according to budget documents.  Chidambaram , scheduled to present the federal budget later
this month, is under pressure to curb spending and keep his
pledge to cut the deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product
in four years, from a targeted 5.3 percent in the 12 months
ending March 31. Officials are trying to avert a credit
downgrade after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings said in 2012
that they may demote India to junk status, citing the shortfall
and a widening current-account gap.  “Fiscal consolidation is the driving story,” said
 Shubhada Rao , the Mumbai-based chief economist at Yes Bank Ltd.
“There would be prudent expansion of the government balance
sheet next year” as Chidambaram seeks to reduce the budget gap
to 4.8 percent of GDP, she said.  Asset Sales  The government’s cash position may have improved after
increasing revenue collection and raising about 220 billion
rupees in the year that started April 1 from sales of stakes in
companies including NTPC Ltd., the nation’s biggest power
producer, and NMDC Ltd., the biggest iron ore miner.  Net direct tax collection in the April-January period rose
12.5 percent from a year earlier to 3.9 trillion rupees, the
finance ministry said in a statement on Feb. 6.  The auction cancellation will help ease a cash squeeze in
the banking system caused by slower government spending,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc. Lenders  borrowed  an average of
1.03 trillion rupees a day from the central bank via repurchase
contracts this month to meet shortages, compared with 941
billion in January.  The Reserve Bank of India bought 1.3 trillion rupees of
government securities this fiscal year via open-market auctions
to boost cash at banks, up from 336 billion rupees a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Positive Signal’  “This is a positive signal for the markets,” said Vivek
Rajpal, a Mumbai-based strategist at Nomura. “Huge government
balances were straining liquidity and policy makers had an
option to either cancel the auction or prompt the central bank
to purchase more debt.”  Benchmark 10-year bond  yields  dropped 22 basis points this
year, and the 8.15 percent note due in June 2022 was at 7.83
percent yesterday in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Indian government notes returned 2.4 percent in the
past 12 months, the best performance in Asia, according to
indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. Local fixed-income and
foreign-exchange markets are closed for a public holiday today.  Rajpal predicted the 10-year yield will move in the coming
days toward 7.75 percent, a level not seen since July 2010, and
estimated the government’s surplus cash at 900 billion rupees.  The debt-sale cancellation is “slightly positive” for the
bond market, said Rajeev Radhakrishnan, head of fixed income at
SBI Funds Management Pvt. that manages the equivalent of $10
billion in Indian assets. The central bank may conduct at least
two more open-market debt-purchase auctions in the coming month
to improve funding availability, he said.  ‘Fiscal Consolidation’  RBI Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao , who cut the benchmark
interest rate by 25 basis points last month to 7.75 percent in
the first reduction since April, has cited budget and  current-
account  deficits along with  inflation  among those constraining
further cuts in borrowing costs.  “We have taken note of the road map for fiscal
consolidation put out by the finance minister,” Subbarao said
on Feb. 7 in Guwahati in the eastern state of Assam. “We are
also looking forward to the budget to get a better understanding
of how fiscal consolidation will be done.”  Inflation, based on wholesale prices, declined to a 38-
month low of 6.62 percent in January while the government
predicts the $1.8 trillion  economy  will expand 5 percent in the
year to March 31, the least in a decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net ;
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  