-- Islamist Group Claims Responsibility for Nigeria Kidnap
-- B y   E d w i n   O l o f u   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 2013-02-18T16:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/islamist-group-claims-responsibility-for-nigeria-kidnap.html
An Islamist group in Nigeria claimed
responsibility for the kidnapping of seven foreigners at a
construction site in the northern state of Bauchi.  Jamaatu Ansarul Muslimina Fi Biladissudan, or “Vanguards
for the Protection of Muslims in the Land of the Blacks,” said
in an e-mailed statement it carried out the attack in response
to “the transgressions and atrocities done to the religion of
Allah” by European nations in countries such as Mali and
Afghanistan.  A security guard was killed and three Lebanese, including a
woman, were seized along with a Filipino, a Greek, an Italian
and a U.K. national in a Feb. 16 attack on a residential
compound of construction company Setraco Nigeria Ltd. in
Jama’are, about 200 kilometers (125 miles) north of the Bauchi
state capital, police spokesman Hassan Mohammed said.  The government of Africa’s top oil producer has been
battling Boko Haram, another militant Islamist group, which has
carried out gun and bomb attacks in the north and killed
hundreds of people since 2009. Nigeria, Africa’s most populous
country with more than 160 million people, is roughly split
between the largely Muslim north and the predominantly Christian
south.  President  Goodluck Jonathan  ordered security forces to
“take all necessary action to locate and rescue” the hostages,
his spokesman,  Reuben Abati , said today in an e-mailed
statement. Nigerian forces are working to ensure the “safe
release of all those abducted.”  French Kidnapping  Ansaru, as the group is known, also claimed responsibility
for the Dec. 20 kidnapping of French engineer Francis Colump
from his home in the northern Nigerian city of Katsina.  A British citizen and an Italian seized last year from the
northwestern town of Birnin Kebbi were killed in the city of
Sokoto in March by their captors during a failed rescue attempt
by U.K. and Nigerian forces. While Nigerian authorities accused
Boko Haram of the abduction, the group denied any involvement.  “Any attempt or act contrary to our condition by the
European nations or by the Nigerian government will lead to the
happenings as it was in the previous attempt,” the Ansaru said
in today’s statement.  A German engineer kidnapped in the northern city of Kano in
January last year was killed by his captors on May 30 when
security forces made an attempt to rescue him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edwin Olofu in Kano at 
 eolofu@bloomberg.net ;
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  