-- Lithuanian Bank Credit Quality Hurt by Ukio, Moody’s Says
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-02-18T13:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/lithuanian-bank-credit-quality-hurt-by-ukio-moody-s-says.html
The suspension of Lithuania’s  Ukio
Bankas AB  14 months after Snoras Bankas AB’s bankruptcy will
further erode confidence in the Baltic nation’s banking industry
and may hurt liquidity, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “The suspension of Ukio’s license is credit negative for
all Lithuanian banks, particularly locally owned ones, because
it undermines confidence in the banking sector, thereby
increasing liquidity risk,” Moody’s analyst Blake Foster said
today in an e-mailed report from London.  Ukio’s operations were suspended Feb. 12 after regulators
deemed it insolvent, mainly because of risky lending to related
parties. The central bank plans to decide today whether Ukio,
the country’s fourth-largest deposit bank, should be split up
and partly sold, taken over by the state or declared bankrupt.  Nordic lenders’ local units enjoy more trust among
residents and probably won’t suffer significant deposit
withdrawals, according to the Moody’s report. Subsidiaries of
Stockholm-based SEB AB, Swedbank AB and Nordea Bank AB
controlled 65 percent of Lithuanian banking assets at the end of
September, while units of Norway’s DNB ASA and Denmark’s Danske
Bank A/S held another 21 percent, according to the  Association
of Lithuanian Banks .  Siauliu Bankas AB  and Medicinos Bankas UAB, which are
majority Lithuanian owned and also report “significant”
amounts of related-party lending, stand to lose most, Moody’s
said. Siauliu’s vulnerability is reduced by the fact that the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is a
shareholder, according to the report.  Siauliu, which fell 1.2 percent the day Ukio was suspended,
has since gained 12 percent on EBRD-backed plans to bid for Ukio
assets. Its shares rose 0.4 percent to 0.27 euro at 3:05 p.m. in
Vilnius.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  