-- Liverpool Routs Swansea 5-0 in English Soccer’s Premier League
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-02-18T00:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/liverpool-routs-swansea-5-0-in-english-soccer-s-premier-league.html
Liverpool beat Swansea City 5-0 in
English soccer’s Premier League to end a five-match winless run.  Steven Gerrard  opened the scoring with a penalty in the
34th minute at Anfield yesterday and the other goals came from
 Philippe Coutinho  in his debut, Jose Enrique,  Luis Suarez  and
 Daniel Sturridge  with another penalty.  Liverpool’s first victory in a month lifted it two places
to seventh in the Premier League standings. The Reds lost their
last league game 2-0 at home to West Brom and went down by the
same score at Zenit St. Petersburg in a Europa League round of
32 opener four days ago.  “It was an important three points,” Liverpool manager
 Brendan Rodgers  told reporters. “We’ve had a bumpy road this
week, but the Premier League is very important for us and we
knew we had to show focus and determination. It was a fantastic
performance.”  Rodgers said that Italian forward  Fabio Borini  dislocated
his shoulder when he fell six minutes after coming on as a
substitute and may miss the rest of the season.  Swansea manager  Michael Laudrup  fielded a weakened lineup
as his team prepares for the Feb. 24 League Cup final against
Bradford City. Michu, with 15 goals, was left out along with
defender Ashley Williams as Laudrup made seven changes.  “You can’t put it only on those two,” Laudrup told
reporters. “There were still some very good players on the
pitch who had performed a lot of other times.”  Goalkeeper Michel Vorm saved Swansea from a worse beating,
Laudrup added.  “We could have lost 7-0 or 8-0 easily had it not been for
Michel Vorm, and that is not good enough,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 