-- Jerry Buss, Lakers’ Owner for 10 NBA Championships, Dies at 80
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-02-19T05:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/jerry-buss-los-angeles-lakers-owner-during-dynasty-dies-at-79.html
Jerry Buss , whose Los Angeles Lakers
teams won 10 National Basketball Association championships
during an ownership that spanned more than three decades, died
yesterday at the age of 80.  Buss, who was being treated for cancer, died yesterday at
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, according to the
hospital. ABC News reported the immediate cause of death was
kidney failure, citing Buss’s assistant. Buss’s family said he’d
been hospitalized the past 18 months.  A chemist and real-estate investor before becoming a sports
franchise owner, Buss bought the Lakers for $67.5 million in
1979 as part what was then the richest transaction in
professional sports history. Buss hired Lakers coaches  Pat Riley 
and  Phil Jackson  and helped assemble teams with players
including  Magic Johnson ,  Kareem Abdul-Jabbar  and  Shaquille O’Neal . Under Buss, the team won five NBA titles in nine years
in the 1980s, and five more from 2000 to 2010.  “In the world of sports, we have lost a true giant,”
Riley said. “Jerry Buss was more than just an owner. He was one
of the great innovators that any sport has ever encountered. He
was a true visionary and it was obvious with the Lakers in the
80’s that ‘Showtime’ was more than just Magic Johnson and Kareem
Abdul-Jabbar. It was really the vision of a man who saw
something that connected with a community.”  NBA Commissioner David Stern also called Buss a visionary
owner, one whose “influence on our league is incalculable and
will be felt for decades to come.”  NBA Innovator  An innovator on the business side of sports, Buss helped
pave the way for NBA  dance teams  and courtside seating of
celebrities. Forbes magazine in January  valued  the Lakers at $1
billion, second in the league behind the New York Knicks at $1.1
billion. The Los Angeles Sparks of the WNBA won two titles while
owned by the Lakers and the Buss family until 2006.  Buss bought the Lakers in 1979 from Jack Kent Cooke along
with the Los Angeles Kings of the National Hockey League, the
Forum sports arena in Los Angeles and a 13,000-acre ranch in
central California. Buss sold the Kings to  Bruce McNall  in three
stages in 1986 to 1988 for an estimated $20 million.  Buss in recent years began the process of turning the
Lakers over to his six children. Daughter Jeanie is vice
president of business operations, and son  Jim  is executive vice
president.  “Dr. Buss’s legacy will continue on through his incredible
children,” Johnson in a statement in which he called Buss a
father figure and best friend.  Kobe Bryant , who has won five titles in 17 seasons with the
Lakers, called Buss’s overall imprint “beyond measure.”  ‘Consistency’  “I don’t think there’s anything you can do to really
define it,” he said. “What he’s done consistently, it’s tough
to really find a match for that -- in any sport. He’s been a
model of consistency.”  Inducting  Buss in 2010, the Naismith Memorial Basketball
Hall of Fame wrote:  “Exercising leadership that brought together some of the
greatest players in history, matching them with brilliant
coaches, innovative management, and groundbreaking marketing,
Buss helped set the ownership standard for NBA franchises.”  Gerald Hatten Buss was born Jan. 27, 1933, in Salt Lake
City and grew up in Kemmerer, Wyoming.  He graduated from the University of Wyoming in 1955 and
moved to Los Angeles to attend the University of Southern
California, where he earned master’s and doctorate degrees in
chemistry.  Former Chemist  Buss took a government job as a chemist and worked in the
aerospace industry before teaching chemistry at USC. He made his
first real estate investment, a $1,000 stake in a Los Angeles
apartment building in 1959, to supplement his teaching income.
He made that investment with a co-worker, chemical engineer
 Frank Mariani , with whom he formed the real estate development
firm Mariani-Buss Associates.  Buss’s first foray into team ownership was with the Los
Angeles Strings of World Team Tennis in the mid-1970s.  By 1979, Buss’s company owned three hotels, two office
buildings, 1,005 one-family homes and almost 4,000 apartment
units, and he was chauffeured around Los Angeles in a $127,500
Rolls-Royce, People magazine said in 1980. The magazine called
him “the driving force behind a $350 million real estate
operation by day, a flamboyant man-about-town after dark.”  Former players said Buss always strove to reach greater
heights without forgetting his community roots.  “During his stewardship, the Lakers exemplified his
personal standards of excellence and became one of the dominant
teams in the NBA and a force of good within the community,”
Abdul-Jabbar said. “The man may be gone, but he has made us all
better people for knowing him.”  In addition to Jim and Jeanie, Buss is survived by sons
Johnny, Joey and Jesse, and a daughter, Janie Drexel, all of
Southern California; eight grandchildren; and his former wife
JoAnn of Las Vegas, according to the Lakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  