-- Merrick Gets PGA Tour Title Breakthrough in Playoff at Riviera
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/john-merrick-wins-first-pga-tour-title-in-playoff-at-riviera.html
John Merrick  claimed his first U.S.
PGA Tour title by beating Charlie Beljan on the second playoff
hole at golf’s Northern Trust Open.  After Merrick parred the par-4 10th hole, Beljan missed a
five-foot par attempt needed to extend the playoff at Riviera
Country Club in Pacific Palisades, California.  The 30-year-old Merrick, who received almost $1.2 million
for his breakthrough win, is a native of Long Beach, California,
which is about 30 miles south of Riviera Country Club, and
attended the University of California at Los Angeles.  “Growing up here as a kid, I just wanted to play this
tournament,” Merrick, who shot a 2-under-par 69 in the final
round, said in a televised interview. “This is unbelievable.”  Beljan and Merrick made the playoff with a four-round total
of 11-under par 273, one shot better than  Fredrik Jacobson ,
 Charl Schwartzel  and defending champion  Bill Haas . Jacobson was
tied for the lead before missing a four-foot par putt at the
18th hole. Haas started the final round with a three-shot lead
before closing with a 2-over-par 73.  The PGA Tour next moves to Marana, Arizona, for the $8.75
million World Golf Championships Match Play Championship, which
begins Feb. 20. The event currently features 64 of the top 66
players in the Official World Golf Ranking.  Rory McIlroy  of Northern Ireland is the top overall seed
and will play Ireland’s Shane Lowry in the first round at the
Golf Club at Dove Mountain. Second-seeded  Tiger Woods , a three-
time winner of the event, will face fellow American  Charles Howell III  in the opening round.  McIlroy, Woods,  Luke Donald  and  Louis Oosthuizen  earned No.
1 seeds in the four 16-player brackets.  England’s Donald, the top overall seed a year ago, will
face Germany’s  Marcel Siem  in his opening match. South Africa’s
Oosthuizen, who climbed to fifth in the world rankings even
though he didn’t play last week, takes on Scotland’s Richie
Ramsay after getting one of the top four overall seeds with
 Brandt Snedeker ’s withdrawal. Snedeker, who is ranked fourth in
the world, pulled out with a rib injury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  