-- Kabel Said to Hire Advisers as Vodafone Mulls Takeover Bid
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-19T12:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/kabel-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-perella-as-vodafone-bid-looms.html
Kabel Deutschland Holding AG , the
German company that’s the target of a potential takeover bid by
 Vodafone Group Plc , hired  Morgan Stanley  and Perella Weinberg
Partners LP to advise on its strategy, people familiar with the
matter said.  The banks are working with Kabel Deutschland to prepare for
an approach from Vodafone, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are private. While Chief
Executive Officer  Adrian Von Hammerstein  may want to keep Kabel
Deutschland independent, the company will review the financial
and strategic rationale behind an offer, they said.  Vodafone’s management, in favor of pursuing talks, is
waiting for Kabel Deutschland’s earnings release tomorrow before
initiating negotiations, a person familiar with the matter said
last week. Kabel Deutschland, based near Munich, is responding
to the possible bid just as the company’s own takeover of
smaller competitor Tele Columbus Group collapsed after
regulators said they plan to block the deal.  The regulators’ stance on Tele Columbus “leaves Vodafone
in a more difficult position than ever -- they could do nothing
or buy an expensive partial solution,”  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note today. “If
Vodafone buys Kabel Deutschland now they will need fibre
wholesale” and lines beyond the German company’s footprint,
“keeping wireline prices high.”  Shares Drop  Kabel Deutschland shares fell as much as 2.9 percent and
were down 1.6 percent at 70.11 euros as of 1:35 p.m. in
Frankfurt. Vodafone declined 2.6 percent to 162.55 pence in
London.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG are advising Vodafone.  Representatives at Kabel Deutschland, Vodafone, Morgan
Stanley, Perella, Goldman Sachs and UBS declined to comment.  Late yesterday, Kabel Deutschland reported that the German
Federal Cartel Office said the company’s offer to sell some Tele
Columbus’s assets was “insufficient to overcome its concerns.”
The antitrust watchdog wants 60 percent of Tele Columbus’s
networks in eastern Germany to be divested, about twice what was
offered by Kabel Deutschland, and will probably block the deal
now, Kabel Deutschland said.  As of yesterday’s market close, Kabel Deutschland had a
market value of 6.3 billion euros ($8.4 billion) and an
enterprise value, which includes debt, of about 7.8 billion
euros.  Bundled Packages  Vodafone, the world’s  second-largest  wireless carrier, is
building up fixed-line assets to offload surging traffic from
its mobile-phone networks. Kabel Deutschland, which provides TV,
Internet and phone services to more than 8 million German
households, would help Vodafone protect its market share from
cable rivals that are increasingly offering mobile packages.  Vodafone is looking for opportunities to expand as
competition in its home market heats up. EE, the British joint
venture between Deutsche Telekom AG and  France Telecom SA , has
rolled out faster, fourth-generation technology for customers
ahead of Vodafone, helping the company win 752,000 contract
customers last year.  Vodafone said this month that service revenue in the U.K.
fell 5.2 percent last quarter from a year earlier “driven by
continued intense competition and macroeconomic weakness.” That
decline contributed to a total drop in revenue from customers’
mobile plans, the second quarterly decline in a row. EE’s
service revenue, including a negative effect from regulatory
cuts to roaming and termination rates, fell 2.6 percent.  Deals involving telecommunications and media companies
fetched more than $57 billion so far this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Billionaire  John Malone ’s  Liberty
Global Inc . this month entered Newbury, England-based Vodafone’s
home market with a $16 billion agreement to acquire  Virgin Media
Inc . Liberty Global also owns two major cable operators in
Germany.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  