-- N.Z. Superannuation Fund Says Domestic Stock Pickers Do Best
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-02-18T22:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/n-z-superannuation-fund-says-domestic-stock-pickers-do-best.html
The New Zealand Superannuation Fund,
the nation’s largest fund manager, says stock pickers do best in
the domestic market and that’s why it will begin actively
managing local equities later this year.  “The nature of the New Zealand market is that those who
put the effort into active management get rewarded for it,”  Tim Mitchell , general manager of corporate strategy, said in a
telephone interview. The Auckland-based fund yesterday appointed
him manager of New Zealand equities.  New Zealand’s benchmark  NZX50  Index has surged 27 percent
the past 12 months, more than three times the gain by the Dow
Jones Industrial Average and outpacing the 19 percent gain by
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index.  New Zealand Superannuation, a government agency building a
fund to meet future pension needs, had NZ$20.9 billion ($18
billion) invested globally at Dec. 31. The fund has three
external managers who actively manage a portfolio of New Zealand
stocks, while it passively manages as much as NZ$350 million of
domestic stocks.  “Essentially we’re converting that passive portfolio to an
active portfolio to be run internally,” said Mitchell, who will
be joined by two dedicated analysts. “One of the things we have
to determine is how much we can manage internally under that
style. We’re pretty confident we can manage the amount that
we’ve got.”  The new fund will co-exist with the current active funds
run by external managers, Mitchell said.  “One of the key issues for active managers, particularly
in a market like New Zealand, is the capacity that they can
manage relative to their style of management,” he said. “We
found in the local market, even if you find a good manager, you
don’t want to flood them with money because their ability to
stock pick is dependent on keeping some constraint on the amount
of money they manage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  