-- Napoli Misses Chance to Close Serie A Gap to Juventus; PSG Loses
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-02-18T00:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/napoli-misses-chance-to-close-serie-a-gap-to-juventus-psg-loses.html
Napoli failed to take full advantage
of Italian Serie A soccer leader Juventus’s loss to Roma by
drawing 0-0 with Sampdoria. Paris-Saint Germain’s lead in France
was cut to three points after it lost at Sochaux.  Napoli’s draw yesterday, which came a day after  Francesco Totti ’s long shot gave Roma the victory over Juventus, leaves it
four points off the lead with the top two teams scheduled to
meet March 3. Third-place Lazio plays at Siena today.  Adem Ljajic and Stevan Jovetic each scored two goals as
sixth-place Fiorentina beat Inter Milan 4-1 in the late game to
move to within a point of its opponent.  In Spain, Atletico Madrid stayed 12 points behind leader
Barcelona after goals from  Radamel Falcao , Diego Costa and
Cristian Rodriguez secured a 3-0 win at Real Valladolid.  Sergio Ramos  scored Real Madrid’s second goal in its 2-0
win against Rayo Vallecano before getting sent off in the 18th
minute after receiving his second yellow card. Alvaro Morata got
Real’s opening goal.  Lionel Messi  scored his 300th and 301st career goals for
Barcelona two days ago as the Catalan club rallied in the second
half to beat Granada 2-1.  In France, Cedric Bakambu scored with six minutes left for
relegation-threatened Sochaux to send PSG to its first loss
since Dec. 1 as second-place Lyon beat Bordeaux 4-0.  PSG went ahead in the 29th minute when Alex headed in a
corner kick. Sebastien Roudet replied for Sochaux and Giovanni
Sio put the home team ahead after the break. Jerome Roussillon’s
own goal made it 2-2 before Bakambu found the net from close
range.  Bayern Munich retained its 15-point lead in Germany after
beating Wolfsburg 2-0 on Feb. 15. Two days ago, Bayer Leverkusen
defeated Augsburg 2-1 and defending champion Borussia Dortmund
had a 3-0 victory against Eintracht Frankfurt.  In the Netherlands, PSV Eindhoven leads the standings by
three points after a 2-1 home win over FC Utrecht two days ago.
Second-place Ajax won 2-0 at RKC Waalwijk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 