-- Nasdaq May Fine Nordic Power Exchange Member for Price Fixing
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-02-18T12:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/nasdaq-may-fine-nordic-power-exchange-member-for-price-fixing.html
An unidentified member of Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc.’s Nordic power derivatives market may be fined for
attempting to manipulate prices.  The member breached market manipulation guidelines last
April by bidding up the price of the July 2012 contract to
achieve a better selling price on the bilateral market, Erik
Korsvold, head of market surveillance at the Oslo-based Nordic
power derivatives exchange, said today by e-mail.  “Possible sanctions include a written warning, or a
violation charge of up to 2.5 million Norwegian kroner
($450,000), with a decision due in four weeks or possibly
later,” Korsvold said. The exchange won’t identify the company
until a possible penalty is imposed, he said.  The news comes as the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
stepped up its drive to combat electricity market manipulation
in the U.S. Nasdaq OMX’s Nordic energy exchange is the world’s
largest power derivatives market, with more than 330 trading and
clearing  members  from over 15 countries. The bourse carried out
eight investigations into similar manipulation in the three
months through December.  The Norwegian probe was triggered by a tip-off from a
market participant and the exchange’s internal Market
Surveillance filed a recommendation to the Disciplinary
Committee last week, the bourse operator said in an e-mailed
report on Feb. 15. The board will later decide on possible
sanctions, according to market conduct  rules  on the exchange’s
website.  Nasdaq OMX handled 1,663 terawatt-hours of futures and
forward contracts last year, according to a monthly  report  on
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  