-- Nickel Declines Most in Four Months on Signs of China Slowdown
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-02-18T17:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/nickel-declines-most-in-eight-weeks-on-signs-of-china-slowdown.html
Nickel fell the most in four months
in London on concern supply is ample amid signs of weaker
economic growth in China, the world’s biggest consumer of the
metal. Copper and aluminum retreated.  Retail sales gained at the slowest pace since 2009 during
last week’s Lunar New Year festival in China, a Ministry of
Commerce statement showed Feb. 15. Nickel, used mostly to make
stainless steel, is in “acute oversupply,” Morgan Stanley said
today. Inventories of nickel tracked by the London Metal
Exchange reached the highest level since 2010 last week.
Stockpiles of copper, aluminum, lead and tin gained today.  “The market is down due to retail sales of the holiday
week,”  Pengjiang “Richard” Fu , director for Asian commodities
trading at Newedge Group SA in London, said by e-mail.
“Although office people are back to work now, factories won’t
resume production until after another week.”  Nickel for delivery in three months slid 2.7 percent to
$17,890 a metric ton by 5:27 p.m. on the LME. Prices fell as
much as 3.1 percent, the most since Oct. 12, and dropped below
the 34-day moving average at about $17,837.  “Nickel took the brunt of Chinese selling” that weighed
“heavily on the market,”  Mark Newson-Smith , head of sales at
XConnect Trading Ltd. in London, said in a report today. Markets
in the nation reopened after last week’s Lunar New Year holiday.  New projects are adding nickel production into a market
that’s already getting more supplies of Chinese nickel pig iron,
a lower-priced substitute for refined metal, Morgan Stanley said
in a report.  Stockpiles  tracked by the LME are up 9.6 percent
this year to 153,270 tons, exchange figures showed today.  LME copper fell 1 percent to $8,120 a ton and the contract
for delivery in May dropped 1.4 percent to $3.7015 a pound on
the Comex in New York, where floor trading is closed today for
Presidents’ Day. Lead, zinc, aluminum and tin slid in London.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see a countermovement tomorrow
or in the next few days,”  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said by e-mail. “These prices are
clearly buying opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Agnieszka Troszkiewicz  in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  