-- Nigerian Economy to Grow 6.8% in 2013, Inflation 9.8%
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-02-18T14:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/nigerian-economy-to-grow-6-8-in-2013-inflation-to-average-9-8-.html
The economy of Nigeria, Africa’s
largest oil producer, will probably expand 6.8 percent this
year, the National Bureau of Statistics said.  The outlook compares with an estimated growth rate of 6.6
percent in 2012, the statistics bureau said, and a 6.5 percent
target in the budget presented by President  Goodluck Jonathan  to
Parliament in October. The economy expanded 7 percent in the
fourth quarter, compared with 6.5 percent in the previous one,
the statistics office said, citing provisional estimates.  In the past year, the “non-oil sector was affected by the
incidence of flooding, as well as muted consumer demand for the
most part of the year” in industries including wholesale and
retail and telecommunications, the bureau said in e-mailed
statement. “Infrastructure challenges still hampered
manufacturing.”  While the growth forecast for this year “is modestly below
the multi-year trend recorded in Nigeria,” the 6.8 percent
forecast “would still be robust” compared with other African
and emerging-market countries and with global standards,  Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging-markets strategist at Standard
Bank Plc, wrote in an e-mailed reply to questions today.  “What really matters is the pace of structural reforms
that would allow Nigeria to unlock her investment and economic
potential,” he said. “Clearly the key challenge is to achieve
a growth model that ensures structural transformation and makes
the elevated growth rates more relevant for the Nigerian
population.”  Inflation Outlook  Inflation  is forecast to average 9.8 percent this year, the
statistics office said. The rate fell to 9 percent in January
from 12 percent in the previous month. It is forecast to drop to
9.5 percent next year, 9.8 percent in 2015 and 10 percent in
2016, the agency said.  “These trends are premised on the assumptions that the
monetary authorities will continue to pursue, as in 2012,
managed tightening of monetary policies and stable fuel
prices,” the statistics office said. Jonathan cut a subsidy on
gasoline in January last year, boosting prices in Africa’s most
populous country.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Lamido Sanusi , kept its policy rate unchanged at a record 12 percent
for an eighth consecutive meeting on Jan. 21 after raising it by
575 basis points in 2011 to curb price pressures and support the
naira. The bank will hold off on cutting borrowing costs while
it monitors government spending and until policy makers see that
“lowering rates will not in any way undermine the tremendous
achievements we’ve had,” Sanusi said on Jan. 25.  GDP Growth  The economy is forecast to grow 7.3 percent in 2014, 6.9
percent in 2015 and 6.6 percent in 2016, the statistics bureau
said. Economic growth will probably slow down after Nigeria
updates its GDP base year,  Alan Cameron , an economist at CSL
Stockbrokers Ltd. in London, said today in an e-mailed response
to questions.  Nigeria is updating its GDP base year to 2010 to give a
better indication of the size of the economy. The West African
country’s GDP is now based on spending patterns from 1990. The
updated data, which are now set to be released Oct. 24, will
probably boost the size of the Nigerian economy while lowering
economic growth figures, according to the statistics bureau.  The agency has postponed the release of the data at least
twice before. “If it goes ahead, we would expect to see a lower
real GDP growth figure, something in the region of about 6
percent,” Cameron said. The effects will probably be reflected
from the first quarter next year, he said.  Naira Pressure  Imports fell by 49 percent in the third quarter last year,
compared with the same period in 2011, amounting to 4.3 billion
naira ($27.3 million). Exports rose in the second and third
quarters of 2012 after a decline in the first quarter, with
total merchandise trade value rising 0.4 percent to 20.9 billion
naira by the third quarter, compared with the same period a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said.  “The recent declines in imports are expected to carry on
till the third quarter of 2013,” the agency said. “In this
view, there is less likely to be pressure on Nigerian foreign
reserves as there will be decreasing demand for foreign exchange
to settle high import bills.”  Nigeria’s foreign-currency reserves have advanced 33
percent $46.7 billion, compared with a year earlier, according
to Feb. 14  data  compiled by the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  