-- Nigeria’s Inflation Slows as Effect of Subsidy Cut Falls Away
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-02-18T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/nigeria-s-inflation-slows-as-effect-of-subsidy-cut-falls-away.html
Nigeria’s  inflation  rate fell to 9
percent in January as the effect of a year-earlier reduction in
fuel subsidies dropped out of the calculation.  Inflation in Africa’s largest oil producer slowed from 12
percent in December, the Abuja-based  National Bureau of
Statistics  said today in an e-mailed report. The median estimate
of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 9.5 percent.
Prices rose 0.6 percent in the month.  The January 2012 increase in gasoline prices after
President  Goodluck Jonathan  cut subsidies helped keep inflation
above the central bank’s target of less than 10 percent
throughout last year. Central bank Governor  Lamido Sanusi  said
last month that the rate may drop close to the target, largely
because of “base effects.”  The reduction in the gasoline subsidy in January last year
“led to increases in transportation costs as well as secondary
effects, as the transportation costs affected both food and non-
food prices,” the statistics bureau said in the report. Shocks
to prices last year “imply that the year-on-year changes
exhibited this year will be muted.”  The central bank kept its  policy rate  unchanged at a
record-high 12 percent for an eighth consecutive meeting on Jan.
21 after raising it by 575 basis points in 2011 to curb price
pressures and support the naira. The bank will hold off on
lowering borrowing costs while it monitors government spending
and until policy makers see that “lowering rates will not in
any way undermine the tremendous achievements we’ve had,”
Sanusi said on Jan. 25.  Food Prices  Core inflation, which excludes agricultural products, rose
11.3 percent in January from a year earlier, compared with 13.7
percent in the previous month, the statistics bureau said.  Inflation has been above 10 percent since August 2011. It
peaked last year at 12.9 percent in April and June, staying
below the central bank’s forecast of as much as 15 percent after
the subsidy cut.  Food prices, which account for more than half of the
consumer price index, rose 10.1 percent in January from a year
earlier, down from 10.2 percent in the previous month, the
second consecutive easing, the statistics bureau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  