-- Nigeria Police Hunt Gunmen That Seized Seven Foreigners
-- B y   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 2013-02-18T10:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/nigeria-police-hunt-gunmen-that-seized-seven-foreigners.html
Nigerian police are seeking gunmen
who kidnapped seven foreigners and killed a security guard at a
construction company in Nigeria’s northeastern Bauchi state,
police said.  Three Lebanese, including a woman, were seized along with a
Filipino, a Greek, an Italian and a U.K. national in the attack
on a residential compound of construction company Setraco
Nigeria Ltd. on Feb. 16 in Jama’are, some 200 kilometers north
of Bauchi city, police spokesman Hassan Mohammed said. Initial
information received by the police indicated four Lebanese and
no Filipinos among those abducted.  “We’re still searching for these hoodlums and we will get
them,” he said and declined to give further details.  Boko Haram, a militant Islamist group, has carried out gun
and bomb attacks in the north and the capital, Abuja, killing
hundreds since 2009. Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country
with more than 160 million people, is roughly split between the
largely Muslim north and the predominantly Christian south.  Another Islamist group, which identifies itself as Ansaru,
said it was responsible for the Dec. 20 abduction of a French
engineer, Frances Colump, in the northern city of Katsina.  A British citizen and an Italian seized last year from the
northwestern town of Birnin Kebbi were killed in the city of
Sokoto in March by their captors during a failed rescue attempt
by U.K. and Nigerian forces. Nigerian authorities accused Boko
Haram of the abduction though the group denied any involvement.  A German engineer kidnapped in the northern city of Kano in
January last year was killed by his captors on May 30 when
security forces made an attempt to rescue him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  