-- Nissan Opens Silicon Valley Center for Self-Driving Car Research
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-02-18T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/nissan-opens-silicon-valley-center-for-self-driving-car-research.html
Nissan Motor Co.  opened a research
center in California’s Silicon Valley that the Japanese carmaker
plans to make its hub for research on self-driving vehicles and
Internet-connected auto technology.  The facility will be staffed by more than 60 engineers and
technicians within three years,  Carla Bailo , Nissan’s senior
vice president for North American research and development, said
in a phone interview. Work on so-called autonomous vehicle
systems will move from an R&D center in Japan to Sunnyvale, she
said, declining to provide investment details for the project.  “We’re going to focus on this technology really in the
heart of where it lies today,” Bailo said in the Feb. 15
interview. “We are going to be shifting work that’s being done
in our Nissan Advanced Technical Center in Atsugi, and moving
that work over to the heart of the industry.”  Automakers and companies including  Google Inc.  plan new
electronics and programming for vehicles with a goal of reducing
collisions, fuel use and improving traffic flow.  Carlos Ghosn ,
Nissan’s chief executive officer, told reporters last month in
Detroit that regulatory, legal and technological hurdles mean
self-driving cars won’t be feasible until about 2020.  Google has tested a self-driving Prius in California for
years, and the U.S. Defense Department has sponsored autonomous-
vehicle research for more than a decade.  Nissan’s Sunnyvale center will work with automotive labs at
Stanford University, the University of California’s Berkeley and
Davis campuses, and Silicon Valley companies, Bailo said. The
Yokohama-based carmaker plans to apply technology developed at
the new R&D center within a decade, she said.  Maarten Sierhuis , a former NASA scientist specializing in
artificial intelligence research, will lead the Sunnyvale
facility, Nissan said today.  Toyota Motor Corp.  opened its own Silicon Valley outpost in
Mountain View in 2012 to work with technology companies there on
in-car data and entertainment systems. The company said in
January that it’s developing autonomous safety systems to create
a virtual “co-pilot” in vehicles to help drivers avoid
accidents rather than self-driving cars and trucks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  