-- Nobel Biocare Investor Ronner Ends Attempt for Board Role
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-02-18T17:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/nobel-biocare-investor-ends-board-role-bid-as-nominees-rejected.html
An investor in  Nobel Biocare Holding
AG , the world’s second-biggest dental implant maker, ended an
effort to win three seats on the board after the company
rejected two of his nominees.  Nobel spurned his view that the company needs to review
strategy, in particular whether it should focus on more
expensive implants or low-cost products, the investor,  Oskar Ronner , said in a statement today. The board opposed his
nominees and suggested Ronner join “in a way that I do not
believe would allow me to use my experience and knowledge
effectively,” he said.  Ronner, a former vice chairman of Nobel’s larger rival
 Straumann Holding AG , nominated himself and two Siemens AG
executives last month to help turn around Glattbrugg,
Switzerland-based Nobel after “five years of a dramatic
downturn” in the business and the stock price, he said.  “The position taken by the board has prompted me to
withdraw my proposal and reject its offer of asking shareholders
to elect me (but not my two candidates) to the board,” Ronner
said in the statement. The board “believes it has already
initiated the measures required to effect a sustainable
turnaround, and that as a consequence results will already begin
to improve visibly during the current financial year,” he said.  Share Movements  Nobel shares, which had  dropped  about 80 percent in the
five years before today, rose 3.2 percent to 9.93 Swiss francs
in Zurich, the highest price since Sept. 14. The stock jumped 5
percent on Jan. 18, the day Nobel announced that Ronner was
seeking board seats.  The company is expected to announce cost-cutting measures
tomorrow, along with fourth-quarter results, that may save 26
million euros ($34.7 million), SonntagsZeitung reported
yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  Nobel would have welcomed Ronner to the board, the company
said in a separate statement. Sueha Demokan, a spokesman for
Nobel, didn’t return a call seeking further comment.  Ronner, 68, would have added “valuable industry
knowledge” as a former member of Straumann’s board,  Simon Goetschmann , an analyst at Helvea, wrote in a note to investors.  “The recent hike in Nobel Biocare’s share price was partly
driven by hopes that things would turn positive with new board
members and potentially new management,” he said.  Ronner served as vice chairman of Basel, Switzerland-based
Straumann from 2000 to 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. He was CEO of Elektrowatt AG, and moved to Siemens AG
after the German company acquired Elektrowatt’s building
controls and security divisions in 1998.  Siemens Nominees  The other board nominees were  Cheryl Benini-Leland , senior
vice president of a building technology unit of Siemens in
Switzerland, and  Rolf Renz , 57, chief financial officer of
Siemens Southwest Europe.  “With our many years of industry experience and our clear
strategic and operational ideas about turning round a listed
company with a strong position on world markets, we wanted to
assume direct influence and responsibility on the board of
directors in constructive dialogue,” Ronner said.  Nobel and Straumann have been hurt by reduced demand for
implants because of the recession and increased unemployment.  Nobel separately nominated a former Straumann executive,
 Franz Maier , 48, for the board. Shareholders will elect board
members at the  annual meeting  March 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  