-- Northwest European Power Market Coupling Delayed to November
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-02-18T15:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/northwest-european-power-market-coupling-delayed-to-november.html
Power markets in northwest Europe
may be coupled in November, one year later than originally
planned, before extending coverage to the Baltic states, and
soon after to Spain and Portugal.  “The northwest European power market coupling project is
targeted to go live in November 2013, subject to successful
testing” of IT systems, procedures and contracts, the German-
French power exchange EPEX Spot SE and Norwegian grid company
Statnett SF said today in a joint e-mailed  statement . Testing is
scheduled to start in April, they said.  The northwest Europe project, originally planned to happen
by December 2012, will include the Baltic countries to a merger
of day-ahead power auctions in the U.K., central-west Europe,
the Nordic countries, as well as for the Swe-Pol link that
connects Poland and Sweden. It involves 13 transmission system
operators and four power exchanges, and covers 75 percent of
the European electricity market.  The European Commission, the bloc’s regulator, has set a
target to create an internal energy market for the region by
late 2014, allowing gas and electricity to flow freely across
borders, based on price signals from day-ahead wholesale
markets. To achieve this goal, national markets will first be
linked with others in their region, before wider integration
takes place.  Grid companies and power exchanges in the Nordic region,
the U.K., Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands
and the Baltic countries are working together to remove price
distortions where power may flow in the wrong direction, from a
high price area to a cheaper area, by aligning the pricing and
shipment of electricity, using so-called market coupling. The
plan is to add Spain and Portugal “soon after” the northwest
Europe coupling is implemented, it said.  Neither Bente Hagem, executive vice president at Norwegian
grid company Statnett, nor Jean-Francois Conil-Lacoste, chief
executive officer of EPEX Spot, the joint venture that was set
up in 2008 between the German and French power exchanges EEX and
Powernext SA, were available for comment when contacted by phone
and e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  