-- Novorossiysk Drops as Transneft Criticizes Board: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2013-02-18T16:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/novorossiysk-biggest-micex-decliner-on-feud-woes-moscow-mover.html
OAO Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port 
fell as part-owner  OAO Transneft  called for a change of
management at the operator of Russia’s largest Black Sea harbor.  The shares slid as much as 4.4 percent, and closed 1.5
lower at 3.75 rubles by the close in Moscow. The Micex added 0.1
percent. The company has rallied 32 percent this year, the
biggest advance on the 50-stock  gauge .  Novorossiysk’s board should resign as last year’s earnings
weren’t high enough, Transneft Vice President  Maxim Grishanin 
said at a conference in Moscow today. Novorossiysk may be unable
to service debts next year, Grishanin said. Transneft and Summa
Group control 50.1 percent of the port.  Ziyavudin Magomedov , the
former chairman of Novorossiysk and the founder of Summa Group,
remains on the port’s board, while  Marat Shaydaev , a former
president at Summa, is the current chairman.  “This is just another excuse for the shareholder conflict
escalation,”  Nikita Melnikov , an analyst at Aton Capital LLC,
said by phone. “This conflict is rather negative, Transneft’s
opinion seems to have been ignored and now they’re trying to
retaliate.”  Transneft Chief Executive Officer  Nikolay Tokarev  said the
company’s opinion on the management of Novorossiysk was being
ignored, the Kommersant newspaper reported on Feb. 11.  Novorossiysk has been meeting all its credit obligations
and the board of directors plans to discuss the question of debt
refinancing before the end of this year, the port’s press
representative said by phone. Novorossiysk’s management “fully
manages the tasks set before it by the shareholders,” Summa
President  Alexander Vinokurov  said by e-mail.  Novorossiysk’s bond due in April 2015 closed unchanged,
with the yield at 8.66 percent. The amount of shares traded
today was about 35 million, more than nine times the three-month
daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government has a 20 percent stake in the port operator,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  