-- Novozymes Falls as UBS Says Stock Overbought: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-18T09:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/novozymes-falls-as-ubs-says-stock-overbought-copenhagen-mover.html
Novozymes A/S , the world’s largest
maker of industrial enzymes, fell the most in five weeks in
Copenhagen after UBS AG said recent gains in the stock price
imply unrealistic growth rates for the company’s main products.  Novozymes  lost  as much as 3.1 percent, the most since Jan.
11. The stock fell 2.9 percent to 186.40 kroner at 9:50 a.m. in
the Danish capital, with trading volume at 23 percent of the
three-month daily average.  Novozymes, which last month reported fourth-quarter
earnings that beat analyst estimates, had gained 21 percent this
year before today, compared with a 7 percent rise in the
Copenhagen all-share index. UBS today said the advance has
“stretched valuations too far” and lowered its  recommendation 
on the stock to sell from neutral.  “Valuation is too optimistic on growth,” UBS analysts,
including  Joe Dewhurst , said in a note.  The current share price either implies over-estimated
growth in global bioethanol production or in the use of enzyme-
based detergents, UBS said. Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novozymes
is the world’s largest provider of enzymes for both products.  Novozymes on Jan. 21 reported fourth-quarter net income of
493 million kroner ($88.1 million), beating the average estimate
of 427 million kroner in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. The
company said then that  Peder Holk Nielsen  will take over as
chief executive officer from retiring  Steen Riisgaard , as of
April 1.  Separately, Novozymes said today  Thomas Nagy , its executive
vice president for corporate positioning, sold personal holdings
of company shares worth 3.2 million kroner, bringing the total
he sold over the last week to about 16 million kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Wienberg  in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  