-- Obama, Xi Have Window to Improve U.S.-China Relations, Rudd Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-02-18T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/obama-xi-have-window-to-improve-u-s-china-relations-rudd-says.html
President  Barack Obama  and China’s
Xi Jinping have a chance to shape policies that accommodate the
Asian nation’s growing military and economic power, former
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  said.  The world’s two largest economies must overcome a lack of
understanding as a territorial dispute between China and U.S.
ally Japan threatens the region’s security, Rudd, a Mandarin-
speaking former diplomat in Beijing, said in a speech to
business leaders hosted by Bloomberg in Melbourne yesterday.  “The Chinese are working through the question of how they
deploy their influence and power in the region and the world,”
Rudd said. “This is still an open question which is why I think
this is a critical period where a window is temporarily opened
for the United States and China to work through how this will be
shaped in the future.”  China, the biggest spender on defense after the U.S., has
become increasingly assertive in the region as Obama executes a
strategic shift toward Asia. Tensions have escalated between
China and Japan over uninhabited East China Sea islands claimed
by both countries, with the government in Tokyo last month
accusing China’s military of using weapons-targeting radar on
one of its destroyers.  “The trajectory of China–Japan relations has been
increasingly negative for some time,” said Rudd, 55, who was a
diplomat in Stockholm and Beijing between 1981 and 1988. “There
is something of a nationalist tinderbox surrounding this.”  Trade Relations  The dispute between Asia’s two largest economies reignited
after the Japanese government bought three of the islands from a
private owner in September. The move set off riots in China,
damaging the $340 billion bilateral trade relationship.  Obama is expanding the U.S footprint in the Asia-Pacific
region as China’s military power grows. Along with longstanding
disputes over intellectual property rights and the yuan exchange
rate, China and the U.S. are grappling with diplomatic issues
such as nuclear programs in Iran and North Korea.  The U.S. and China are “two mutually non-comprehending
powers,” Rudd said. “They are going to require an
extraordinary level of statecraft both on the part of the
Chinese and the Americans.”  China, Australia’s biggest trading partner, in November
chose Xi to replace Hu Jintao as head of the Chinese Communist
Party and the nation’s military, ushering in the fifth
generation of leaders. Xi is expected to be named president at
the National People’s Congress next month.  U.S. Dominance  China surpassed the U.S. to become the world’s biggest
trading nation last year as measured by the sum of exports and
imports, ending the U.S. dominance in global commerce dating
from the end of World War II in 1945, according to the U.S.
Commerce Department.  China’s  gross domestic product  rose 7.9 percent in the
final three months of 2012 from the same period a year earlier,
halting a seven-quarter deceleration. The World Bank forecasts
economic growth will quicken to 8.4 percent this year, more than
four times the pace of the U.S.  The world must come to terms with the inevitable shift in
power as China’s economy surpasses the U.S., Rudd said.  “This will be the first time since George III was on the
throne that a non-Western, non-English speaking, non-democracy
will be the largest economy in the world,” said Rudd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  