-- Hollande Urges French Investment in Greece While in Athens
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-02-19T13:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/hollande-to-play-up-euro-recovery-prospects-in-first-greek-visit.html
President  Francois Hollande  called
for investment in Greece, seeking to promote growth in the first
visit of a French leader to Athens since the euro debt crisis
began there more than three years ago.  Hollande, a Socialist who won last May’s election
emphasizing growth over austerity, repeated his commitment to
keeping Greece in the 17-nation euro area and pressed Prime
Minister  Antonis Samaras  to forge ahead with the revamp of his
nation’s economy.  The visit contrasted with that of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in October for the absence of protests against austerity
imposed in return for European bailouts. As the region’s two
largest economies, Germany and France are the biggest
contributors to the two rescues for Greece since April 2010.  “We’re here to show our solidarity, our support and above
all our confidence,” Hollande said. “Confidence is what Greece
needs.”  Merkel met Samaras Oct. 9 in Athens as protesters massed
outside the Parliament building in a capital that was in virtual
lockdown. The first general strike of the year in Greece is set
for tomorrow. Hollande, 58, is scheduled to leave tonight.  Since then, euro governments have agreed to release 49
billion euros ($65 billion) through March, unblocking emergency
aid that was frozen since June.  Shrinking Economy  Greece’s economy, which has lost a fifth of its output
since 2008, is in the sixth year of a recession after pensions
and wages were cut and taxes raised to avert financial collapse.
A turnaround could appear toward the end of this year, according
to Finance Minister  Yannis Stournaras .  “The most important driver is the reduction of the fear
that Greece will leave the euro,” Stournaras told Bloomberg
Television in an interview in Athens on Feb 6. “This is the
catalyst. Now most people believe that Greece will stay in the
euro so people are bringing back their money from mattresses,
from abroad to their bank accounts.”  The  International Monetary Fund  predicts growth of 0.6
percent in 2014 after a 4.2 percent contraction this year.  In November, Stournaras secured two extra years until 2016
to meet European Union and IMF budget-reduction targets. That
came after Samaras’s three-party coalition secured parliamentary
approval for 13.5 billion euros of budget cuts demanded by
international lenders in return for funds that would keep the
country solvent and in the euro area.  “I want to mobilize investment in Greece,” Hollande said.
“It’s in the interest of Greece and it’s in the interest of
France.”  France will assist Greece in finding natural gas deposits
if it can, he added. “This is an opportunity for France and for
Europe,” Hollande said.  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s visit in June 2008 was the last time a
French president was in Athens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Athens at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  