-- Monti Fights for Relevance as Italy Voters Eye Entertainers
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-19T09:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/monti-fights-for-relevance-as-italy-voters-turn-to-entertainers.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ,
an economics professor who has never won an election, says he’s
aware of his handicap in a campaign dominated by entertainers.  “It would be easy to do better than me as far as empathy
goes,” Monti said Feb. 6 in an interview televised on La7.  Monti has spent the two-month campaign refining his
approach without making headway in opinion polls. He sought
advice from  David Axelrod , President  Barack Obama ’s campaign
strategist, and even adopted a dog on live television. At the
same time, three-time Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  dominated
newspaper coverage, and ex-comic  Beppe Grillo  filled city
squares on a nationwide tour.  Monti’s “got no sex appeal as a leader,” said  Nicola Marinelli , who oversees $180 million at Glendevon King Asset
Management in London. “Most people see him as an intellectual
and when he talks about the economy, 95 percent of them don’t
understand what he’s saying.”  Monti’s struggles on the stump haven’t eliminated his
chances to influence Italy’s next government. The appointed
premier, who imposed austerity to shield Italy from Europe’s
debt crisis, was running fourth in opinion surveys on Feb. 8,
when Italy’s two-week polling blackout began. Still, Monti may
get to play kingmaker after the Feb. 24-25 vote.  Monti had 13.4 percent support in a final survey published
by SWG Institute, compared with 13.8 percent on Jan. 9.
Berlusconi gained 2.5 percentage points to 27.8 percent over the
same period, while Grillo rose 2.9 points to 18.8 percent. Poll
leader  Pier Luigi Bersani , the union-backed Democratic Party
candidate, fell 1.1 points to 33.8 percent.  Stagnant Economy  Monti told Italian daily Messaggero in an interview
published today that his coalition has “nothing in common”
with the forces of either Bersani or Berlusconi and won’t enter
into a post-vote alliance unless he agrees with the proposed
platform.  Italy’s stagnant economy has handcuffed Monti as a
candidate as much as his own inexperience as a politician. The
tax increases he implemented helped aggravate a recession that
reached six straight quarters in the three months ended Dec. 31.
His opponents have promised to ease the fiscal burden and
dismantle Monti’s legacy.  Italian 10-year bond yields declined 3 basis points to 4.38
percent at 10:20 a.m. in Rome. That compares with a euro-era
record of 7.261 percent on Nov. 25, 2011, in Monti’s second week
as head of government.  ‘Desperate’ Monti  In the campaign’s closing week, Monti has pushed for a
televised debate to give himself a forum to rebut the tax-cut
appeals of his rivals. His bid was met with silence by Bersani
and with derision by Berlusconi, who said it showed weakness.
Canale 5, a television network that sought to organize a
confrontation, said a debate won’t take place.  “I get that Monti is desperate,” Berlusconi said
yesterday in an interview on RTL radio. There is a possibility
that the coalition led by Monti “won’t even get representation
in parliament,” Berlusconi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  