-- Oscar Pistorius Pulls Out of Future Races After Murder Charge
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-18T03:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/oscar-pistorius-pulls-out-of-future-races-after-murder-charge.html
Paralympic champion  Oscar Pistorius 
put his track and field career indefinitely on hold after he was
charged with murder in the shooting death of his model
girlfriend, his manager Peet Van Zyl said.  The decision to cancel Pistorius’s scheduled appearances in
Australia, Brazil, the U.S. and the U.K. during the next 14
weeks was made “to allow Oscar to concentrate on the upcoming
legal proceedings and to help and support all those involved as
they try to come to terms with this very difficult and
distressing situation,” Van Zyl said in a statement issued by
 In Site Athlete Management Pty  late yesterday.  Pistorius, 26, is scheduled to appear in court in Pretoria
for a bail hearing tomorrow after prosecutors said they plan to
argue he committed premeditated murder in the Feb. 14 death of
Reeva Steenkamp, 29, at his home in the city. Pistorius’s family
said there’s no substance to the allegation and the state’s
evidence “strongly refutes any possibility of a premeditated
murder or indeed any murder at all,” Arnold Pistorius, the
runner’s uncle, said in a  statement  two days ago.  Van Zyl said he visited his client yesterday at the
Brooklyn Police Station in Pretoria where he’s in custody to
offer his support and discuss racing matters.  Pistorius, dubbed the “ Blade Runner ” because of his
double leg amputation and prosthetic running blades, had been
contracted to race in Australia for the first time next month
with appearances in Sydney and Perth. He was also scheduled to
run in Rio de Janeiro on March 31 and in Iowa on April 26 before
competing at the May 25 Manchester City Games in the U.K.  World Championships  “Further competitions were being discussed as Oscar
focused on the IAAF World Championships in Moscow in August as
the highlight for his season,” Van Zyl added in the statement.  Pistorius, who was born without fibulas and had both legs
amputated below the knee at 11 months old, has won six
Paralympic gold medals. He became the first amputee runner to
compete at an Olympic Games in London last year and was included
on Time magazine’s list of the world’s 100 most-influential
people.  He competed in his first able-bodied elite event at the
2011 world championships in Daegu, South Korea. He got his
chance after sport’s highest tribunal, the Court of Arbitration
for Sport, in 2008 overturned a ban prohibiting him from
competing against able-bodied athletes, imposed by the
International Association of Athletics Federations, which said
his blades give him an advantage.  Van Zyl said that Pistorius’s sponsors and partners, which
include  Nike Inc . and U.K. telecommunications provider  BT Group
Plc , would honor their contractual commitments with the athlete
for the time being.  “They have said they are happy to let the legal process
take its course before making any change in their position,”
Van Zyl added in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  