-- OTP Bank Gains Most in Week on Tax Break Report: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-18T16:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/otp-advances-first-time-in-3-days-on-tax-report-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. , Hungary’s largest
lender, gained the most in more than a week after the government
said it was considering tax breaks in exchange for increased
lending.  The shares rose 2.5 percent to 4,877 forint by the close in
Budapest, the biggest advance since Feb. 8. The benchmark BUX
stock  index , in which OTP has the highest weighting at 34
percent, gained 1.4 percent, the biggest rally in a month.  The government is in “informal” talks with commercial
banks on a deal that would provide tax cuts as incentives for
providing more loans to help the economy emerge from recession,
Gyula Pleschinger, state secretary at the Economy Ministry, said
on MR1-Kossuth public radio. The government has introduced a
special levy on lenders, taxed financial transactions such as
cash withdrawals and forced banks to take losses on foreign-
currency loans since coming to power in 2010.  The talks on reducing taxes “would appear to be good
news” for OTP,  Marta Czajkowska-Baldyga , a Warsaw-based analyst
at KBC Groep NV, wrote in a research report today.  Gains may be mitigated if the Cabinet reverses its course,
for example by requiring banks to take losses on municipal
government debt holdings, Czajkowska-Baldyga said.  “Whenever a carrot appears, a stick swiftly follows when
it comes to government policy towards Hungary’s financial
sector,” she wrote.  Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who has led what he
called a “war on debt” including the liabilities of the state
and households, last year turned to local government bonds and
loans on banks’ books, pledging to take over as much as $2.8
billion from local councils.  The central government will assume 50 to 60 percent of
Budapest’s debt, compared with the 40 percent initially
reported, ATV reported citing Mayor Istvan Tarlos today.  “There is speculation that the government may impose a
20-25 percent haircut” on local government debt, Czajkowska-
Baldyga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  