-- How Did George Washington Feel About the National Debt?
-- B y   R o b e r t   E .   W r i g h t
-- 2013-02-18T15:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/how-did-george-washington-feel-about-the-national-debt-echoes.html
Every February since 1896, the U.S.
Senate has observed the birthday of  George Washington  by having
one of its members read his 1796 Farewell Address into the
record.  The ceremony is usually purely symbolic. This year, however,
it could influence policy: The country’s first president had
some interesting ideas about the national debt that might
resonate as Congress gears up for more fights over spending and
taxes.  In September 1796, as he prepared to retire from public
affairs by declining to serve a third term, Washington left his
fellow Americans with some  parting thoughts  in the form of a
letter published in the American Daily Advertiser. Initially
drafted by  James Madison  in 1792 (when Washington first
contemplated retirement), the letter was later edited by
 Alexander Hamilton  and then heavily amended by Washington
himself, who took full responsibility for the advice it
contained.  The address is usually remembered for an admonition to
avoid “entangling alliances.” (That precise phrase actually
never occurs in the address, but Washington did assert that, “It
is our true policy to steer clear of permanent alliances with
any portion of the foreign world.”  Thomas Jefferson  used the
more media-friendly “entangling alliances” in his  first
inaugural  speech in early 1801.)  Cherishing Credit  Another paragraph, about the national debt, may be more
compelling today. Washington, a Federalist, began by advising
Americans to “cherish public credit” because it was “a very
important source of strength and security.” In the view of most
of the Founders, securing life, liberty and property was the
major public good that the government had to provide, so
endangering public credit, especially in the service of partisan
politics, wasn’t something Washington would have countenanced.  One method of upholding public credit, Washington argued,
was “to use it as sparingly as possible.” That meant
“cultivating peace” by spending just enough on defense to deter
any would-be invaders. Presumably, given Federalists’ penchant
for efficient administration, Washington also meant that
military budgets should be spent wisely, by buying only weapons
that were truly needed and at something like competitive prices.  If war became “unavoidable,” the government should pay off
the debts incurred during the conflict “by vigorous exertion in
time of peace.” That policy would cherish public debt but also
not place “upon posterity the burden” that the generation
engaged in war “ought to bear.”  Apparently, Washington didn’t foresee 80 years of almost
continuous “war,” cold and hot, large and small, against foreign
nations, rebel bands, terrorist networks, alcohol, economic
depression and drugs. And who could blame him? Surely some of
those wars were avoidable, if only the government had followed
Washington’s suggestions to “observe good faith and justice
towards all nations; cultivate peace and harmony with all” and
to be always guided “by an exalted justice and benevolence.”  Washington closed the paragraph on national debt with a few
thoughts on taxation. Citizens, he wrote, “should practically
bear in mind that towards the payment of debts there must be
revenue; that to have revenue there must be taxes; that no taxes
can be devised which are not more or less inconvenient and
unpleasant.” Once levied due to “public exigencies,” however,
Americans were duty-bound to pay their taxes with “a spirit of
acquiescence.”  ‘Proper Objects’  It is important to note that Washington wasn’t calling for
blind obedience to the government, simply the separation of
cause and effect. If Americans didn’t want to suffer from “the
intrinsic embarrassment” of high taxation, they needed to
prevent the government from spending and borrowing too much in
the first place, by ensuring that it remained focused on its
“proper objects.”  Washington acknowledged that delineating the proper role of
government was “always a choice of difficulties,” but implied
that if the people and their elected officials ensured the
execution of his “maxims,” all would end well.  ( Robert E. Wright  is the Nef Family Chair of Political
Economy at Augustana College in South Dakota and the author,
with David Cowen, of “Financial Founding Fathers: The Men Who
Made America Rich.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Robert E. Wright at
 robert.wright@augie.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  