-- Pakistan Shiite Leaders Demand Army Operation as Bomb Kills 84
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-02-18T06:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/pakistan-shiite-leaders-demand-army-operation-as-bomb-kills-84.html
Leaders of the Shiite Muslim
minority in the Pakistani city of Quetta demanded the deployment
of the country’s army after the latest in a wave of militant
attacks that the community said killed 84 people.  At least 225 were injured in the Feb. 16 bombing at a
market in the capital of the province of  Baluchistan , said
Sardar Tariq Jafri, an official with a local Shiite
organization. Relatives refused to bury the dead, repeating a
protest that last month forced the dismissal of the provincial
administration following a similar massacre.  Prominent Shiites, including Shia Ulema Council leader and
religious scholar Abbas Komali, demanded an army-led operation
to stop the attacks. TV channels showed protesters, including
women and children, staging a sit-in alongside the bodies of the
victims of the latest attack.  “All state institutions have failed to protect us,” Jafri
said in a phone interview from Quetta. “The army should conduct
targeted operations to clean this city. We will not end our
protest until this demand has been met.”  Among the dead were 17 children and two teachers who were
at school near the explosion, the ARY channel said.  Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, or the Army of Jhang, a Sunni militant
group named after a city in Punjab province, has claimed
previous assaults on Shiites. The U.S. State Department in 2003
listed it as a terrorist group, saying it had links to al-Qaeda
and was involved with the 2002 kidnapping and murder of Wall
Street Journal correspondent  Daniel Pearl  in Pakistan.  Simultaneous Strikes  While attacks on Shiites, who account for about 15 percent
of the country’s 200 million people and are considered heretics
by extreme groups among the Sunni majority, occur regularly in
Pakistan, the last few months have been especially bloody. Three
near simultaneous strikes on Quetta’s Shiite Hazara
neighborhoods killed 96 people in January.  At least 400 Shiites died from violence in 2012 in
Pakistan, according to New York-based Human Rights Watch. More
than 120 were killed in Baluchistan, most of them Hazara.
Baluchistan, a region rich in natural resources including gas
assets, is also roiled by a separatist insurgency.  President  Asif Ali Zardari ’s government, which faces a
general election in early May, has been criticized to failing to
bolster security in Shiite areas. The army is separately
fighting Taliban guerrillas in the country’s northwest.  Political and religious parties in the country’s commercial
hub of Karachi supported a strike call by Shiite groups to
protest the killings. Markets were shut and roads quiet as
transport groups and traders backed the stoppage. Buildings were
draped in black cloth.  The U.S. and Afghanistan have long alleged that the
remaining leadership of the Afghan Taliban, including its leader
Mullah  Muhammad Omar , is based around Quetta, after fleeing
there following the U.S.-led invasion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  