-- Picasso Stares, Dali Gets Creepy in Man Ray Portraits
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-02-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/picasso-stares-dali-gets-creepy-in-man-ray-portraits.html
It was impossible to be a Dadaist in
New York,  Man Ray  believed, because the city itself was the
epitome of manic, anarchic Dada.  So on July 14, 1921, he set sail for France and took the
photographs that form the heart of the exhibition at the
National Portrait Gallery “May Ray Portraits.” For many, these
encapsulate the seductive spirit of Paris between the wars.  As befits a Dadaist, Man Ray was a paradoxical person. 
He was born Michael Emmanuel Radnitzky in Philadelphia and 
brilliantly re-branded himself with a new name both punchy and 
slightly futuristic.  The notion of the human ray seemed to permeate the best of
his portraiture. His subjects -- including such artists,
musicians and writers as  Le Corbusier , Hemingway, Stravinsky and
Schoenberg -- seem to radiate a powerful, enigmatic force.
Picasso stares charismatically out of the frame. Dali looks 
equally intense, but weirdly melodramatic with a light below his 
face.  Often, Man Ray seems to give the people in his pictures his 
own magnetic intensity of gaze.  While he is best known for his photographs, he started
out as a painter and continued to protest that painting was a
much more serious matter than photography.  “In my opinion,” he told Time magazine in 1954, “ninety-
nine percent credit should go to Mr. Zeiss and Mr. Eastman and
one percent to the man who happens to be behind the camera.”  Trained Painter  Of course, he was being modest and also quixotic. In truth,
he was, like  Henri Cartier-Bresson , an example of a trained
painter whose eye and imagination functioned incomparably better
through a lens than they did on canvas.  His paintings are second string stuff for the most part.
What he did in his finest photographs was much what an
outstanding painter or draughtsman might do: distill the image
until less becomes much, much more.  His “Solarized Portrait of Lee Miller” (c. 1929) is quite
similar to a line drawing, for example. The process of
solarization, discovered by Miller and Man Ray, involves
partially re-exposing the image while it is being processed. The
result here was to remove much detail while leaving a strong
outline around the subject.  Here is a perfect visualization of art deco femininity, her
hair as sleekly styled as the top of the Chrysler Building. It’s
interesting to discover from other less successful snaps in this
show that Miller, like many true beauties, was ravishing only
from certain angles.  Double Portraits  In profile, as she usually appeared, she looked fabulous;
full-face she was verging on plain, as she appears in the double
portraits with her father Theodore from 1931.  This example shows that, in Man Ray’s case, most of the
credit should not go to the camera manufacturer. He was a
magician with shutter and lens. And the more he transformed what
he saw, the more successful he was.  Occasionally, his photographs came close to the other genre
of art in which Man Ray was memorably successful: the Surrealist
object. The latter consists, essentially, in putting two
incongruous elements together. “Gift” (1921) was a flat iron
with vicious spikes protruding from its base.  Less aggressive, and equally striking, is the photographic
“Le Violon d’Ingres” (1924). Its basis was the naked back of Man
Ray’s companion of the mid-1920s, an artists’ model nicknamed
Kiki de Montparnasse (aka Alice Prin). On the image of her
curvaceous anatomy he sketched a couple of cello apertures,
completing the visual analogy with a stringed instrument.  In an article from 1950, Man Ray wrote some reflections
that are fairer to his own achievement. Painting was controlled,
he suggested, by the heart; photography by the mind. “But desire
and love for the subject direct both mediums.”  “Man Ray Portraits” is at the National Portrait Gallery,
St. Martin’s Place, London WC2H 0HE through May 27. Information:
 http://www.npg.org.uk//whatson/man-ray-portraits/exhibition.php 
or +44-20-7306-0055.  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Catherine Hickley on  art 
restitution,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris culture and Guy Collins
on  wine .  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 