-- Oscar Pistorius Disputes Charge He Murdered Girlfriend
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-02-19T13:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/pistorius-to-seek-bail-ahead-of-girlfriend-murder-trial.html
Oscar Pistorius , the South African
gold-medal winning Paralympian, denied he planned the murder of
his girlfriend, saying he shot her through a locked bathroom
door thinking she was a burglar.  Magistrate Desmond Nair stopped proceedings in a Pretoria
court as Pistorius sobbed inconsolably when his lawyer read a
statement of his account of the incident. Prosecutors accuse
Pistorius of premeditated murder, arguing he put on his
prosthetic legs, walked 20 feet and shot Reeva Steenkamp, 29,
three times at his home on Feb. 14, Valentine’s Day.  “I felt extremely vulnerable as I felt I had to protect
Reeva and myself,” Pistorius said in the statement, denying
that he was wearing his prosthetics when he shot at the door.  Pistorius, dubbed the “ Blade Runner ” because of his
double leg amputation and prosthetic running blades, put his
track and field career indefinitely on hold, canceling scheduled
appearances in Australia, Brazil, the U.S. and the U.K. during
the next 14 weeks, his manager Peet Van Zyl said on Feb. 17.
This is to allow Pistorius to focus on the court case, he said.  “It was pre-planned up to the time that he shot her,”
prosecutor Gerrie Nel, who in 2010 won the corruption conviction
of former police chief  Jackie Selebi , said in a packed courtroom
in the capital. “The motive is he went to kill and that’s
clear. He walked to the bathroom and he shot. That’s it.”  Life Sentence  Pistorius, wearing a dark suit, sank his face in his hands
repeatedly as his brother, Carl, tried to comfort him. His
father, Henke, sat alone wiping away tears as other family
members stood in a circle embracing after Nair confirmed the
charge of premeditated murder.  Pistorius faces a maximum term of life in prison if found
guilty of that charge, which can be reduced to murder at a later
stage, Nair said. The defense will have to prove “exceptional
circumstances” to get bail under a premeditated murder charge,
he said. The hearing will resume tomorrow.  In the statement, Pistorius said he heard a noise in the
bathroom and went to fetch his gun, shouting at the person to
come out before shooting. He broke through the door with a
cricket bat after realizing it may have been Steenkamp, and then
carried her body downstairs to seek help. Pistorius said he
thought a burglar had climbed through an open window.  “I am absolutely devastated at the loss of my beloved,”
he said. “She died in my arms.”  Most Influential  Pistorius, who was born without fibulas and had both legs
amputated below the knee at 11 months old, has won six
Paralympic gold medals. He became the first amputee runner to
compete at an Olympic Games in London last year and was included
on Time magazine’s list of the world’s 100 most-influential
people.  He competed in his first able-bodied elite event at the
2011 world championships in Daegu, South Korea. He got his
chance after sport’s highest tribunal, the Court of Arbitration
for Sport, in 2008 overturned a ban prohibiting him from
competing against able-bodied athletes, imposed by the
International Association of Athletics Federations, which said
his blades give him an advantage.  Law Degree  A funeral service was held in the south coast city of Port
Elizabeth today for Steenkamp’s family and friends.  “We had planned to get together in December,” Mike
Steenkamp, Reeva’s uncle, told reporters outside the church in
footage broadcast on eNews Channel Africa. “We are here today
as a family. And the only thing that is missing is Reeva,” he
said, breaking down, while being consoled by Steenkamp’s
brother, Adam.  Steenkamp got a degree in law from Nelson Mandela
Metropolitan University and was a model and television
presenter, according to her publicist Sarit Tomlinson. She was
voted as one of the top 100 most attractive women last year in
the South African edition of FHM magazine.  South Africa recorded 30.9 murders per 100,000 people in
the 12-month period through March 2012, down from 31.9 per
100,000, the South African Police Service said on Sept. 20. The
murder rate has fallen since reaching 67.9 per 100,000 in 1995,
when the police force was integrated after the end of all-white,
apartheid rule. South Africa’s murder rate is more than six
times that of the U.S.  Van Zyl said two days ago that Pistorius’s sponsors and
partners, which include  Nike Inc.  and U.K. telecommunications
provider  BT Group Plc , would honor their contractual commitments
with him and let the legal process take its course.  Nike, the world’s largest sporting-goods company, and
eyewear maker  Oakley Inc.  have since distanced themselves from
the runner.  Suspends Contract  Luxottica Group SpA ’s Oakley, which has been associated
with Pistorius since 2009 according to his website, suspended
its contract with him “effective immediately,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement.  “Our hearts are with the families during this difficult
time and we’ll continue to follow the developments in this
tragic case,” Oakley said.  Nike don’t have any plans for new campaigns with Pistorius,
Seruscka Naidoo, a South African spokeswoman for the company,
said by phone from Johannesburg.  Multichoice, a South African satellite TV company owned by
 Naspers Ltd. , last week pulled an advertising campaign and
removed billboards featuring Pistorius “out of respect and
sympathy to the bereaved,” spokeswoman Lani Lombard said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  