-- Poland’s Euro Bid Requires Revamp Not Deadline: Rostowski
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-02-18T13:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/poland-s-euro-bid-requires-revamp-not-deadline-rostowski.html
Poland won’t set a deadline to join
the euro because the European Union’s biggest eastern economy
first needs revamping to avoid “unpleasant consequences” from
adopting the currency, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said.  Euro-entry preparations, revived amid a lull in the
currency region’s debt crisis, will be the focus of talks today
between central bank Governor  Marek Belka  and Prime Minister
 Donald Tusk ’s economic advisory council that begin at 4 p.m. in
Warsaw, said three government officials, who asked not to be
named as the information isn’t yet public.  The government doesn’t want to “give a time frame, but to
point out that the debate we’re having about joining the euro is
first and foremost a debate about what we need to do as a
country,” Rostowski said in a Feb. 15 interview in London.
“The point is to get away from the idea that this is some kind
of a race, whereby we set a date and we have to be ready by that
date.”  Poland is providing evidence that reports of the possible
demise of the euro are exaggerated. Former International
Monetary Fund Chief Economist  Kenneth Rogoff , hedge-fund manager
 John Paulson , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. President  Gary Cohn  and
 Nouriel Roubini , dubbed Dr. Doom for predicting hard times
before the global financial crisis began in 2008, all expressed
views that the currency would break up.  ‘Effectively Over’  While the EU’s largest eastern members slowed their euro
preparations since 2009 as the debt crisis forced governments in
Greece, Ireland and Portugal to seek bailouts, the risk of a
euro-area collapse now “is effectively over,” Rostowski said.
Adopting the currency would give Poland more political sway in
the 27-nation EU, he said.  The zloty traded at 4.1892 per euro at 2:04 p.m. in Warsaw,
having weakened about 0.8 percent in the past three months.
Poland’s 10-year government bond yield fell four basis points to
4.014 percent. Italy’s 10-year yield was at 4.422 and Spain’s
was at 5.231 percent.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge in
July to do all it takes to save the euro has helped bring down
bond yields from Italy to Spain, easing concern the currency
union could break up.  “There’s nothing like the feeling of being told you are
not about to be hanged,” Rostowski said in a Bloomberg
interview last month in Davos, Switzerland, where he publicly
revived Poland’s euro bid.  Stronger Position  The debate starting now about the merits of Poland joining
the euro should focus on what the nation still must do so that
the currency switch “increases its economic growth rate and
strengthens its political position in Europe,” Rostowski said
in London last week.  A survey conducted by the Warsaw-based CBOS research
institute between July 5 and July 12 last year showed 68 percent
of Poles opposed adopting the single currency, up from 60
percent at the beginning of last year.  Unlike the U.K. and Denmark, Poland and other former
communist nations that have joined the EU since 2004 must
eventually adopt the euro when they are ready. Only three of the
bloc’s eastern members, Slovenia, Slovakia and Estonia, are
already using the euro.  Latvia plans to join next year, becoming the euro’s 18th
member. Lithuania’s new government on Jan. 25 pledged to seek
entry in 2015.  ‘Unpleasant Circumstances’  Candidates must meet the conditions laid out in the EU’s
Maastricht Treaty, such as bringing budget deficits to within 3
percent of gross domestic product, debt below 60 percent of GDP
and the inflation rate to within 1.5 percentage points of the
average of the three EU states with the slowest price growth.  “We know very well that countries that have joined the
euro well prepared benefited economically and politically,
whereas those countries that joined not fully prepared have
actually suffered unpleasant consequences,” Rostowski said.  Poland needs to do more than simply meet formal entry
requirements, which even nations such as Greece and Portugal
fulfilled before adopting the currency, even though that didn’t
prevent them from “having problems subsequently,” he said.  An independent currency helped Poland shield its economy as
the 2008 financial crisis spread across the globe, Belka and
other officials have argued. Poland was the only EU member to
avert a recession the next year, in part helped by a 53 percent
depreciation of the zloty against the euro in the six months to
February 2009.  To ensure Poland can withstand economic troughs without its
own monetary policy will first require “a significant
liberalization of the labor market,” Rostowski said. “It could
be made more flexible and more efficient.”  Deficit Cuts  Tusk’s government cut the budget gap to 3.5 percent of GDP
last year from a record 7.9 percent in 2010, the third biggest
austerity adjustment in the world behind Greece and Portugal,
according to data from the IMF examined by Bloomberg Rankings.
Last year’s figure compares with an estimated 3.3 percent on
average in the euro area, according to the European Commission.  The Polish Cabinet has passed bills to raise the retirement
age and curb pensions for uniformed services to lower public
debt. Poland’s debt totaled 55.5 percent of GDP, compared with
92.9 percent on average in the euro region, the commission said.  “Our fiscal position has improved dramatically,”
Rostowski said. “We also improved the long-term position very
significantly by a series of pension reforms in 2009 and the
other one last year.”  Still, the euro region’s recession is taking its toll on
Poland’s $515 billion  economy , which grew 2 percent last year,
the slowest pace since 2009 and down from 4.3 percent in 2011.  While the central bank forecasts this year’s growth at 1.6
percent, the government is sticking to its estimate of 2.2
percent, Rostowski said.  “We expect a slowdown to be concentrated in the first half
of the year and then we expect improvement in the second half as
the euro-zone economy stabilizes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  