-- Amplats Workers, Security Guards Injured in Mine Clashes
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-02-18T16:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/police-investigating-shooting-of-5-anglo-platinum-workers.html
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. , the
world’s largest producer of the metal, said security guards used
rubber bullets in clashes between rival labor groups at its
South African Siphumelele mine that injured 12 people.  Nine workers were shot and three security guards were hurt
in fighting at the mine in Rustenburg, according to an e-mailed 
statement from Amplats, as the company is known. There were no 
fatalities and the injured employees received medical attention.  The clashes occurred when members of the Workers Committee,
a non-unionized group, demanded officials from the National
Union of Mineworkers vacate their offices, Amplats said. The 
Johannesburg-based company is in the process of validating union 
membership at the mine, it said.  Rivalry between the NUM and the Association of Mineworkers 
and Construction Union contributed to 10 days of violence at a
 Lonmin Plc  mine near Rustenburg in August in which 10 people 
died. Police opened fire on striking workers at the site on 
Aug. 16, killing 34 protesters. The AMCU has sought to exploit 
waning support for the NUM, South Africa’s biggest union and an 
ally of the African National Congress, to expand its membership.  Deep Concern   “Anglo American Platinum expresses its deep concern about
this incident and appeals for its employees to remain calm and
respect the company’s dispute resolution process,” Amplats
said.  Security guards at Siphumelele received minor injuries when
they tried to evacuate NUM members from their offices today.
Police said in a statement that some people had been attacked
with machetes and other sharp objects.  “Police are investigating cases ranging from public
violence, attempted murder and assault,” it said in an e-mailed
statement.  Strikes in the mining industry last year shut gold and
platinum mines, reducing South Africa’s gross domestic product
by 0.5 percentage point, according to the National Treasury, and
contributed to a drop in the nation’s credit rating.  Amplats  shares fell the most in a month, declining 4.9 
percent to 442.94 rand.  Anglo American Plc , which controls 
Amplats, lost 2.7 percent to 1,985 pence at 4:09 p.m. in London.  The rand erased earlier gains after reports of the
violence, dropping as much as 0.5 percent to 8.8985 against the
dollar. It traded at 8.8927 as of 6:23 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Amplats said last month it may shut four mine shafts to
curb costs and stem losses spurred by a two-month strike last
year. The plan, which would cut about 7 percent of global
output, was put on hold following criticism from the South
African government. The postponement allows for talks with the
Department of Mineral Resources and unions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  