-- Pound Falls to Seven-Month Low as Weale Says Drop May Be Helpful
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-18T17:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/pound-falls-to-seven-month-low-after-weale-comments-on-exports.html
The pound weakened to a seven-month
low against the dollar after Bank of England policy maker  Martin Weale  endorsed the currency’s decline, saying it may help
bolster exports.  Sterling dropped for the first time in three days versus
the euro amid speculation central bank minutes to be released
this week may echo those from January, which said sterling’s
real exchange rate was above the level needed to help the
economy rebalance. Futures traders scrapped bets the pound would
strengthen, data from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission showed. Gilts were little changed.  “Investors are struggling to have faith in sterling,”
said  Simon Smith , chief economist at FxPro Group Ltd. in London.
“Investors are seeing an economy which is possibly entering
another recession and is likely to see inflation holding above
target. The central bank is also wanting to see the currency
lower. Weale’s comments were a fresh piece of evidence.”  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.5464 at 5:02 p.m. London
time after sliding to $1.5438, the lowest level since July 13.
Sterling weakened 0.3 percent to 86.34 pence per euro after
declining 1.8 percent last week.  The slide in sterling will probably help reduce external
imbalances, Weale said in a Feb. 16 speech at the Warwick
Economics Summit in Coventry, England.  “It may be that high levels of uncertainty and a
reluctance to take on new risks have stood in the way of
exporters seeking new markets and domestic producers doing what
is needed to displace imports,” he said. “Provided the calmer
atmosphere we have seen since the summer is sustained, we may
see further benefits of the depreciation.”  Second Worst  The pound has tumbled 4.5 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 0.9 percent and the euro rose 2.2 percent.  “Weale’s speech is in line with our bearish view on
sterling,”  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , head of foreign-exchange
strategy at UBS AG in Singapore, wrote in a note to clients.
“This is a clear message from Weale that further currency
weakness is both likely and desirable.”  The Bank of England will release the minutes of its Feb. 7
meeting on Wednesday. In the previous minutes published on Jan.
23, policy makers said “the sterling real exchange rate might
be above the level compatible with the necessary rebalancing of
the economy.”  Sell Rallies  Investors should use any rally in the pound before the
minutes are released as a chance to sell the currency,  Jane Foley , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank
International in London, wrote in a note to clients. There is
“greater scope” for sterling to underperform the euro than the
dollar, she wrote.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the pound compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 16,776 on Feb.
12, compared with net longs of 1,174 a week earlier. The figures
reflect holdings in currency-futures contracts at the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange.  The 10-year gilt yield closed at 2.20 percent after
climbing to 2.27 percent on Feb. 14, the highest level since
April 2. The price of the 1.75 percent bond due in September
2022 was 96.185.  U.K. government bonds have lost 2.8 percent this year
through Feb. 15, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds dropped 1.6 percent and Treasuries declined 0.9 percent.  The U.K. securities slid 0.8 percent in the past five days,
the worst performers of 26 sovereign debt markets tracked by the
indexes. On a dollar-denominated basis, they fell 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  