-- Former Gold Fields Boss to Contest South African Election
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-02-18T12:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/ramphele-to-form-political-party-in-south-africa.html
Mamphela Ramphele , the former
chairwoman of  Gold Fields Ltd. , said she’s forming a political
party to challenge the ruling African National Congress because
corruption and inequality are ruining Africa’s biggest economy.  “Our country is at risk because self-interest has become
the driver of many of those in positions of authority who should
be focused on serving the public,” Ramphele said today in a
speech in Johannesburg. “Corruption, nepotism and patronage
have become the hallmarks of the conduct of many in public
service.”  Ramphele has criticized the ANC’s failure to improve
schooling and reduce the 25 percent  unemployment  rate. The ANC
has governed South Africa since taking power under  Nelson Mandela  in the first all-race elections in 1994 and controls
almost two-thirds of the seats in Parliament.  Ramphele, 65, resigned as chairwoman of Gold Fields last
week and said she will step down from other private-sector
directorships. She is a former managing director of the World
Bank and an ex-director of  Anglo American Plc .  A medical doctor and social anthropologist, Ramphele was
once a partner of anti-apartheid leader  Steve Biko , who founded
South Africa’s Black Consciousness Movement and died in 1977
after sustaining brain damage during a beating while in police
custody.  Corruption Fight  The working name for Ramphele’s party is  Agang , which she
translated as “Build South Africa.” It will seek to “wage
war” against corruption, which now dominates South Africa’s
public service, she said. So far it has five members, Ramphele
said.  “An unchecked culture of impunity and the abuse of power
as well as public resources rob children, young people, rural
and urban poor people of the fruits of freedom,” she said.  Ramphele said she will campaign to change the electoral
system so voters choose their lawmakers directly and to
restructure the economy so it benefits all. The mining industry,
which relies on low-cost labor, is unsustainable, she said.  Income inequality has widened since 1994, with 35 percent
of the population living on less than $51 a month. The Gini
coefficient, a measure of inequality in which a reading of zero
means society is totally equal, worsened to 0.63 in 2009
compared with 0.59 in 1993, according to the World Bank.  “There is no justification for so much poverty amidst so
much opulence in our society,” Ramphele said.  Opposition Support  Ramphele said she has held discussions with other
opposition parties, including the Democratic Alliance and the
Congress of the People.  “We are going to work deliberately to reduce the
fragmentation in the current political landscape,” Ramphele
said. “We are going to work with those who subscribe to the
principles I outlined.”  Agang is likely to draw support mostly from the DA and Cope
rather than the ANC, according to  Aubrey Matshiqi , a political
analyst at the Johannesburg-based Helen Suzman Foundation.  “For us, middle class and chattering class, this was
wonderful,” Matshiqi said in an interview. “If I was working
class, there was very little there for me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  