-- Rockwood’s CeramTec Said to Draw Interest From Permira
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-19T16:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/rockwood-s-ceramtec-said-to-draw-interest-from-permira.html
Rockwood Holdings Inc .’s CeramTec
unit is drawing interest from private-equity companies including
Advent International and Permira Advisers, according to three
people familiar with the situation.  Information on the German maker of ceramic parts for
replacement knees and hips is being sent to potential buyers
this week, said one of the people who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public. CVC Capital Partners, Bain
Capital and  Blackstone Group  have also shown an interest, the
person said. Rockwood, the largest producer of lithium products,
rose as much as 8.3 percent today.  CeramTec may be worth as much as $2 billion, based on
estimated 2013 earnings, according to Deutsche Bank AG analyst
 David Begleiter . Advent, CVC, Blackstone, Permira and Bain
declined to comment. Rockwood Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Seifi Ghasemi  today said that he hired Lazard to explore
options for CeramTec and also the additives unit.  Ghasemi  is narrowing the focus of the Princeton, New
Jersey-based company on lithium and surface treatments. He’s
already overseeing an exit from a titanium-dioxide business
called Sachtleben and last week Rockwood announced it was
acquiring the 39 percent stake owned by partner  Kemira Oyj  to
ease the divestiture.  Core Businesses  Rockwood rose  as much as  $4.76 to $62.26 in New York
trading and was up 6.8 percent as of 10:44 a.m., valuing the
company at $4.8 billion. The stock rose 26 percent in 2012 while
the Bloomberg Americas Chemicals Index gained 22 percent.  The company will look at any offers it gets for the
ceramics and additives businesses, Ghasemi said on a conference
call today, adding that he can’t predict the outcome of the
review.  Rockwood’s fourth-quarter sales gained 1.8 percent to $829
million, the company said today. That beat the average analyst
estimate of $790.9 million in a Bloomberg survey. Adjusted
earnings per share from continuing operations dropped 48 percent
to 47 cents, in line with estimates.  “Our two core businesses, lithium and surface treatment,
as well as advanced ceramics, had a satisfactory performance in
the fourth quarter,” Ghasemi said in the statement.  CeramTec, which supplies ceramics to the health-care,
electronics and auto industries and is based in Plochingen,
Germany, posted full-year earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of $174.8 million on sales of
$546.7 million, Rockwood said today. The additives unit posted
Ebitda of $124 million on sales of $731.5 million.  Health-Care Growth  In a sale, CeramTec may fetch about 10 times Ebitda, one of
the people familiar with the situation said. The ceramics
business could be worth $2 billion based on projected earnings
for this year, Deutsche Bank said in a Jan. 22 note.  Based on the average multiple of 6.2 times Ebitda paid in
ceramic products deals in North America and western Europe in
the last five years, CeramTec would be valued at about $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chris Shaw , a New York-based analyst at Monness Crespi
Hardt & Co., this month said CeramTec could fetch more than the
average ceramic company because of its higher profitability and
its growth prospects.  CeramTec, founded in 1903 as a porcelain factory, supplies
ceramics to the electronics and auto industries, with more than
3,600 employees worldwide. The company got its current name
after Dynamit Nobel’s Cerasiv unit took over Hoechst CeramTec.
Rockwood agreed to buy the business in 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  