-- Mrs. Watanabe Dumping Australia Debt Signals Turn for Yen
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-02-18T05:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/mrs-watanabe-dumping-australia-debt-signals-top-for-yen.html
Japanese investors are selling
record amounts of Australian debt, betting a rout in the yen
that sent it to a four-year low against the Aussie dollar has
run its course.  The biggest investors in Australia’s bonds cut holdings by
652.6 billion yen ($7 billion) over November and December, the
most in  Ministry of Finance  data going back to 2005. Benchmark
10-year yields climbed 57 basis points since Sept. 30, heading
for the longest stretch of monthly increases in 3 1/2 years.
Australian government bonds returned 37 percent in yen terms
over the past five years, the most among 26 developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  The yen tumbled against the so-called Aussie and other
currencies over the past six months as Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe prodded the central bank to pump money into the
economy. The currency is reaching “equilibrium” against the
U.S. dollar,  Kazumasa Iwata , a former deputy head of the Bank of
Japan and a candidate to take over as the next central bank
governor, said last week. Not only is investing in Australia
expensive, improvement in Europe’s debt crisis is curtailing
demand for the haven of Australia’s AAA rated debt.  “Because of the Australian dollar appreciating against the
yen, investors are getting quite a good return,” said  Yoshisada Ishide , who manages the Daiwa SB Short-Term Australian Dollar
Bond Open Fund, Asia’s largest bond fund dedicated to investing
in the nation. “For the past three months, it has been one-way
appreciation. It’s a chance to diversify into equities and other
high-yielding currencies.”  Dumping Aussie Bonds  The fund shrank to 985 billion yen on Feb. 14 from as high
as 1.33 trillion yen in March.  Japanese retail investors -- often called Mrs. Watanabe as
a reference to housewives who control family budgets -- dumped
A$10 billion ($10.3 billion) of Australian retail bonds in the
year to January, Westpac Banking Corp. said in a note to clients
last week. The value of investment trusts sunk into Australia
fell by A$12 billion 2012, the bank said, citing figures from
the Investment Trust Association of Japan.  The Aussie  strengthened  to 97.44 yen this month, the
highest level since August 2008. It has surged 15 percent versus
its Japanese counterpart over three months, the eighth-biggest
gain among the Group of 10 currencies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Australian dollar traded at 96.79 yen as of 3:52 p.m.
in Sydney.  Yen’s Slide  Against the U.S. dollar, the yen fell to 94.46 last week,
the least since May 2010. An exchange rate of 90 to 100 per
dollar represents a return to “equilibrium,” Iwata said Feb.
14.  Japan is punishing its trading partners by guiding the yen
lower, Eisuke Sakakibara, a former Ministry of Finance official,
said last week.  Japanese investors aren’t ready to give up on Australia,
said Ishide, who met with 100 customers at a seminar in Kyoto
last week. They may buy again if the Australian dollar weakens
to 80 yen, he said.  The yen slid 0.7 percent to 94.11 per U.S. dollar today
after Group of 20 nations refrained from censuring Japanese
policies. Two days of talks between G-20 finance ministers and
central bankers ended in Moscow on Feb. 16 with a statement
pledging not to “target our exchange rates for competitive
purposes,” without singling out Japan.  RBA Outlook  The  Daiwa SB Short-Term Australian  fund returned 22 percent
in the past year, ranking behind more than half of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australian debt returned 1 percent in the past six months,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Bank of Analysts Societies. The gain
turns into 18 percent when adjusted for yen-based investors.  Ten-year government  bond yields  rose five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 3.57 percent. They were as high as
3.61 percent this month, a level not seen since May.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  cut the
target for overnight lending between banks to a 50-year low of 3
percent in December. Interest-rate swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg show investors expect at least one more reduction in
2013. Benchmark rates are close to zero in the U.S. and Japan.  Traders see a 38 percent chance of a March rate cut, down
from 58 percent odds on Feb. 6, the day after the RBA decided to
hold the benchmark unchanged at its first policy meeting for
2013, the data show.  Inflation Outlook  Relative yields on corporate notes dropped this year on
speculation improving global growth and 1.25 percentage points
of central bank rate cuts in 2012 will bolster Australia’s
economy as a record mining investment boom fades. The spread
between company yields and sovereigns shrank to 145 basis points
on Feb. 15, matching the lowest since December 2007, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  Investors expect Australian inflation to hold in the
central bank’s target range of 2 percent to 3 percent, bonds
indicate. The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and
same-maturity inflation-linked bonds, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
declined for a second week to 2.72 percentage points.  A second reason investors are selling Australian bonds is
that the flight to quality caused by Europe’s debt crisis is
fading. Australia, which has stable top-level debt rankings from
Standard & Poor’s Corp., Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings, benefited as investors sought havens amid concern one
or more European governments would default.  Haven Abandoned  “The recent rapid improvement in financial conditions in
Europe means ‘normalization trades’ suddenly came back in vogue
-- in other words ‘safe haven’ assets were dumped for ‘growth’
assets,”  Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist at Westpac in
Sydney, wrote in a report this month.  “The worst is over, but what we still have to do is
difficult,” Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said
in January.  What the Japanese do is especially important because they
are among the largest holders of Australian debt.  Moving Markets  “Japanese flows into Australia have historically moved the
market,” said  Annette Mullen , Sydney-based head of rates in
Colonial First State Global Asset Management’s fixed interest
and credit team, which manages about A$25 billion. “There’s
still a reasonably wide range of views of what’s going to occur
with the BOJ over the period ahead. For me that’s something that
we managing money in Australia need to continue to remain on top
of, because it can impact a lot of markets in Australia.”  Japanese investors held 13.98 trillion yen of debt
denominated in Australian dollars as of the end of 2011, based
on the latest figures available from the Bank of Japan. At the
time, the figure was equivalent to A$178.1 billion. The size of
Australia’s sovereign bond market was A$210.3 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Long-term debt securities issued
by governments and corporations in Australia totaled A$832.7
billion, RBA data show.  “There tend to be more outflows from my fund when the
Australian dollar appreciates,” said  Hideya Kubo , a senior
money manager in Tokyo at Diam Co. who oversees the equivalent
of $5 billion. “Investors may be waiting for the opportunity to
buy Aussie assets at cheaper levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  