-- Russia’s KupiVIP Seeking $125 Million in 2014 IPO, Founder Says
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-02-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/russia-s-kupivip-seeking-125-million-in-2014-ipo-founder-says.html
KupiVIP , the Russian online fashion
retailer, is seeking to raise $125 million in an initial public
offering next year to fund warehouse construction and expand
delivery network, its founder said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Jefferies & Co. are among
advisers KupiVIP has held discussions with about the planned
stock sale in New York, though no mandate has been offered,
founder and Chief Executive Officer  Oskar Hartmann  said.  KupiVIP started in 2008 helping fashion brands get rid of
excess inventory with limited-time sales online, selling items
such as a Valentino dress for $480 or Adidas shoes for $155. The
company, which has almost 10 million users, is expanding into
non-discounted retail with a new store, shoptime.ru.  “Russia is set to converge with the global trends in e-
commerce,” Hartmann said in an interview in Moscow last week.
“In five years, half of its 143 million population will be
buying goods online.”  E-commerce in Russia has reached $12 billion, accounting
for 1.9 percent of total retail sales in 2012,  Morgan Stanley 
said in a report last month. Online sales are expected to grow
35 percent a year through 2015 as Russia catches up with western
Europe in penetration, the bank said. Fashion may reach 25
percent of total e-commerce, Hartmann predicted.  “The major challenge for online fashion retailers such as
KupiVIP is attracting new customers,” said Boris Ovchinnikov, a
partner at Moscow-based researcher Data Insight. “They already
gained most of the Russian audience eager to buy clothes online,
and even their loyal customers are migrating to global online
stores seeking cheaper prices.”  Vente-Privee  German-born Hartmann studied in the U.S. and worked in
Russia as a business consultant before starting the company to
mimic France’s Vente-Privee.  “I prefer calling it a business transfer,” Hartmann said.
“Cloning is just a replication, while business needs to be
transferred and adjusted for local factors, and that’s been
driving progress for all economic history.”  Fashion, which accounted for about $1.5 billion in 2012
compared with $45 billion in the U.S., will continue to grow as
a segment of Russian e-commerce, he said. KupiVIP’s revenue
nearly doubled last year, Hartmann said, declining to elaborate.  Revenue in 2011 reached $160 million, according to  Forbes 
magazine.  In the last two years, KupiVIP raised about $100 million in
venture financing. Funds like Accel Partners, which invested in
 Facebook Inc ., and Mangrove Capital Partners, which backed
Skype, have put in money.  Germany’s Otto Group was the largest online fashion
retailer in Russia in 2011, according to Data Insight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  