-- Russia’s Central Bank Counters Critics as Real Rates Near Zero
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-02-18T15:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/russia-s-central-bank-counters-critics-as-real-rates-near-zero.html
Russia’s central bank mounted a
defense of its monetary policy after coming under criticism for
choking credit with high borrowing costs, saying it offers
funding to lenders at real rates at or below zero.  “We always take into account the situation in the real
sector of Russia’s economy, including aspects of inflation, and
external circumstances within which the economy functions,”
Bank Rossii First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Simanovsky  told
reporters today in Moscow. The regulator extends funding to
banks at about 6.5 percent, or a real rate of “zero or maybe
even below that,” adjusting for inflation, he said.  Policy makers have resisted government pressure to ease
monetary policy to kickstart the economy, holding the
refinancing rate at 8.25 percent for a fifth month on Feb. 12
and keeping the overnight and one-week repurchase lending rates
at 5.5 percent. The inflation rate was 7.1 percent in January,
jumping from 6.6 percent the previous month.  President  Vladimir Putin  said at the end of January that
borrowing costs “substantially” higher than inflation were a
source of concern. Billionaire  Oleg Deripaska  said last month
that the central bank’s policies “sucked all blood from the
Russian economy.”  The refinancing rate is indicative and doesn’t reflect the
cost of central bank funding for commercial lenders, Simanovsky
said, rejecting critics’ characterization of Russia’s rate
policy as “tight.”  Bank Rossii, which has no single policy rate, has discussed
the future of the refinancing rate and has considered replacing
it with an average of the interest-rate corridor, according to
Simanovsky. The rate can’t easily be relinquished because of its
role in taxation and budget policy, he said.  The ruble traded at 30.1445 per dollar at 7:43 p.m. in
Moscow, compared with 30.1340 on Feb. 15. It has gained 0.5
percent this year, the fifth-best performance among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  