-- Russia Vows to Reverse Wrestling’s Removal From Olympics
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-02-18T11:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/russia-vows-to-reverse-wrestling-s-removal-from-olympics.html
Russia vowed to overturn a decision
to exclude wrestling from the 2020 Olympics, saying the move
flouts the games’ traditions and the interests of hundreds of
millions of fans around the world.  “We will look for a compromise and ways to convince the
members of the International Olympic Committee that this sport,
which was part of the ancient games and is loved by hundreds of
millions of people across the globe, should remain,” Mikhail
Mamiashvili, Russia’s representative to the International
Federation of Associated Wrestling Styles, or FILA, said by
phone from Thailand today.  FILA dismissed its president,  Raphael Martinetti  of
Switzerland, two days ago at a meeting in Thailand, after Russia
accused him of negligence for failing to prevent the Olympic
exclusion. Russia won four of its 24 Olympic gold medals last
year in wrestling. Russians  dominated  the medals count in the
sport during the London games, with 11 in total, followed by
Azerbaijan and Iran.  Wrestling, which has been in the modern Olympic program
since 1896 and was part of the ancient games in Greece, was
removed from the “core sports” for the 2020 games, the
International Olympic Committee said  Feb. 12 . Instead, it will
vie for a place with karate, roller sports, climbing, squash,
wakeboarding and the Chinese martial art of wushu, as well as
baseball and softball, which are seeking inclusion under a
single sports banner.  No Confidence  Mamiashvili spent half the night trying to persuade
colleagues to oust Martinetti, the Russian Wrestling Federation
said in a  statement  on its website on Feb. 16. The move followed
a vote of no confidence by the FILA board in Thailand, according
to the federation, which Mamiashvili heads.  Martinetti “bears full responsibility for what happened,”
Mamiashvili said today. “He completely distanced himself from
resolving the problem and didn’t keep the board informed for
several years.”  FILA will elect a new head in late April or early May,
according to the Russian federation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  