-- Salameh Says Lebanon Rates Stable, Banks Safe Amid Syria Crisis
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-02-18T07:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/salameh-says-lebanon-rates-stable-banks-safe-amid-syria-crisis.html
Lebanese Central Bank Governor  Riad Salameh  comments on the outlook for Syrian banks and economy. He
spoke in a Feb. 16 interview from his Beirut office.  On the stimulus package:  The plan “has been well received by the market” and banks
“have good demand.”  “The purpose was to give a boost to growth,” and may
contribute as much as 2 to 3 percentage points to GDP growth
this year.  “We are aiming at keeping the growth in credit at around
10 percent. The banks should have a better year than in 2012
because they will not be needing to create general provisions
like what they did in 2012.”  On Syria:  “The exposure of the Lebanese banks to the Syrian economy,
whether they are operating from Syria or credits given by banks
in Lebanon, this exposure has decreased by 60 percent and
therefore their exposure on the Syrian economy is much less and
doesn’t warrant really special measures any more. The general
provisions constituted by banks last year amounted to between
$400 and $450 million.”  “The situation is now under control and we do not expect
any negative surprises from the situation in Syria on the banks.
They are not planning to pull out but they have scaled down
their operations and they are in a wait and see situation. They
are are aware of the commercial risks and they are respecting
the sanctions.”  On inflation:  It was “6 percent last year. This year we are aiming at
bringing it down to 4 percent.”  On the Lebanese pound:  “The Lebanese pound is stable. We have seen offerings of
dollars during the first 45 days of this year. The central bank
was a net buyer of dollars in the market and interest rates are
stable in the country.”  On economic growth:  “Real growth in the economy in 2012 was around 2
percent.”  Given the environment in the Arab world and Syria “one
could not expect to have better than this.”  On decline in Gulf tourists:  “Their absence has been felt, especially in the hotel
sector. That’s the reason why we have to increase the internal
demand. And that’s the reason why we did the stimulus package to
make up for this gap.”  On Lebanon’s ability to deal with continuing tensions in Syria:  “As long as we can keep the political and security
situation under control, I think what we have lived in 2012 and
the correction that happened have given a certain base to our
economy from which we can rebuild again.”  “We are today better equipped to face pressures or
tensions than we were before because we have more resources and
the markets have confidence in the banking sector and the
central bank.”  “‘You can see it in the levels of interest rates where for
a country rated B the markets are lending at much lower rates
than other countries having the same rating.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  