-- SCMP Discloses H.K. Media Talks After Stock Surge
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-18T16:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/scmp-says-in-talks-on-hong-kong-media-takeover-after-stock-surge.html
SCMP Group Ltd. , publisher of the
South China Morning Post, said it was in talks to buy “a group
of media companies” in Hong Kong after its shares surged the
most in more than 15 years.  The company so far has only entered a non-binding 
preliminary agreement, it said in a statement yesterday, without 
naming the potential target. The Hong Kong-based publisher will 
resume trading today. It was halted at lunchtime yesterday 
following a jump of as much as 31 percent.  SCMP, controlled by Malaysian billionaire  Robert Kuok , 
could buy a Chinese-language publisher or a TV broadcaster, said 
Doug Young, a journalism professor at Fudan University in 
Shanghai. The company's sales have fallen more than 50 percent 
since 1997 as its flagship title struggles to compete with free 
newspapers and online publications.  “Buying a broadcaster could generate synergy,” said Young,
the author of “The Party Line: How The Media Dictates Public
Opinion in Modern China.” “Advertisers like it if they can buy
deals in one place to get ads in print, online and on TV.”  SCMP, the publisher of Hong Kong’s only paid-for daily
English-language newspaper, also faces a possible delisting
because its publicly traded shares are set to fall below an
exchange-imposed minimum.  Kuok’s Kerry Media Ltd. is due to buy stock from three
banks, which will cut SCMP’s free float to about 11 percent.
SCMP has said its shares could be suspended Feb. 26 until the
proportion of  stock  held by minority investors returns to above
25 percent.  Harper’s Bazaar  SCMP was up 23 percent in Hong Kong trading at HK$2.15 when
it was suspended. The publisher’s other titles include
recruitment publications and Chinese-language versions of
Cosmopolitan and Harper’s Bazaar magazines. It doesn’t own a
Chinese-language newspaper.  Kuok, 89, bought a controlling stake in SCMP from  Rupert Murdoch  in 1993. He bought a further 30 percent for HK$1.1
billion ($142 million) in 2008 through Kerry Group Ltd. The
publisher’s sales declined to HK$946 million in 2011 from HK$2.4
billion in 1997.  Kuok is ranked 38th in the Bloomberg Billionaires Index
with a net worth of $18.8 billion. He also has interests in
property, hotels, palm oil and logistics.  The South China Morning Post, first published in 1903, has
an audited weekday circulation of 108,047, according to a
 marketing brochure  on its website. The newspaper’s local rival,
the Standard, stopped charging readers in 2007 to boost
circulation after the government ended a requirement for
companies to publish stock-exchange announcements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lulu Yilun Chen  in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  