-- Showa Shell Seeks to Lead Solar Market Amid Japan Incentives
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-02-18T10:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/showa-shell-seeks-to-lead-solar-market-as-japan-backs-renewables.html
Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. , the
Japanese refining unit of Royal Dutch Shell Plc, plans to become
a global leader in solar-cell output as it diversifies to
benefit from clean-energy subsidies.  Showa Shell will increase production efficiency and cost
competitiveness to “top levels in the world,” it said today in
its five-year management plan. The company also intends to lead
the development of solar modules, which use photovoltaic cells.  Japan began an incentive program in July to promote
alternative power generation following the 2011 Fukushima
nuclear disaster. That prompted companies such as mobile carrier
 Softbank Corp.  and Tokyo-based Showa Shell to expand in solar
energy as demand climbed.  “Once we gain a foothold in Japan, we want to gain ground
in the international market,” Showa Shell President  Jun Arai 
said today at a press briefing. The company is seeking to reduce
the cost of CIGS solar panels -- thin-film units using copper,
indium, gallium and selenium -- by about half in 2017, he said.  Solar Frontier K.K., a wholly unit of Showa Shell, makes
panels at a 900-megawatt plant in southwestern Japan.  Showa Shell’s Energy Solution business posted a 19 percent
jump in 2012 sales to 78.2 billion yen ($831 million), while its
operating loss narrowed to 15.4 billion yen from 28.8 billion
yen, a Feb. 14 filing showed. The division comprises solar-cell
production and sales, as well as wholesale power supply.  Japan is poised to become the world’s third-largest market
for solar power this year, according to forecasts from
researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Showa Shell began
research on solar panels in 1978 and investigating CIGS modules
in 1993, according to the website of Solar Frontier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  