-- Singh Seeks to Avert Strike as Indian Workers Protest Inflation
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-02-18T08:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/singh-seeks-to-avert-strike-as-indian-workers-protest-inflation.html
India’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  sought negotiations with workers to avert a planned strike
this week as 11 trade unions across the political spectrum
called for protests against issues including rising prices and
the government’s sale of state assets.  Cabinet colleagues including Finance Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  and Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  will hold talks with
union leaders today. The two-day strike starting Feb. 20 “would
lead to avoidable loss to our economy and inconvenience to the
public through disruption of services,” Singh said in a
statement,  asking  unions to call it off.  The strike would mark the latest in a string of street
protests Singh has faced in his second term as the benchmark
 inflation rate  stayed above 6 percent from 2010 and with the
$1.8 trillion economy poised for its slowest pace of expansion
in a decade. “More than 100 million” workers will participate
in this week’s stoppage, a union leader said.  Singh’s “economic activities are causing greater loss to
the country than the strike by the trade unions,” said Tapan
Sen, general secretary of the  Centre of Indian Trade Unions . The
protesters plan to block rail and road traffic, while picketing
will hurt operations at banks, insurers, phone carriers, ports
and coal mining companies, he said.  Trade unions supporting the protests include the  Indian
National Trade Union Congress , affiliated to Singh’s ruling
Congress party, and  Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh  that owes political
allegiance to the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party .  Bonds, Currencies  Any widespread strike may decrease trading volumes of bonds
and currencies in the financial hub of Mumbai as workers walk
out, according to Harihar Krishnamoorthy, Mumbai-based treasurer
at FirstRand Bank Ltd.  “If there’s a strike, we can see some disruption in
trading of bonds and currencies,” he said. “That could affect
volumes.”  The average daily traded volume in bonds was 498 billion
rupees ($9.2 billion) in January, while it was $20.8 billion for
foreign exchange, according to the Clearing Corp. of India Ltd.,
the company that guarantees settlement of transactions.  In an effort to kick start the economy set to grow 5
percent in the year ending March 31, Singh in September began
his biggest policy push in a decade, relaxing rules on foreign
investment in the retail and aviation industries. The moves came
after corruption allegations against officials and parliamentary
gridlock set back his development agenda.  Rejecting Appeal  The trade unions want the government to take measures to
curb price gains, create jobs, stop the sale of stakes in state-
run companies and enforce labor laws, social security provisions
and minimum wages for workers. The government raised $2.1
billion this month selling shares in NTPC Ltd., the nation’s
biggest power generator, and $1.1 billion from a December
offering in NMDC Ltd., the largest iron ore producer.  “There is no question of calling off the strike,” the
Press Trust of India quoted Gurudas Dasgupta, general secretary
of the  All India Trade Union Congress , as saying. “We want a
settlement from government, not an assurance.”  Graft allegations roiled Singh’s administration starting
end-2010 after the nation’s chief auditor said in a report that
the 2008 sale of phone licenses was not transparent and may have
cost the exchequer as much as $31 billion in potential revenue.  Demonstrations in December against the brutal gang rape and
murder of a 23-year-old woman turned violent, prompting police
to deploy water cannons to disperse crowds in New Delhi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net  