-- TSMC Climbs to Record After UMC Forecasts Operating Loss
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-02-18T02:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/tsmc-climbs-to-record-after-umc-forecasts-operating-loss.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co.  rose to a record in Taipei trading after a smaller rival
forecast an operating loss, showing the world’s largest custom
chipmaker is boosting its technology advantage.  TSMC  climbed  as much as 3.3 percent to NT$108.50, the
highest level since it started trading in 1994, and was at
NT$106.50 as of 10:44 a.m. Taiwan’s benchmark  Taiex  index, of
which it’s the largest member, rose 0.4 percent. Trading resumed
today after halting Feb. 6 for the Lunar New Year break.  United Microelectronics Corp.  may post an operating loss of
about NT$1 billion ($34 million) this quarter with the
introduction of more advanced production technology being
“slower than expected,” the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company said
Feb. 6. TSMC, with five times the revenue, on Feb. 8 reported a
28 percent rise in January sales from the previous month.  UMC 
fell as much as 2.6 percent today.  “UMC’s results and outlook showed that they’re doing worse
than expected and that  TSMC  is extending its technology lead,”
said  Steven Pelayo , who rates TSMC overweight and UMC neutral at
HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. “UMC has fallen by the wayside
and TSMC is moving ahead.”  Clients such as  Qualcomm Inc.  and Nvidia Corp. contract
with foundries TSMC and UMC to manufacture chips based on their
own designs. A shortage of capacity at  TSMC  to make
semiconductors using 28-nanometer technology, the most advanced
available, meant both clients missed out on sales last year.  UMC  planned to offer similar production techniques last
quarter. That timeline has been delayed, and UMC doesn’t expect
to see a “significant” contribution from 28-nanometer
processes in the first half, Chief Executive Officer  Yen Po-wen 
told investors Feb. 6. Yen, who became CEO in November, said he
plans to boost research spending.  Strong January sales show TSMC continues to gain orders,
which is probably boosting sentiment in trading today, HSBC’s
Pelayo said.  TSMC  has gained 10 percent in Taipei trading this year,
while UMC has fallen 5.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 