-- Sorouh Said to Delay Aldar Merger Vote on Missed Quorum
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-02-19T12:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/sorouh-holders-said-unlikely-to-meet-quorum-at-aldar-merger-vote.html
Sorouh Real Estate Co.  will probably
have to wait until next month before shareholders approve a
planned merger with Abu Dhabi developer  Aldar Properties PJSC , a
person familiar with the matter said.  The Abu Dhabi-based company is unlikely to meet quorum at
an extraordinary general meeting scheduled for Feb. 21 to vote
on the combination, the person said, asking not be identified
because the information is private. Sorouh will most likely
achieve the required headcount at a March 3 meeting, the person
said. The stock fell 1.1 percent, the most since Feb. 7, to 1.85
dirhams at the close in Abu Dhabi.  “We are working hard to encourage all of our 35,000 plus
shareholders to attend the EGM this Thursday either by proxy or
in person,” according to an e-mailed statement from a Sorouh
spokesman, who declined to be named citing company policy. “It
is not unusual for companies to obtain quorum only at the second
EGM meeting. We remain confident of a successful vote in favor
of a merger.”  Aldar’s board last month approved a plan to offer 1.288
shares for each Sorouh stock in a government-backed acquisition
to create the Middle East’s third-largest publicly traded
developer. Sorouh stock has gained 14 percent since the
announcement as investors deemed the merger terms to favor the
smaller of the two developers. Aldar’s shares fell 7.4 percent
in the period.  Property Revival  Abu Dhabi, which bailed out Aldar in 2011, is seeking to
revive its property market after prices fell more than 50
percent during a crash in the United Arab Emirates. Sorouh’s
2012 net income  surged 32 percent  while Aldar’s  profit more than
doubled  after the emirate said it would resume stalled real
estate projects including branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim
museums.  Shareholders of each company would reconvene on March 3 in
the event that the quorums aren’t achieved  at the first EGM ,
according to a statement on a joint website. An Aldar spokesman,
who declined named citing company policy, said the developer is
confident a vote next month will succeed if quorum isn’t reached
this week.  Shares of Aldar fell 2 percent to 1.51 dirhams today.
State-owned Mubadala Development Co. converted Aldar bonds at
1.75 dirhams a share, creating 396.5 million shares in the
company which are set to be listed on Feb. 24, the developer
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  