-- Spain Non-Performing Loans Decline After Bad Bank Transfers
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-18T17:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/spanish-non-performing-loans-decline-after-transfers-to-bad-bank.html
Spanish banks’ non-performing loans
as a proportion of total lending dropped in December after
lenders including Bankia SA transferred soured assets linked to
real estate to the country’s bad bank.  The  proportion  fell to 10.44 percent from a record 11.38
percent in November, the Bank of Spain said on its website
today. Doubtful assets declined to 167.4 billion euros ($224
billion) from 191.6 billion euros in November, the bank said.  Spain set up a bad bank, known as Sareb, under the terms of
a European bailout for its banking system to absorb the soured
assets of nationalized lenders. While the transfer of assets to
Sareb in December brought down the bad-loan ratio after 20
straight monthly increases, a Spanish economy set to shrink for
a second year in 2013 will continue to generate defaults,
analysts and bankers said.  “The trend is still for further deterioration because of
what is happening in the economy,” said  Juan Lopez , an analyst
at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in Madrid. “There is still
plenty of news about companies going bust.”  Sareb received 37 billion euros of assets from four
nationalized lenders in December.  The vehicle will eventually manage about 55 billion euros
of assets, with two-thirds being loans linked to real estate and
the rest property assets, according to  its website . The discount
on gross book value for the assets transferred is 49 percent for
newly-built homes, 66 percent for building projects still under
construction and 79 percent for land, Sareb said.  The bad-loan ratio for Spanish lenders in December 2011 was
7.84 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  