-- Stanford Investors Sue Antigua, Caribbean Central Bank
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-02-18T19:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/stanford-investors-sue-antigua-caribbean-central-bank.html
R.  Allen Stanford ’s receiver and
investors’ committee sued Antigua, the Eastern Caribbean Central
Bank and 23 former Stanford Financial Group Co. executives over
allegations they aided the financier’s $7 billion fraud.  The Official Stanford Investors Committee seeks repayment
of at least $90 million in documented loans Stanford made to the
dual-island nation of Antigua and Barbuda and accuses its
elected officials of having been “Stanford’s partners in
crime.” The nation’s leaders shielded Stanford’s scheme and
traded choice real estate for as much as $230 million in loans
that haven’t been repaid, according to the lawsuit.  “Antigua knowingly provided necessary assistance to
Stanford’s $7 billion Ponzi scheme and, in exchange, received
millions of dollars in loans whose repayment terms Stanford did
not enforce,’’ the committee said in a complaint filed in Dallas
federal court on Feb. 15. “For well over a decade, Antigua was
a prime participant in, and beneficiary of, the Stanford Ponzi
scheme, and actively protected and shielded Stanford’s criminal
enterprise from real regulatory scrutiny.’’  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March of masterminding a
Ponzi scheme that defrauded investors through the sale of bogus
certificates of deposit at his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. He is serving a 110-year sentence in a
Florida federal prison as he appeals his verdict and sentence.  Falsified Audits  Evidence at Stanford’s trial showed he bribed Antiguan
banking regulator  Leroy King  to falsify audits certifying the
bank’s investment returns and mislead U.S. securities regulators
investigating the former Texas billionaire’s operations.
Stanford was also allowed to underwrite and participate in
banking reform legislation that Antigua claimed had cleaned up
its corrupt offshore banking industry, according to trial
evidence. Antigua has so far failed to extradite King to face
criminal charges in the U.S.  The investors on Feb. 15 separately sued the  Eastern
Caribbean Central Bank , which nationalized Stanford’s other
island financial institution, the Bank of Antigua, after the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission seized Stanford’s enterprise
on suspicion of fraud in February 2009.  The ECCB in turn parceled out ownership in the bank to the
government of Antigua and to other Caribbean banks in what the
investors called “a second act of brazen thievery.” The head
of ECCB’s monetary council at the time was Antiguan Minister of
Finance  Errol Cort , who was both King’s supervisor and one of
Stanford’s personal attorneys, according to court papers.  ‘Rightful Owners’  “The considerable value of the Bank of Antigua, believed
to be in the tens or hundreds of millions of dollars, should be
distributed as compensation to its rightful owners, Stanford’s
victims and creditors,’’ the committee said in court papers.  Recent comments by Antiguan elected officials indicate the
country intends to repay the bank instead of the defrauded
investors, Peter D. Morgenstern, a lawyer for the investors’
committee, wrote, meaning that “in essence, Antigua intends to
use CD investors’ money to pay itself.’’  Tom Bayko, Antigua’s attorney, didn’t immediately respond
to voice or e-mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit. In
an earlier suit, Bayko said Antigua was protected from such
litigation by foreign sovereign immunity.  Officials at the ECCB didn’t immediately return telephone
or e-mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Ralph Janvey , Stanford’s court-appointed receiver, filed
another lawsuit on Feb. 15 claiming breach of fiduciary duty
lawsuit by 23 former directors and officers of Stanford’s
operations, including three executives convicted of furthering
the fraud scheme. The suit seeks return of all compensation from
these individuals, some of whom have been previously sued by the
receiver on similar claims.  “Many directors and officers simply looked the other way,
while others actively assisted Stanford in defrauding thousands
of people out of billions of dollars,’’  Kevin Sadler , Janvey’s
lead lawyer, said in the filing in Dallas federal court. They
“put their continued employment and substantial compensation
ahead of the best interests of the entities they were hired to
serve,” he said.  The cases are The Official Stanford Investors Committee v.
Antigua and Barbuda, 3:13-cv-0760; The Official Stanford
Investors Committee v. Bank of Antigua, 3:13-cv-0762; Janvey v.
Alvarado, 3:13-cv-0775. All are in U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  The main criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  