-- Sugar Gains as Reduced Prices May Spur Demand; Cocoa Declines
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-18T18:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/sugar-gains-as-lower-price-may-spur-demand-robusta-coffee-rises.html
Sugar rose in London, rebounding
from a second weekly drop, on speculation lower prices will spur
demand at a time when millers in leading global producer Brazil
may direct more cane to making ethanol. Cocoa fell.  Iraq, the third-biggest white-sugar importer, bought
200,000 metric tons last week. The country is forecast to bring
in 795,000 tons in 2012-13, according to the  International Sugar
Organization  in London. Millers in Brazil may choose to make
more ethanol this year, said Marex Spectron Group in London.  “End users may be viewing the current market as a buying
opportunity,”  Keith Flury , a senior commodities analyst at
Rabobank International in London, said by e-mail today. “The
recent Iraq tender is likely seen as supportive.”  White, or refined, sugar for May delivery gained 1.6
percent to $497.90 a ton by the close on NYSE Liffe in London
after sliding 2.4 percent in the prior two weeks. ICE Futures
U.S., where raw sugar, arabica coffee and dollar-denominated
cocoa trade, is closed today for Presidents’ Day.  “In the last two weeks, the ethanol parity has risen and
the sugar market price has fallen, so we can now expect center
south Brazil mills to favor ethanol over sugar production in the
new crop,”  Paul Bannister , head of sugar brokerage at Marex
Spectron, said in a report dated today. Center south is the
nation’s main growing region.  Switch to Premium  Raw sugar for delivery in March on ICE closed at a premium
of 0.26 cent to the May contract on Feb. 15, a reversal of a
week-earlier discount that may indicate limited supply. The
March contract expires Feb. 28.  “With a little over a week remaining before the March
expiry, the firming spread is suggesting potential physical
tightness,”  Tom McNeill , a director at Brisbane, Australia-
based researcher Green Pool Commodity Specialists Pty, said in a
report e-mailed today. “Some are pointing to logistical
constraints in center south Brazil, where grain and oilseed
exports compete with sugar at the ports.”  Robusta coffee for delivery in May was unchanged at $2,057
a ton. Cocoa for delivery in March fell 0.6 percent to 1,400
pounds ($2,165) a ton, the lowest close since April 11.  Money managers cut bets on rising prices of London cocoa to
the lowest in almost 11 months in the week ended Feb. 12,
according to NYSE Liffe. Investors were net-long by 12,895
futures and options contracts, the smallest net-long position
since March 13 and compared with 16,650 lots a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Isis Almeida  in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 