-- Sumitomo to Seek Higher Risk in Africa, Asia to Boost Returns
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-02-18T06:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/sumitomo-to-seek-higher-risk-in-africa-asia-to-boost-returns.html
Sumitomo Corp ., a Japanese trading
house with assets from mining to media, will pursue more power
and water projects in Africa and South East Asia to boost profit
in the traditionally “low-risk, low-return” business.  The company is looking to expand its  portfolio  of
infrastructure projects in North America and the Middle East to
emerging markets as profits are squeezed by rising competition,
said Kohei Yamate, assistant general manager of the project and
structured finance department at Sumitomo.  “Working on projects in the Middle East, in nations that
have top credit ratings, naturally there the risk level is low,
but so are the returns,” Yamate said in an interview in Tokyo
on Feb. 14. “There are good opportunities in sub-Saharan
Africa” and the company is also considering South America, he
said.  The trader’s plans to expand operations in the region come
at a time when Japanese banks, including Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc., are increasing their share of the project
financing market to take advantage of a pull-back by European
lenders. Sumitomo also expects to benefit from the participation
of Japan Bank for International Cooperation, which would help
secure lower financing costs and make the local governments more
supportive, Yamate said.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. helped to manage $9.7
billion of project financing loans in 2012, increasing its place
in underwriter rankings to second from sixth, while Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group kept the third spot with $6.94 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Capacity Expansion  Sumitomo, based in Tokyo, owns about 5,063 megawatts of
capacity globally, enough to power 4.1 million U.S. homes, and
provides water treatment to 2.5 million people, according to
data on its  website . The company said in 2011 that is plans to
expand on a 600-megawatt wind project in South Africa with
contracts to add gas- and coal-fired capacity in the nation.  Japan, North America and Europe accounted for 86 percent of
Sumitomo’s sales last fiscal year, while the infrastructure
business, which also includes telecommunications, provided 2.9
percent of the revenue and 3.8 percent of the profit, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sumitomo has a goal of boosting its power capacity to 6,300
megawatts, with no deadline set, the company said in  December .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  