-- Syrian Civil War Increasingly Sectarian, Commission Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-02-18T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/syrian-civil-war-increasingly-sectarian-commission-says.html
Syria’s civil war is increasingly
sectarian, with both sides in the almost two-year conflict
“significantly more radicalized and militarized,” according to
the United Nations Independent Commission of Inquiry on Syria.  In its  latest report , based on interviews with 445 people,
the panel said the human-rights situation has deteriorated in
Syria since July 15 amid an escalation in fighting between
troops loyal to President  Bashar al-Assad  and anti-government
armed groups. The panel is charged with investigating alleged
violations of international law and all massacres in Syria.  UN human rights chief  Navi Pillay  last week put the death
toll from the conflict at almost 70,000.  Lakhdar Brahimi , the UN
envoy to Syria, has urged Assad to meet the opposition for
talks. Assad’s government signaled on Feb. 12 that it’s ready to
meet with the Syrian National Coalition led by opposition leader
 Moaz al-Khatib , who wants negotiations focused on finding a way
for Assad to leave power and halt the violence.  Government forces and allied militiamen have committed
crimes against humanity, torture, rape, kidnappings, war crimes
and gross violations of human rights, the commission said in the
131-page report, which covers the period July 15 to Jan. 15.  Rebels have committed war crimes including murder, torture
and hostage-taking, the panel said. They also have carried out
bombings in civilian areas, which has “the effect of spreading
terror and amounted to the war crime of attacking civilians,”
according to the report. Still, “violations and abuses
committed by anti-government armed groups did not reach the
intensity and scale of those committed by government forces and
affiliated militia.”  The commission plans to submit to Pillay next month a
confidential list of people and units it believes to be
responsible for crimes against humanity, breaches of
international humanitarian law and gross violations of human
rights. The panel’s mandate ends in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  