-- U.A.E. to Buy Drones, Army Jeeps in $1.4 Billion Defense Deals
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-02-18T14:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/u-a-e-to-buy-drones-army-jeeps-in-1-4-billion-defense-deals.html
The United Arab Emirates said it
will spend $1.4 billion on jeeps, unmanned aircraft and
missiles, and plans further defense deals as Persian Gulf
countries bolster their armies.  The U.A.E. agreed to buy 750 military vehicles from
Wisconsin-based  Oshkosh Corp.  for $380 million, and pay almost
$200 million for Predator drones, Major General Obaid Al Ketbi
said at a press conference in Abu Dhabi. Those were the largest
of 17 contracts announced today, with more to follow. Al Ketbi
said the U.A.E.’s air force is still deciding between planes
made by Dassault Aviation SA and Eurofighter GmbH.  Persian Gulf countries are investing in defense systems and
expanding troop mobility as they take on foreign engagements.
Abu Dhabi, hosting its biannual defense industry trade show, is
seeking partnerships to help meet some of its requirements
domestically and lessen the economy’s reliance on oil.  Boeing Co.  signed an agreement with state-owned Abu Dhabi
Autonomous Systems Investments to provide maintenance and
training services for drones from countries throughout the
region, Debbie Rub, a vice president in Boeing’s military
aircraft division, said today.  The defense show opened in the U.A.E. capital yesterday
with an inauguration ceremony in which  Lockheed Martin Corp.  F-
16 fighters and Dassault Mirage jets provided air support in a
mock battle.  Agreements ‘Imminent’  Speaking from the cabin of an all-terrain vehicle currently
used by the U.S. military in Afghanistan,  John Urias , president
of Oshkosh’s defense segment, said the company is in talks with
other Persian Gulf countries on sales of military vehicles. Some
sales agreements are “imminent,” he said in an interview.  The company is also discussing building military vehicles
in the region in partnership with Gulf companies, and may sign a
partnership agreement within the next year, Urias said.  Consulting and contracting firms will also benefit from
military expansion, Steve Adragna, deputy managing director of
Washington-based Arcanum Global, said in an interview. He said
Arcanum opened an Abu Dhabi office last week as it seeks to win
business advising governments on surveillance, protection from
cyber-attacks and monitoring internal security threats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  