-- U.K. Stocks Decline as Anglo American Shares Drop
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-02-18T16:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-as-mining-companies-drop.html
U.K. stocks  declined as mining
companies fell, offsetting a signal by finance ministers from
the Group of 20 nations that Japan has scope for further
monetary stimulus.  Anglo American Plc contributed the most to the FTSE 100
Index’s retreat. International Consolidated Airlines Group SA
slid 1.6 percent as employees at its Spanish unit began a
strike. Bumi Plc climbed 4.4 percent after an Indonesian
regulator said any new owner for the PT Bumi Resources business
must make a tender offer.  The  FTSE 100  lost 10.07 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,318.19
at the close in London. The equity benchmark has still rallied
7.1 percent so far this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
compromise budget and postponed a decision on spending cuts to
March. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also dropped 0.2 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index was little changed. U.S.
markets are closed today for President’s Day.  “Things are lackluster today and the earnings season has
disappointed investors,”  Gerard Lane , a strategist at Shore
Capital Group Ltd. in Liverpool, England, said in a phone
interview. “Volumes are quite low, which is down to the half-
term holiday in the U.K. and also U.S. markets being closed
today. The biggest event in the next two weeks will be the
ongoing rhetoric between Democrats and Republicans in the U.S.”  The volume of shares changing hands in FTSE 100-listed
companies was 49 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  G-20 Meeting  Japan won backing for its monetary policies to stimulate
the economy, a move that has led to a drop in the yen, at a
meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers in Moscow.  “There was no censure of the Japanese attitude, which was
considered a policy to develop its economy and not to
intentionally devalue,” Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters after the meeting over the weekend.  In the U.K., house sellers raised their  asking prices  by
2.8 percent in February to 235,741 pounds ($365,000), their
highest in five years, according to a report by property-website
operator Rightmove Plc. They increased 1.1 percent from a year
earlier. In London, asking prices gained 1.2 percent.  Anglo American  Anglo American retreated 2.8 percent to 1,983 pence after
its South African unit said that security officials shot nine
workers during fighting at a mine in Rustenburg. There were no
fatalities and the injured employees received medical attention,
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. said in a statement.  A  gauge of mining stocks  in the FTSE 350 Index fell 0.9
percent as copper prices declined 1.1 percent in London. Rio
Tinto, the world’s  second-biggest mining company , slipped 0.6
percent to 3,711 pence. Antofagasta Plc, the metals producer
owned by Chile’s Luksic family, slid 1.9 percent to 1,098 pence.  IAG lost 3.7 pence to 224.2 pence after 18,500 employees at
its Iberia unit went on strike, the largest industrial dispute
in the Spanish carrier’s history. Iberia’s unions have called 15
days of stoppages this month to protest against the airline’s
decision to reduce operations and eliminate 3,147 jobs.  Carnival Corp. lost 1.7 percent to 2,462 pence after the
New York Times reported that the company will begin a detailed
inspection of its Triumph ship, which was towed to shore last
week following a fire. About 3,100 passengers had been trapped
aboard the cruise ship after the engine-room fire off the coast
of Mexico cut its power.  Bumi advanced 16.7 pence to 394 pence. Indonesia’s
financial-services regulator said today that the company will
have to offer to buy out the other shareholders in its PT Bumi
Resources unit if it is deemed that the ownership of the parent
group has changed.  Nathaniel Rothschild , a co-founder of the coal producer,
has called an extraordinary general meeting for Feb. 21 in an
attempt to replace 12 of Bumi’s 14 directors. The Bakrie Group,
the other co-founder, has said that changing the directors would
constitute a change of control, forcing the London-listed
company to make an offer for the 71 percent of  PT Bumi Resources 
that it doesn’t already own.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  