-- U.K. Labour’s Miliband Seeks Allies on North Europe Tour
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-02-18T18:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/u-k-labour-s-miliband-seeks-allies-on-northern-european-tour.html
U.K. opposition leader  Ed Miliband 
began a tour of northern Europe seeking to demonstrate he’s
fully engaged with the European Union following Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s recent confrontations.  Since the start of the year, Cameron has pledged a
referendum on U.K. membership of the 27-nation bloc and then
negotiated its first-ever budget cut. Miliband, whose Labour
Party leads Cameron’s Tories in opinion polls, has argued that
the promise of a popular vote by the end of 2017 is likely to
deter investors and that the premier is isolated in Europe and
having his policy dictated by euro-skeptic lawmakers at home.  The Labour leader started his tour today in Copenhagen,
where he met the Social Democrat Danish prime minister,  Helle Thorning-Schmidt , before flying to Sweden. He’ll also visit the
Netherlands. His choice of countries suggests that, like
Cameron, he sees the U.K.’s best allies in the EU as north
European countries. It was these nations that joined Britain and
Germany to push for a budget cut at this month’s EU summit.  “What is the negotiating strategy of David Cameron over
the next four years?” Miliband told reporters after talks with
Thorning-Schmidt. “My view is let’s make changes in Europe now.
Let’s not wait for years. One of the reasons for my trip is to
say: How can we on the center-left be driving forward a reform
agenda for Europe that deals with these issues now?”  Two Defeats  Thorning-Schmidt is the daughter-in-law of a previous
Labour leader,  Neil Kinnock . Kinnock, who led the party from
1983 to 1992, was defeated at two elections. He went on to
become a European commissioner from 1995 until 2004.  “We’ve chosen a slightly different path” to Cameron, she
told reporters. “We seek to be part of the core” in the EU.  From Copenhagen Miliband traveled to Sweden, where  Stefan Loefven , leader of the opposition Social Democrats, was due to
hold a dinner in the Labour leader’s honor at his party’s
country retreat of Bommersvik, southwest of Stockholm. Miliband
will address Social Democrat lawmakers in the parliament in the
Swedish capital tomorrow.  Speaking to journalists alongside Miliband before the
dinner, Loefven attacked Cameron’s referendum strategy. “Of
course we want to change and develop the EU,” he said. “But if
everyone is acting like Mr. Cameron, first renegotiate, then put
that result to a referendum, that would mean 10 years of chaos
in the EU. We need to change it, but we can do that without
throwing everything up in the air and seeing where it falls
down.”  Palme Praise  Miliband praised Sweden’s Social Democrats as the most
successful party of its type in Europe. Asked by local
journalists to name his favorite leader of the party, he replied
at length about the achievements of  Olof Palme , who ran the
party until his assassination in 1986, and described him as “a
huge inspiration.”  “One of the things we’ve always looked to Sweden for is a
more equitable distribution of incomes,” Miliband said. “How
do we make our economies not just competitive, but how do we
make them fair as well?”  The Labour leader will see  Diederik Samsom , the leader of
the Labor Party that’s in the Dutch coalition government, in The
Hague on Feb. 20.  In 2011, Cameron established the “Nordic-Baltic Summit,”
an annual meeting of Northern European nations, more sympathetic
to the British view that the EU should focus on free trade,
rather than social legislation. That grouping holds its  next
meeting  in the Latvian capital Riga on Feb. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Copenhagen at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  