-- U.K. Home Sellers Increase Prices in Sign of Rebound
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-02-18T11:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/u-k-home-asking-prices-rise-to-five-year-high-rightmove-says.html
U.K. home sellers raised their
asking prices to the most for a February in five years as
inquiries from potential buyers increased, Rightmove Plc said.  Prices  sought rose 2.8 percent from January to 235,741
pounds ($365,000), the property-website operator said in a
report published today. They increased 1.1 percent from a year
earlier. In London, asking values gained 1.2 percent, the
smallest increase for a February in four years.  “Some agents are reporting their busiest new year since
the onset of the credit crunch,”  Miles Shipside , director at
Rightmove, said in the statement. “While encouraging, it’s far
too early to pop the champagne corks as certain sectors will
remain on ice until the return of wider-spread mortgage
availability.”  While recent house-price data have been mixed, credit-
boosting measures such as the Bank of England’s Funding for
Lending Scheme have helped increase mortgage availability and
reinvigorate the property market. The central bank last week
forecast a “slow but sustained recovery” for the U.K., though
it said high  inflation  will continue to squeeze households.  Housing-market activity has been boosted by new properties
being put up for sale after a dearth of transactions over
Christmas, Rightmove said. In London, while the average asking
price reached a record 486,890 pounds, the pace of increases is
slowing, gaining only 0.7 percent from three months ago. Asking
prices in the capital were up 8.4 percent from a year earlier.  London Prices  “While London has been the out-perform market of the U.K.
and the first to recover from the credit-crunch, there is a
barrier to what people can afford to pay,” Shipside said. “It
remains to be seen whether sellers can achieve their record new
price aspirations.”  Rightmove said first-time buyers are still struggling to
buy homes, with almost half of people purchasing property doing
so for at least the third time. By contrast, only 22 percent of
people intending to buy a home in 2013 will be doing so for the
first time.  The  Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors  said last week
that an index of house prices fell in January, while Halifax on
Feb. 6 also reported a decline in home values. Acadametrics Ltd.
and LSL Property Services said prices rose in the same period,
citing a boost from the FLS.  Separately today, the British Retail Consortium said the
number of shoppers visiting stores in the U.K. fell 4.6 percent
in January from a year earlier as snowfall hit most of the
country. At shopping malls, so-called footfall fell 5.2 percent,
while shopper numbers on high streets declined 3.3 percent.  Asian Growth  In Asia, Thailand’s economic growth accelerated more than
economists estimated, joining Asian nations from Indonesia to
the Philippines in showing resilience to the faltering global
economy as local demand rises. Gross domestic product increased
18.9 percent in the three months through December from a year
earlier, the National Economic and Social Development Board said
in Bangkok.  Malaysia’s growth  probably accelerated to 5.5 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, after expanding 5.2 percent the
previous three months, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey ahead of a Feb. 20 report.  In Britain, the economy shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2012. Economists in a Bloomberg survey published on
Feb. 15 forecast 0.2 percent growth this quarter and an
acceleration to 0.3 percent in the three months through June.  Separately, the Bundesbank said today it expects Germany’s
economy to return to growth this quarter after a 0.6 percent
contraction in the last three months of 2012.  “The economic outlook for Germany has improved relatively
quickly and in remarkable fashion in the past three months,”
the Frankfurt-based central bank said in its monthly report.
“For the first quarter of 2013 an expansion of overall economic
output can be expected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  