-- U.K.’s Turner Says Exchange Rates Should Be Decided by Markets
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-02-18T16:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/u-k-s-turner-says-exchange-rates-should-be-decided-by-markets.html
Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K.
 Financial Services Authority , downplayed talk of a global
currency war and said potential exchange-rate fluctuations
aren’t problematic.  “I am sort of not convinced that there is as a big an
issue here as all that,” Turner told reporters in Stockholm
today when asked whether some countries are trying to depreciate
their currencies. “There is a resolution of it by saying as
long as all countries are making intelligent decisions
appropriate to their own monetary circumstances, let the
exchange rates go where the exchange rates go.”  Group of 20 finance chiefs over the weekend sharpened their
stance against governments trying to influence exchange rates as
they sought to tame speculation of a currency war without
singling out Japan for criticism. The yen has weakened about 13
percent versus the dollar in the past three months after
Japanese Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  announced spending increases
and pressured the Bank of Japan to boost easing.  Turner, who was a potential candidate to succeed  Mervyn King  as Bank of England governor, said that a weakening of a
currency is one side effect of looser monetary policy.  “If they are the only country in the world that decides
that, it is highly likely that they will get a depreciation of
their currency and that that will be one of the transmission
mechanisms through which the policy is expansionary,” he said.
“Obviously, not all countries can simultaneously achieve a
depreciation of their currency.”  “Seen through that, it is not clear that there is a
problem here in currency wars,” Turner said. “Let each country
make the decision as to its appropriate monetary policy in the
light of the present dynamics of inflation, unemployment and
real output and the growth of nominal demand in its country and
that will either produce a shift in relative exchange rates or
it won’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  