-- U.S. Bioethanol Makers Face 5-Year EU Anti-Dumping Tariff
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-02-18T11:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/u-s-bioethanol-makers-face-5-year-eu-anti-dumping-tariff.html
The European Union imposed a five-
year tariff on U.S. bioethanol to curb competition for German,
French, British and other EU producers, threatening to raise
trans-Atlantic trade tensions over renewable energy for autos.  The duty of 62.30 euros ($83.20) a metric ton punishes U.S.
exporters of bioethanol including Poet LLC for allegedly selling
it in the EU below cost, a practice known as dumping. The levy
follows existing EU anti-dumping duties on imports from the U.S.
of biodiesel, another renewable-energy source for vehicles.  European bioethanol manufacturers including Crop Energies
Bioethanol GmbH of Germany, Tereos BENP of France and Ensus of
the U.K. suffered “material injury” as a result of dumped
imports from the U.S., the 27-nation EU said in a decision today
in Brussels. The levy, which applies only to U.S. bioethanol
used for fuel, will take effect after publication in the bloc’s
 Official Journal  by Feb. 25.  The duty, which is the outcome of a dumping probe opened in
November 2011 after a complaint by European manufacturers,
highlights some of the challenges the EU and the U.S. face as
they prepare for negotiations on a free-trade agreement. Last
week, leaders on both sides pledged to pursue an accord that
would expand what is already the largest bilateral commercial
relationship in the world.  Sticking Point  Agriculture threatens to be a sticking point in the planned
trans-Atlantic trade talks. Ethanol is a form of alcohol
distilled from grain or sugar that boosts the oxygen content of
fuel so it burns more thoroughly, reducing tailpipe emissions.  U.S. ethanol producers that also include Marquis Energy
LLC, Patriot Renewable Fuels LLC and Platinum Ethanol LLC
increased their combined share of the EU bioethanol market to
15.7 percent in the 12 months through September 2011 compared
with 1.9 percent in 2008, according to the bloc.  “This clearly exerted pressure on the Union industry,”
the EU said. The main other country that ships bioethanol to the
EU is Brazil, whose share of the European market in the same
period fell to 4.5 percent from 30.3 percent, the bloc said.  In December, the EU dropped a separate threat to apply
five-year anti-subsidy duties on U.S. bioethanol by closing an
inquiry that was opened at the same time as the dumping
investigation. In such trade cases, the European Commission has
the right to apply provisional levies pending a decision by EU
governments on “definitive” measures. In the two EU probes on
U.S. bioethanol, the commission, the EU’s regulatory arm,
refrained from introducing provisional duties.  The EU imposes anti-dumping duties and anti-subsidy duties
on imports from the U.S. of biodiesel, a type of biofuel made
from vegetable oils and animal fats for use in diesel engines.
Those five-year levies were applied in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  