-- Lithuania to Seek Sale of Seized Ukio Bankas Within a Week
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-02-18T19:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/ukio-bankas-of-lithuania-to-be-sold-after-central-bank-takeover.html
Ukio Bankas AB , Lithuania’s fourth-
largest lender by deposits until its operations were suspended
last week, will be sold to a rival, Lithuania’s central bank
said.  The Bank of Lithuania decided today that Ukio’s
administrator should sell it to  Siauliu Bankas AB , as the least
costly and fastest way to resolve the problems posed by the
insolvent lender, central bank chief  Vitas Vasiliauskas  told
reporters in Vilnius.  “We think negotiations should be concluded this week so
that already next week we could talk about gradual renewal of
operations,” the central banker said. This approach “would
better protect the confidence of the shareholders in the
stability and reliability of the banking system, as well as
other public interests, rather than liquidation,” he said.  The Bank of Lithuania suspended Ukio’s activities Feb. 12
and appointed an administrator, saying the lender was insolvent
after risky lending to related companies. Just over a year after
the collapse of Snoras Bankas AB, the government is seeking to
avoid another bankruptcy that would test the state deposit-
insurance fund.  Successful transfer of Ukio’s assets, rights and
liabilities to Siauliu Bankas, after removing the bad loans,
would mean the insurance fund will only have to pay out about
800 million litai ($309 million), Vasiliauskas said. In case of
bankruptcy, it would face charges of 2.7 billion litai, he said.  EBRD Backing  Siauliu, whose biggest shareholder is the European Bank for
Reconstruction with a 19.6 percent stake, said last week that it
had begun negotiations with Ukio’s administrator. At the same
time, the EBRD said it was ready to provide subordinated debt to
strengthen Siauliu for a deal on Ukio.  It was not clear whether Siauliu would agree to acquire any
of the foreign assets that Ukio’s majority owner Vladimir
Romanov, or companies related to him, had pledged to the bank as
loan security, Vasiliauskas said. Those included assets related
to Edinburgh soccer club  Heart of Midlothian , the  Birac AD 
alumina producer in Bosnia and Herzegovina, real estate in
Moscow and other things, he said.  Unhealthy assets would be split off and, if recovered,
distributed to Ukio creditors, the central banker said.  Temporary administrator Adomas Audickas’s report on Ukio
found that the bank’s liabilities exceeded its assets by about
1.1 billion litai.  Independent Valuation  In order to proceed quickly, that preliminary estimate
would be the basis for negotiations with Siauliu, Audickas told
reporters at the same press conference. An independent appraiser
would then value the property in detail, and any differences
would be settled between the parties later, he said.  The Finasta investment banking unit of defunct  Snoras
Bankas , which the Lithuanian government took over in 2011, had
also expressed interest in acquiring some of Ukio’s assets. As
the offer was limited to specific parts of Ukio’s business, the
central bank decided not to pursue negotiations, according to
Vasiliauskas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  