-- Vasella’s $78 Million Novartis Payout Boosts ‘Fat-Cat’ Crackdown
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-02-18T12:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/vasella-s-78-million-novartis-payout-boosts-fat-cat-crackdown.html
Novartis AG’s 72 million Swiss-franc
($78 million) payout to prevent outgoing chairman  Daniel Vasella 
from working for a rival undermines the cause of campaigners
fighting to avoid tougher curbs on executive pay in Switzerland.  “This news is a setback for the campaign,” said Meinrad
Vetter, an official at Economiesuisse, which is lobbying Swiss
voters to reject a proposal to have shareholders set
compensation for top executives. “There will be talk of anger
and excessive salaries, rather than about what the initiative
really means for Switzerland as a business location.”  The package will be paid over six years if the chairman of
Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis refrains from making his
“knowledge and know-how available to competitors,” Vasella,
59, said in an e-mailed statement. Vasella, who is standing down
as chairman at Novartis’s annual general meeting this week, said
he plans to give the entire after-tax payout to charity.  Vasella’s payoff, first  reported  by Swiss blog Inside
Paradeplatz on Feb. 15, comes two weeks before a March 3
referendum on executive pay. While polls shows a majority may
vote to give shareholders an annual ballot on executives’ pay
and block big payouts for new hires and for managers when they
leave companies, Economiesuisse warns it will drive out
companies from Switzerland.  Fifty-seven percent of people plan to vote yes in the
referendum, compared with 37 percent who intend to vote against
it, with 6 percent undecided, according to a poll in Le Matin
newspaper today.  Minder Initiative  The vote is the brainchild of  Thomas Minder , a Swiss
lawmaker and managing director of herbal toothpaste business
Trybol AG, whose petition blames highly-paid “fat cats” --
“Abzocker” in German -- for the financial crisis.  Vasella would be paid “fair market compensation” for the
so-called non-compete agreement, Novartis said last month,
without disclosing the sum.  “His potential employment by another health-care company
could cause substantial harm to Novartis,”  Eric Althoff , a
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The payout has angered some Swiss lawmakers.  “This help-yourself culture undermines confidence in the
whole economy,”  Simonetta Sommaruga , Switzerland’s federal
justice and police minister, said in an interview yesterday with
newspaper Sonntagsblick. “It does huge damage to the social
cohesion in our country and I am personally extremely worried
about it.”  Not Happy  Hans-Jacob Heitz, a Swiss lawyer who acts for shareholders,
may bring a criminal complaint against Vasella, according to
Swiss television.  “The whole thing was organized in secret,” Heitz said.
“It’s a violation of the shareholder law and i think it’s also
a violation of criminal law.”  Some Novartis shareholders, who will vote Feb. 22 on a new
executive remuneration system for next year, are also concerned
by Vasella’s package.  “We’re not overly happy with the 72 million,”  Birgit Kulhoff , a fund manager with Rahn & Bodmer Co. in Zurich who
holds Novartis shares, said in an interview today. “Paying fair
compensation for services is OK. However, this is a compensation
for which Daniel Vasella has to do nothing.”  Vasella received 13.1 million francs in compensation last
year, more than double the rest of Novartis’s board combined,
according to the company’s  annual report .  Franz Humer , the
chairman of cross-town rival Roche Holding AG, received 8.67
million francs in compensation last year, according to the
company’s annual report.  Creating Novartis  Vasella oversaw the 1996 merger of Sandoz AG and Ciba-Geigy
AG that created Novartis, a transaction that ranked as the
world’s largest merger at the time. He served as chairman and
chief executive officer until 2010, when he ceded the CEO job to
 Joe Jimenez .  “He was instrumental in creating the company as it is
today, and yes, he did create value, although maybe the last
couple of years maybe not enough compared to competitors,”
Kulhoff said.  Jimenez, Switzerland’s highest earning CEO, got 13.2
million francs in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net 
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net  