-- What France is Reading: Wine, Women, Dogs at the Elysee
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-02-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/what-france-is-reading-wine-women-dogs-at-the-elysee.html
French presidents prefer dogs to
cats. The labradors of  Francois Mitterrand ,  Jacques Chirac  and
 Nicolas Sarkozy  were called Baltique, Maskou and Clara,
respectively.  That’s just one of the nuggets contained in “L’Elysee:
Coulisses et Secrets d’un Palais” by Patrice Duhamel and Jacques
Santamaria.  The two authors (one a prominent journalist, the other a
filmmaker) avoid rehashing the history of the palace which since
1871 -- when the Communards burned down the Tuileries -- has
served as the residence of the French head of state.  They’re more interested in whatever happened in the
“coulisses,” or wings, away from the public eye. They present
their discoveries in alphabetical order, not chronologically.  So if you want to know more about the palace’s origins, you
have to look up the entry " Proprietaires et locataires” (Owners
and Tenants). There, you learn that it was built by a certain
Comte d’Evreux in 1720 who later sold it to Louis XV’s favorite
mistress, Madame de Pompadour.  The name ’Elysee,’ derived from the nearby Champs-Elysees,
was chosen by the eccentric Duchess Bathilde d’Orleans. She was
an admirer of the miracle healer Franz Anton Mesmer, who
“mesmerized” his fans in her salon.  One of the palace’s more dramatic historical moments
happened on June 22, 1815, four days after the battle of
Waterloo, in the Salon d’Argent: Napoleon abdicated for the
second and final time.  Fatal Tryst  In the same room, President Felix Faure died of a heart
attack on Feb. 16, 1899, during a tryst with his mistress
Marguerite Steinheil.  Mitterrand preferred to see his lover and secret daughter
Mazarine in the former stables of Napoleon III on Quai Branly
across the Seine, the authors say.  Mitterrand’s second family was not his only secret. Just
six months after election, he was diagnosed with prostate
cancer. In the official health bulletins, his increasingly waxen
appearance was played down, as was  Georges Pompidou ’s leukemia
and Chirac’s stroke in 2005.  Gourmets will savor the entries “Cave,” “Cuisine,”
“Fromage” and “Menu”.  They’ll learn that the oldest bottle in the wine cellar is
a premier cru de Sauternes, Chateau-Rieussec 1906; that, after
the assassination attempt on  Charles de Gaulle  at Petit-Clamart,
in 1962, the famous Clamart peas, the first of the season,
disappeared from the Elysee’s menu; and that cheese, banished by
the weight watcher Sarkozy, has made a triumphant comeback under
his successor  Francois Hollande .  Nuclear Code  We’re also told that Mitterrand nearly lost the gold chain
with the secret nuclear code. After a frantic search, it was
found in the pocket of a suit he had given to the cleaners.  Foreign heads of state are usually put up at the Hotel de
Marigny across the street.  Muammar Qaddafi  caused quite a stir
when he refused to sleep there and brought along his own tent.  Another incident was diplomatically hushed up: After the
1980 visit of Romanian dictator  Nicolae Ceausescu  and his wife,
lamps, vases, ashtrays and even faucets went missing.  One entry is devoted to the presidential chauffeurs, often
better informed about their boss’s whereabouts than the prime
minister -- not to mention the president’s wife.  After the attempt on his life at Petit-Clamart, de Gaulle
congratulated driver Francis Marroux, who had steered the
Citroen out of danger, on his sangfroid. Inspecting the bullet
holes in the car, the old soldier said: “These guys shoot like
swine.”  He later spared the conspirators the death penalty, with
the exception of their leader Jean Bastien-Thiry, who hadn’t
fired a single shot: “He had others shoot at a car in which he
knew there was a woman. C’est impardonnable.”  “L’Elysee: Coulisses et Secrets d’un Palais” is published
by Plon (410 pages, 22.50 euros).  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include:  Martin Gayford  on London
exhibitions, Catherine Hickley on  art  restitution and Guy
Collins on  wine .  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 