-- ThyssenKrupp Sells 1.25 Billion-Euro Bond as Junk Issuance Slows
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-02-18T13:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-18/thyssenkrupp-sells-first-bond-issue-in-a-year-as-junk-sales-slow.html
ThyssenKrupp AG , Germany’s biggest
steelmaker, is selling 1.25 billion euros ($1.67 billion) of
bonds in its first benchmark-sized deal in a year, as issuance
of high-yield debt slows in Europe.  The company is marketing bonds due August 2018 that will be
priced to yield 290 basis points more than the swap rate, the
lower end of the marketed range, according to people familiar
with the transaction. The Essen, Germany-based steelmaker last
sold benchmark-sized notes in euros in February 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sales of speculative-grade, or junk, debt by European
companies slowed to 2.8 billion euros so far this month, down
from 8.9 billion euros in January, a record for the month,
Bloomberg data show. Junk bonds yield an average 5.9 percent,
easing from an eight-week high of 6 percent on Feb. 5, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Non-Financial High Yield
Constrained  Index . Yields reached a record low of 5.4 percent on
Jan. 14.  “While this company has high-yield ratings, it’s very low-
yielding and we’ll probably pass on this deal as there’s not
enough juice,” said  Steven Logan , the Edinburgh-based head of
European high yield at Scottish Widows Investment Partnership
Ltd. “There’s massive overcapacity in the steel industry and
bonds from these companies don’t offer great value.”  ThyssenKrupp’s 4.375 percent bonds due 2017 fell 0.55
percent to 104.25. The company, which is cutting more than 2000
jobs from its European steel business, reported Feb. 12 that
profit slumped 38 percent in the first quarter as the global
economic slowdown eroded demand. ThyssenKrupp is rated Ba1 by
Moody’s Investors Service, one level below investment grade,
and one step lower at BB by Standard & Poor’s.  New Bond Issues  Unibail-Rodamco SE , Europe’s largest publicly-traded
property owner, is selling 750 million euros of bonds due 2021
that will yield 83 basis points more than swaps, people familiar
with the deal said. It’s the Paris-based company’s first bond
sale since October, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Swedish bank Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB is planning
to raise 1 billion euros by selling seven-year covered bonds.
Volvo AB, the world’s second-largest truck maker, is selling
three-year fixed notes and five-year floating-rate notes in
Swedish kronor, according to people familiar with the deal.  In derivatives markets, the  Markit iTraxx Crossover Index 
of credit-default swaps on 50 companies with mostly speculative-
grade ratings rose one basis point to 440 at 1:00 p.m. London
time, the highest since Feb. 12, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index was little changed at 113
basis points, while the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps
on 25 banks and insurers was also little changed at 144 basis
points.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  -- Editors: Jennifer Joan Lee, Tom Freke  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  