-- 
AT&T to Sell 49% Stake in Mexico’s Alestra to Partner Alfa

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-04-15T21:35:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/alfa-to-acquire-at-t-equity-in-mexican-telecom-operator-alestra.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  agreed to sell its 49
percent stake in Mexican telecommunications company Alestra SA
to partner Alfa SAB as part of a strategy to provide services
directly to clients. Alfa rose to a 19-year high.  The acquisition, which will give Alfa 100 percent of
Alestra, is scheduled to be completed by June and is subject to
Mexican regulatory approval, AT&T and Alfa said in a statement.
The companies didn’t disclose financial terms of the agreement.  AT&T, which also owns an 8.4 percent stake in Alestra rival
Telefonos de Mexico SAB, said it will continue working with
Alestra to provide phone services to clients. Dallas-based AT&T
was an original partner in the forming of Alestra along with
Alfa and Mexican bank Grupo Financiero BBVA Bancomer SA, which
sold its 25.4 percent stake to Alfa in 2006 for $51 million.  “We are maintaining and sustaining our current commercial
agreements with AT&T,” Alestra Chief Executive Officer Rolando Zubiran said on a conference call today. “We do not expect any 
significant impact on this year’s results.”  Alfa rose 5.56 pesos, or 3.3 percent, to 174.41 pesos, the
highest since at least January 1992, at 4:10 p.m. New York time
in  Mexico  City trading. The shares have increased 40 percent
this year. AT&T rose 36 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $30.65 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading and have climbed 4.3
percent this year.  Global Strategy  AT&T, the biggest U.S. phone carrier, has a global strategy
to work directly with its corporate customers, the company said.
AT&T will take the accounts of a “handful” of multinational
clients, Alejandro Elizondo, Alfa’s vice president for
development, said in a telephone interview.  After a smooth transition to ensure  customer service ,
Alestra will compete to remain a supplier of long-haul services
to AT&T and eventually will compete with AT&T for corporate
clients, Elizondo said. The Mexican telecommunications company
doesn’t need a partner because the technology it needs is
available “off the shelf,” Elizondo said.  Alestra has more than 7,000 corporate clients and had sales
of $361 million last year, with 89 percent of sales coming from
business clients. Alestra’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization -- a measure of  cash flow  known as
Ebitda -- was $117 million in 2010 and the company forecasts it
will climb to $122 million this year. The company had to
restructure debt after defaulting on $570 million of bonds in
2002.  Telecom Takeovers  Acquirers paid a median of 5.9 times Ebitda in more than
600 telecommunications takeovers announced in the last 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dario Cutin, a spokesman for AT&T, and Enrique Flores,
Alfa’s chief of  investor relations , declined to comment on the
value of the stake.  Many analysts have speculated Alfa would sell Alestra,
which represented 3.3 percent of sales and 9.3 percent of
Ebitda. Alfa, based in the Monterrey, Mexico, suburb of San
Pedro Garza Garcia, gets most of its revenue and profit from its
petrochemical, auto-parts and food units.  “It’s a surprise,” said Pablo Abraham, an analyst in
Mexico City with the Mexican brokerage unit of Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA, in a telephone interview. “What
everybody expected was that Alfa would eventually shed
Alestra.”  Open to Possibilities  Elizondo said Alfa is open to all possibilities on a
transaction involving Alestra now that the company owns 100
percent.  “The advantage of going separate ways is to have complete
and total flexibility as to possible strategic alternatives that
we may have in the future,” Elizondo said on the conference
call.  The transaction marks the third Mexican acquisition
announced this month in the telecommunications industry.  Grupo
Televisa SA (TLEVICPO) , the world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster.
said April 1 it plans to buy full control of cable-TV carrier
Cablemas SA for $397 million. Televisa said April 7 it will pay
$1.6 billion for a 50 percent stake in mobile-phone carrier
Grupo Iusacell SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  