-- 
Diego Forlan May Return to Manchester United, Daily Mail Reports: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-04-18T10:08:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/manchester-united-tried-to-sign-raul-from-real-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Forlan’s Return?  Atletico Madrid forward Diego Forlan may push to return to
 Manchester United  after a dispute with his current coach Quique
Sanchez Flores,  the Daily Mail said .  The Spanish club may take about 9 million pounds ($14.6
million) for the 31-year-old, who played 60 times for United,
the newspaper said. Tottenham may also be interested in the
player, it said.  Fighting Inspiration  Manchester City midfielder Nigel de Jong said a half-time
disagreement between members of the squad inspired his team to
achieve the 1-0 F.A. Cup semifinal victory over United,  the
Guardian said .  The dispute between unidentified players over the team’s
sluggish first-half performance helped push City to the
opportunity to win its first major trophy since 1976, the
newspaper said.  Manchester Review  The Football Association is awaiting referee Mike Dean’s
report after City and United players scuffled following the
match,  the Telegraph said.   United’s Anderson,  Rio Ferdinand  and Edwin van der Sar
confronted City players and coaches after the winning side’s
Mario Balotelli celebrated in front of United fans, the
newspaper said.  Everton Needs Goals  Everton manager David Moyes plans to bring in Wigan’s  Hugo
Rodallega  for less than 10 million pounds to get some goals, the
 Daily Mirror said.  The Colombian has one year left on his
contract and Wigan is looking to lower costs and bring in cash,
the newspaper said.  Chelsea’s Plan  Chelsea is prepared to hire former Ajax coach Marco van Basten to take over from Carlo Ancelotti after this season, with
Guus Hiddink returning to Stamford Bridge as director of
football,  the Express said.   Billionaire owner  Roman Abramovich  wanted Hiddink to return
as coach after he helped the Blues win the 2009 F.A. Cup, but
the manager, currently in charge of the Turkish national team,
recommended Van Basten, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 