-- 
Handysize Rates to Buck Dry-Bulk Slump on China, Japan, STX Pan Ocean Says

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-04-15T03:49:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/handysize-rate-to-buck-dry-bulk-slump-on-china-japan-log-buying-stx-says.html
Rents for handysize vessels, which
transport mostly logs and other commodities such as grains and
sugar, may advance as imports of wood by  China  and Japan are
likely to increase, according to STX Pan Ocean Co.  “Handysize rates may climb by at least 10 percent from
current levels once Japan’s rebuilding work gets under way”
after the March 11 record quake, Lee Sang Jae, head of the
Oceania team at  South Korea ’s biggest bulk carrier, said
yesterday. He didn’t give a precise price forecast.  The Baltic Dry Index, the main measure of commodity
shipping costs, has tumbled 56 percent in the past year as the
global fleet expands. Rates for capesize, the largest type of
vessel tracked by the gauge, plunged 65 percent this year, while
handysizes declined about 3 percent.  “China’s log imports increased a lot last year and are
still growing explosively as the economy expands,” Lee said in
an interview. “Also,  Japan  may need more logs to rebuild houses
after the earthquake.”  Log imports by China, the world’s biggest buyer, surged to
$705 million in March, the highest level since Bloomberg began
tracking data in 2004. China, the largest customer for dry-bulk
lines, followed by Japan, is increasing imports from the U.S.,
 Canada  and New Zealand as Russian supplies decline, Lee said.  ‘Multiyear Upturn’  “A multiyear upturn in demand and prices is likely for
logs, lumber and other wood products” as China is reducing its
dependence on  Russia , the country’s biggest supplier, and
turning to Canada and the U.S. Pacific Northwest, according to a
Barclays Capital report on Jan. 4.  Log and lumber shipments from  New Zealand  to Japan may
increase as the country starts to rebuild towns wrecked by last
month’s earthquake and tsunami, Murray Sturgeon, managing
director at Nelson Pine Industries Ltd., said in March. Log
exports from New Zealand increased after the 1995 earthquake in
Kobe, NZX Agrifax said in a March report.  “Handysizes have virtually decoupled from the Baltic Dry
Index, which is deemed inadequate to fully represent all the
vessel types,” said Lee. “I expect handysizes to advance.”  The pace of growth in the global handysize fleet is lagging
behind that of bigger vessels, Lee said at the company’s
headquarters in Seoul. Demolition of old vessels is increasing
because of improving scrap prices, he said.  Daily rates for capesize, most commonly used to transport
 iron ore , dropped 2.2 percent to $7,030 yesterday, while
handysizes gained 0.4 percent to $11,837. The Baltic Dry Index
lost 1 percent.  Owners are contending with a fleet that’s expanding at a
faster pace than trade. The global fleet of commodity
transporters will increase by 13 percent this year, more than
double the 6 percent expansion in seaborne trade, according to
the research unit of  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the biggest shipbroker.  The industry faces risks from high  oil prices , which
threaten to squeeze margins, and radiation concerns in Japan,
which have left some ship owners reluctant to enter Japanese
ports near the crippled Fukushima power plant, Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in  Seoul  at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  