-- 
Angang Steel Falls After Saying Profit Probably Declined 94%

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-15T08:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/angang-steel-falls-after-saying-profit-probably-declined-94-1-.html
Angang Steel Co.,  China ’s biggest
Hong Kong-based steelmaker, dropped by the most in more than 10
months after saying first-quarter profit may have fallen 94
percent from a year earlier on higher raw-material costs.  The shares fell 5.3 percent, the biggest drop since June 7,
to close at HK$10.66 in  Hong Kong  today. The Anshan, Liaoning
province-based steelmaker said yesterday net income for the
three months ended March 31 fell to about 71 million yuan.  “This certainly disappoints the market as the market
expected an annual net profit of 3.9 billion yuan,”  Helen Lau ,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian Ltd., said in an e-
mailed note today. “The reason is the significant increase in
raw material prices and fuel.”  Intensified competition and high  iron ore  costs have
depressed profit margins for the nation’s key steelmakers to
only 3 percent in the first quarter, the government said
yesterday. China’s steel output, the biggest in the world, may
reach 700 million metric tons this year, the National
Development and Reform Commission estimated, more than an
earlier forecast of 660 million tons.  Maintenance on a blast furnace, which started in January
and may be completed by early May, also cut Angang’s first-
quarter profit, Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Trina Chen said
today in an e-mailed note. The maintenance will cut Angang’s
steel output by 1 million tons, or 5 percent of its estimated
production this year, Chen said.  Spot prices for 62-percent iron ore arriving at Tianjin
Port have gained 6.9 percent this year to $181.90, according to
The Steel Index. Iron ore prices will surge 25 percent in the
quarter starting April 1, Baosteel Group Corp. Chairman  Xu Lejiang  said last month.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff responsible for this story
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 