-- 
Mantega Says Investors Are ‘Wrong’ to Think Brazil Quitting Currency Fight

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-04-15T12:52:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/mantega-says-investors-are-wrong-to-think-brazil-quitting-currency-fight.html
Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said investors misinterpreted his comments last week
about currency gains being inevitable and that policy makers
will continue to take measures to curb capital inflows.  “This interpretation that now we are worried about
inflation and not the  exchange rate  is wrong,” Mantega said in
an interview yesterday from Washington, where he is attending
the Spring meetings of the  International Monetary Fund . “We are
worried about both.”  Brazil’s real strengthened beyond 1.60 per U.S. dollar for
the first time since August 2008 last week after Mantega said
inflation is faster than the government would like and that the
economy’s growth rate made currency appreciation “inevitable.”
The real has gained 47 percent against the  U.S. dollar  since the
start of 2009, the world’s second-best performance among 169
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after  Australia ’s dollar.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration on March 29
increased to 6 percent a tax on new corporate loans and debt
sales abroad by banks. A few days later, she applied the higher
tax to renewed, renegotiated, or transferred loans of up to two
years in length. Companies previously paid a 5.38 percent tax on
loans up to 90 days and zero tax when the operation exceeded
three months.  The real weakened 0.1 percent to 1.5797 per dollar at 8:32
a.m. New York time. Yields on interest rate futures contracts
maturing January 2013, the second-most traded on the BM&F
Bovespa stock exchange in  Sao Paulo , fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage points, to 12.65 percent.  Higher Tax  The government also doubled the so-called IOF tax levied on
 consumer credit  to 3 percent a year. In October, Mantega tripled
to 6 percent a tax on foreign investors’ fixed-income purchases.  “The measure we took both limits the appreciation of the
real and, at the same time, fights inflation because it reduces
the availability of credit,” said the 62-year-old Mantega, who
was asked by Rousseff to stay in the post he’s held since 2006.
“What is more contradictory is increasing  interest rates , but
that is just one of the methods of fighting inflation.”  Brazil would be “flooded” with capital, with a currency
at a level that could cause “Dutch disease,” if the country
hadn’t acted to curb currency flows, Mantega said. The damage
being done to Brazilian manufacturers by a strong currency would
be even worse if it weren’t offset by strong domestic demand, he
said.  Income Surge  “Dutch Disease” was first applied to a surge in income
from new natural-gas fields in the Netherlands during the 1960s,
which caused the currency to appreciate, making exports less
competitive and reducing manufacturing companies’ profitability.  Brazil  isn’t considering further budget cuts this year
after Rousseff announced she would slash spending by 50.7
billion reais from this year’s budget to help fight inflation.
The spending cuts are enough to ensure the government hits its
fiscal targets this year, Mantega said.  Rousseff’s administration vowed to deliver a primary
surplus, including regional governments and state companies, of
117.9 billion reais this year, up from 101.7 billion reais in
2010.  Policy Mix  The government is using a policy mix of interest rate
increases, measures to slow the growth of consumer credit and
budget cuts to try to curb inflation running close to the 6.5
percent upper limit of the government’s target range.  While inflation may exceed that mark in the third quarter,
on higher food prices, the pace of consumer price increases is
likely to decelerate over the next 12 months, Mantega said.  “What matters is that, in December, inflation is below its
target,” Mantega said. “We’ve achieved that several years
running.”  Consumer prices rose 6.3 percent in March from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in more than two years. The central
bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points.  State-controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  will
not raise gasoline prices in the “short-term” even as crude
 oil prices  surge, Mantega said.  “Clearly, if these high oil prices persist, we’ll have to
review this,” said Mantega, who sits on the board of Petrobras,
as the Rio de Janeiro-based company is known. “At the moment
there are no plans to raise prices.”  Outstanding Credit  Credit growth in Brazil’s economy accelerated in February.
Total outstanding credit rose 1.3 percent in February from
January to 1.74 trillion reais, double the pace of borrowing in
January. Credit rose 21 percent from a year earlier. The central
bank forecasts credit growth of 13 percent this year.  Mantega, who last year accused rich nations of provoking a
“global currency war” by keeping interest rates at near-zero
levels, said the IMF needs to wean itself off a reliance of the
U.S. dollar. He also urged a “more extensive use” of the IMF’s
Special Drawing Rights, the basket of currencies that its
members use to settle accounts with each other.  “The current system, heavily reliant on a single reserve
currency, does not reflect the reality of an increasingly multi-
polar world,” Mantega said in the text of his speech to the IMF
steering committee, which is meeting April 16. His office today
provided the text of the speech to Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in  Washington  at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  