-- 
Manufacturing in New York Area Grew in April at Faster Pace

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-15T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-area-grew-in-april-at-faster-pace.html
Manufacturing in the  New York 
region expanded in April at the fastest rate in a year, a sign
that factories will further propel the economic expansion.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index rose to 21.7 from 17.5 in March. Economists projected a
reading of 17, based on the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. Figures greater than zero signal factory expansion in
the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Gauges of orders, sales and employment improved this
month, signs American companies are benefiting from gains in
business investment and expanding economies overseas. The pace
of production may cool temporarily as some U.S. factories
scramble to replace supplies of parts interrupted after last
month’s earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  “The factory sector has been on a tear during the early
part of this year,”  Richard DeKaser , an economist at Parthenon
Group in  Boston , said before the report. “Some slowing is
expected” in the economy in coming months because “we’ve had
a bit of a soft patch because of rising energy prices.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 55 economists ranged
from 8 to 21.1. The New York Fed’s gauge of the outlook for six
months from now fell to 47.4 from 49.4, today’s report showed.  A measure of factory employment increased to 23.1, the
highest since May 2004, from 9.1. The gauge of new orders
climbed to a one-year high of 22.3 this month from 5.8, and a
measure of shipments jumped to 28.3 from 1.6.  Higher Prices  An index of prices paid for raw materials increased to
57.7, the highest since August 2008, from 53.3 in March, and
prices received rose to 26.9 from 20.8. Crude oil for May
delivery rose to $108.11 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  yesterday.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the  Institute for Supply
Management  figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The
Philadelphia Fed’s report is due April 21. The Institute for
Supply Management’s nationwide manufacturing report will be
released on May 2.  “Businesses are expanding at a faster pace,”  Don
Johnson , vice president of U.S. sales for General Motors Co.,
said during an April 1 teleconference. “When you combine this
with record corporate profits, this again bodes well for future
hiring and for investments.”  The economy expanded at a “moderate” pace across much of
the U.S. in February and March, led by manufacturing, with
labor markets showing improvements in most regions, the Fed
said this week in its Beige Book report.  All 12 districts reported a pickup in manufacturing since
the March report, with regional industries expanding including
auto and auto parts, commercial aircraft and fabricated metal
products, the Fed said.  Manufacturing makes up 11 percent of the  U.S. economy  and
about 6 percent of New York’s. Factories boosted payrolls by
17,000 workers in March for the fifth straight month of
employment gains, according to Labor Department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  