-- 
Harvard's Feldstein Says U.S. Can’t Grow Out of Deficit Crisis: Tom Keene

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-04-15T19:04:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/harvard-s-feldstein-says-u-s-can-t-grow-out-of-deficit-crisis-tom-keene.html
The U.S. will need to return to a
balanced budget before it can lower the ratio of debt to gross
domestic product even as the economy and tax receipts rebound,
according to Harvard University Professor  Martin Feldstein .  “We’re not going to do it with economic growth, period,”
said Feldstein in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “We’ve got to do the
fiscal policy, the spending and tax revenue, stabilize the debt,
and then growth can bring down the debt-to-GDP ratio.”  U.S. government debt is equal to about 94 percent of the
$14.87 trillion economy, while outstanding tradable Treasury
debt of $9.13 trillion as of March is about 61 percent of the
U.S. economic output in 2010.  President  Barack Obama  vowed this week to cut $4 trillion
in cumulative deficits within 12 years through a combination of
spending cuts and tax increases, setting the stage for a fight
with congressional Republicans.  “We need to get back to budget balance the way they did
after World War II, and we need to hold it there for 10 to 15
years,” said Feldstein, 71, who served as an economic adviser
during the administration of President  Ronald Reagan . “Then we
finally get the debt-to-GDP ratio back to the 30 to 40 percent
range we had until recently.”  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter after a 2.6 percent advance in the previous three
months, revised figures from the Commerce Department showed on
March 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  