-- 
Treasuries Climb, Yen Advances as Emerging-Market Stocks Fall

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 
2011-04-15T12:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/asia-stocks-yen-fall-before-china-s-inflation-data-gold-rises-to-record.html
Treasuries and the yen gained and
emerging-market stocks dropped on speculation central banks will
step up efforts to curb inflation. Irish bonds fell after the
nation’s rating was cut, while U.S. equity futures erased losses
as New York manufacturing growth topped economists’ forecasts.  The 10-year Treasury yield slid eight basis points at 8:55
a.m. in New York. The yen advanced versus all 16 of its major
peers. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.2 percent, with
India’s benchmark gauge sinking 1.6 percent, the steepest drop
among global equity markets. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures
were little changed, while  Google Inc. (GOOG)  slid 5.9 percent in pre-
market trading. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index swung between gains
and losses. Ireland’s 10-year yield rose 28 basis points. Gold
jumped as much as 0.4 percent to a record $1,479.35 an ounce.  China  may increase measures to tame inflation after
consumer prices climbed 5.4 percent in March, the fastest pace
since 2008, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch and HSBC Holdings Plc
said today. Reports today showed wholesale prices in India and
consumer prices in Europe rose more than forecast, while the
cost of living in the U.S. rose for a ninth month. Moody’s
Investors Service signaled it may reduce Ireland to junk after
cutting the rating two levels to the lowest investment grade.  “Higher interest rates and inflation tends to hurt growth,
which knocks confidence,” said  Neil Jones , head of European
hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “That
would help the yen.”  Google, BofA  The yield on the two-year Treasury note fell three basis
points to 0.74 percent. The decline in S&P 500 futures indicated
the gauge will extend the first weekly drop in four weeks.
Google, the largest Internet-search company, reported profit
that missed estimates after spending more on hiring and
marketing amid mounting competition with Facebook Inc. and Apple
Inc.  Bank of America Corp., the biggest U.S. lender by assets,
reported its first profit in three quarters and settled more
claims tied to faulty mortgages. Profit was 17 cents a share,
less than the 26-cent estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts. The stock rose 1 percent in pre-market trading.  The consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent for a second
month, in line with the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department showed
today in  Washington . Another report showed manufacturing in the
 New York  region expanded in April at the fastest rate in a year.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index headed for its
biggest decline in four weeks after the benchmark wholesale-
price index rose 8.98 percent in March from year earlier,
exceeding all 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Infosys, BBVA  Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest software
exporter, plunged the most since May 2009 after predicting
annual sales that trailed analysts’ estimates. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index rose 0.3 percent, erasing early declines, as
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. said its bad-loan
ratio is dropping and Credit Suisse Group AG predicted lenders
will maintain profit “momentum.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 headed for the first weekly decline in
four.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-largest
bank, sank 1.7 percent and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  of Italy both
lost 1.2 percent.  Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO)  tumbled 14
percent after the  software company  said Chief Executive Officer
Nigel Clifford is to quit with immediate effect.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the
biggest stock in the index, gained 1.2 percent as the world’s
largest food company reported sales growth that beat analysts’
estimates.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.7
Percent in March, the European Union’s statistics office said.
That’s above an initial March estimate of 2.6 percent.  Yen, Pound  The yen strengthened 0.3 percent against the dollar and 0.8
percent per euro. Europe’s unified currency slipped 0.5 percent
versus the dollar.  The pound climbed against the euro for a third day as  Bank
of England  policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said U.K. inflation may
top 5 percent, bolstering the need for higher  interest rates .  Credit swaps on Ireland show a 38 percent chance of default
within five years, and the yield on its five-year bond jumped 42
basis points to 10.08 percent. Portuguese yields climbed to
records for a second day, with the two-year yield rising as much
as 33 basis points higher at 9.64 percent, and the 10-year yield
advancing 14 basis points to 9.02 percent. Germany’s benchmark
10-year bund yield fell four basis point to 3.39 percent.  Greek bonds extended their decline after German Deputy
Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer said a Greek debt restructuring
“would not be a disaster.” The 10-year yield jumped 54 basis
points to 13.82 percent, widening the spread over benchmark
German bunds to a record 1,041 basis points.  The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities fell 0.3 percent,
heading for a weekly drop of 3.3 percent, the first weekly
decline in five weeks. Copper fell 0.1 percent, the fifth
consecutive slump and the longest losing streak in three months.
Crude oil fell 0.4 percent to $107.66 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net . 