-- 
Aston Martin Brings $4.5 Million Car to India as Millionaires Seek Luxury

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-04-15T11:38:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/aston-martin-brings-4-5-million-car-to-india-as-millionaires-seek-luxury.html
Aston Martin , the luxury car
featured in  James Bond  movies, opened its first India showroom
today as rising numbers of millionaires boost sales of high-end
goods in the world’s second-most populous nation.  The dealership in Kemps Corner, a residential area in
southern Mumbai home to Porsche and Mercedes-Benz showrooms,
will be followed by one in  New Delhi  in May, according to Bill
Donnelly, director of sales at Aston Martin Lagonda Group Ltd.  “We are entering the Indian market now because we think
the timing is right,” Donnelly said in an interview in Mumbai
today. “The Indian market for high-end sports cars is small but
growing very rapidly, and this is the first step for Aston
Martin to get into this market.”  The maker of the Vantage coupe forecasts a quarter of its
sales to come from  Asia  and the Middle East in the next five
years from 10 percent, Donnelly said. Aston Martin will begin
India sales as Ferrari plans to open a Mumbai showroom. Last
week  Fiat SpA (F) ’s supercar unit Maserati opened its first
dealership in the South Asian nation, home to 55 billionaires as
well as 800 million people who live on $2 a day.  The company, which today unveiled the models to James Bond
theme music, will sell its cheapest car, the V8 Vantage starting
at 13.5 million rupees ($303,657), and the Rapide sedan for 21.5
million rupees. Aston Martin expects to sell as many as five
 One-77  supercars at 200 million rupees ($4.5 million) in India.
The company may sell a total of 30 cars this year, Donnelly
said.  ‘Top of the Pyramid’  “Brands like Aston Martin and Ferrari will find India a
very lucrative market,” said  Deepesh Rathore , the India head of
IHS Automotive. “The wealth at the top of the pyramid is
increasing exponentially.”  India’s luxury-car sales may rise ninefold to 135,000 by
2020 from about 15,000 last year, he said.  Increasing demand for  luxury vehicles  in India helped
prompt Mumbai-based Tata Motors Ltd. to buy Jaguar Land Rover
from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2008. Jaguar Land Rover, which opened its
first dealership in the country in 2009, now has seven showrooms
nationwide.  It may begin assembling Land Rover sport-utility vehicles
in the country by the middle of this year, Rohit Suri, head of
Tata’s premium-car division, said in November. The company also
sells the world’s cheapest car the Nano, for 137,555 rupees in
India.  India,  China  Growth  Premium-car makers are targeting India and China as growth
there outpaces the U.S. and  Europe .  India’s economy  may expand
as much as 9.25 percent this financial year, according to the
finance ministry’s annual Economic Survey.  Suppliers of designer clothes, watches and handbags are
also adding stores in  India , where luxury-goods sales may triple
to $14.7 billion by 2015, according to A.T. Kearney Ltd. and the
Confederation of Indian Industry.  “The growth in demand you will see in the next five years
will be very significant,” Ashish Chordia, the chairman of
Shreyans Group, which sells Maserati and Porsche cars in India,
said April 6. Maserati, which opened its first India dealership
in New Delhi, plans to have seven showrooms nationwide by 2015.  Koenigsegg Automotive AB introduced its 125 million-rupee
Agera sportscar in India on March 29 through InterGlobe
Established Products Pvt., an affiliate of Indigo, India’s
biggest discount carrier. InterGlobe also plans to sell Arcadia
yachts and Hawker Beechcraft airplanes in India.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Bentley unit added the Continental GT,
which sells for 19 million rupees ($426,391), last week. The
carmaker had 10 orders as of April 7, Chris Buxton, its regional
director, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 