-- 
Lawyer Kluger's Judge Grants $1 Million Bail in U.S. Insider-Trading Case

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/matthew-kluger-appears-in-new-jersey-court-on-insider-trading-charges.html
The lawyer charged in an insider-
trading case that U.S. prosecutors now say generated at least
$37 million in profits, Matthew Kluger, was granted bail
yesterday.  Kluger, 50, who is accused of passing merger-and-
acquisition tips stolen from four law firms, appeared in federal
court in  Newark ,  New Jersey , where he agreed to post a
$1 million bond. He must undergo electronic monitoring and
detention at his home in Oakton, Virginia, where he was arrested
April 6. Kluger’s parents secured the bond with $500,000 in
cash. Kluger’s father, Richard, is a Pulitzer Prize-winning
social historian.  Kluger is charged with passing inside data to a middleman
who gave it to stock trader Garrett D. Bauer in a scheme
spanning 17 years. The middleman, Kenneth T. Robinson, pleaded
guilty April 11 and secretly recorded Kluger and Bauer for the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  last month. On April 6,
prosecutors said the illicit profit in the last five years of
the scheme was at least $32 million. Yesterday, they said it was
at least $37 million.  “The overall number of trades in the scheme, and his
profits from the scheme, continue to rise,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Judith Germano told U.S. Magistrate Judge Mark Falk.  Kluger, a bald man with a mustache, appeared at the hearing
in handcuffs and a yellow jail jumpsuit. Prosecutors say he
helped Robinson and Bauer use nonpublic data to trade ahead of
at least 15 corporate transactions involving companies such as
Sun Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM)   Kluger attorney Alan Zegas said he had met Kluger only
yesterday after talking to him earlier on the phone several
times. He said he is awaiting the government’s evidence.  ‘Independent Investigation’  “I’ve not received any discovery, nor have I had any
opportunity to discuss the charges with Mr. Kluger, nor to do an
independent investigation,” Zegas said.  Prosecutors usually have 30 days from the time of an arrest
to return an indictment. At the hearing, Zegas agreed to extend
that deadline to 60 days. Zegas said he has had no negotiations
on a plea agreement.  “If an offer’s made, I always relay it to my client and
discuss it,” Zegas said.  Authorities said Kluger passed tips about deals that he
learned of when he was an associate for New York-based Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP from 1994 to 1997 and Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP, another New York firm, from 1998 to 2001.
Kluger also passed on tips that he stole from  Fried Frank  Harris
Shriver & Jacobson LLP, where he worked from 2001 to 2002,
Robinson said in pleading guilty.  Wilson Sonsini  After a hiatus, the scheme resumed in December 2005 and ran
until March 2011, when Kluger worked in the Washington office of
Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati PC, authorities said.  At yesterday’s hearing, Germano said the illicit proceeds
from the scheme when Kluger was at Wilson Sonsini exceeded $37
million. On April 6, prosecutors said it was $32 million, an
amount they raised to $34 million when Robinson pleaded guilty.  In announcing the charges on April 6, prosecutors said
Bauer made more than $30 million on the scheme, Robinson more
than $875,000 and Kluger more than $500,000.  Kluger is charged with  securities fraud , obstruction of
justice, conspiracy to commit securities fraud, and conspiracy
to commit  money laundering . He faces as many as 20 years in
prison on the most-serious counts.  Kluger appeared April 6 in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia. Yesterday’s hearing was his first in Newark. Bauer is
free on $4 million bail and Robinson was released on $2 million
bail after his guilty plea.  Prepaid Cell Phones  Authorities said the men used prepaid cell phones to cover
their tracks, getting new ones after each deal and disposing of
the old ones.  At his guilty plea, Robinson said he gave Bauer inside
information that he got from Kluger. Robinson said he told Bauer
how many shares he should buy for Robinson and Kluger. Bauer
paid Robinson and Kluger in cash, often tens or hundreds of
thousands of dollars at a time, that Bauer withdrew from
automated-teller machines, Robinson said.  Germano told Falk that Kluger engaged in “deceptions and
lies that only got more sophisticated as he feared they would
get caught.” After learning of the investigation, he destroyed
his computer, iPhone and prepaid cellular phone, while telling
Robinson to destroy his phone, Germano said.  Kluger lives with a former partner who is helping him raise
their children, Zegas told Falk. The judge said Kluger can leave
his house for child care and may undergo mental-health treatment
as needed.  Surrogate Mother  Kluger and his partner had twin 9-year-old boys and a 10-
year-old son through a surrogate mother, Zegas said in an
interview after the hearing.  In 2002, Kluger filed a sex-discrimination lawsuit against
Fried Frank, claiming he was harassed at the firm and then fired
because he was gay and partners had said they were “not
comfortable” working with him. The case settled in 2004,
records in New York state Supreme Court show.  Fried Frank spokeswoman Wendy Bernero declined to comment
on the lawsuit.  Zegas said in court that Kluger was adopted by “an
extraordinarily caring family” and that his biological father
died at an early age of a heart condition. Kluger had five
stents inserted five or six years ago, Zegas said.  Outside of court, Zegas also said Kluger was charged with
disorderly conduct in  Virginia  about a year ago for allegedly
destroying property valued at less than $1,000. Kluger was
ordered to pay a $100 fine, Zegas said.  The case is U.S. v. Bauer, 11-mj-3536, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark). The Robinson case is U.S. v.
Kenneth Robinson, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 