-- 
Austria Won’t ‘Press’ Biggest Banks for Capital Surcharge

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-04-15T13:41:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/austria-will-follow-eu-rules-on-national-too-big-to-fail-banks.html
Austrian supervisors won’t impose a
capital surcharge on the country’s biggest lenders such as  Erste
Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  before rules
for “too-big-to-fail” banks are agreed internationally.  There’s no need for the Alpine nation to take action before
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or the European Union
have decided how to deal with so-called systemically important
financial institutions, or SIFIs, the co-chairman of  Austria ’s
financial supervisor FMA told journalists yesterday.  “We don’t even have rules on international SIFIs yet, so
in Austria we won’t start a national SIFI discussion before
there is international guidance,” Helmut Ettl said. While extra
capital may be required at some point, he said, “we do not want
to press ahead and don’t have any necessity at the moment.”  Governments and regulators are trying to avoid a repeat of
the turmoil in financial markets that followed the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and led to taxpayer-funded
bailouts of lenders across the world.  Switzerland  has proposed a
surcharge for its two largest banks, UBS AG and Credit Suisse
Group AG.  Mario Draghi , Italy’s central bank governor, has told
Italian banks to boost reserves and a U.K. panel this week
sought tougher capital rules for the country’s biggest lenders.  Austrian banks’ total assets make up 4.2 times the
country’s gross domestic product, exceeding the euro area
average of 2.8 times GDP, mostly because of their business in
eastern Europe.  “If it is clear that the state would have to jump in to
save the bank, then you will have to figure out how to skim off
this advantage,” Ettl said. “We will try to do this in step
with  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  