-- 
Australian Dollar Weakens on Speculation China Will Raise Interest Rates

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-15T15:40:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/australian-dollar-weakens-on-speculation-china-will-raise-interest-rates.html
Australia ’s dollar fell against the
yen, extending a weekly drop, as speculation  China ’s central
bank will raise  interest rates  to combat inflation damped demand
for the South Pacific nation’s assets.  The Australian currency weakened for the fourth time in
five days versus the Japanese currency after a Chinese report
showed inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in more than
two years. The Australian and New Zealand currencies also
earlier declined against the dollar as concern China will take
additional measures to cool growth pushed down Asian stocks.  “The fear in Australia is that inflation dominates Chinese
policy thinking and of course they clamp down on interest
rates,” said  Adrian Foster , head of financial-market research
for Asia at Rabobank Groep NV in  Hong Kong .  Australia’s dollar dropped 0.3 percent to 87.73 yen at
11:38 a.m. in New York from 88.033 yesterday, and lost 1.9
percent this week. The Aussie rose 0.1 percent to $1.0556 after
weakening as much as 0.3 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar traded at 79.68 U.S. cents from 79.38
cents, and rose to 66.22 yen from 66.28 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 0.6 percent,
snapping a two-day advance.  China’s Economy  Australia’s currency had its first weekly loss in four
weeks after China’s National Bureau of Statistics said consumer
prices climbed 5.4 percent in March from a year earlier, the
fastest pace since July 2008. China’s economy grew 9.7 percent
last quarter, beating the 9.4 percent estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. China is Australia’s largest trading partner.  The People’s Bank of China may boost  reserve requirements 
for lenders to drain cash from the fastest-growing major
economy, Credit Agricole CIB and Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group said.  Futures traders increased bets to the most since 1993 that
the Australian dollar will appreciate against the greenback,
according to figures from the Washington-based  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  published last week.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the so-called Aussie
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
90,938 on April 5, compared with net longs of 85,565 a week
earlier. Futures positions, when they reach an extreme, are
sometimes viewed as a contrarian indicator because traders often
cut positions when momentum in a currency shifts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net  