-- 
Bankia, Banca Civica Say Bailout Funds Would Be Last Resort

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-04-15T11:46:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/bankia-banca-civica-say-bailout-funds-would-be-last-resort-1-.html
Bankia and Banca Civica, two
Spanish savings-bank groups, said they would only seek aid from
the state’s bailout fund as a last resort, while they’re
sticking to plans to carry out initial public offerings.  Bankia, a group led by  Caja Madrid , and Banca Civica said
in separate filings today that should their respective share
sales fail, they would try to sell stakes to private investors
and would only tap the FROB rescue fund as a last option.  Three savings-banks groups, Caja de Ahorros del
Mediterraneo, Novacaixagalicia and CatalunyaCaixa, will seek a
maximum of 7.1 billion euros ($10.3 billion) from the FROB,
according to their capitalization plans presented to the central
bank.  The Bank of  Spain  said late yesterday that as many as nine
lenders may tap the 99 billion-euro bailout fund after examining
their plans to boost finances to meet new capital requirements.
Cajas planning share sales were told to present back-up
strategies in case their first option failed, according to the
banking  law  approved on Feb. 18.  Capital Shortfall  “The end result of all this is that by the end of the year
we will hopefully have a recapitalized banking system and this
is more of a ticking off of the boxes in that process,” said
Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International Plc in Madrid.  The government tightened the capital rules as part of its
efforts to restore investor confidence in the economy and its
financial system. Savings banks are suffering from the collapse
of a decade-long property boom that led the central bank to
class almost half of their 217 billion euros of lending to
builders and developers as “potentially problematic.”  Caja Espana and Caja Duero, which together have a capital
shortfall of 463 million euros, said today they agreed to merge
with Unicaja, which already meets the  capital requirements .  The lenders will create a commercial bank based in Malaga
with assets of about 81 billion euros, making it the country’s
third-largest caja group.  Novacaixagalicia, created from the merger of two savings
banks in the region of Galicia, said in a statement it will aim
to raise capital from its banking business and through
divestments, while seeking private investors for a bank the
company will create. The bank will ask the FROB to cover any
remaining capital shortfall, the lender said.  Unnim, a grouping of three savings banks in Spain’s Catalan
region that needs to bridge a 568 million-euro capital shortage,
is still seeking an alliance with another lender as its first
option, a spokesman, who asked not to be identified by name,
said by telephone today. As a second option, the company would
create a new bank that enables the entry of private investors or
the FROB as shareholders, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net 
Charles Penty at   cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  