-- 
BofA’s $1.6 Billion Ends Assured’s ‘Chinese Water Torture’

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-04-15T20:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/bank-of-america-s-1-6-billion-deal-ends-assured-s-chinese-water-torture-.html
Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , the bond
insurer that said negotiating with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  was
like “Chinese water torture,” soared in New York trading after
extracting $1.1 billion to settle claims on faulty home loans.  The agreement includes a cash payment plus loss-sharing
that could bring the total cost to about $1.6 billion, the bank
said today in a statement. Assured jumped $3.43, or 24 percent,
to $17.60 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, its best showing since November 2008. Bank of America,
the biggest  U.S. bank , dropped 31 cents to $12.82.  The two companies clashed last year over whether Bank of
America should reimburse the Bermuda insurer for loans that were
based on false data about the homes and borrowers. Dominic Frederico, Chief Executive Officer of Assured, likened the talks
last August to the agony of water torture, while Bank of America
CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  said in November that negotiations were
“day-to-day, hand-to-hand combat.”  “We have basically resolved virtually all of the
controversies between our various companies and Assured,” Bank
of America Chief Financial Officer Charles Noski said today in a
conference call with investors. The Charlotte, North Carolina-
based bank has agreed to pay insurers and investors more than
 $7 billion  to retire mortgage-repurchase claims since Moynihan,
51, took the top job in 2010.  Stocks React  While the bank had reimbursed some individual claims
before, the accord marks the first time Bank of America reached
a formal settlement over soured loans with a bond insurer,  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the lender, said in an e-mail.  Among other bond insurers,  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  surged 17 percent in
New York trading to $10.48, while  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) 
rose 2.9 percent to 14.4 cents.  “We are pleased to have reached a settlement with Bank of
America that puts this legacy issue behind both of us,”
Frederico said in a statement. Assured has been profitable since
2007, including net income of $548.9 million last year. Losses
tied to guarantees of residential mortgages contributed to a
fourth-quarter loss.  Frederico, 58, told investors in November that Assured had
been pursuing refunds for three years, “long before many market
participants realized the poor adherence to underwriting
standards and practices occurring at the originator level. And
we are gratified that the market finally seems to recognize the
magnitude of this situation, and the potential for recoveries.”  Assured plans to report quarterly results next month.  More Lawsuits  Bank of America is the largest U.S. servicer of mortgages
and was the biggest home lender until  Wells Fargo & Co . bought
Wachovia Corp. The company still faces suits from insurers
including MBIA and Ambac. The carriers alleged that Countrywide
Financial Corp., which Bank of America bought in 2008,
fraudulently induced the firms to guarantee bonds composed of
faulty mortgages.  Bank of America and Countrywide have been accused by
investors and regulators of selling loans that inflated property
values and borrowers’ incomes. Moynihan set aside about
$3 billion late last year to retire most claims brought by U.S.-
owned mortgage finance companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . In
January, the bank said its “upper range” forecast for
additional losses was $7 billion to $10 billion.  Bank of America and rivals in the market for mortgage
servicing agreed this week to pay homeowners for losses from
foreclosures or loans that were mishandled in the wake of the
housing collapse. The deal with the  Justice Department ,
announced April 13, is the first of a set of sanctions that
regulators are seeking against the companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in  New York  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 