-- 
BofA Posts Profit, Settles More Disputes Tied to Faulty Mortgage Lending

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-04-15T13:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/bank-of-america-profit-of-17-cents-a-share-falls-short-of-26-cent-estimate.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
U.S. lender by assets, reported its first profit in three
quarters and settled more claims tied to faulty mortgages as an
improving economy helped borrowers keep up with debts.  First-quarter earnings fell 36 percent to $2.05 billion, or
17 cents a share, from $3.18 billion, or 28 cents, a year
earlier, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender said today
in a statement. The company also replaced its chief financial
officer, citing family reasons, and hired Gary Lynch, a former
Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement director, to deal
with legal and regulatory disputes.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, has sought
to assure investors that the bank is on the path to recovery
after last year’s $2.2 billion net loss. Moynihan said in an
interview the bank had about $3 billion of one-time costs in the
first quarter and is cutting about 3,500 jobs tied to mortgage
lending. The company also resolved claims with  Assured Guaranty
Ltd. (AGO) , the mortgage-bond insurer, for about $1.6 billion.  “It’s really a tale of two cities; the rest of the company
continues to push forward,” Moynihan told Erik Schatzker on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” “The mortgage business
continues to push us back, and we’ve got great customer activity
in those other businesses.”  Settlement Costs  Bank of America said CFO Charles Noski, 58, will be
replaced by Chief Risk Officer Bruce Thompson, 46, by the second
quarter. Noski, who was appointed CFO a year ago, will become
vice chairman. A serious illness in Noski’s family prevented him
from moving to Charlotte as he had planned, the bank said.  Lynch, 60, was vice chairman and the head legal officer of
Morgan Stanley. Bank of America named him global chief of legal,
compliance and regulatory relations.  The bank said the agreement with Assured Guaranty and its
subsidiaries covers the insurer’s outstanding and potential
repurchase claims on mortgage-backed securitizations. The accord
includes a $1.1 billion cash payment to Hamilton, Bermuda-based
Assured Guaranty and a loss-sharing agreement, the bank said.  “You had that big settlement with the monoline companies,
which is a good thing, which probably resulted in the missing
numbers,”  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, said
in an interview on “InsideTrack.” He rates the stock “market
perform.”  Shares React  Bank of America shares have dropped 32 percent in the past
year as of yesterday to $13.13, the worst performance in the 24-
company KBW Bank Index, on concern that claims from investors
and homeowners for faulty mortgages and foreclosures will cost
more than Moynihan has budgeted. The shares rose 18 cents to
$13.31 as of 9:35 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Assured Guaranty advanced 20 percent to $17.02.  Revenue for the first quarter declined 16 percent to
$27.1 billion. Results were aided by $2.2 billion released from
reserves, a sign that the bank expects defaults by borrowers to
ease in future quarters.  The bank’s mortgage unit posted a $2.4 billion loss,
widening from $2.1 billion a year earlier. The deposits unit had
a $355 million profit, down by almost half from a year earlier,
on lower fees because of U.S. overdraft regulations. The cards
unit reported a $1.7 billion profit, 78 percent higher from a
year earlier as credit costs declined.  Investment Banking   Global banking and markets, run by Thomas K. Montag,
reported a $2.1 billion profit compared with $701 million in the
fourth quarter and $3.2 billion a year earlier. Investment
banking fees of $1.5 billion rose 24 percent from a year
earlier, fueled by mergers and acquisitions and debt and equity
issuance, the company said. Sales and trading revenue was
$4.9 billion, a $2.1 billion decrease from a year earlier, the
bank said.  The wealth and investment management business run by Sallie L. Krawcheck reported a $531 million profit, 22 percent higher
than a year earlier, as the unit added deposits and financial
advisers.  “Today’s report demonstrates why we are indifferent to
Bank of America shares; we believe a cheap stock and strong
franchises are offset by ongoing mortgage-mess costs and a
complete lack of momentum in traditional banking businesses,”
said  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in  New York .
He rates the bank “market perform.”  Mortgage Agreements  The December settlement with  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
along with existing reserves, have “largely addressed”
liabilities to the U.S.-owned firms, the bank has said.
Remaining disputes with mortgage investors may cost $7 billion
to $10 billion, the company estimated earlier this year.  Bank of America was among the 14 largest U.S. mortgage
servicers required to pay back homeowners for losses from
foreclosures or loans that were mishandled under a settlement
announced two days ago. The accord between servicers and banking
regulators could help the U.S. Justice Department determine the
size and scope of fines for the flawed practices, regulators
said.  “Our expenses are higher than we’d like them to be, but a
lot of that expense is due to the 2,500 people, 2,700 people we
added in mortgage this quarter to continue to deal with the bad
assets,” Moynihan said in the interview. The  Charlotte  Observer
 reported  earlier today that the bank plans to cut 1,500 jobs
from mortgage originations, reflecting a 25 percent drop in
applications. “The volumes aren’t there,” Moynihan told
Bloomberg.  Fed’s Rejection  Concerns over potential liabilities from bad loans may have
been a reason the  Federal Reserve  rejected Bank of America’s
request to boost its dividend last month,  Frederick Cannon ,
director of research at KBW Inc., wrote at the time. The bank
asked for permission to increase its 1-cent-a-share payout to 3
cents, then later to 4 cents, said a person with knowledge of
the request.  The episode cast doubt on Moynihan’s repeated assurances to
investors that he expected to be able to raise the dividend this
year. The bank, the only U.S. lender among the biggest four that
didn’t get Fed approval to raise its payout, said March 18 that
it would resubmit a proposal in the second half, without
explaining why it had to. Five days later, the bank said in a
filing that the Fed “objected” to the bank’s proposed
increase.  Banks are releasing reserves set aside for loan losses back
into earnings as the economy improves. The U.S. unemployment
rate unexpectedly fell to a two-year low of 8.8 percent in March
as employers created more jobs than forecast and retail sales
advanced for a ninth month.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets, said this week that first-quarter profit surged 67
percent to $5.56 billion as provisions for soured mortgages and
credit-card loans fell. Citigroup Inc., the No. 3 bank, and No.
4-ranked  Wells Fargo & Co . are scheduled to report results next
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 