-- 
Belgacom, Google, Sears, Neo Material: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-15T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/belgacom-google-sears-neo-material-intellectual-property.html
Belgacom SA (BELG) ’s Internet-service
provider Scarlet can’t be forced by a national court to block
users from illegally sharing music and video files, an adviser
to the European Union’s highest tribunal said.  “EU law precludes a national court from making an order,
on the basis of the Belgian statutory provision,” that requires
an Internet-service provider to install a system for filtering
communications, Advocate General Pedro Cruz Villalon of the EU
Court of Justice said in a non-binding opinion yesterday. The
Luxembourg-based EU tribunal follows such advice in most cases.  A Belgian court last year sought the top EU tribunal’s
guidance on whether forcing an ISP to stop illegal file sharing
on its network is in line with the 27-nation bloc’s rules.
Belgian music-copyright group  Sabam  started the legal fight over
the use of so-called peer-to-peer software for file sharing.  Belgacom, the largest telephone company in  Belgium , won
antitrust approval to acquire Scarlet in 2008. Scarlet is
appealing a June 2007 Belgian court order to “make it
impossible” for users to breach copyright laws, saying it would
entail violating customers’ privacy rights.  Sabam said once the court has ruled on the case it would
“be analyzed very carefully” in all EU nations because it
would impact other pending cases. The group, which represents
authors and musicians, said ISPs aren’t properly compensating
artists while using their work to promote subscriptions.  “Although the advocate general is very sensitive to the
copyright breaches” on the Internet, the priority remains
fundamental rights, said Benoit Van Asbroeck, a lawyer at Bird &
Bird LLP in Brussels who represented Belgacom in the case. “No
private rights can touch and jeopardize this.”  The case is C-70/10, Scarlet Extended SA v. Societe Belge
des auteurs, compositeurs et editeurs (SABAM).  Google’s YouTube Sets up User Copyright-Education Program  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing site posted  a new set
of rules  aimed at preventing users from committing copyright
infringement.  YouTube also set up a  video tutorial on copyright  and a  new
copyright help center . Users for whom YouTube received a
copyright-infringement notice will be required to attend
“YouTube Copyright School” that includes both a tutorial and a
test that must be passed before more content can be uploaded.  YouTube also said it would remove “strikes” against users
accounts “in certain limited circumstances,” including
completion of the tutorial and a record of good behavior over
time.  New Zealand  Puts Onus on File Sharers to Prove Innocence  New Zealand’s parliament passed a new law prohibiting the
illegal sharing of files by  Internet users  that puts the onus on
those accused to prove their innocence, while not allowing them
to hire lawyers.  Lawmakers gave a third and final reading to the so-called
 Copyright (Infringing File Sharing) Amendment Bill  yesterday. A
breakdown on the vote wasn’t immediately available from the
parliamentary information service.  The bill “aims to provide copyright owners with a fast-
track alternative to existing remedies,” the Commerce Committee
said in a recommendation to pass the legislation. “We have
attempted to strike a balance between the rights of copyright
holders to have their  intellectual property  rights protected,
and the reality that the Internet has now allowed for greater
access to copyrighted work through file sharing.”  Under the law, scheduled to take effect Sept. 1, copyright
owners will be required to send evidence of alleged infringement
to  Internet Service  Providers, who would then issue warnings to
the account holder. If the warnings are ignored, the copyright
owners can file a claim with the Copyright Tribunal, which can
issue fines of as much as NZ$15,000 ($12,000) for each
violation.  The five-member tribunal will generally make a decision
based on written submissions and must consent to a hearing, if
one is requested. If the tribunal agrees to hold a hearing,
representatives won’t be allowed except for specified cases,
such as that of a corporation that can be represented by an
officer or an employee.  Representatives may not be lawyers, according to the
legislation, unless the tribunal grants permission.  An infringement notice will allow the tribunal to presume
that illegal file sharing occurred unless the account holder
provides evidence or reasons why it shouldn’t be considered so,
according to the law.  The new law tightens requirements for the suspension of
Internet services of account holders, requiring copyright
holders to get a court order. A judge can order the suspension
of the Internet service for as long as six months.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Sears Claims ‘DieHard’ Mark Infringed by RockHard Spray  Sears Holding Corp.’s Sears Roebuck unit sued a seller of
sexual-enhancement products for trademark infringement.  In the complaint filed April 13 in federal court in
 Chicago , Sears accuses  RockHard Laboratories LLC  of Alpharetta,
 Georgia , of infringing the DieHard trademark that Sears uses for
batteries.  Sears objects to RockHard’s  “Die Hard” sexual enhancement
spray , and said it filed notice with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office that it opposed a RockHard trademark
application.  According to the complaint, RockHard filed an application
in August to register “Die hard. Live it. Love it. Own It.” as
a trademark to be used for a numbing agent.  After receiving a cease-and-desist letter from Sears,
RockHard said it would quit using the disputed mark, according
to court papers. Sears complains that the company is still using
“Diehard,” including “diehardspray.com” on their product
packaging and in advertisements.  Sears, based in  Hoffman Estates ,  Illinois , says the public
is confused and any association of the DieHard mark with the
RockHard product would “diminish, blur and tarnish” the
trademark.  The retailer asked the court to transfer it the
diehardspray.com domain name, and for an order barring future
infringement. Additionally, Sears seeks money damages, attorney
fees and litigation costs, and an order for the destruction of
all infringing products and promotional material.  RockHard didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Sears is represented by  John F. Gibbons ,  Kevin J. O’Shea 
and  James J. Lukas Jr.  of  New York ’s Greenberg Traurig LLP.  The case is Sears Roebuck & Co. v. RockHard Laboratories
LLC, 11:11-cv-02483, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Patent Office Overhaul Approved by House Judiciary Committee  The House Judiciary Committee yesterday approved a measure
that would alter how patents are issued and give the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office new power to control the money it collects
in user fees.  The proposal, known as the America Invents Act and
sponsored by House Judiciary Committee Chairman  Lamar Smith , a
Texas Republican, was approved 32-3 and now moves to the full
House. The Senate passed similar legislation in a 95-5 vote on
March 8. If made law, it would mark a fundamental change in how
patents are reviewed and the biggest revision to U.S. patent law
since 1952.  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Neo Material Wins International Magnetics Trade Secrets Case  Neo Material Technologies Inc. (NEM) , a Canadian producer of rare
earths and other compounds used in high technology products,
said it won a trade-secrets case in  Thailand .  The Central Intellectual Property and International Trade
Court of Thailand ruled that International Magnetics
Technologies Co. and three of its officials must stop using
Toronto-based New Materials’ trade secrets, the company said in
a statement.  Additionally, International Magnetics must pay Neo Material
20 million Thai baht ($664,000) and hand all infringing
machinery, know-how and certain magnetic powder products to the
Canadian company.  To ensure compliance, the court said International
Magnetics is required to pay 1 million baht a month for any
infringing acts occurring after the judgment date.  Fracturing Fluid Website Online, Won’t Disclose Trade Secrets  FracFocus.org , a website aimed at giving the public
information about the fluids used to create fractures in rocks,
is online.  The website supplies information about the chemicals used
in the fracturing fluids used in oil and natural-gas exploration
and recovery. The composition of such fluids, because of their
potential to enter groundwater, is a concern for environmental
and health officials.  In the past, many companies declined to disclose the list
of chemicals in such fluids, claiming their composition is a
trade secret.  The new site is a joint project of the Ground Water
Protection Council and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact
Commission. The chemicals disclosed at the site are all that
would appear on a Material Safety Data Sheet mandated by
regulations of the  Occupational Safety and Health
Administration .  According to the website, companies can still decline to
disclose some of the chemicals in their fluids.  U.S. Senator Robert Casey , a Democrat from  Pennsylvania ,
said the information on the site isn’t sufficient. He has
introduced legislation to amend the 1974 Safe Drinking Water Act
to require oil and gas companies to disclose proprietary data
about their fracturing fluids to medical professionals if the
information is needed for medical treatment.  IP Moves  Dow Lohnes Hires Former Howrey Patent Litigator David Long  Dow Lohnes PLLC  hired David Long for its intellectual-
property practice, the Washington-based law firm said in a
statement yesterday.  Long , a patent litigator, joins from now-defunct Howrey
LLP. He previously practiced at the San Francisco firm now known
as Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP. Additionally, Long
served as a judicial clerk in the Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit, the Washington-based court that hears appeals
of patent cases.  He has represented clients in patent disputes in federal
trial and appellate courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court.
His clients’ technologies have included complex electrical
circuits, Voice over Internet Protocol, wireless communication
systems, signal processing systems, memory devices, integrated
circuit design, medical products and computer software.  Long has an undergraduate degree and a master’s degree in
electrical engineering from  Auburn University  and a law degree
from the University of  Alabama .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 