-- 
Biogen Test Finds Tysabri Patients With 1% Risk of Getting Brain Disease

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-04-15T21:34:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/biogen-test-finds-tysabri-patients-with-1-brain-disease-risk.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  has identified
high-risk patients taking its multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri
who have a 1 in 100 chance of developing a potentially deadly
 brain infection  from the medicine.  By analyzing the length of Tysabri use, previous treatments
and results of a blood test for antibodies to the virus that
causes the infection, doctors may spot patients with less than a
1 in 10,000 risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy,
or  PML , the analysis found. The drug’s U.S. label says the PML
risk is 1.5 in 1,000 after two years of treatment.  The findings may change the way doctors treat multiple
sclerosis, a progressive disease affecting 2.5 million people
worldwide that robs patients of muscle control and balance. It
may also boost sales of Tysabri, now limited to high-risk cases
because of PML fears, to $3 billion annually from $1.2 billion
in 2010 for Biogen and its partner, Dublin-based Elan Corp.,
said  Corey Davis , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York.  “For individuals who are negative, what we clearly know at
least right now is that this is the most effective therapy we
have available,” said  Revere Kinkel , director of the Multiple
Sclerosis Center at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and
associate professor at  Harvard Medical School . “The pendulum is
swinging to earlier and earlier use.”  Available in May  The test will be made available in  Europe  in May and
shortly thereafter in the U.S., said Meena Subramanyam, senior
director of clinical science and technology at Biogen. Kinkel
has access to the test for research purposes and gives it to
“virtually everybody” before starting treatment, he said.  About 57,000 patients worldwide take Tysabri, according to
a Jan. 11 presentation by Biogen at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare
Conference. Company research shows 50 percent to 60 percent of
Tysabri patients test positive for antibodies to the JC virus
that causes the brain infection.  The damage from PML, once thought to be immediately fatal,
is substantial, according to another report released at the
 American Academy  of Neurology meeting in Honolulu yesterday.
Twenty-one Tysabri patients have died from PML through March 4.  Sixty-three of the first 79 Tysabri patients with the
disease survived almost 10 months after diagnosis, said Patrick
Vermersch, head of neurology at the University of Lille in
 France . Of those, 87 percent had moderate to severe
disabilities, which make it difficult to keep a job or take care
of oneself without help, said Kinkel, who moderated the session
where the results were presented.  ‘Significant Disabilities’  “It’s like the worst kind of imagined relapse,” he said.
“It’s surviving, but they have significant disabilities.”  Biogen increased 77 cents to $82.96 at 4 p.m.  New York  time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The company’s shares have gained
52 percent in the past 12 months.  An analysis of 102 Tysabri patients who developed the brain
disease found the greatest risk is in those who previously used
powerful immune suppressing drugs like methotrexate, took
Tysabri for more than two years and tested positive for the JC
virus. A closer look at 25 patients found those who developed
PML were positive for the virus before they started the
medicine, said Alfred Sandrock, senior vice president of
development for Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen.  Knowing the odds may reassure patients taking the medicine
and help doctors in their treatment decisions.  ‘Not Entirely Proven’  “We have to tell patients at this point it’s not an
entirely proven test, but it certainly will affect our decision
making,” said  Jack Ratchford , assistant professor of neurology
at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore. “What is done when
someone tests positive depends on the individual. Often it is
enough of a concern that the possible risk outweighs the
benefit” and they stop Tysabri treatment, he said.  Some patients, particularly those with hard-to-control
disease, elect to stay on the drug, Ratchford said in a
telephone interview. The risk of disability from MS is higher
than the risk of the infection for those patients, he said.  Studies have shown that after two years of Tysabri, 37
percent of patients taking the drug were free from active
disease, including relapses and worsening disability, compared
with 7 percent of those given a placebo.  Multiple sclerosis  is neurological disorder thought to
develop when a person’s immune system goes awry and attacks
healthy cells in the central nervous system, according to the
 National Multiple Sclerosis Society . More than 400,000 Americans
have the condition.  Tysabri History  The risk of PML emerged after Tysabri was on the market,
leading Biogen and Elan to suspend sales in February 2005. The
drug returned to the market in June 2006 with a risk management
program for patients who didn’t benefit from rival medications
after research showed it was twice as effective as other drugs.  Doctors may think twice before starting patients who are
positive for the virus on Tysabri, Ratchford said. Even testing
negative isn’t completely reassuring because patients can be
subsequently exposed to the virus, he said. In about 2.5 percent
of cases, patients test negative when they have actually been
infected, according to Biogen tests.  The risk of PML increases after the first year of treatment
with the drug, and many doctors consider switching their
patients after two years. A question remains about what medicine
to use following Tysabri. Stopping treatment appears to trigger
flares of the disease and may be detrimental, ruling out the
idea of taking a patient off the medication temporarily to
reduce the risk, studies at the meeting showed.  Novartis Pill  One new choice is  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya, the first pill to
treat multiple sclerosis. It reduced the risk of worsening
disability by 30 percent in patients who were previously treated
with other drugs, said Gordon Francis, head of Novartis’s
neuroimmunology clinical science unit.  The company, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , is considering a
study of patients who want to start Gilenya after coming off
Tysabri, Francis said. The goal would be to determine short-term
risks and see how long patients must be off Tysabri, which can
remain in the body for two months or more, before starting
another treatment, he said.  Sales of Gilenya will increase as doctors become more
comfortable with it, Francis said. Patients need to be monitored
for a slow  heart rate  for six hours after their first dose, and
then checked for vision changes a few months later.  Ultimately, the long-term safety of the drug will be what
matters to doctors, he said. Older injected drugs like Avonex,
 Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Betaseron, German drugmaker  Merck KGaA (MRK) ’s Rebif and
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Copaxone have been around
for as long as two decades and doctors know what to expect with
them, he said. They will remain “until the dust settles,” in
perhaps three to five years, he said in an interview.  “There hasn’t been the stampede of the first Tysabri
launch, and that is appropriate,” Francis said. “Neurologists
are a conservative group, and they are even more conservative
than they were five years ago because of Tysabri,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  