-- 
Blackstone Said to Win Shanghai Approval for Yuan Investments

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-04-15T04:06:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/blackstone-said-to-win-shanghai-approval-for-yuan-investments.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  was approved by
Shanghai authorities for a program allowing it to invest money
raised abroad in China without seeking permission from the
foreign exchange regulator, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Blackstone’s 5 billion yuan ($765 million) domestic fund
was approved for the Qualified Foreign Limited Partner program,
the two people said, declining to be named as the matter is
private. The New York-based firm has raised about half the fund,
some of it from overseas, one of the people said.  The permit removes a hurdle in China for Blackstone, which
previously needed approval from the State Administration of
Foreign Exchange for changing dollars into yuan for every deal
it made. The Blackstone fund will still be treated as a foreign
investor, the people said, keeping it at a potential
disadvantage to local rivals because its acquisitions need
Ministry of Commerce approval.  The QFLP rules “are not giving foreign fund managers and
investors everything they want,” said Larry Sussman, a Beijing-
based partner at  O’Melveny & Myers LLP  who advises private
equity firms setting up domestic funds in  China . “They’re
certainly not the silver bullet that many people were hoping for,
but it’s a sign that regulatory changes are going in the right
direction.”  Blackstone in 2009 became the first global buyout firm to
announce plans for a local-currency fund in China, where
private-equity investments jumped 40 percent to $19.7 billion
last year, according to the  Asian Venture Capital Journal . TPG
Inc. and  Carlyle Group  followed. Together, the three firms have
announced plans to raise a combined 20 billion yuan for local-
currency funds.  Homegrown Industry  China is stepping up efforts to expand its private-equity
industry as the government seeks to foster corporate governance
and strengthen capital markets. Still, foreign private-equity
investors have been faced with restrictions on buying assets in
China, which limits access to industries it designates as
strategic and imposes  capital controls .  The QFLP program in Shanghai encompasses funds that are
partly or wholly backed by overseas investors, known as limited
partners. China is expected to extend the pilot program to
Beijing and Tianjin, said Hubert Tse, a partner at Chinese law
firm Boss & Young who advises private equity firms on yuan funds.  “We won’t have any issues in the future with currency
conversion,” said Benjamin Jenkins, a Hong Kong-based senior
managing director at Blackstone, in an interview. The QFLP
program “is an easier vehicle to use for domestic deals, and it
gives us an opportunity to access a new investor base.”  $3 Billion Quotas  Jenkins said the firm’s local-currency fund will get a
“majority” of its capital from Chinese investors. When
Blackstone first announced plans to raise the yuan fund in
August 2009, the QFLP program had not been unveiled, he said.  China’s currency regulator will grant  Shanghai  and Beijing
a $3 billion quota each for the QFLP program, Caixin magazine
reported in January, citing an unidentified person.  The QFLP program allows private equity firms to convert
foreign currency into yuan, park it with a custodian bank and
then invest it without applying for SAFE approval for each deal.  “Shanghai needs world class foreign LPs to make their
program work,” said Sussman, referring to limited partners.
“If Blackstone can deliver that, even though the fund does not
work perfectly, it may open other doors to not only benefit
Blackstone as a firm but indirectly their LP family.”  Local Disadvantage  Foreign-backed funds using the QFLP program for investments
will not be considered as local pools of capital, said a
government official who asked not to be identified. That means
their acquisitions are subject to more scrutiny than local
rivals, potentially hampering their ability to complete deals.  China accounted for 37 percent of private-equity deals in
 Asia  last year, an increase from 29 percent in 2009, according
to the Asian Venture Capital Journal.  Entrepreneurs in China are more inclined to accept capital
from domestic private equity firms because it is subject to
fewer regulatory restrictions, said Tse of Boss & Young. Getting
local funding also allows them to escape being classified as
foreign-invested enterprises, which can increase red tape, he
said.  “I don’t think that’s an insurmountable hurdle,” said
Jenkins. “In theory, we can compete with them with our global
fund.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  