-- 
Bank of America Hires Ex-SEC Enforcement Chief Lynch; CFO Noski Steps Back

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-04-15T12:19:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/bofa-hires-ex-sec-enforcement-chief-lynch-cfo-noski-steps-back-from-role.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  hired Gary Lynch, formerly a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
enforcement director and Morgan Stanley’s legal chief, as it
seeks to resolve disputes with regulators over soured mortgages.  Lynch, reporting directly to Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , will fill a new position overseeing legal and
compliance operations and regulatory relations, Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America said today in a  statement . Chief
Risk Officer Bruce Thompson, 46, will take the post of chief
financial officer from Charles Noski, 58, who will become vice
chairman. Noski, appointed CFO last year, is stepping back from
the role to deal with an illness in his family, the bank said.  “Gary’s global legal and regulatory expertise and
relationships will be a valued addition to our leadership,”
Moynihan said in the statement. “We are delighted he has chosen
to join Bank of America and help guide the execution of our
customer-focused strategy.”  Moynihan, 51, is reshaping management as the company
struggles to boost profit while dealing with lawsuits and
investigations tied to soured loans from the housing boom. In
February, the firm named Terry Laughlin to oversee $1 trillion
of assets in a new division he called a “bad bank.” Last year,
Moynihan moved more than 2,000 people from the lender’s sales
side to its servicing areas.  Lynch, 60, headed the SEC’s enforcement division from 1985
to 1989 and led insider-trading investigations of Ivan Boesky
and Michael Milken. Former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  CEO  John Mack  hired
Lynch to work at  Credit Suisse First Boston  in 2001 and then at
Morgan Stanley when Mack moved there in 2005. Mack is now
chairman.  Lynch, Morgan Stanley’s chief legal officer from 2005 to
2010, is among at least three former SEC enforcement directors
helping oversee legal departments at the largest global banks.
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  General Counsel Richard Walker stepped down at
the agency in 2001. In 2006, JPMorgan Chase & Co. appointed
Stephen Cutler to be its top legal officer, a year after he left
the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer in  New York  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 