-- 
BP Doesn’t Face Added U.S. Requirements to Drill, Bromwich Says

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-04-15T18:12:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/bp-won-t-be-singled-out-for-extra-conditions-to-drill-u-s-regulator-says.html
BP Plc, owner of the  Gulf of Mexico 
well that exploded a year ago next week, won’t be singled out
for extra conditions when attempting to resume exploration in
deep waters, according to the chief U.S. drilling regulator.  “They would have to satisfy the same requirements of other
operators,”  Michael Bromwich , director of the  Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement , said in an
interview today in Bloomberg’s Washington bureau. “We don’t
have a provision for any requirements, extra requirements, to be
imposed on BP because they’re BP.”  The blowout of BP’s Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico on
April 20 led to the biggest U.S. offshore leak, a moratorium on
drilling in the Gulf’s deep waters and a reorganization of U.S.
regulation that put Bromwich, 57, in charge of setting rules and
issuing permits. London-based BP has applied to drill one well
since the exploration ban was lifted in October, a person in the
U.S. government familiar with the application said on April 4.  “A company that has had a long record -- which BP, and
many other operators have had -- that has one even very
egregious incident, I’m not at all sure that this should be
disqualifying,” Bromwich, who declined to comment on whether BP
has filed an application, said today.  Even if he had authority to exclude companies from drilling
based on their past safety records, Bromwich said he would act
only when there was a pattern of “serial violations” in
offshore drilling.  The House passed legislation last year that would have
barred BP from receiving drilling permits based on its past
safety record both at land and sea. The Senate didn’t take up
the measure.  Control, Contain  Under rules issued since the BP spill, companies that want
to resume drilling in waters of 500 feet (152 meters) or deeper
need to prove they could plug a well that went out of control
and contain oil released during a spill.  The  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management  will put out in about
a month an advance notice of potential rules that will include
new design requirements for blowout preventers, Bromwich said.  The blowout preventer, a stack of valves sitting atop BP’s
Macondo well, failed to seal it.  BP will improve its blowout preventers with double sets of
shear rams that can cut through and seal the drill pipe instead
of the single set that failed last year, James Dupree, the
company’s regional president for the Gulf, said at a conference
in Washington yesterday.  The BP blowout killed 11 workers, injured 17, destroyed
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s $365 million Deepwater Horizon rig and spewed
crude for 87 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  