-- 
Brazil Ethanol at Record High, Price May Rise Again in 2012, Archer Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-04-15T17:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/brazil-ethanol-at-record-high-price-may-rise-again-in-2012-archer-says.html
A seasonal shortfall that boosted
Brazilian ethanol prices to a record this week may be worse next
year as producers face higher demand than they can meet, said
analysts including Arnaldo Luiz Correa at Archer Consulting.  Anhydrous ethanol that’s mixed with gasoline traded at 2.63
reais ($1.67) a liter for the week ended April 13 in  Sao Paulo .
That’s up 25 percent from the prior week and more than double
the level in January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ethanol prices typically rise at the start of year between
harvests when sugar cane mills are closed. Supplies wane in that
period from December to April. In the past two years, that
shortfall has been exacerbated by inadequate investment in
production capacity, and will likely mean even higher prices
after next year’s harvest, the analyst at the Sao Paulo-based
consultant said in an interview today.  “I’m quite sure we are going to have the same problem with
prices at the end of this year and by the beginning of next
year,” he said, adding that  Brazil  “is producing today what it
should have been producing two years ago.”  Capital investments in Brazil’s sugar cane industry totaled
$6.2 billion in 2010, compared with $10.3 billion in 2008,
according to data compiled by London-based Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. Most of last year’s spending went toward consolidation,
as producers acquired existing mills, rather than building new
production facilities, New Energy Finance said. Cane companies
refine the plant into sugar or ethanol.  Record Prices  The prices this year are the highest since  Centro de
Estudos Avancados em Economia Aplicada  began tracking it in
2002. Underinvestment in new ethanol capacity after the 2008
credit crisis means that the record high prices this year may be
not a seasonal problem but a structural one, said Mirian Bacchi,
a researcher with the Piracicaba, Brazil-based consulting
company.  “Investment is needed in new mills,” Jacqueline Bierhals,
manager at Sao Paulo based research agency Informa Economics
FNP, said over the telephone. “A lot more is necessary,” or
ethanol prices will become more volatile, especially at the end
of each harvest season, she said.  Demand for ethanol is increasing, in part, because of flex-
fuel cars, which can run on either pure ethanol or standard
gasoline that’s blended with 25 percent ethanol.  About 42 percent of cars on Brazil’s roads are flex-fuel
and they comprise 85 percent of new automobile sales, according
to the country’s automaker trade group Associacao Nacional dos
Fabricantes de Veiculos Automotores.  Assuming “conservative growth rates” for fuel consumption
and an increasing fleet of flex-fuel cars, Brazil will need 50
billion liters of annual ethanol production in the 2017 to 2018
crop to meet domestic demand, according to Archer Consulting’s
Correa. That’s almost double the 25.4 billion liters  produced 
during the last harvest, according to the country’s sugar trade
group Uniao da Industria de Cana de Acucar.  “At today’s investment rates, it’s highly unlikely those
production levels will be met,” Correa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  