-- 
Brazil to Reduce Savings Effort in 2012 As Minimum Wage Set to Rise 13%

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-04-15T20:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/brazil-to-reduce-savings-effort-in-2012-as-minimum-wage-set-to-rise-13-.html
Brazil ’s government will reduce its
fiscal savings effort next year as it raises by 13 percent the
wage used to set pension payments.  Brazil’s public sector, including regional governments and
state companies, will save 139.8 billion reais before interest
payments next year, equal to 3.1 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the budget framework being submitted to
Congress.  The government may use special rules allowing it to
discount up to 40.6 billion reais in investments to meet the so-
called primary surplus target, Planning Minister Miriam Belchior
told reporters today in Brasilia while presenting the budget.
This year, the government is targeting a savings of 117.9
billion reais, equal to 2.9 percent of GDP, without relying on
any accounting changes.  “We’re making a strong fiscal effort,” Belchior told
reporters in Brasilia.  President  Dilma Rousseff  is trying to boost investor
confidence that her government can restrain spending
sufficiently to reduce inflation and the highest real  interest
rates  in the Group of 20 nations. Since taking office Jan. 1,
she’s announced 50.7 billion reais in budget cuts.  Minimum Wage  According to the budget bill, Latin America’s biggest
economy will expand at a minimum 5 percent pace over the next
four years with inflation under control and a gradual reduction
of the benchmark interest rate to a record low 8.5 percent.  “This scenario has no consistency, and the government is
losing credibility,” said Juan Jensen, a partner at Tendencias
Consultoria Integrada in  Sao Paulo . “The only way the
government will be able to meet the primary surplus target next
year with the economy growing at the pace they foresee is by
raising taxes.”  At the same time the government is trying to keep a lid on
its deficit, Rousseff plans to increase the country’s  minimum
wage  next year by 13 percent to 616.34 reais, according to the
budget report. This year, the wage was increased 6.8 percent to
545 reais.  Boosting the minimum wage has a ripple effect throughout
the budget because it’s used to annually adjust pension payments
and some welfare benefits. This year’s increase generated
additional spending of 10 billion reais.  Forecasts, ‘Smoother Convergence’  Brazil’s economy will expand 5 percent next year and 5.5
percent in 2013 and 2014, the budget report said. Inflation will
stay at 4.5 percent, the current mid-point of the government’s
target range, while the benchmark interest rate will fall to
10.75 percent next year, then to 10 percent in 2013 and 8.5
percent by 2014, the report showed.  Brazil reduced the so-called Selic rate to a record low
8.75 percent in 2009 to pull the economy out of the global
financial crisis. Borrowing costs have since risen to 11.75
percent as inflation accelerated to 6.3 percent in March, the
highest annual rate in 28 months.  Brazil’s spending cuts and measures to curb credit coupled
with interest rate increases will help tame inflation that is
threatening to breach the upper limit of the government’s target
range, policy makers said in their quarterly inflation report
March 30.  The central bank will “seek a smoother convergence of
inflation to its target” by the end of 2012, as the cost of
slowing consumer prices to the target this year would be “too
high,” policy makers said in the report.  Inflation, Tightening  Brazil is still addressing the emergence of inflation and
is in the middle of a tightening monetary policy cycle, central
bank President Alexandre Tombini said in  Washington  today.  “We have a situation now where we are still addressing the
issue of the emergence of inflation,” Tombini said. “We are
addressing monetary stability, we are in the middle of a
tightening cycle in Brazil.”  Economic growth will slow to 4 percent this year, after
expanding 7.5 percent in 2010, the fastest in more than two
decades, according to a weekly central bank survey of about 100
economists published this week. Growth will accelerate to 4.24
percent next year, the survey showed.  Brazilian economists expect inflation to decelerate to 5
percent by the end of next year, after ending 2011 at 6.26
percent, the same survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  