-- 
Broke U.S. States’ $48 Billion Debt Drives Reductions in Unemployment Aid

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-04-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/broke-u-s-states-48-billion-debt-drives-unemployment-assistance-cuts.html
Missouri  state Senator Jim Lembke
had enough of what he calls Washington’s runaway spending. So he
and three fellow Republicans in the state with an unemployment
rate of 9.4 percent blocked $105 million in federal aid for
those out of work.  “It’s not free money -- it’s borrowed money from  China ,”
he said in interview. “We’ve got to send a message to
Washington: Stop the spending, stop the madness.”  In the nation’s capitals, from Trenton, New Jersey, to
Phoenix,  Arizona , tax-leery businesses and the Republican
politics of fiscal restraint are making  unemployment benefits 
the next program to face cuts because of the fiscal turmoil
that’s persisted since the  recession ended  almost two years ago.  States slashed spending and raised taxes during the past
three years to eliminate deficits in their general budgets. Now,
more than half have run out of cash in their unemployment trust
funds after joblessness, now 8.8 percent, peaked at 10.1 percent
in October 2009. They have borrowed  more than $48 billion  from
the federal treasury to pay benefits.  Groups as varied as local Chambers of Commerce to the
National Employment Law Project, which works on behalf of the
poor, have raised concerns about the escalating payroll taxes
that will be needed to escape debt and replenish state funds.  Through 2015, employers face as much as $24 billion in
automatic tax increases triggered in states indebted to the U.S.
government, according  to a study  by the National Employment Law
Project and the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , two
groups who advocate against budget cuts that hurt the poor.  ‘Massive Debt’  “We’ve got a massive debt that the employers have to pay
back, just like many other states out there,” said Daniel
Mehan, the chief executive officer of the Missouri Chamber of
Commerce and Industry in Jefferson City, the capital. “It’s
staring us in the face.”  States have historically paid 26 weeks of unemployment
benefits with their own funds, and under temporary measures
enacted since 2008, they can receive as much as 73 more weeks of
benefits paid by the U.S. government. That eased pressure on the
unemployed, with more than 6 million jobless at least 27 weeks
in March, according to the  U.S. Labor Department .  It’s the state-funded benefits that are drawing scrutiny.
In  Michigan , where unemployment is 10.4 percent, Republican
Governor Rick Snyder last month  signed legislation  cutting state
unemployment benefits to 20 beginning next year. Missouri
followed suit this week.  More May Follow  Similar reductions have been proposed in Arizona, with a
9.6 percent rate, and  Florida , where it passed the House last
month. Sunshine State unemployment is 11.5 percent. Arkansas
Governor Mike Beebe, a Democrat in a state with a 7.8 percent
rate, last month signed a law freezing benefit payments and
shaving one week from them.  Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, a Republican, in February
also signed a bill tightening eligibility, part of a measure he
 said  would allow the state to repay by 2019 the $2 billion it
has borrowed.  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie , also a Republican, in
February proposed cutting maximum weekly benefits by $50, to
$550, warning of tax increases.  Other states may follow, said Michael Leachman, an analyst
who follows state budget issues for the Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities, a Washington-based  research organization  that
advocates against cuts to programs for the poor.  Feeling the Heat  “We’re very concerned that there will be significant
pressure on state legislators to sharply cut unemployment
benefits,” he said.  In addition to causing distress for those in need, such
cuts could hobble the economy because recipients soon funnel all
the money back into businesses, he said. “That is really
helping keep state economies going when demand is down, and
that’s really needed,” he said.  In Missouri, the state senators’ concerns about spending
coincided with business’s desire to stave off tax increases.
Under a compromise the Chamber of Commerce helped broker, the
Legislature cut state-paid benefits in the future by six weeks,
to 20. In return, more than 10,000 currently unemployed
residents can still collect the maximum federal-paid benefits.  Democratic Governor Jay Nixon signed the bill April 13.  “When our friends and neighbors lose their jobs through no
fault of their own, it’s up to all of us to help them get back
on their feet and back to work,” Nixon said in a statement.  Missouri Compromise  The state Chamber of Commerce says the cutbacks will save
businesses as much as $124 million a year in taxes.  “What we’re trying to do is position the state in the best
possible spot coming out of this recession,” said Mehan, the
chamber’s CEO. “If you can make it easier on employers to
actually hire these people and keep them off the rolls, we think
that’s a great tradeoff.”  Lembke, the Republican senator who led the opposition to
the extended unemployment bill, said he was mollified by an
agreement to return $250 million of other economic-stimulus
funds to  Washington  in exchange for allowing residents to keep
collecting additional U.S. benefits.  He said some constituents questioned whether paychecks for
the unemployed were the right place to press the issue of
Washington’s profligacy.  “The states need to start taking a stand against a federal
government that will not live within its means and will not
control it’s spending,” he said. “My goal all along was to
send back as much stimulus money to Washington as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  