-- 
Burkina Faso’s President Compaore Returns to Capital City After Mutiny

-- B y   S i m o n   G o n g o   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-04-15T14:26:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/burkina-faso-s-president-compaore-returns-to-capital-city-after-mutiny.html
Burkina Faso’s  president, Blaise Compaore, returned to the presidential palace after fleeing a
mutiny by his presidential guard last night. Gunshots could
still be heard today in the capital, Ouagadougou, residents
said.  Campaore plans to begin a dialogue with soldiers and
civilian protesters who have sought an end to his 24-year rule,
Erik Solheim,  Norway ’s minister for the environment and
international cooperation, said today after meeting with
Compaore in Ouagadougou. Government officials including army
spokesman Moussa Cisse declined to comment.  “He promised me that he would make every effort to meet
with the military, the demonstrators, the students and the
unions to discuss things,” Solheim told reporters at the
presidential palace. Solheim had originally traveled to Burkina
Faso to discuss the political crisis in neighboring  Ivory Coast .  Burkina Faso, sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest cotton producer,
has been in turmoil since February, when five people were killed
during demonstrations against the police following the death of
a student in their custody. Ten people were injured after
soldiers in Ouagadougou protested a court decision sentencing
officers to prison.  Youth Inspired  “It may be the end of Blaise Compaore’s rule,” said David
Zounmenou, researcher for the African conflict prevention
program at Pretoria-based  Institute for Security Studies . “The
youth are inspired by what is happening in North Africa and you
add to this the unhappiness within the army. He might have to
think about a transition.”  Last night soldiers looted shops and burned the house of
the army chief of staff, General Gilbert Diendiere,  Agence
France-Presse  said, citing city residents.  “There is firing in Gounghin near Camp Sangoule Lamizana”
in the western part of the city, Jean Zoegmore, a Ouagadougou
resident, said in a phone interview today.  A government statement read on state television at 1 p.m.
local time said the soldiers were protesting about their housing
alliance and food rations.  “The government reassures the people that steps are being
taken right now to resolve this situation and expresses its
regret and compassion for all those who have suffered harm,”
according to the statement.  ‘Justice’ Promised  On March 30, Compaore called for talks with the military
and promised “justice” for students killed in demonstrations.
Judges went on strike this month and schools and the university
have been closed for weeks, said Rinaldo Depagne, a West  Africa 
analyst with  International Crisis Group .  “For 10 days he’s been trying to find an agreement with
many angry people, including not only soldiers but also students
and others,” Depagne said in a phone interview from Dakar.
“What was special about yesterday’s riot is for the first time
it was the presidential guard who are revolting.”  Compaore has had strong relations with the U.S. and  France ,
even though he supported rebels in nearby Sierra Leone during
that country’s civil war in the 1990s, Depagne said. He also has
close ties with Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and Ivory Coast’s
president,  Alassane Ouattara , he said.  Compaore was elected to a four-year term in November,
winning 80.2 percent of the vote in an election disputed by
opposition parties.  Burkina Faso , which borders  Mali , Ivory Coast,  Ghana , Togo,
 Benin  and Niger, ranks 161st out of 169 nations on the United
Nations  Human Development Index , a broad measure of economic and
social well-being.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Gongo in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, is story:
   sgongo@bloomberg.net ;
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 abarden@bloomberg.net . 