-- 
Canada Investment in Non-Residential Construction (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-15T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/canada-investment-in-non-residential-construction-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's investment in non-residential construction report
for the first quarter as released by Statistics Canada.  Investment in non-residential building construction
increased 1.3% from the previous quarter to $10.7 billion
in the first quarter. This was the fifth consecutive
quarterly increase and reflected higher spending in both
commercial and industrial building construction.  First-quarter investment increased in five provinces.
The largest gains were in Ontario and Quebec, led by
commercial investment, which was also up in seven other
provinces.  Investment in Alberta recorded the largest decline, as
a result of lower spending in the institutional component.  Locally, investment rose in 16 of 34 census
metropolitan areas. The largest increases occurred in
Toronto, Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo and St. Catherines-
Niagara. Rising commercial investment led the gains in
Toronto and Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo, while
institutional investment was the main contributor in St.
Catherines-Niagara.  The largest decline occurred in Calgary, where spending
fell in both the institutional and commercial components.  Commercial component  Investors spent $6.2 billion on commercial projects, up
2.4% from the fourth quarter of 2010 and the fifth
consecutive quarterly gain.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents
seasonally adjusted data expressed in current dollars,
which ease comparisons by removing the effects of seasonal
variations.  Investments in non-residential building construction
exclude engineering construction. This series is based on
the Building Permits Survey of municipalities, which
collects information on construction intentions.  Work put-in-place patterns are assigned to each type of
structure (industrial, commercial and institutional).
These work patterns are used to distribute the value of
building permits according to project length. Work put-in-
place patterns differ according to the value of the
construction project; a project worth several million
dollars will usually take longer to complete than will a
project of a few hundred thousand dollars.  Additional data from the Capital and Repair
Expenditures Survey are used to create this investment
series. Investments in non-residential building data are
benchmarked to  Statistics Canada 's System of National
Accounts of non-residential building investment series.  For the purpose of this release, the census
metropolitan area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is
divided into two areas: the Ottawa part and the Gatineau
part.  Commercial investment rose in nine provinces. The
largest gain occurred in Ontario, where investment
increased 3.2% to $2.6 billion, while in Quebec commercial
investment rose 3.5% and remained at $1.0 billion. In both
provinces, the gain was led by higher spending in the
construction of office buildings. Ontario also recorded
higher investment in laboratory and research centres.  In contrast, British Columbia recorded a decline,
mostly the result of lower spending on recreational and
office buildings.  Industrial component  Investment in industrial projects totalled $1.2 billion
in the first quarter, up 5.3% from the previous quarter
and the fourth consecutive quarterly gain.  The first-quarter increase was attributable to higher
investment in the construction of manufacturing and mining
facilities in seven provinces, as well as higher spending
on maintenance buildings in  Alberta .  Provincially, the most substantial contributions to the
quarterly increase came from Alberta, where investment
rose 15.0% to $275 million, and from Ontario, where it
advanced 2.9% to $471 million.  Industrial investment in Quebec rose 4.1% to $251
million. Gains in Central Canada were mostly a result of
higher investment in manufacturing plants, while increased
investment in Alberta was mostly in maintenance
facilities.  First-quarter declines in Nova Scotia, Saskatchewan and
British Columbia were spread among several industrial
building categories.  Institutional component  Spending in the institutional component fell 2.2% to
$3.3 billion, the fifth consecutive quarterly decline
nationally.  The biggest contributing factor to the decline in the
first quarter was lower spending in the construction of
educational and health care facilities in Alberta.  Institutional spending was up in six provinces. The
largest increases were in  Quebec , British Columbia and
Ontario, where higher investment occurred in several
institutional buildings categories. 