-- 
Canada Dollar Declines on Concern China May Take Steps to Curb Inflation

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-04-15T21:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/canadian-dollar-declines-on-china-inflation-concern-crude-oil-price-drop.html
Canada ’s dollar declined against
its U.S. counterpart this week amid concern faster inflation in
 China  may lead the country’s central bank to raise  interest
rates , curbing growth and demand for commodities.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, declined as
Asia’s largest economy expanded 9.7 percent from a year earlier
in the first quarter and consumer prices rose 5.4 percent in
March, the fastest pace since 2008, the statistics bureau said
today. Canada’s currency rebounded from earlier weakness against
the  U.S. dollar  as crude prices rose.  “The strength of the Chinese data has ramped up
expectations of further tightening in China, which could be bad
for growth and the commodity space,” said  Jeremy Stretch ,
executive director of foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London . “Commodity currencies in
general are trading a little weaker, and the Canadian dollar is
no exception.”  The loonie weakened to 95.92 cents per U.S. dollar at 5:03
p.m. in Toronto, compared with 95.54 cents on April 8. The
currency lost as much as 0.4 percent today. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0425.  Oil Drop  Crude oil rebounded as U.S. consumer sentiment and
industrial output increased, signaling higher fuel demand. Crude
oil futures rose 1.3 percent to $109.45 a barrel in New York
after falling as much as 0.8 percent. Raw materials, including
oil, account for about half of Canada’s export revenue.  “We have oil pushing higher, always an important piece,”
said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova
Scotia in Toronto.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year down seven basis points, 0.07 percentage
point, to 3.3 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent security
maturing in June 2020 added 55 cents to C$101.60.  U.S. consumers said they expect an inflation rate of 4.6
percent during the next 12 months, the same as in the March
survey, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary measure of consumer sentiment. The consumer-price
index increased 0.5 percent for a second month, in line with the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
figures from the Labor Department showed today in  Washington .  “Both core inflation and expectations in the Michigan
conference highlighted that aren’t a lot of pricing pressures in
the U.S.,” Sutton said in a telephone interview. “That’s a
positive sign if you think the  Federal Reserve  is on hold for
some time, which is our base case.”  Policy Gathering  Foreign direct investment in Canada accelerated last year,
led by increased flows from U.S. investors, a government report
showed. Canadian direct investment abroad declined for a second
year.  Foreign direct investment in Canada rose 2.6 percent to
C$561.6 billion ($585.5 billion), as investment from the U.S.
rose 5 percent to C$306.1 billion, Statistics Canada said in a
report today. Direct investment excluding the U.S. fell 0.3
percent.  The share of direct investment in Canada held by U.S.
investors rose for the first time since 2004 to 54.5 percent,
the statistics agency said. Canadian direct investment abroad
fell 0.7 percent to C$616.7 billion on an appreciating currency,
which reduces the Canadian dollar value of foreign investments.  To contact the reporters for this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  