-- 
Canada March Existing Home Sales (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-04-15T13:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/canada-march-existing-home-sales-text-.html
According to statistics released
today by The  Canadian Real Estate Association  (CREA), national
resale housing activity held steady in March 2011 compared to
February.  Seasonally adjusted national home sales activity in March came
in one tenth of a percentage point above levels for the previous
month, with stable demand in most large urban centres.  With national sales in each of the first three months of 2011
running close to their five- or ten-year monthly averages,
seasonally adjusted national sales activity in the first quarter
of 2011 was up 4.5 per cent from levels recorded in the fourth
quarter of last year, and reached the highest quarterly level in
a year.  Most of the quarterly increase in seasonally adjusted national
sales activity was due to demand in  Vancouver  and Toronto.
Recent changes to mortgage regulations may have caused a number
of sales in some of Canada’s more expensive housing markets to
be brought forward into the first quarter that would have
otherwise occurred later in the year.  Sellers looking to tradeup before changes to mortgage
regulations took effect made their move early, resulting in a
significant rise in newly listed homes in January and February
of this year. With changes to mortgage regulations looming in
March, seasonally adjusted new residential listings for the
month dropped five per cent month-to-month.  Steady sales activity combined with fewer new listings tightened
the national resale housing market. The national sales-to-new
listings ratio, a measure of the balance between supply and
demand, stood at 56.5 per cent in March. This kept the national
housing market firmly entrenched in balanced territory, with
March marking the firmest reading for national market balance in
more than a year.  Based on sales-to-new listings ratios, more than half of local
markets in  Canada  could be considered balanced in March, with
two-thirds of the remaining markets considered to be as sellers’
markets.  “The majority of local housing markets across Canada are well
balanced, but not all of them are,” said Gary Morse, CREA’s
President. “Within a province or local market, the balance
between resale housing supply and demand can vary widely and
evolve quickly, so buyers and sellers should speak with a local
REALTOR® to understand housing market trends where they live.”  The number of months of inventory represents the number of
months it would take to sell current inventories at the current
rate of sales activity, and is another measure of the balance
between housing supply and demand. The seasonally adjusted
number of months of inventory stood at 5.6 months at the end of
March on a national basis. This was unchanged from the previous
month. Almost half of all local markets saw the number of months
of inventory shrink compared to the previous month.  Throughout the first quarter of 2011, the national average price
was skewed higher by strong activity in a few pricey areas of
Greater Vancouver. March 2011 was no exception, with an increase
of 8.9 per cent year-over year.  “A record number of multi-million dollar property sales in
Richmond and Vancouver West are pushing up average prices for
Greater Vancouver, British Columbia and nationally,” stated
Gregory Klump, CREA’s Chief Economist. “If Vancouver is excluded
from the equation, the national average price increase is cut by
more than half to 4.3 per cent.”  “Looking ahead, evidence suggests that the potential rush of
sales activity in March before recent changes to mortgage
regulations took effect was a story that was largely focused in
condo sales activity in Greater Vancouver. This confirms that
the expected impact on sales activity of recent changes to
mortgage regulations will likely be minor over the near term.
 Interest rates  are now widely expected to remain on hold until
at least mid-July, which is supportive for resale housing
demand, market balance and prices,” Klump added.  PLEASE NOTE: The information contained in this news release
combines both major market and national MLS® sales information
from the previous month.  CREA cautions that average price information can be useful in
establishing trends over time, but does not indicate actual
prices in centres comprised of widely divergent neighborhoods or
account for price differential between geographic areas.
Statistical information contained in this report includes all
housing types.  MLS® is a co-operative marketing system used only by Canada’s
real estate Boards to ensure maximum exposure of properties
listed for sale.  The Canadian Real Estate Association (CREA) is one of Canada’s
largest single-industry trade associations, representing more
than 100,000 REALTORS® working through more than 100 real estate
Boards and Associations.  Further information can be found at:
 http://www.crea.ca/public/news_stats/media.htm   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  