-- 
Caruana Says Countries Need to Take ‘Early Action’ on Deficits

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-15T01:19:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/caruana-says-countries-need-to-take-early-action-on-deficits.html
Countries with healthy economies
need to take “early action” on deficits to avoid the sovereign
debt crises that have beset  Spain  and Ireland, said Jaime Caruana, general manager of the  Bank for International
Settlements .  Deficit rules are especially important for countries that
belong to a monetary union such as the euro, Caruana said today
in an interview on the sidelines of the International Monetary
Fund’s spring meetings in  Washington . The Basel, Switzerland-
based BIS coordinates central bank initiatives on financial
stability and regulation.  “Acting in the good times is to me a key element,” said
Caruana, the former governor of the Bank of Spain. “It is
better to do it early action than just relying on sanctions at
the end when it is very, very difficult.”  When asked during a panel discussion whether euro-area
countries in a situation such as  Greece ’s should restructure
their debt, Caruana responded that restructuring is a “very
difficult” and costly choice. “I can understand very well that
this is not on the table,” he said.  The IMF and Group of 20 nations are gathering this week as
the U.S. and  Europe  battle over when and how to rein in budget
deficits. The European Union has so far assembled bailouts for
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  and now is working on policies
aimed at limiting debt and preventing further crises.  Sanctions  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  called today for
policies with “a degree of automaticity” that would impose
sanctions on countries that breach national requirements. Such
rules need a penalty “that bites, that has teeth,” she said at
a Bertelsmann Foundation event.  Caruana praised broader monitoring initiatives that look at
productivity and other indicators as well as debt and deficit
levels. In a panel discussion today, he said that the U.S., the
U.K. and  Germany  have so far not faced market scrutiny and
should take heed of other countries’ experiences.  Spain and Ireland had relatively low debt levels heading
into the crisis and then found that market perceptions of
systemic risk can change “very, very rapidly,” he said.
“Deficit levels that were considered sustainable at some point
in time, suddenly they are not sustainable,” he said.  In the U.S., the Obama administration is seeking Republican
support for its plan to trim $4 trillion over the next 12 years,
while also urging lawmakers to raise the $14.29 trillion debt
limit before the Treasury Department runs out of borrowing room.
Republicans want steeper and swifter cuts.  U.S. Deficit  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who has warned that
the debt limit could be reached as soon as May 16, called April
13 for a “basic framework of targets and limits” that would
put the U.S. on a path to bring down deficits over time.  Strict limits haven’t done a good job of forcing political
agreement in the U.S., said Congressional Budget Office director
Douglas Elmendorf, speaking on the IMF panel.  “Rules can be valuable ways of enforcing deals that have
been cut, of preventing or hindering backsliding that might
occur,” Elmendorf said. “They’ve not proven, in this country
at least so far, to be very effective in forcing deals to
happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  