-- 
Chinese Social-Networking Site Renren Files to Raise $584 Million in IPO

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-04-15T22:50:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/chinese-social-networking-site-renren-files-to-raise-584-million-in-ipo.html
Renren Inc., China’s largest
social-networking service, filed to raise as much as $584
million in an initial public offering to fund expansion.  Renren plans to sell 53.1 million American depositary
receipts for $9 to $11 each in an initial public offering,
according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The ADRs represent 159.3 million Class A ordinary
shares, according to the filing.  The company expects proceeds from the IPO of about $508
million, and will use them to woo more visitors as it competes
with local rivals  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and Baidu Inc. in the
world’s most populous Internet market. Renren -- a name that
means “everyone” in Chinese -- has similar features as
Facebook Inc., which is blocked in China.  No U.S. social-networking sites have gone public, even as
their popularity and advertising revenue soar. That’s created
pent-up demand among investors. LinkedIn Corp., which announced
plans in January to raise $175 million in an IPO, may become the
first.  Renren has more than 160 million registered users,
according to Analysys International in Beijing. Advertising has
more than doubled each year since the site started selling space
in 2008, the company has said. The online advertising market
will triple to almost $13 billion in  China  by 2014, estimates
Susquehanna International Group LLP.  Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG
will lead the IPO. The ADRs will be listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker RENN, the prospectus showed.  ‘Inside School’  Renren traces its roots back to 2005, when graduates of
 Tsinghua University  in Beijing founded Xiaonei.com, or “Inside
School.” That was the year after  Mark Zuckerberg , chief
executive officer of Facebook, created his service for fellow
 Harvard University  students.  In 2006, Xiaonei was acquired by closely held Oak Pacific
Interactive Corp., which renamed the service Renren in 2009.
Softbank Corp.,  Japan ’s fastest-growing mobile-phone carrier, is
the biggest shareholder in Beijing-based Oak Pacific.  Facebook does have some Chinese users, who circumvent
censors through so-called virtual private networks, according to
data compiled by Socialbakers.com, a site dedicated to analyzing
Facebook statistics.  The  Palo Alto , California-based company is talking with
potential partners about how to gain a foothold in China, a
person familiar with the matter said this month. Entering the
country would give Facebook access to the world’s largest
Internet market, with more than 457 million Web users.  Facebook will start reporting financial results by April
2012, even if it doesn’t go public, according to a document sent
to prospective investors. The company would be forced to make
disclosures because it expects to have at least 500 shareholders
by the end of this year, a threshold that makes reporting
results necessary under SEC rules, a person who reviewed the
document said in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  