-- 
China Home Sales Increase, Defying Government's Property Control Measures

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-15T09:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/china-s-first-quarter-home-sales-rise-even-as-government-s-curbs-intensify.html
China ’s housing sales value rose 26
percent in the first quarter as homebuyers increased their
purchases even as the government stepped up its measures to curb
speculation. Property stocks climbed to a one-year high.  The value of homes sold increased to 860.7 billion yuan
($132 billion) from a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau said
today, driving overall property transactions 27 percent higher
to 1.02 trillion yuan. The amount was released separately from
home prices after the government in January changed the way it
reports housing price data in 70 cities.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said April 13 in a  cabinet meeting  that
the country faces challenges including rising property prices in
many cities even as real estate transactions shrink. About
40 Chinese cities last month said they will cap new  home prices 
below annual economic and disposable per-capita income growth or
keep them steady following the central government’s measures to
rein in housing values.  “Home sales and investment, lagging indexes, remained
strong, but the volume for new construction dropped,” said Bai Hongwei, a Beijing-based property analyst at China International
Capital Corp., the country’s biggest investment bank. “It
showed the government’s measures are working. If real estate
investment drops sharply, it will immediately impact China’s
economic growth a lot.”  China’s economy  grew a more-than-estimated 9.7 percent in
the first quarter and inflation accelerated in March to the
fastest pace since 2008, the government said today.  Not Fully Implemented  “While these growth rates are below ones seen in early
2010, they remain high relative to what developers are reporting
and what the policy tightening would have suggested,” Citigroup
Inc. analysts including  Ken Peng  said in a report today. “We
see this as a sign that the tightening probably has not yet been
fully implemented at the local level. ”  The measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index climbed 2.4 percent at the 3 p.m. close to the
highest since April 16, 2010. It’s also the biggest advance
among five industry groups on the benchmark gauge today.  Home sales value in March rose to 414 billion yuan, close
to the total of the first two months this year of 447.1 billion
yuan, based on calculations subtracting government data in the
first two months from the first-quarter figures. A total of
158.5 million square meters (1.7 billion square feet) of homes
were sold from January to March.  Evident Effects  New  home construction  rose 20 percent in the first quarter
to 310.2 million square meters, the statistics bureau said.  The effects of the government’s controls on the  property
market  were evident in the first quarter,  Sheng Laiyun ,
spokesman for the statistics bureau, said in Beijing today. The
government is pushing for the development of more low-cost
homes, which will have a “relatively big” impact on housing
prices as supply increases, he said.  The government has clear targets, is resolute and has
forceful measures to control the market, he said at a briefing
to discuss the nation’s first-quarter economic performance.  February new home prices increased in all but two of the 70
Chinese cities monitored by the government. The national
statistics bureau is scheduled to report March’s home price data
on April 18. Nationwide prices rose 0.6 percent in March, led by
smaller cities,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  said on April 1.  China’s investment in real estate rose 34 percent to 885
billion yuan in the first quarter, according to the government
data today.  The current tightening measures will remain in place for
the remainder of 2011 and likely into 2012, Jones Lang LaSalle,
a property consulting company, said this week.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  