-- 
China Vows to Punish Those Who Leak Economy, Inflation Data

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-15T09:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/china-vows-to-punish-those-responsible-for-leaking-economy-inflation-data.html
China ’s statistics bureau said it
“condemns” leaks of economic data and those responsible will
be punished, after the office released economic indicators that
matched rumors circulating in the market and online yesterday.  “We believe any illegal behavior will be punished by
law,”  Sheng Laiyun , a spokesman for the department, told a
briefing in Beijing today. “Those spreading state secrets on
the Internet or other public information networks should be held
accountable.”  China’s first-quarter growth figure and other monthly
economic data including the inflation rate were leaked yesterday
ahead of the official release. Phoenix Satellite Television
Holdings Ltd. reported 10 economic indicators on its website
yesterday morning, citing an unidentified source. Figures
released later yesterday by China’s central bank and today by
the National Bureau of Statistics matched 9 of the numbers. Hong
Kong-based Phoenix Television declined to comment.  “Key data are widely circulated in the Chinese bureaucracy
prior to their release,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging
markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. “The
recent accuracy of market rumors must raise concerns about the
integrity of the process.”  China’s economy , the world’s second-biggest, grew a more-
than-estimated 9.7 percent in the first quarter and consumer
prices rose 5.4 percent in March from a year earlier, the
fastest pace since 2008. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index
rose 0.3 percent to 3,050.53 at the 3 p.m. close today,
reversing a decline of 0.3 percent yesterday.  Improving the System  Government departments, institutions and individuals have a
responsibility to keep state secrets, Sheng said at the briefing.
The bureau has narrowed the personnel who have “dealings with
relevant information,” he said.  The bureau is studying ways to improve the system,
including shortening the time-frame between production of the
information and its release so as to reduce risks, Sheng said.  The Phoenix TV site said March consumer prices would rise
5.3 percent to 5.4 percent, while rumors circulating on China’s
microblogs by yesterday afternoon had a consensus on 5.4, which
also matched the official release today.  Jiang Guangce, a Shanghai-based partner and fund manager at
Congrong Investment Management Co., got the correct numbers for
China’s gross domestic product and  consumer price index  from a
 Hong Kong  fund management company yesterday.  ‘Normal in China’  “It’s normal in China, there are always channels for this
sort of information,” Jiang said in a phone interview today,
“The short side and the futures market in Hong Kong are always
a step ahead. This is a result of China’s power structure.”  It was the fifth time in six months that an accurate
consumer price index number was circulated in the market and
reported in the media before release. It’s become one of the
most sought-after numbers because of China’s battle to curb
inflation, which jumped to a 32-month high in March.  Early disclosure happens because too many government
offices see data before they’re made public, He Keng, a former
deputy head of the department and now a member of its consulting
committee, said in an interview last month.  “A new set of procedures just has to be developed,” said
 David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist at Action Economics.
“They’ll have to give more authority to the people in charge of
data collecting and dissemination, and make clear to people,
such as those in the central bank, not to talk about it.”  Any unauthorized release violates the Statistics Law and is
punishable by a warning, demotion or firing, according to a rule
issued by the government in March 2009.  A legal “loophole” means China’s laws don’t count
profiting on leaked economic indicators as  insider trading ,
according to Yan Yiming, a Shanghai-based securities lawyer.  -- Kevin Hamlin , Fan Wenxin. With assistance by Zheng Lifei and
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing, Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai , and Sophie Leung in Hong Kong.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  