-- 
China's Economy Expands More-Than-Forecast 9.7% as Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-15T08:22:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/china-economy-grows-more-than-forecast-9-7-as-prices-jump.html
China’s economy  grew a more-than-
estimated 9.7 percent in the first quarter and inflation
accelerated in March to the fastest pace since 2008, adding
pressure for more monetary tightening.  Consumer prices rose 5.4 percent from a year earlier, the
 statistics bureau  said at a briefing in Beijing today. The
median forecasts in Bloomberg News surveys of economists were
for growth of 9.4 percent and inflation of 5.2 percent.  China may boost  reserve requirements  for lenders for the
fourth time this year to drain cash from the fastest-growing
major economy, Credit Agricole CIB and Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group said. Today’s data may also add pressure for
interest-rate increases and faster appreciation in the yuan
after food and commodity costs drove inflation higher than the
government’s 2011 target for a third month.  “There is little economic moderation despite aggressive
monetary tightening,” said Liu Li-Gang, an ANZ economist in
 Hong Kong  who formerly worked for the  World Bank . “Inflation
remains a top risk.”  The reserve ratio is 20 percent for the biggest banks and
the one-year benchmark for borrowing costs is 6.31 percent after
four rate increases since mid-October. Growth was 9.8 percent in
the fourth quarter of last year.  The Shanghai Composite Index closed 0.3 percent higher. The
yuan was little changed at 6.5295 per dollar as of 3:27 p.m.
local time.  Asian Inflation  Inflation pressures across  Asia  were highlighted by  India 
today reporting a larger-than-forecast 8.98 percent jump in the
wholesale-price index in March from a year earlier. The yield
on the 8.08 percent bond due in August 2022 rose 4 basis points
to 8.24 percent, the highest level since Feb. 8, as of the 5 p.m.
close in Mumbai.  Today’s data release in  China  confirmed numbers circulating
yesterday, including in a Phoenix Television news report. The
statistics bureau condemned any leaks and said offenders will be
punished.  Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households rose 25
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier and industrial
production climbed 15 percent in March, the statistics bureau
said. Retail sales grew an annual 17 percent in March and
producer prices jumped 7.3 percent, today’s report showed.  Officials must gauge the “lagging effects” of tightening
monetary policy to avoid future harm to the economy, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said this week. China International Capital Corp.,
China’s biggest investment bank, cautioned that corporate
earnings growth may slow as the economy cools in coming months.  “Clear inflationary pressure” may affect consumption in
China, Pierre Bouchut, the chief financial officer for Carrefour
SA, the world’s second-largest retailer, told analysts yesterday.  Commodity Costs  Inflation was largely driven by food costs, which rose 12
percent in March from a year earlier. The leaders of  Brazil ,
 Russia , India, China and  South Africa  said at a meeting in Sanya,
China, yesterday that volatile commodity prices pose a threat to
the global economy, calling for more regulation.  Non-food inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent, while a jump
in China’s foreign-exchange reserves to a world record $3
trillion, reported yesterday, highlighted the additional risk
that inflows of capital may stoke inflation.  Taming prices is the government’s top and “urgent”
priority, China’s cabinet said after meeting in Beijing this
week to review the performance of the world’s second-biggest
economy. Officials aim to hold inflation at 4 percent for the
full year. Tightening measures and comparisons with higher year-
earlier bases may slow price gains in the second half of the
year, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  Currency Flexibility  The economy grew 2.1 percent from the previous quarter,
seasonally adjusted, the statistics bureau said today, releasing
that number for the first time. That compared with a 2.4 percent
gain in the fourth quarter. Consumer prices slid 0.2 percent in
March from February.  The central bank may increase the yuan’s flexibility to
“eliminate monetary conditions that fuel inflation,” Wen said
this week. The Chinese currency is described by the U.S. as
undervalued and a factor in global economic imbalances.  “It would be very advantageous to allow the currency to
appreciate as a way of controlling inflation,” billionaire
investor  George Soros , chairman of Soros Fund Management LLC,
said at a conference in  Bretton Woods ,  New Hampshire , on April
10. He described inflation as “somewhat out of control.”  Property Prices  Investors have signaled confidence that the fastest-growing
major economy will achieve a so-called soft landing, with
inflation tamed and the expansion maintained.  Shanghai ’s
benchmark stock index advanced 8 percent in the three months
through today, compared with a decline of 2 percent in the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index.  China’s cabinet said this week that rising property prices
in many cities and increasing inflation expectations are key
concerns as the nation wrestles with the aftermath of a record
17.5 trillion yuan ($2.7 trillion) of lending over 2009 and 2010.  Fitch Ratings  cut the outlook for China’s local-currency
sovereign debt rating to “negative” from “stable” this week,
citing a likely deterioration in bank asset quality. Moody’s
Investors Service lowered its outlook for the property sector to
“negative” from “stable” on concern residential sales could
decline by as much as 30 percent as local governments enforce
housing curbs.  In contrast, Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
the world’s largest lender by market value, said its bad-loan
ratio is dropping and ruled out a worsening of asset quality
from property and local government lending.  “If the economy is growing, the financial sector is bound
to do well,” Chairman Jiang Jianqing said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Sanya in southern China’s Hainan
province yesterday. “The challenges we face in areas such as
real estate and local government financing vehicles will all be
solved. Chinese banks’ asset quality won’t deteriorate.”  --Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei, Zhang Dingmin. With assistance
from  Jay Wang  in  Singapore . Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Sunil Jagtiani.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 vruan1@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  