-- 
Citigroup’s U.S. Bank to Add Branches, Tap Foreign Customers

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-04-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/citigroup-s-u-s-bank-to-add-branches-tap-global-customers.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
 U.S. bank , says it will open 200 branches and target foreign-
born customers to help turn around its domestic retail bank.  Citigroup plans to add the branches over the next three
years and may expand into Seattle and Atlanta, the only cities
among 16 top markets where the bank doesn’t have a presence,
according to Cecelia “Cece” Stewart, 52, head of the lender’s
U.S. consumer business.  “In the U.S., up until the last year, we didn’t have a
very clear strategy,” Stewart said in an interview at one of
Citigroup’s 26 branches in San Francisco. Now, New York-based
Citigroup will leverage its brand strength outside the U.S. to
expand within this country by targeting more “global”
customers, she said.  Expansion of the consumer bank is the latest effort by
Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, to halt the
division’s slide. Profit tumbled 17 percent last year to $607
million while average deposits and loans and the number of
accounts also declined. The bank has the smallest U.S. branch
network compared with its peers and considered shutting or
selling some locations in the U.S. and  Canada  in 2009.  Citigroup’s average deposits in the North American consumer
bank fell to $144.5 billion in the fourth quarter, down 3
percent over the year-earlier period. By comparison, San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s average deposits held in its
community banking division rose to $544.4 billion, or 0.4
percent. Citigroup is scheduled to report first-quarter results
on April 18.  Citigroup plans to add about 100 branches in  California  and
 New York , its top two markets, and another 100 offices elsewhere
in the U.S. by the end of 2013, Stewart said.  ‘A Stepchild’  Citigroup has a lot of ground to make up, said Ken Thomas,
a Miami-based banking consultant and economist.  “Citi’s domestic branch network has always been a
stepchild,” Thomas said in an interview. “They’ve always
focused on international, and maybe that makes sense because it
was the first major American bank to be extensively involved in
foreign operations. The problem is, they have lost a lot of key
market share and they have to play catch up.”  With a branch network one-sixth the size of those at Wells
Fargo and  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
which have more than 6,000 domestic branches each, Citigroup
will have to stick to its strategy, Stewart said.  “To me it’s not about how can we have a footprint that’s
as big as our competitors,” Stewart said. “It’s about how can
we be the most relevant.”  California Branches  The branches in California, the bank’s largest market with
377 offices, are an example of how the lender tailors services
to customers, Rebecca Macieira-Kaufmann, 46, president of
Citibank California, said in the interview. The bank caters to
the 26 percent of the state’s residents born outside the U.S.
and 77 languages are spoken by branch employees, she said.  In at least one Miami location, 40 percent of the customers
are from  Venezuela , Stewart said. “The branch manager in Miami
said they get off the plane and ask the taxi or limousine driver
for the nearest Citi branch and they come in with their
suitcases and open an account,” she said.  Citigroup this month started a three-year build-out of a
worldwide technology platform, Stewart said. It’s part of
“multi-year investments in people, infrastructure and
marketing” to expand its North American consumer business,
according to a July 28, 2010, memo from Manuel Medina-Mora, 60,
head of  consumer banking  for the Americas.  Pandit’s Overhauls  Stewart was hired from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in September. She
previously worked at Wachovia Corp., which was acquired by San
Francisco-based-Wells Fargo, where she rose from branch manager
to executive vice president during a three-decade career.
Stewart began her role at Citigroup in New York in January,
reporting to Medina-Mora.  Pandit had appointed Teresa “Terri” Dial to run the
consumer bank in March 2008, his first senior hire since
becoming CEO in December 2007. Dial began to retool the consumer
unit as a “Bank of the Future,” offering rejuvenated Internet
and mobile-phone portals alongside branches, people familiar
with the matter said at the time.  Pandit initiated another overhaul of the bank less than two
years later, replacing Dial with Medina-Mora in January 2010,
and hiring Stewart later that year. Dial is a senior adviser.  Retail Bank’s Image  Stewart’s strategy also will have to remake the retail
bank’s image, which has been “sullied because of the bailout,”
Thomas said. Citigroup ranked last or second-to-last on  customer
service  in three of the five regions in which it operates,
according to a survey in January and February 2010 by marketing
consultant J.D. Power & Associates.  A campaign to repair the bank’s U.S. customer-service
reputation may be making progress. Clients are becoming more
likely to recommend the bank rather than disparage it, according
to an October 2010 internal memo from Medina-Mora.  Citigroup’s image was battered by more than $29 billion of
losses tied in part to subprime mortgages and a $45 billion
bailout in 2008 that it has repaid.  “When I think about where this company can be in 10 years
from now, with the investment we’re making and where we’re
making them, I think that we’re going to be in a terrific
position,” Stewart said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 