-- 
Clean Energy Investment Fell 34% as Incentives Cut in Europe, BNEF Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-04-15T11:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/clean-energy-investment-fell-34-as-incentives-cut-in-europe-bnef-says.html
New investment in renewable energy
dropped to the lowest in two years in the first quarter, weighed
down by low natural gas prices in the U.S. and subsidy cuts in
 Europe , Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  Money flowing into the industry through asset finance,
share sales, venture capital and private equity fell more than a
third to $31.1 billion in the first three months of the year
from a record $47.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010, the
London-based researcher said today in a statement.  Countries including  Germany  and Spain have announced
reductions in the guaranteed prices that they pay for
electricity from renewable sources while in the U.K. the
government is reviewing the rates. Gas in the U.S. in September
fell to its lowest price since 2002 amid a glut in production.  “The first quarter saw a bit of a hangover from the hectic
investment activity seen in the final months of last year as
financiers rushed to close deals to meet their internal targets
or to catch feed-in tariffs due to expire in countries such as
Germany,  Italy  and the  Czech Republic ,” New Energy Finance
Chief Executive Officer Michael Liebreich said.  The first quarter’s investment in wind farms, solar parks
and other means of renewable power is the lowest amount since
the $20.5 billion spent in the first quarter of 2009, according
to New Energy Finance.  Asset finance dropped to $25.7 billion in the first quarter
from $36.6 billion at the end of 2010, with the biggest falls in
the U.S. wind and European solar power sectors, the analyst
said. New investment in wind power in  China  rose by a fourth
from the same three months of last year to $10 billion, and in
 Brazil , it doubled to $2.1 billion, BNEF said.  Sales of shares in alternative power companies fell to $3.6
billion from $8.1 billion at the end of last year, with
transactions including a $1.4 billion listing by Sinovel Wind
Group Co., the analyst said.  Venture capital  and private equity
funding for renewables rose to $1.8 billion from $1.7 billion in
the previous three months, according to the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  