-- 
Coke Futures Rise in Dalian Debut as Producers Seek Hedges

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-15T08:40:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/coke-futures-rise-in-dalian-debut-as-producers-seek-hedges-1-.html
Coke futures in  China , the world’s
biggest producer and consumer of the steelmaking ingredient,
rose 3.1 percent on the first day of trading in Dalian as
producers sought to hedge their risks.  Coke for delivery in September, the most active contract,
closed at 2,247 yuan ($344) a metric ton today on the  Dalian
Commodity Exchange , compared with the base price of 2,180 yuan
set by the exchange.  Commodity trading in China, the world’s biggest consumer of
zinc, copper, aluminum and steel, broke records in 2010 as the
economy expanded 10.3 percent. China’s coke production gained
9.1 percent to 387.6 million metric tons last year as steel
output reached a record, according to the Dalian exchange.  “Listing the coke futures, the first in the world, will
help improve hedging tools on the steel industry chain,” Wu
Wenan, a Shanghai-based analyst with HNA Topwin Futures Co.,
said by phone. “But trading of coke futures won’t be very
active as spot prices are going down. Not many would like to go
long at the moment.”  Prices for second-grade coke in Taiyuan have fallen 2.7
percent this year to 1,800 yuan a ton, according to the Beijing
Antaike Information Technology Co., as industry overcapacity
weighed on prices. Steel prices rose 7.2 percent during the same
period, according to Antaike.  Coke, made from coking coal, is used by steelmakers in
blast furnaces. The  Shanghai  Futures Exchange, Dalian’s bigger
rival, has listed futures contracts for reinforcing steel bars
and wires.  Rebar prices for October delivery fell 1.6 percent, the
biggest drop since March 21, to close at 4,827 today in Shanghai.
Coke and rebar prices on China’s cash market are highly
correlated, Han Xue, an analyst with Jinpeng Futures Co., said.  Steel Output  China, the world’s biggest steel producer, may boost output
of the alloy by 12 percent to 700 million tons this year, the
National Development and Reform Commission said yesterday, more
than an earlier forecast of 660 million tons because of higher
domestic and global demand.  Listing coke futures is a prelude for the northeastern port
city to introduce coking coal contracts, according to press
documents sent by the Dalian exchange, citing Huang Jingan,
general director of the China Coking Industry Association.  Turnover on commodity exchanges in China more than doubled
in 2010, according to the  China Futures Association . Contracts
worth 308.7 trillion yuan were traded last year, an increase of
137 percent from 2009, the association said. Volume rose 45
percent to 3.1 billion contracts, it said.  The trading limit for the coke futures will be narrowed to
6 percent starting from next week, compared with 8 percent today,
according to the exchange. The initial margin is 10 percent of
the contract value.  --Helen Yuan with assistance from Glenys Sim in  Singapore .
Editors: Alan Soughley, Indranil Ghosh  To contact the Bloomberg News staff responsible for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net 
Glenys Sim at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 