-- 
Consumer Prices in U.S. Climb on Food, Fuel Costs as Other Expenses Cool

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-04-15T20:47:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/consumer-prices-in-u-s-rise-on-food-fuel-other-costs-cool.html
Price gains for U.S. goods and
services other than food and fuel unexpectedly cooled in March,
supporting Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s view that
the surge in commodity costs will not cause inflation to flare.  The consumer-price index excluding volatile food and energy
charges rose 0.1 percent, less than the 0.2 percent increase
projected by the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, according to Labor Department data today in
Washington. Other reports showed manufacturing kept leading the
recovery and consumer confidence climbed more than projected.  A decrease in wages adjusted for inflation in four of the
past five months means retailers and service providers will have
a hard time passing price increases along to customers
struggling to make ends meet.  Treasury securities  rose as the
figures supported Bernanke and Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen ,
who’ve said the jump in commodity costs will probably be
temporary.  “Everything is going according to plan” for Bernanke and
Yellen, said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “Consumers are feeling the
pinch from higher prices at the pump and the grocery store, but
prices outside of that are very tame.”  The benchmark 10-year Treasury note headed for its first
five-day gain in almost a month. The security’s yield, which
moves inversely to prices, fell to 3.41 percent at 4:45 p.m. in
New York from 3.50 percent late yesterday. Shares also rose,
sending the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index up 0.4 percent to
1,319.68 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York .  Factory Rebound  Industrial production increased more than forecast in
March, and manufacturing in the New York region expanded this
month by the most in a year, other reports today showed.  Output rose 0.8 percent, the fifth straight gain, after a
revised 0.1 percent rise in February, according to data from the
Fed. Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of the total,
climbed 0.7 percent following a 0.6 percent increase.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s so-called Empire
State factory index increased to 21.7 from 17.5 the prior month.
Readings greater than zero signal growth.  Factories are benefiting from gains in business investment,
expanding economies overseas and inventory rebuilding. The pace
of production may cool temporarily as some factories try to
replace supplies of parts interrupted after last month’s
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  Taking Shape  “The economy is really starting to take shape,” said
Bricklin Dwyer, an economist at BNP Paribas in New York. While
“we expect a cool down” in the next couple of months because
of events in Japan, that will be “a short-lived phenomenon,”
he said. “We’ve seen global manufacturing increase since the
crisis.”  Consumer prices including food and fuel increased 0.5
percent in March for a second month, in line with the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, the Labor
Department’s report showed.  Forecasts for consumer prices in the Bloomberg survey of 82
economists ranged from gains of 0.3 percent to 0.9 percent.  Economists projected the core gauge, which excludes food
and energy, would rise 0.2 percent, according to the survey
median. Last month’s reading was restrained by lower clothing
expenses and smaller gains in medical care.  Americans became less concerned about inflation this month,
another report showed. Confidence climbed in April from a 16-
month low, indicating job gains are helping Americans cope with
rising fuel costs, according to figures from Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan.  Sentiment Improves  The group’s preliminary index of consumer sentiment rose to
69.6, higher than forecast, from March’s 67.5 reading that was
the lowest since November 2009. The gauge was projected to rise
to 68.8, according to the median forecast of 66 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Consumers surveyed said they expected an inflation rate of
4.6 percent over the next 12 months, the same as in the March
survey and the highest since August 2008. Over the next five
years, the figures tracked by Fed policy makers, Americans
expected a 2.9 percent rate of inflation, down from 3.2 percent
the prior month.  The pickup in food and fuel prices has exposed a rift among
policy makers. Bernanke, Yellen and Federal Reserve Bank of New
York President William C. Dudley are among those who’ve said the
jump in prices will probably be temporary because the economic
expansion is still too fragile to support broad-based cost
gains.  Fed Rift  That’s put them at odds with regional Fed Bank presidents
like  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia,  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas 
and Jeffrey Lacker of Richmond who have said the central bank
should remove monetary stimulus before inflation flares.  Consumer prices increased 2.7 percent in the 12 months
ended March, the biggest year-to-year gain since December 2009.
The core CPI rose 1.2 percent from March 2010. As recently as
October, the year-over-year gain had slowed to 0.6 percent, the
smallest since records began in 1958.  Rising prices have prompted economists surveyed by
Bloomberg to lower their forecasts for inflation-adjusted
 consumer spending . Purchases increased at a 2 percent annual
rate in the first quarter after a 4 percent gain in the last
three months of 2010.  Inflation-Adjusted Wages  Average hourly earnings adjusted for inflation dropped 0.6
percent in March, the most since June 2009, after falling 0.5
percent the prior month, a separate release from the Labor
Department showed today. Earnings were down 1 percent over the
past 12 months, the biggest year-to-year drop since September
2008.  Some companies are saying they will test the waters on
price increases later this year.  “We are now seeing significant cost-price inflation, which
will manifest itself late in 2011, particularly in raw materials
such as cotton and wool,” R. Neal Black, chief executive
officer of Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. said in a March 31
teleconference. “The result will be selected retail price
ticket increases throughout 2011, testing the customer’s
capacity to absorb small increases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  