-- 
Consumer Prices in U.S. Probably Climbed on Jump in Fuel, Food

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-15T04:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-climbed-on-jump-in-fuel-food.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably rose in March for a ninth consecutive month, led by
increasing costs for food and fuel, economists said before a
report today.  The consumer-price index climbed 0.5 percent for a second
month, capping the biggest back-to-back gains since 2008,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Other reports may show manufacturing continued
to drive the economic recovery, and consumer sentiment improved.  The inflation figures are projected to show prices of goods
and services other than food and fuel are also creeping up as
retailers like Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. try to recoup rising
expenses. Nonetheless, unemployment at 8.8 percent and stagnant
wages mean companies will find it difficult to keep charging
more without quashing consumer demand and slowing the recovery.  “Higher commodity costs will partly feed through” to
other prices, said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. At the same time,
“slack capacity makes it very hard to make price increases
stick.”  The Labor Department’s report on consumer prices is due at
8:30 a.m. in  Washington . The forecast gain was based on the
median of 81 economists surveyed. Estimates ranged from gains of
0.3 percent to 0.9 percent.  Excluding Food, Fuel  Excluding volatile food and fuel costs, so-called core
prices may have advanced 0.2 percent in March for a third month,
according to the survey median. That would put the increase over
the past 12 months at 1.2 percent. As recently as October, the
year-over-year gain had slowed to 0.6 percent, the smallest
since records began in 1958.  Rising prices have prompted economists surveyed by
Bloomberg to lower their forecasts for inflation-adjusted
 consumer spending . Purchases increased at a 2 percent annual
rate in the first quarter after a 4 percent gain in the last
three months of 2010, the survey showed.  Food and energy have climbed, reflecting increasing demand
for commodities from emerging economies like  China . The cost of
a gallon of regular gasoline at the pump averaged $3.54 in
March, up from $3.18 the prior month, according to data from
AAA, the nation’s largest motoring group.  “We are now seeing significant cost-price inflation, which
will manifest itself late in 2011, particularly in raw materials
such as cotton and wool,” R. Neal Black, chief executive
officer of Jos. A. Bank Clothiers said in a March 31
teleconference. “The result will be selected retail price
ticket increases throughout 2011, testing the customer’s
capacity to absorb small increases.”  Fed Plans  The  Federal Reserve  last month reiterated a plan to
complete a second round of bond purchases that’ll pump $600
billion into the financial system by June.  The Group of 24, which groups countries from  Africa ,  Asia 
and Latin America, yesterday said “overly expansionary”
monetary policy in advanced economies was fueling inflation in
emerging economies. The group was meeting on the sidelines of a
G-20 meeting in Washington.  A drop in the value of the U.S. currency may also be
pushing prices up. The dollar has fallen 10 percent against a
trade-weighted basket of currencies since it reached a one-year
high in June. A weaker dollar makes imports more expensive.  Import prices rose 2.7 percent last month, the most since
June 2009, led by the biggest jump in food costs since 1994, the
Labor Department said April 12.  Differing Views  The pickup in inflation has exposed a rift among policy
makers. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen 
and  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York President William C. Dudley
are among those who’ve said the jump in prices will probably be
temporary because the economic expansion is still too fragile.  That’s put them at odds with  Charles Plosser , president of
the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia , and  Richard Fisher ,
his counterpart at the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas , who have
said the central bank should consider removing monetary stimulus
this year before inflation flares.  Fed reports today may show manufacturing continued to lead
the recovery. Industrial production rose 0.6 percent in March,
the most in three months, data due at 9:15 a.m. may show,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s regional factory
index at 8:30 a.m. was little changed at 17 this month after
17.5 in March. A reading greater than zero signals growth.  Also today, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary consumer sentiment index increased to 69 for this
month from 67.5 at the end of March, according to economists’
forecasts before the release at 9:55 a.m.  The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price gauges from
the Labor Department, because it includes goods and services.
Almost 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers pay for
services ranging from medical visits to airline fares and movie
tickets.  Data from the Labor Department yesterday showed March
producer prices climbed 0.7 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  has risen 4.5 percent in 2011
through yesterday, extending last year’s 13 percent gain, amid
government stimulus measures and higher-than-estimated corporate
profits.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  