-- 
Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Rose More Than Forecast in April

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-04-15T14:33:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-rises-more-than-forecast-in-third-monthly-gain.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
climbed in April from a 16-month low, indicating job gains are
helping Americans cope with rising fuel costs.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment rose to 69.6, higher than forecast,
from March’s 67.5 reading that was the lowest since November
2009. The gauge was projected to rise to 68.8, according to the
median forecast of 66 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The economy has added jobs for six straight months and the
 unemployment rate  fell in March to a two-year low, helping
buttress consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent
of the economy. At the same time, households may find it harder
to cope with higher gasoline and food costs that are straining
paychecks.  “It’s encouraging to see sentiment creep up,” said  Ryan
Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “Consumers are taking the increase in
gas prices relatively well. As long as the labor market
continues to heal, consumers will continue to spend.”  Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 62 to 72. The
index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the recession
that began in December 2007.  Consumer Prices  Other reports today showed consumer prices rose in March
for a ninth consecutive month on increases in food and fuel
costs, while expenses for other goods and services cooled, and
manufacturing continued to drive the expansion.  Stocks climbed as the better-than-expected data on
confidence and manufacturing bolstered optimism on the economy.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,317.24 at
10:24 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  climbed, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 3.42 percent from
3.50 percent late yesterday.  The gain in sentiment was foreshadowed by the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, which rose to minus 43 in the week to
April 10, the third consecutive increase, as improving job
prospects made Americans less pessimistic about the economy and
their finances.  The Michigan survey’s index of current conditions, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
rose to 82.7 from 82.5 the prior month.  Expectations Improve  The index of consumer expectations for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
climbed to 61.2 from 57.9.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 4.6 percent over the next 12 months, the same
as in the March survey and the highest since August 2008.  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expected a 2.9 percent rate of
inflation, down from 3.2 percent the prior month.  The drop in perceptions of future inflation occurred even
as fuel costs increased. The average price of regular fuel
climbed to $3.82 a gallon yesterday, the highest level since
September 2008, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring
organization.  A strengthening job market may be helping ease the pain.
The economy created 216,000 jobs in March, the most since May
2010, while the jobless rate fell for a fourth straight month to
a two-year low of 8.8 percent, Labor Department data showed on
April 1.  Consumer Spending  Commerce Department figures this week showed retail sales
increased in March for a ninth straight month.  Cincinnati-based  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-largest U.S.
department store chain, and luxury retailers  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and
 Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  were among companies that reported higher March
sales at stores open at least a year, according to company data.
Auto demand has also lifted from last year.  “We continue to see good, solid signs of progress despite
some of the challenges,”  Don Johnson ,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s vice
president of U.S. sales operations, said on an April 1
conference call. “A recovering job market is going to be the
most important factor for the  U.S. economy  at this stage, and we
do anticipate that this is going to continue to improve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  