-- 
Croatian Veterans to Protest as UN War Crimes Verdict Rendered

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-04-15T07:55:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/croatian-veterans-to-protest-as-un-war-crimes-verdict-rendered.html
Croatian veterans will protest the
possible conviction by a  U.N. court  of three generals accused of
atrocities against Serbs as the government cooperates with war
crimes trials to help its bid to join the European Union.  The International Criminal Tribunal for the former
 Yugoslavia  will rule on whether Generals Ante Gotovina, Mladen Markac and Ivan Cermak were guilty of the murder and persecution
of Serbs in Operation Storm in August 1995. The court begins its
session today at 11 a.m. in  The Hague , the Netherlands.  The trial of the generals, who many Croats regard as
heroes, comes at a sensitive time for Croatia. The former
Yugoslav republic is trying to pull out of a two-year recession,
faces general elections this fall and is in the final stage of
concluding entry negotiations with the European Union. Thousands
of people have protested in recent months, demanding the
government step down over the economic crisis.  “The protests may take a turn against the European Union
and put pressure on the government’s moderate and pro-European
policies,” said Damir Grubisa, head of the  European Studies
Center  in Zagreb.  In Operation Storm, the Croatian army reclaimed swaths of
land held by rebel Serbs, who since 1991 opposed  Croatia ’s drive
to break away from the former Yugoslavia. While most Serbs fled
the approaching Croat forces, murders and lootings were reported
after the Croatian army took over. Thousands of Serbs in recent
years have returned and ensuring their safe passage is a key
element for concluding EU talks.  The  government  cooperated with the extradition of the
generals to The Hague and also supported their defense teams in
claiming the generals couldn’t prevent the troops from
committing crimes. For many Croats, the generals symbolize the
country’s independence and the beginning of the operation is
celebrated as a public holiday called Victory Day.  Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor on April 12 urged veterans to
accept the verdict with “calmness and dignity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  