-- 
Crude Oil Rises After U.S. Consumer Sentiment, Industrial Output Increase

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-04-15T19:52:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/crude-oil-futures-pare-declines-after-u-s-industrial-production-increases.html
Oil rose for a third day in  New
York  as better-than-forecast U.S. consumer confidence and
industrial data bolstered optimism in the economy of the world’s
biggest crude-consuming country.  Futures increased 1.4 percent after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan April preliminary index of
consumer sentiment advanced to 69.6 from 67.5 the prior month.
The Federal Reserve said U.S. production at factories rose 0.8
percent in March, the fifth straight gain.  “Today’s numbers show that the  U.S. economy  is rebounding
strongly,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics, an energy advisory firm in Austin,  Texas . “The
global economic recovery is still on track despite high  oil
prices .”  Crude oil for May delivery climbed $1.55 to settle at
$109.66 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
up 28 percent from a year ago.  Oil in New York dropped 2.8 percent this week on concern
rising energy prices will curb economic expansion. The
 International Monetary Fund  cut its growth outlook for the U.S.
and  Japan  this year on April 11. The  International Energy Agency 
reported signs of an oil-demand “slowdown” and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. forecast a “substantial” correction on April 12.  “The implications of this week’s IMF report on oil demand
were widely overblown,” Schenker said.  Consumer Confidence  The consumer-confidence gauge was projected to rise to
68.8, according to the median forecast of 66 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The index averaged 89 in the five years
leading up to the recession that began in 2007.  Manufacturing in the New York region expanded this month by
the most in a year. The  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York’s
Empire State factory index increased to 21.7 from 17.5 the prior
month. Readings greater than zero signal growth.  The economy expanded at a “moderate” pace across much of
the U.S. in February and March, led by manufacturing, with labor
markets showing improvements in most regions, the Fed said this
week in its Beige Book report.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.3 percent to
1,319.20, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed 52.56
points to 12,337.71 at 3:17 p.m.  China ’s economy grew a more-than-estimated 9.7 percent in
the first quarter, the country’s statistics bureau said at a
briefing in Beijing today. China and the U.S. are the two
biggest oil-consuming countries, responsible for 32 percent of
global oil demand in 2009, according to BP Plc, which publishes
its BP Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  Middle East Unrest  Prices have advanced 20 percent this year as unrest spread
from  Tunisia  to Egypt, Libya, Yemen, Bahrain and Syria. Libya
has been effectively split in two since the early stages of the
two-month conflict that has halted the country’s oil exports.  Elections in Nigeria this month may lead to decreased
output from Africa’s top crude-producing country. Attacks by
armed groups in the Niger delta region, home to Nigeria’s oil
and gas industry, cut more than 28 percent of the country’s oil
output between 2006 and 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  “The situation in Nigeria could get a lot worse after the
elections,” said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “There could be
an upsurge in rebel attacks against the oil industry.”  Brent crude oil for June settlement rose $1.45, or 1.2
percent, to end the session at $123.45 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “Brent should trade between $120 and $125 until the
geopolitical situation gets better, and that could be a long
time,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at Deutsche
Bank AG in  Washington .  Demand Growth  The Paris-based IEA, which advises 28 nations on energy
policy, and  the U.S. Energy Department’s  Energy Information
Administration maintained their oil demand growth projections
for 2011 in April 12 reports. The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries raised its forecast for the amount of crude
it will need to supply this year the same day.  “The IEA, EIA and OPEC have all known about high prices
and yet they didn’t make substantial changes to their oil-demand
outlooks,” Sieminski said. “It doesn’t look like higher prices
are having a major impact.”  The oil market is under no “extraordinary” circumstances
and OPEC has no need for an emergency meeting, according to the
group’s president. No member of the organization has requested a
meeting before the next scheduled gathering in June, Masoud Mir- Kazemi,  Iran ’s oil minister and OPEC president, said at an
exhibition today in Tehran.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 523,313
contracts as of 3:17 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 794,369
contracts yesterday, 0.5 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.56 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  