-- 
CVC Said to Seek Bank of America, Goldman Sachs Advice on Sale of Taminco

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-04-15T10:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/cvc-said-to-seek-bank-of-america-goldman-sachs-advice-on-sale-of-taminco.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. is
weighing a sale of Belgian chemical maker Taminco NV, which may
attract interest from strategic and private-equity buyers,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  CVC is working with advisers at Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to assess interest in the business
which the private-equity firm bought for 800 million euros ($1.2
billion) in 2007, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as the matter is private. The process is at an early
stage and may not lead to a sale, the people said.  The maker of amine derivatives, used in products from crop
protection to paint and cosmetics, reported sales of 715 million
euros in 2010. CVC canceled the Taminco IPO that valued the business
at as much as $1 billion in February 2010, because of market volatility.
The private-equity firm is already preparing another of its chemical
investments, Evonik Industries AG of  Germany , for a share sale within
the next year.  CVC’s spokesman James Olley, Goldman Sachs spokeswoman
Sophie Bullock and Bank of America spokeswoman Victoria Garrod
all declined to comment.  In  Europe , Taminco’s main competitor is  BASF SE. (BAS)  Antitrust
issues would likely prevent the Ludwigshafen, Germany-based
company from buying the asset, one of the people said. Taminco,
based in Ghent,  Belgium , was spun off from  UCB SA (UCB)  in 2003.  CVC, based in London, has already given the go-ahead for
two new amine-derivative units in Florida and Louisiana. Taminco
also entered a joint venture with Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Co. to
expand production in Nanjing,  China .  Taminco’s exposure to Asian markets will make it attractive
to makers of intermediate chemicals in the region as they seek
to add domestic production, one of the people said. The unit may
also fit similar companies in the Middle East, which are seeking
to diversify from petrochemicals.  Taminco has reduced debt to 3.2 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a ratio implying
borrowings of about 510 million euros. Ebitda rose 14 percent to
159 million euros last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 