-- 
CVS Caremark Should Split in Two, Consumer Groups Tell FTC

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-04-15T21:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/cvs-caremark-should-split-in-two-five-consumer-groups-tell-ftc.html
The four-year-old  CVS Caremark
Corp. (CVS)  merger hurt customers by reducing competition and
increasing prices, five consumer groups said, adding pressure on
the drug retailer after some investors called for a split-up.  The Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based company has used patient
information from Caremark, a pharmacy-benefits manager, to steer
customers to CVS pharmacies, the groups said in a letter
yesterday to Federal Trade Commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz.  “There is strong evidence that the CVS Caremark merger has
harmed consumers,” the groups said in the letter, urging the
FTC to require that CVS divest Caremark. “By reducing choice,
raising prices and violating patient privacy, the combination of
CVS Caremark poses profound problems for consumers.”  The FTC is investigating CVS Caremark for antitrust
behavior, along with attorneys from 24 states. Some investors
including SunAmerica Asset Management Corp. and Cambiar
Investors LLC have said separating the drugstore and pharmacy-
benefits units may help increase shareholders’ value.  The groups are  Consumer Federation of America , representing
organizations with more than 50 million individual members;
Community Catalyst, an advocacy group; Consumers Union, the
publisher of Consumer Reports; National Legislative Association
on Prescription Drug Prices, a non-profit group founded by state
legislators; and U.S. Pirg, an advocacy organization.  ‘Maintenance Choice’  The company’s Maintenance Choice program forces consumers
to fill prescriptions through CVS or pay an increased co-pay at
rival pharmacies, they wrote in the letter. Caremark’s
confidential patient information enables CVS pharmacists to
encourage non-CVS customers to fill their prescriptions at the
company’s stores, they said.  Maintenance Choice program is “good for clients, members
and the health care system because it helps manage pharmacy
costs and improves medication adherence,”  Carolyn Castel , a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. CVS Caremark uses
patients’ information internally for “appropriate purposes and
in accordance with applicable privacy laws.”  “We have nothing to hide, and we’re cooperating fully with
the Commission’s inquiries,” Castel wrote.  In 2009, the FTC started an investigation into business
practices related to the merger, and more than 24 states are
also probing the company. FTC spokesman Mitchell Katz confirmed
the receipt of the letter and said he couldn’t comment further.  CVS’s $27.2 billion acquisition of Caremark was the largest
ever by a drugstore in 2007, adding a business that negotiates
prices for prescription medicines with pharmacies and drugmakers
on behalf of health insurers and their customers.  Medicaid Settlement  CVS Caremark today said it will pay $17.5 million to the
federal government and 10 states to resolve a civil complaint
brought by the  U.S. Department of Justice , the Office of
Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services
and several state Attorneys General. Those complained CVS
Caremark’s pharmacy unit submitted reimbursement claims in
certain states for prescriptions filled for patients who have
coverage under both Medicaid and a third party insurance plan,
according to a statement.  The states involved included Alabama,  California ,  Florida ,
Indiana,  Massachusetts ,  Michigan , Minnesota, New Hampshire,
Nevada and Rhode Island, CVS Caremark said.  The FTC and state probes are ongoing and CVS Caremark
“cannot predict with certainty the timing or outcome these
investigations,” Castel said in an e-mail.  CVS Shares  CVS Caremark rose 26 cents to $35.87 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading, valuing the company at $49
billion. CVS Caremark could be worth about $25 billion more if
the company split itself up, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg last week.  Since the deal closed on March 22, 2007, the stock has
gained 4.5 percent -- compared with a 58 percent rise at rival
 Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  and a 165 percent surge at  Express
Scripts Inc. (ESRX) , which had also bid for Caremark.  “I don’t think there is any dispute that investors would
believe that this company should be broken up,”  John Massey , a
portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management, said earlier
this month. “The two entities separate are more valuable
currently than the whole.”  SunAmerica Asset Management owns about 1.2 million CVS
Caremark shares among its $13 billion in assets in Jersey City,
 New Jersey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 