-- 
Deadline for Sacramento Kings to Apply to Move Extended to May 2, NBA Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-04-15T18:40:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/deadline-for-sacramento-kings-to-apply-to-move-extended-to-may-2-nba-says.html
The deadline for the  Sacramento
Kings  to apply to move to Anaheim,  California , was extended to
May 2 as the  National Basketball Association  gathers more facts
about both locations, NBA Commissioner David Stern said.  The deadline for the Kings to ask permission to shift
cities had been set for April 18.  It was pushed back after the league’s Board of Governors,
meeting in New York, heard yesterday from the franchise-owning
Maloof family and Sacramento Mayor  Kevin Johnson , who said there
was interest in a group buying the Kings and keeping them in the
California capital city.  The NBA’s relocation committee, led by Clay Bennett, the 
chairman of the Oklahoma City Thunder, wanted more time to study 
financing, television and construction issues surrounding the 
Kings’ planned to move to Anaheim, as well as a better 
understanding of financial proposals made by Johnson about the 
Kings’ economic viability in  Sacramento , Stern said at a news 
conference.  “The committee thought that it would be a good idea to do
a little bit more fact-finding,” Stern said.  The Maloofs repeated yesterday that the Kings aren’t for
sale.  Johnson, a former NBA All-Star guard, told owners his
priority was to keep the Kings in Sacramento as the city works
to build a new entertainment complex. A group led by Pittsburgh
Penguins billionaire co-owner  Ron Burkle  is willing to buy the
Kings or take over a new franchise in Sacramento at a later
date, Johnson said afterward.  ‘Worth Fighting For’  “We felt very strongly that the Sacramento Kings were
worth fighting for,” Johnson said at a news conference
yesterday. “If anybody thinks that we’re going to sit on our
hands and roll over and just let somebody leave town without
putting up a good fight, they’d be gravely mistaken.”  Burkle’s group wants to keep a franchise in Sacramento,
Johnson said.  “This is not meant to be a hostile takeover,” Darius Anderson, a member of Burkle’s group, said at the news
conference. “We wanted to give an alternative group if the
Maloofs opt to bring on additional partners, if they want to go
ahead and sell and, if we lose the Kings, that the NBA has an
alternative ownership group to bring an additional franchise at
a later date.”  The possibility of a new ownership group bringing
a different team to Sacramento is “not a high priority on our
agenda,” Stern said today.  Arena Plans  The Kings have complained in recent years about a lack of
luxury suites and amenities at their arena in Sacramento. They
were next-to-last among the NBA’s 30 teams in attendance this
season, averaging 13,890 fans per game.  Sacramento, which has failed in past attempts to get a new
arena built with taxpayer money, is going forward with an
entertainment complex and arena plans regardless of whether the
Kings depart, Johnson said.  “You have a community that’s much more poised and more
sophisticated today in terms of the challenges that it takes to
build a new entertainment complex,” he said.  The city expects to complete a feasibility study on a venue
by the end of May, said Tim Romani, president and chief
executive officer of  ICON Venue Group .  “The question that we still have to work through, and we’re
going to work through, is the funding model,” Romani said at
yesterrday’s conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  