-- 
Lew Says Debt Ceiling Debate, Deficit Talks Can Move on ‘Parallel Track’

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-04-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/debt-ceiling-deficit-talks-can-move-on-parallel-track-u-s-s-lew-says.html
The Obama administration still
wants Congress to pass a “clean bill” raising the $14.3
trillion legal debt limit, even as the president is willing to
support a side deal on deficit reduction, White House Budget
Director  Jacob Lew  said.  The two can proceed on “a parallel track” in Congress,
Lew said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “Let’s not link them,” he said. “We have multiple things
that are urgent. We need to pass the debt limit.”  The debt limit, which the Treasury Department says the U.S.
will hit next month, has become a flash point in a wider debate
between the White House and Congress over how to cut the
nation’s long-term budget deficit. Republican senators are
examining a plan to tie an increase in the debt ceiling to a cap
on federal spending at 20.6 percent of gross domestic product
within 10 years.  President  Barack Obama  this week called for an agreement by
late June to cut the U.S. government’s long-term deficits. The
Treasury Department projects that it will reach the debt limit
on May 16, though it could use emergency measures to avoid
default until about July 8.  Spending Compromise  Obama, in an interview with the Associated Press yesterday,
Obama said that congressional approval of a higher debt limit is
“not going to happen without some spending cuts.” While
warning that a failure to raise the cap risked plunging the
world economy back into a recession, Obama expressed confidence
that Congress will approve the increase.  Lew, 55, called a proposal circulating in the Senate to set
a ceiling on federal spending at 20.6 percent of gross domestic
product “very dangerous.”  “It’s, in effect, pretending you can repeal the retirement
of the  Baby Boomers . You can’t,” Lew said. The result is “more
and more people” will be collecting Social Security and
Medicare benefits, adding to  government spending , he said.  Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill of  Missouri  has joined
Republicans in supporting the proposal. Some of the Republican
supporters are considering trying to attach the measure to
legislation raising the debt limit.  A spending ceiling “defines the problem incompletely. The
problem is not just the spending problem,” Lew said, “It’s a
combination of spending and revenue.”  Republican Proposal  House Republicans have proposed a plan to reduce the
deficit by $4 trillion over 10 years that relies on spending
cuts alone. The White House has countered with a plan that would
cut the same amount over 12 years and includes $1 trillion in
additional revenue from taxes, which it says would be paid
entirely by families earning more than $250,000.  The federal  budget deficit  this year is projected to top
$1.6 trillion, or 10.9 percent of GDP.  For all the debate about the deficit in  Washington , bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even though Treasury
Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is below the
average of 6.92 percent since 1980 and compares with the average
of 5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Yields on 10-year notes dropped
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.41 percent at
5:09 p.m. in  New York  yesterday, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 