-- 
Drugmakers Poised to Report Biggest Drop Since 2006 on Record Patent Loss

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-04-15T14:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/drugmakers-poised-to-report-biggest-drop-since-2006-on-record-patent-loss.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and rival U.S.
drugmakers are poised to report the industry’s biggest drop in
quarterly profit in more than four years as the companies cope
with record patent losses in 2011.  Earnings at the 11 drugmakers listed in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index probably fell 1.4 percent in the first quarter,
even as overall profit for companies in the index may have
gained 12 percent to a record, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Pharmaceutical profits last fell in
2009’s first quarter, and the current drop is the biggest since
a 3.5 percent slip in the final quarter of 2006.  Pfizer, Merck & Co. and Bristol Myers Squibb Co. are
eliminating jobs, cutting costs and shedding business units to
prepare for patent expirations. In 2011, drugmakers face generic
rivals to products with $34 billion in yearly sales, a figure 34
percent higher than last year. Sales at risk from patent losses
will swell to $147 billion by 2015, Bloomberg data shows.  “A brand can lose 40 percent of sales and 50 percent of
volume globally in the first two years after generic entry,”
said Chris Bowe, a New York-based analyst for Informa Plc, a
 London  industry research firm, “It’s now not uncommon to see a
brand lose 50 percent of U.S. sales in two quarters.”  Four U.S. drugmakers report earnings next week. Eli Lilly &
Co., based in Indianapolis, will report on April 18, followed by
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based Johnson & Johnson and New York-
based Forest Laboratories Inc. on April 19 and Abbott
Laboratories, of  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , on April 20. The average
quarterly earnings growth for drugmakers was 10 percent since
the first quarter of 2007.  Divestitures Considered  Drug profits last quarter were also hampered by the U.S.
health-care overhaul, which mandates product discounts for older
Americans, as well as price cuts from European drugmakers.  To make up for lost sales, Chief Executive Ian Read at New
York-based Pfizer said last quarter he was reviewing possible
divestiture of each company division -- baby formula, animal
health, consumer and established products -- to concentrate on
 drug development . On April 4, Pfizer agreed to sell Capsugel,
its smallest unit, which manufactures pill casings, to KKR & Co.
for $2.38 billion.  “Everybody knows it’s coming, everyone’s placed their
bets,” said  Les Funtleyder , a New York-based fund manager at
Miller Tabak & Co. “What pharma investors are interested in is
pipelines and corporate transactions -- either acquisitions or
divestitures. That’s going to dominate the discussions.”  Analysts and investors will press Read on conference calls
about his plans and ask other CEOs whether Pfizer’s break-up
strategy will be repeated at their companies, said  Barbara Ryan ,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.  ‘Cool Kid’  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , based in London, yesterday said it
will divest its over-the-counter brands. Sanofi-Aventis SA of
Paris is seeking a buyer for its U.S. dermatology business,
people familiar with the matter on April 13.  Pfizer “is like the cool kid in school now, and everyone
will be focused on asking that question: Are you going to split
up” your non-pharma business, Ryan said in a telephone
interview. “Companies are going to take different paths.”  Nine of the world’s 15 best-selling medicines will lose
patent protection during the next five years. Chief among these
products is Pfizer’s Lipitor cholesterol pill, the world’s best
selling drug with $10.7 billion in 2010 sales. Lipitor lost
market exclusivity in Spain and  Canada  last year and will have
generic U.S. competition in November.  Pfizer Profit Slips  Pfizer reports earnings on May 3. The world’s biggest
drugmaker may post a drop in profit excluding one-time items to
58 cents a share from 60 cents a year earlier, according to the
average of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Joan Campion, a
spokeswoman, declined to comment on Read’s plans for splitting
off units.  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , lost patent
exclusivity last year to its Cozaar and Hyzaar blood pressure
medicines, resulting in a 57 percent drop in the drugs’ sales in
the fourth quarter. Next year Merck loses its Singulair asthma
treatment, with $5 billion in yearly sales.  Merck reports April 29. Its profit excluding certain items
probably gained to 84 cents a share from 83 cents, according to
15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Most U.S. revenue growth in the pharmaceutical industry
will come from price increases after some drug costs were raised
more than 10 percent, Bernstein’s Anderson wrote in an April 12
note. Pricing outside the U.S. probably declined after cost
reductions were implemented last year in at least 10 European
countries, he said.  Bristol-Myers Pipeline  Bristol-Myers is expected to report earnings declined to 52
cents a share from 56 cents a share excluding one-time items,
according to 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company
faces generic competition next year to its Plavix blood thinner,
which generates about a third of the company’s revenue.  To prepare for the loss, the New York-based company sold
its wound care and medical imaging businesses in 2008 to raise
almost $5 billion. The company also split off its Mead Johnson
nutritionals business to focus on adding drugs to its pipeline.
Bristol-Myers won U.S. approval in March for Yervoy, the first
treatment proven to extend lives of patients with advanced
melanoma, and is expecting U.S. approval decisions on four new
drugs by the end of 2012, Jennifer Mauer, a spokeswoman, said in
a telephone interview.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , based in Indianapolis, faces the biggest
loss of branded drugs as a percentage of sales, with 78 percent
of revenue facing generic competition by 2016, according to a
Bloomberg analysis. Its top seller, the antipsychotic medicine
Zyprexa, loses exclusivity this year. Profit for the quarter
likely declined to $1.17 a share, from $1.18 a share a year
earlier, according to analyst estimates.  Roche Results  Roche Holding AG , the world’s biggest maker of cancer
drugs, yesterday said first-quarter sales declined 9 percent as
the Swiss franc strengthened and revenue from the Avastin tumor
medicine fell. The Basel, Switzerland-based company also said it
expects the U.S. health-care overhaul will have stripped about 1
billion francs ($1.12 billion) from sales by the end of this
year, following a 532 million-franc impact in 2010.  The law’s impact “should level out in the second half of
the year,” CEO Severin Schwan said on a conference call. The
changes are expected to shave “just over” 2 percentage points
from revenue in 2011, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 