-- 
DuPont ‘Confident’ in Completing Danisco Buyout This Month

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-04-15T16:37:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/dupont-cfo-confident-it-will-get-90-of-danisco-shares.html
DuPont Co. Chief Financial Officer
Nicholas Fanandakis said he’s “confident” the company will
complete a friendly takeover of Danish enzyme maker Danisco A/S
this month now that the last regulatory hurdle has been cleared.  The 31.7 billion-krone ($6.14 billion) bid is contingent on
DuPont receiving support of Danisco investors holding at least
90 percent of the Copenhagen-based company’s shares. The per-
share tender offer of 665 kroner expires April 29. DuPont, the
third-largest U.S. chemical maker, said Chinese regulators
approved the deal today, following antitrust clearances in the
U.S. and European Union.  “I am very confident that we will get our 90% come the
29th,” Fanandakis said today in a telephone interview. “I
would imagine that the acceleration of shares being tendered
would be on a much steeper curve at this point.”  DuPont Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  agreed to buy
Danisco on Jan. 9 to gain production of food additives and
enzymes used in biofuels. About 6 percent of Danisco shares were
tendered as of March 30, which was expected, Fanandakis said.
The procedure is “irrevocable” under Danish law, so most
investors wait until all regulatory clearances are in hand, the
CFO said.  “There is no real value in doing it sooner rather than
later,” Fanandakis said.  Investor Objections  Elliott Associates LP, a New York-based hedge fund, and
Copenhagen-based retirement fund AP Pension are among investors
that have spurned the bid for being too low.  Danisco shares have closed above DuPont’s offer price every
day since April 8. The increase is probably because arbitrage
investors are betting on an increase in the offer, Fanandakis
said.  “Any time you do a deal like this, you are going to have
arb funds coming in and making a bet,” he said. “Our price is
a very full price, a very fair price.”  Danisco rose 1 krone to 668.5 kroner today in Copenhagen
trading.  Individual investors in Danisco have dropped to about 18
percent of total holdings from about 25 percent before DuPont’s
offer, a sign that many individuals agree the offer is fair,
Fanandakis said. Danisco investors must now consider the
“significant devaluation” in the shares that would occur if
DuPont withdraws its bid, he said.  “I’m very optimistic about what is going to happen on the
29th,” Fanandakis said.  The offer, which has the approval of Danisco’s board, is 25
percent higher than the closing price on Jan. 7, the last
trading day before the bid was announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in  New York  at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 