-- 
ECB Determined to Keep Fighting Euro Area Inflation Risks, Constancio Says

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-04-16T16:55:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/ecb-determined-to-fight-inflation-risks-constancio-says.html
European Central Bank Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said officials remain determined to
fight inflation, even after raising borrowing costs for the
first time in almost three years.  The ECB’s April 7 decision to raise the key rate by 25
basis points to 1.25 percent “does not mean that we have
decided already that we will rush in a series of increases but
it’s certainly a signal of our determination to control
inflation in the euro area as a whole,” Constancio said in an
interview at a conference in  New York  yesterday.  Inflation in the euro region accelerated more than
previously estimated in March, quickening to 2.7 percent and
breaching the ECB’s 2 percent limit for the fourth month. Policy
makers are concerned that this will feed into wage demands as
the economy strengthens. Economists forecast two more interest-
rate increases by the end of the year, bringing the key rate to
1.75 percent, a Bloomberg News survey shows.  A number of policy makers, including Executive Board
members  Juergen Stark  and Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, have indicated
they favor a gradual increase in  interest rates . The ECB is
balancing the need for tighter policy in countries like  Germany ,
whose economy is booming, against the risk that higher rates
could exacerbate the sovereign debt crisis afflicting peripheral
euro-area nations like  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  “The figures for the first quarter are going to be good,”
Constancio said. That “indicates that the problems in the
peripheral countries have not affected the strength of the
recovery,” he said.  German Unemployment  Euro-area exports rose 1.6 percent in February from the
previous month, a report showed yesterday. In Germany
unemployment has dropped to the lowest in almost two decades and
specialty chemicals maker Lanxess AG boosted prices this month
to offset higher raw-material costs.  Even so, Greek officials are struggling to convince
investors that the country won’t have to renege on its debts
after getting a 110 billion-euro ($160 billion) bailout last
year from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund . Greek bond yields soared to a record after German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an April 14 interview that
Greece may have to renegotiate its debt burden.  Constancio said he doesn’t “think any restructuring is
really justified” and that Greece and Ireland will have to
implement their austerity programs. “I hope that after that
markets will consider the situation as being more stable.”  Portugal Bailout  In a later interview last night, Constancio said that “I
certainly think it is very likely” that Portugal will be the
last country to require financial aid.  “That’s what we hope markets will appreciate, that  Europe 
has created the mechanisms to deal with the problem and that
some more vulnerable situations were dealt with,” he said. “I
think so, and I hope that markets will think the same.”  He also said that it’s too early to tell when the ECB will
phase out its non-standard measures, saying that policy makers
“depend on the evolution of the situation and our
assessments.” The ECB has “already dismantled part of them and
they are temporary by nature.”  Questioned on the ECB’s policy on financial institutions
that have become dependent on the central bank’s funding, so-
called “addicted banks,” Constancio declined to comment.  “The whole situation is changing,” he said. “It has been
said” by President  Jean-Claude Trichet , “when we have
something to say, we will say it, and not before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  