-- 
Ecuador’s Jobless Rate Rises to 7% on Drought, Trade Pact

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-04-15T18:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/ecuador-s-jobless-rate-rises-to-7-on-drought-trade-pact-1-.html
Ecuador ’s unemployment rate rose
from a record low in first quarter as a drought in the nation’s
coastal region and the loss of a trade accord with the U.S. hurt
crops and agriculture exporters.  Joblessness rose to 7 percent in January-through-March
period, up from 6.1 percent in three months through December,
the country’s National Statistics & Census Institute reported
today in a report on its  website . The fourth-quarter result was
the lowest since the government began the series in 1998.  A drought caused by the La Nina weather phenomenon and the
expiration of a U.S. trade accord, which waived tariffs on about
70 percent of Ecuador’s exports to its biggest trading partner,
hurt farm exporters and related industries in the first quarter,
sending joblessness up, Jaime Carrera, director of the Fiscal
Policy Observatory in  Quito , said.  “The drought and the problem with the ATPDEA are very
serious,” Carrera said today in a telephone interview,
referring to the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication
Act. “Without a doubt, we’re beginning to see the impact in the
entire chain of production.”  Ecuador’s government declared an emergency in five coastal
provinces on April 1 after drought destroyed 180,000 hectares
(445,000 acres) of rice and corn and damaged banana crops,
according to the nation’s Agriculture Ministry.  The ATPDEA, enacted in 1991, sought to combat cocaine
production in the Andes through incentives for farmers to stop
producing coca. The  U.S. Congress , which let the accord expire
in February, may still renew trade preferences in coming months,
Economic Policy Minister Katiuska King said April 7.  Joblessness was highest in Guayaquil, the nation’s biggest
city, at 9.9 percent compared with 3.5 percent in the city of
Ambato in the central Andes, according to the agency’s report.  The nation’s underemployed rate, which measures people with
jobs who are looking for more work, rose to 50 percent in the
first quarter from 47.1 percent in the previous quarter,
according to the report.  Ecuador’s economy will probably expand faster than the 5.06
percent forecast in the this year’s budget as ongoing conflict
in the Middle East and expected energy shortages in  Japan 
following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami boost the price of
oil, the nation’s biggest export, King said March 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at   ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  