-- 
Ecuador Financial Law May Break Debt Market, Villagomez Says

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-04-15T18:13:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/ecuador-securities-law-would-break-debt-market-chief-of-quito-bourse-says.html
Ecuadorean President  Rafael Correa ’s  proposed changes  to domestic securities rules would cut
debt sales by about 20 percent and reduce foreign investment,
the executive president of the Quito exchange said.  The government plan to tighten regulations on the sale of
bonds guaranteed by companies’ future profits will reduce
companies’ access to credit, Monica Villagomez said yesterday in
an interview. Fixed-income securities account for about 97
percent of the $5.11 billion traded in  Ecuador  last year, and
local corporate debt yields average about 8 percent, she said.  Ecuador’s government says securities rules need to be
rewritten to bolster investors’ confidence and increase trading,
as well as ease potential integration with regional bourses. The
measure would “break” the corporate  debt market  by eliminating
a segment that accounts for about a quarter of debt sales,
Villagomez said.  “This is a problem for us,” Villagomez said at her
offices at the  Bolsa de Valores de Quito . “It would break the
fixed-income market” and “affect companies’ long-term
possibilities of financing.”  The proposal will probably be approved by Congress, which
is controlled by lawmakers allied with Correa, in July, she
said.  Economic Policy Minister Katiuska King said in January the
changes seek to create “adequate guarantees” to ensure debt is
backed by “real” assets. King and Alvaro Troya, an Economic
Policy Ministry adviser who helped draft the bill, didn’t return
telephone messages seeking comment.  Securitizing Income  By securitizing income from a business, the borrower
typically grants debt investors many of the rights held by
shareholders. The instrument is common in Latin America,
according to Santiago Cornejo, chief executive officer of
Oblicorp Asesores en Obligaciones Corporativas y Mercado de
Capitales Cia. Ltda., a Quito-based bond structuring firm. The
method has been used by London-based BAA Ltd., the owner of
 England ’s Heathrow and Gatwick airports, in 2008 to refinance
13.3 billion pounds of debt ($21.7 billion).  Ecuadorean companies sold $4.97 billion of debt last year,
a 1.9 percent decrease from 2009, according to a March report
from the Quito bourse. Companies sold $589 million of corporate
debt in the first three months of the year, the report said.  Stock Gains  Villagomez said the regulations may also stem a rally in
Ecuador’s stock market. The IRECU-BVG total return index, which
tracks shares of the nation’s 11 largest publicly traded
companies on the Quito and  Guayaquil  exchanges, has risen 2.4
percent this year through yesterday, compared with declines in
every major market index in Latin America, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Ecuador index climbed 17 percent in the past 12 months,
twice that of  Mexico ’s IPC index, while  Brazil ’s benchmark
Bovespa index fell 6 percent in the same period through
yesterday, Bloomberg data show.  Last year, companies including the Ecuadorean unit of
 Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company, and INT Food
Services Corp., the operator of restaurant franchises in Ecuador
including KFC and Cinnabon, both used debt sales backed by
future profits to help finance operations. Nestle in November
sold $74 million of the bonds with  interest rates  between 7.25
percent and 8.75 percent.  Government Outlays  Government spending is boosting growth in  South America ’s
seventh-biggest economy as private companies take advantage of
public outlays to increase sales of goods and services to the
state, Villagomez said.  Government spending  has risen 121
percent since 2006, according to a December report by the  Fiscal
Policy Observatory  in Quito.  Three companies may hold initial public offerings this year
and the Quito bourse is participating in joint initiatives with
the  Inter-American Development Bank  and the Corp. Andina de
Fomento to improve corporate governance and educate executives
about the benefits of raising public capital that will increase
future share sales, Villagomez said.  A government proposal to transform the Quito and Guayaquil
exchanges into for-profit companies from non-profit civil
corporations is “very, very positive,” Villagomez said. The
Quito bourse will probably hold an IPO next year if congress
approves the plan, she said.  “This would put us in a much more competitive field” and
“open the door to integrate with other exchanges,” Villagomez
said. “It would push the whole market to become more
professional.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in  Quito  at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  