-- 
Hedge Fund Women Use Poker, Power Lunches to Boost Nonprofits

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-04-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/hedge-fund-women-use-poker-power-lunches-to-boost-nonprofits.html
The annual fundraiser for the
female hedge-fund executives of  High Water Women  Foundation
features  Texas Hold ‘Em .  Women make up about 90 percent of individual ticket buyers
and half of the attendees. The proceeds from the organization’s
annual fundraiser, which began as a wine tasting, have more than
doubled from $200,000 6 years ago to $556,000 last year.  It’s one of many indications that women donors are becoming
significant financial boosters for nonprofits.  “Our female members are not only supportive in getting
their friends and co-workers involved, but they also write
checks,” said Kathleen Kelley, High Water Women’s co-founder
and portfolio manager for global macro investments at Kingdon
Capital Management LLC.  A telephone survey by the  Center on Philanthropy at  Indiana
University  released in 2010 shows that U.S. women who are single
heads of households are more likely to donate to charity than
their male counterparts.  At three salary levels -- $100,000 or more, $23,000 to
$43,000, and less than $23,000 -- women are inclined to give
double the amount that men give for the first two and almost
twice as much for the last.  The Phoenix, Arizona-based  Make-A-Wish Foundation of
America  is launching a new “Women for Wishes” club in  New York 
to identify women donors who will help recruit more women to its
patron base. A survey conducted by the charity last year showed
that more than half of its 600,000 active donors are women,
Elizabeth LaBorde, Make-A-Wish’s vice president of resource
development, said by phone.  Women Writing Checks  “Organizations like Make-A Wish are very smart and are in
the forefront,” said  Debra Mesch , director of Indiana
University’s Women’s Philanthropy Institute and co-author of the
study. “Fundraisers need to start paying attention to women.
Married couples need to be approached as a couple, and they
shouldn’t assume that the man is writing the check.”  Citymeals-on-Wheels  in New York turns to its women patrons
to give its holiday fundraising efforts a boost. Its November
Women’s Power Lunch raised more than $1 million, with 27 women
buying the top-tier $10,000 tickets, compared with 20 men,
according to Marcia Stein, the nonprofit’s executive director.
In 1993, 11 men and only 1 woman bought the most expensive
tickets.  “Women are raised to think about community, so when they
have resources, they think about the communities around them,”
 Melissa Berman , president and chief executive officer of
Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors Inc. in New York, said by
phone.  Women in Need  The $3 million that High Water Women has raised from
donations and its poker tournaments has been distributed to
nonprofits such as  Women in Need  Inc., which provides shelter to
homeless women in New York, and Harlem’s  Iris House  Inc., which
aids mothers and children living with AIDS and the HIV virus.  Kelley said she hopes the poker tournament will continue to
expand its ranks of patrons.  “If I want to make the world a better place, the causes
that need funding will have the face of a woman or a child,”
Kelley said. “Those are the scenarios where there’s real
suffering and real inequality.”  (High Water Women’s Casino Night is at Gotham Hall, 1356
Broadway at 36th Street in Manhattan, tonight at 6:30 p.m.
Tickets and information:  hww@thejfmgroup.com )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 