-- 
Ending U.S. Tax Cuts for Top Earners Is Gaining Support, Democrats Say

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-04-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/ending-u-s-tax-cuts-for-top-earners-is-gaining-support-democrats-say.html
Democrats in the  U.S. Congress  say
they will be in a stronger position next year to make the case
for raising taxes for high earners than they were in December,
when lawmakers voted to extend lower rates for all taxpayers.  The Democrats said they sense growing public support for
increasing tax rates for individuals earning more than $200,000
a year and married couples making more than $250,000. In an
April 13 speech at George Washington University addressing the
future of fiscal policy, President  Barack Obama  pledged not to
support another extension of tax cuts for high earners.  “We’re going to have a debate over tax cuts for the very
wealthy,” Michigan Representative Sander Levin, the top
Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, said after
Obama’s speech.  Obama has “recast this,” Levin said. “The strength of
this speech was to cast a broader vision into which the pieces
should fit.”  The director of the White House Office of Management and
Budget,  Jacob Lew , yesterday reiterated the administration’s
focus on ending high-income tax cuts. Obama’s bid to raise $1
trillion over 12 years as part of a $4 trillion deficit-
reduction plan faces harsh criticism from Republicans,
particularly those in the House, who are almost united in their
opposition to tax increases.  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the
Senate Finance Committee, said he doesn’t expect Obama to back
down.  ‘All About Taxes’  “If you look at the speech, it was all about taxes. Every
answer is to raise taxes,” Hatch said. “I don’t think he can
compromise at this point.”  Many Democrats said they are loath to repeat their
experience in December, when they voted to extend the 2001 and
2003 tax cuts for all income brackets through 2012. Democrats
spent much of the past decade railing against tax cuts for high
earners, and Obama made their expiration part of the theme of
his 2008 presidential campaign. After Republicans made electoral
gains in the 2010 midterms, the president said he supported
extending the cuts for all taxpayers through 2012 to win support
for middle-class tax cuts.  “I hope there is no room for compromise,” said
Representative Raul Grijalva, an Arizona Democrat who is
chairman of the House Progressive Caucus. “There’s a line in
the sand. I hope this is a strong line in the sand.”  In his speech this week, Obama appeared to draw that line.  “We can’t afford it,” he said. “And I refuse to renew
them again.”  Obama’s Promise  Some budget experts said they are skeptical about Obama’s
ability to keep that promise.  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , president of
the  American Action Forum , a Washington-based policy center that
favors smaller government, said Republicans will not agree to
legislation that includes tax increases until deep spending cuts
have been made.  “Anyone who believes otherwise is misreading the political
landscape,” said Holtz-Eakin, who served in the George W. Bush
administration as chief economist of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers and as director of the  Congressional Budget
Office .  He also said a push to increase taxes would hamper a  tax
code  rewrite. Obama has called on Congress to overhaul the
individual and corporate tax code by lowering rates, ending tax
breaks and generating more money than the current system does.  “There’s no way  tax reform  comes to fruition if, in the
middle of that, he’s lobbying for a pure tax increase,” Holtz-
Eakin said.  Raising $1 Trillion  Mark Zandi , chief economist for Moody’s Analytics, said
Obama could raise $1 trillion in revenue in ways other than
increasing tax rates. For instance, he said Obama could focus on
ending $1.2 trillion in tax expenditures. In his speech, Obama
said he wants to raise $1 trillion on top of his plan to let the
tax breaks for top earners expire.  “The best thing to do would be to close loopholes,” Zandi
said.  He acknowledged that it could be difficult politically to
eliminate deductions and credits, such as the mortgage interest
deduction, that are enjoyed by many middle-class taxpayers. He
said boosting taxes on upper-income earners then becomes the
“second-best thing to do.”  The chances are slim, Zandi said, that the administration
and Congress can chip away at the deficit without turning to the
highest income brackets for more revenue.  “To be realistic, the high-income group is where the money
is,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  