-- 
Energy Future Holdings Shuffles Debt on the ‘Titanic’: Corporate Finance

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-04-15T14:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/energy-future-shuffles-debt-on-the-titanic-corporate-finance.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp. is
failing to convince traders that the Texas electricity provider
that underwent the largest leveraged buyout in history will
avoid a default after extending the maturities on more than
$17.8 billion of loans and selling bonds.  Derivatives tied to the debt of the former TXU Corp. show
72 percent odds the company will default within five years,
compared with 73.3 percent on April 1, the day that Energy
Future asked lenders to change the terms of its loan agreements.
The request was made, in part, to address a claim by hedge fund
Aurelius Capital Management LP that it violated the terms.  While the moves pushed about half of the company’s
maturities to 2017 from 2014, Energy Future must still contend
with natural gas prices that have plummeted almost 40 percent
since KKR & Co. and TPG Capital bought the company in 2007 for
$43.2 billion. In connection with the debt extensions, Energy
Future sold $1.75 billion of 11.5 percent notes yesterday that
are due in 2020.  “Unless there is a sustained uptick in natural gas prices,
this is pretty much rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic,”
said Bonnie Baha, money manager and head of the global
developed-credit group at DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los Angeles ,
which oversees $9.5 billion. “They bought themselves some
breathing room, which is a good thing, and let’s face it, the
bar was pretty low.”  Standard & Poor’s  rated the bonds CCC, or eight levels
below investment grade. S&P defines debt with those grades as
currently vulnerable to “nonpayment,” and “dependent upon
favorable business, financial, and economic conditions.”  As of
Dec. 31, Energy Future had more than $34.2 billion in debt.  Energy Future Swaps  Credit-default swaps protecting against default for five
years fell 2 percentage points to 33.5 percent upfront
yesterday, after trading as high as 48.3 percent on March 14,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $3.35 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of Energy Future’s debt.  “Nothing has changed fundamentally regarding the credit
post the extension,” Amit Walia, partner and senior portfolio
manager at $22 billion asset manager Highland Capital Management
LP in  Dallas , said in an e-mail.  Default Probability  While the longer-term odds of a default are still high, the
chance of non-payment by 2012 fell to 13 percent from 24 percent
on March 14, credit-default swap prices show. The contracts pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  “We’re pleased with the response to the extension and when
effective, it will provide us with more time to create
additional enterprise value and give power markets the
opportunity to recover,” Lisa Singleton, an Energy Future
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. She declined to
comment on the debt trading levels.  The more than $20 billion in loans maturing in 2014
represented the biggest chunk of debt coming due among companies
in the U.S. that year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The $15.37 billion extended loan was trading at 82 cents on
the dollar yesterday, while the $3.8 billion portion of the loan
that wasn’t pushed back was trading at 87.125 cents, according
to information provider Markit Group Ltd. The combined loan was
trading at 85 cents on the dollar on April 11, according to
Markit data.  Natural Gas Decline  The buyout of TXU was “a deal which was based on natural
 gas prices  staying above $8 forever,” Walia said. “The
extension may provide some additional time for natural gas
prices to recover; otherwise they have their work cut out for
them.”  Natural gas on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  averaged
$7.224 per million British thermal units in October 2007,
closing Oct. 31 of that year at an 11-month settlement high of
$8.330 per million Btu. That price dropped to $4.212 April 14, a
decline of 49 percent over three and a half years.  Energy Future’s bond sale, done through its Texas
Competitive Electric Holdings Co. unit, was the biggest offering
of speculative-grade debt since CIT Group Inc., the business
lender led by John A. Thain, issued $2 billion of secured notes
on March 23, Bloomberg data show.  Aurelius’ Assertion  “It was really the best of the unattractive options they
had,” Baha said. “They’re very savvy in the time as well as
the manner in which they secured the amend-and-extend
agreement.”  Aurelius, the New York-based hedge fund, had previously
said the company was in default under its credit agreement
saying that loans made to Energy Future from one of its units
weren’t in compliance with the terms of its credit agreement,
according to a Feb. 25 regulatory filing.  Stephen Sigmund , a spokesman for Aurelius, declined to
comment.  Last week, lenders approved an amendment that changed
certain covenants in the senior secured credit facility,
including the consolidated secured debt to consolidated earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization financial
maintenance covenant, according to an April 8 regulatory filing.  The company will pay $1.6 billion in upfront fees and
increased interest payments to lenders as part of the debt
extension, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Extended Terms  Energy Future will pay 4.5 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate on the extended portion, one
percentage point more than it currently pays, according to an
April 1 regulatory filing. Libor is the rate banks charge to
lend to each other. The company will also pay an upfront fee of
350 basis points on the delayed debt once the transactions are
completed, according to the regulatory filing.  “They still have very little financial flexibility,” said
James Hempstead, a New York-based analyst for Moody’s Investors
Service, which raised Energy Future’s outlook to “stable” from
“negative.” “As long as they can keep liquidity flushing
through the company, we think they can survive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  