-- 
EPA Rules May Add $300 Billion in Costs, Southern Chief Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-04-15T15:44:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/epa-rules-may-add-300-billion-in-costs-southern-chief-says-1-.html
U.S. pollution rules may put half
the nation’s coal-fueled power generation at risk and cost
industry about $300 billion in the next five years,  Southern Co. (SO) 
Chief Executive Officer Tom Fanning said, citing a study.  “The reliability of the nation’s electric generating
system is at risk because of the number of new rules and
regulations,” Fanning said in testimony to a House Energy and
Commerce Committee hearing today on new and pending
Environmental Protection Agency rules. Atlanta-based Southern is
the biggest U.S. utility owner by market value.  President  Barack Obama ’s EPA is under fire from Republicans
and some Democrats who say the new regulations threaten the
economy. Lawmakers are seeking to stop or curtail rules such as
proposed cuts in mercury spewed from coal-fired power plants and
limits on carbon-dioxide emissions blamed for  climate change .  The measures are part of an Obama administration “war on
coal,” said Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican
and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s panel
on energy and power.  The EPA is “determined to pass regulations to increase the
cost of coal and make other energy sources more competitive,”
Whitfield said.  Lawmakers examined three EPA actions: a proposal to reduce
hazardous air pollutants at coal-fired  power plants , standards
for air toxics stemming from the cement industry and final rules
cutting emissions from industrial boilers.  The House will begin considering next month legislation
that would delay the EPA’s plans, Whitfield said yesterday.  Public Health Assault  Representative Henry Waxman of  California , the ranking
Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said such
attempts are an assault on public health.  “If we delay these requirements to clean up toxic air
pollution, our children and many other Americans will suffer
serious and in many cases irreversible harm,” Waxman said.  Fanning said pending EPA rules may put in jeopardy 50
percent of U.S. coal-generating power by 2015 because the agency
isn’t giving the industry enough time to install pollution
controls or replace the coal with new fuels. Fanning cited a
study distributed to companies this year by the  Edison Electric
Institute , a Washington-based trade organization for the power
industry.  “The economic impact of controlling or replacing retired
coal-fired generation nationwide will range from increased
electricity rates and lower discretionary spending, to losses of
jobs and tax revenues at power plants and energy-intensive
manufacturing,” Fanning said in his prepared testimony.  DTE Energy Co. (DTE)  Executive Chairman Anthony Earley Jr. and
Titan America LLC President Aris Papadopoulos joined
environmental group representatives at the hearing.  EPA officials declined an invitation to attend, according
to Whitfield, whose subcommittee arranged the meeting. The panel
will hold another hearing to ensure EPA participation, Whitfield
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  