-- 
Merck Escapes ‘Overhang’ of Remicade Fight in J&J Settlement

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-04-15T20:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/merck-johnson-johnson-reach-agreement-on-distribution-rights.html
Merck & Co., the second-biggest
U.S. drugmaker, will split sales for the arthritis drug Remicade
with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , ending an arbitration dispute that
helped drive Merck shares down over the past year.  Merck will keep exclusive marketing rights in 70 percent of
the areas where it now sells the drug while raising J&J’s share
of profit from those sales to 50 percent, the companies said in
a joint statement today. The agreement, which also covers the
arthritis medicine Simponi, calls for Merck to make a one-time
payment of $500 million to New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J.  Remicade had $7.32 billion in combined sales last year,
making it the second-biggest product for Merck and the top-
selling drug for J&J. Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey, gained a claim on the drugs through its 2009 purchase of
Schering-Plough Corp. for $49 billion. While Merck may have won
a better deal in court, the pact removes uncertainty that
unnerved the market, said Jeffrey Holford, a Jefferies
International analyst based in  London .  “The overhang is now out of the way and investors may look
forward to some potentially more positive catalysts in the near
term,” including U.S. approval of Merck’s hepatitis-C drug
boceprevir, Holford said in a note to clients today.  Merck rose 65 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $34.51 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today, the
shares had fallen 6.5 percent in the past 12 months. Johnson &
Johnson, the world’s second-biggest seller of health products,
rose 54 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $60.56.  Marketing Rights  Merck will relinquish exclusive marketing rights to the
drugs in  Canada , Central and  South America , the Middle East,
 Africa  and the Asia-Pacific area starting July 1, while keeping
rights in  Europe ,  Russia  and Turkey. Remicade and Simponi
generated $2.8 billion for Merck last year, the companies said.  The deal doesn’t affect the U.S., where J&J has exclusive
rights to the two products, said  Bill Price , a J&J spokesman, in
an e-mail today.  In areas where Merck is keeping rights, J&J will get an
equal share of profits starting July 1, up from the 42 percent
it now receives, according to the statement. The deal runs
through 2024, the companies said.  “The settlement is good for J&J -- they would have come
out with nothing in a courtroom,” said  Erik Gordon , a business
professor at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor who follows
the biomedical industry. For Merck, “it blows away a cloud that
had been hanging over their head,” he said in an e-mail.  Forecast Affirmed  Merck repeated its forecast of $3.64 to $3.76 a share in
adjusted earnings for 2011. Counting the payment to J&J as well
as the tax effects of the settlement and other items, Merck
expects unadjusted profit of $1.89 to $2.17 a share.  J&J, in a separate statement, said the deal’s impact on
earnings this year is “not expected to be significant.” In
January, J&J projected 2011 adjusted earnings of $4.80 to $4.90
a share.  “Resolution of the J&J arbitration dispute may be what’s
needed to unlock shareholder value,” said  Seamus Fernandez , an
analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in a note to clients on Feb. 7.
Losing Remicade entirely would have reduced Merck’s annual
earnings by 20 cents a share to 30 cents a share beginning in
2012, he said.  J&J had argued that Merck’s 2009 acquisition violated a
provision in its agreement with Schering-Plough. J&J and
Schering-Plough shared sales of Remicade under an agreement
giving J&J full control if Schering-Plough was sold. Merck said
its acquisition was structured in a way that sidestepped that
clause by listing Schering-Plough as the official purchaser in a
reverse merger.  “Many market commentators have either been assuming that
Merck would outright win this arbitration (reflected by
consensus estimates) or make a minor settlement,” Holford, the
Jefferies analyst, said in his note.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , based in New York, is the biggest seller of
medical products by annual sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 