-- 
EU Praises Chinese Action on Climate, Blames U.S. for Blocking Global Deal

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-15T13:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/eu-praises-chinese-action-on-climate-blames-u-s-for-blocking-global-deal.html
China and other emerging nations
are engaged in “encouraging” efforts to curb greenhouse gases,
while the U.S. is blocking prospects for a global agreement,
according to a European Union climate official.  The international debate on a climate-protection framework
after the  United Nations ’ Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012 will
heat up in the coming months as countries head for the next
summit in Durban,  South Africa , at the end of this year, said
 Jos Delbeke , director general for climate at the European
Commission, the EU executive arm.  The U.S. is “walking away,” Delbeke told a conference in
Brussels yesterday. “They are in the state of a relative denial
about where they are. And we see exactly the opposite with the
Chinese, which is very good. The Chinese in fact follow the
reasoning of the Europeans.”  Global climate negotiations have stalled amid differences
between industrialized and developing nations. The dim prospects
for climate legislation in the U.S., where opponents of a cap-
and-trade emissions program stopped President Barack Obama’s
proposal for a national carbon market from passing Congress, are
also hindering international climate action, Delbeke said.  “Energy efficiency and renewables have a different
connotation in the U.S., and now that they have found shale gas,
there’s again the illusion that energy is not scarce,” he said.
“I think that marks a clear distinction between the U.S. on the
one hand and almost the rest of the world that is scrambling for
a limited amount of available energy resources.”  ‘Something in Common’  China , the world’s largest energy consumer, aims to double
gas’s share of energy consumption to 8 percent by 2015 while
boosting the combined proportion of wind, solar, hydro and
nuclear to 11 percent from 8 percent. It also plans to start an
emissions trading system in six regions by 2015, Delbeke said.  “We have something in common with emerging economies,”
Delbeke said. “We know that energy is scarce, that it can limit
your economic development, that renewable energy and efficiency
is not a theoretical notion but an essential for the survival of
your economy.”  Delbeke said that the last round of climate talks in
Bangkok earlier this month “did not go well” and  negotiators 
are facing even a more a heated debate over the shape of a
future deal in the coming months.  While China wants to stick with the model set by the 1997
Kyoto Protocol, which requires only developed countries to cut
the  greenhouse gases  blamed for damaging the atmosphere, the
U.S. says this is unacceptable. The U.S. has said it won’t sign
a treaty unless the document binds all major emitters.  ‘Unnecessary’ Treaty  Japan and  Russia  argued at the UN’s last round of treaty
negotiations in Cancun,  Mexico , that taking on new emissions
reduction goals under the 1997 Kyoto deal would be pointless if
the two biggest emitters, the U.S. and China, don’t have binding
targets. The U.S. never ratified the treaty.  In the strongest criticism yet of the UN talks, Todd Stern,
the lead U.S. climate negotiator, said April 6 that a binding
treaty is “unnecessary” and may not be “doable.” The EU said
it wants a single, binding agreement to reduce emissions
worldwide and is open to extending the  Kyoto Protocol  and
ironing out a new treaty.  “The comment by Todd Stern was not a very helpful one,”
Delbeke said. “I think we shouldn’t be too hung up on the
American statement. I’d rather concentrate on where are the
emerging economies and where can we do some operational business
with the Chinese, the Indians, the Brazilians, where the
increase of emissions will be situated.”  Global Links  Europe , which started the world’s biggest emissions
trading system in 2005 to help meet its internal target to cut
emissions by 20 percent in 2020 from 1990 levels, is hoping its
cap-and-trade will become a cornerstone of an international
carbon market.  The EU has said it will seek to link its program with other
national or regional systems, which are already operating or
being discussed in  Australia , South Korea,  New Zealand  and
 Switzerland . During her visit to the U.S. earlier this month, EU
Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  discussed the prospects
for linking  California ’s emissions trading system with the
European program.  “I think we’ll see a global carbon price emerging much
sooner and for a much wider coverage compared to what we could
have expected a couple of years ago,” Delbeke said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 