-- 
European Stocks Rise on Nestle Results, U.S. Consumer Confidence

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-04-15T16:06:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-nestle-syngenta-might-advance.html
European stocks climbed for the
second time in three days, boosted by results at companies from
 Nestle SA (NESN)  to  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  and a better-than-forecast U.S.
consumer confidence report.  Nestle rallied 2.4 percent after the world’s largest food
company reported first-quarter organic sales growth that topped
analyst estimates. Syngenta AG rose after posting sales at the
top end of a range of analysts’ projections.  Micro Focus
International Plc (MCRO)  paced declining shares after Chief Executive
Officer Nigel Clifford quit.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.3 percent to 277.78 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The measure has fallen 1.4
percent this week as Japan said its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant may release more radiation than Chernobyl and Alcoa
Inc. began the U.S. earnings season with sales that missed
estimates.  We favor equities “driven by our central scenario of
strong economic growth combined with low  interest rates , high
earnings growth and attractive valuations,” said a team of
strategists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., led by  Peter Oppenheimer , in a report today. “This makes equities look
attractive compared with other asset classes.”  U.S.  consumer confidence  climbed in April from a 16-month
low, indicating job gains are helping Americans cope with rising
fuel costs. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment rose to 69.6, higher
than forecast, from March’s 67.5 reading that was the lowest
since November 2009.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western
European benchmark markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 0.5
percent, while Germany’s DAX Index advanced 0.4 percent.
France’s CAC 40 Index gained 0.1 percent.  Gains were limited as China’s inflation accelerated in
March to the fastest pace since 2008, adding pressure for more
monetary tightening. Consumer prices rose 5.4 percent from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said in Beijing.  In  Europe , Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Ireland’s
foreign- and local-currency government bond ratings by two
notches to Baa3 from Baa1. The outlook on the ratings remains
negative.  Nestle advanced 2.4 percent to 54.50 Swiss francs after the
maker of KitKat chocolate bars and Nescafe Gold Blend instant
coffee reported first-quarter organic sales growth of 6.4
percent. Analysts had predicted 5.9 percent growth, according to
the average of 17 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Syngenta Advances  Syngenta climbed 0.7 percent to 304.80 francs after the
world’s biggest maker of agricultural chemicals increased
revenue 14 percent to $4.02 billion as higher grain prices
spurred farmers to invest. Analysts had predicted sales of $3.93
billion, according to the average of five estimates in a
Bloomberg survey, with the top estimate being $4.01 billion.  Dow Chemical Co., the biggest U.S. chemical maker, raised
its quarterly dividend two years after cutting the payout for
the first time in the company’s history.  Derwent London Plc (DLN)  climbed 2.6 percent to 1,713 pence as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised buying the shares of the developer
of mid-priced offices in London’s West End district.  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  rallied 7 percent to 144.3 pence and  888
Holdings Plc (888)  plummeted 16 percent to 34.8 pence, its largest
drop in 10 months, as the U.K. bookmaker said it ended takeover
talks with 888 after almost four months of talks.  Health-Care Gains  Health-care companies were among the biggest gainers of the
19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600. Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc advised buying European health-care stocks, citing
their appealing valuations and support from the economy,
according to the bank’s London-based equity strategists  Ian Richards  and Graham Bishop.  Micro Focus dropped 7.8 percent to 291.8 pence, its largest
drop in two months.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest lender, tumbled
4.3 percent to 4.41 euros as WestLB AG reduced its price
estimate for the shares. The bank faces “material risks”
including uncertainty over the price and timing of the sale of
its Eurohypo AG commercial real-estate unit, Neil Smith, an
analyst at WestLB AG wrote in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  