-- 
European Stocks Drop for First Week in Four; Kazakhmys Retreats

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-04-15T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/european-stocks-drop-for-first-week-in-four-kazakhmys-commerzbank-slide.html
European stocks fell for the first
week in four as Alcoa Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  kicked off the U.S.
earnings season with weaker-than-estimated results and Japan
raised the severity rating of its nuclear crisis.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer, and
 Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , the copper producer controlled by Chile’s
Luksic family, sank more than 7 percent as the metal had the
biggest weekly drop in a month.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  tumbled 16
percent as it sold conditional mandatory exchangeable notes to
investors as part of a capital increase.  National Bank of Greece
SA (ETE)  fell 8.1 percent as the nation’s bonds declined.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 1.4 percent this
past week. The gauge has still rallied 6 percent from this
year’s low on March 16 amid speculation the economic recovery
will withstand the effects of  Japan ’s worst earthquake on record
and popular revolts in the Middle East and north Africa.  “European markets were negatively affected after the
Fukushima nuclear crisis was upgraded to the highest possible
level now on par with Chernobyl,” said Anita Paluch, a sales
trader at ETX Capital in  London . “The unofficial start of the
earnings season in the U.S., with Alcoa reporting, delivered
rather disappointing results.”  Alcoa, Google Earnings  Alcoa and Google both fell after reporting earnings this
week. Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, posted sales
that trailed the $6.06 billion average estimate of eight
analysts in a Bloomberg survey and said raw-material costs
climbed. Google, the world’s biggest Internet-search company,
reported a 54 percent jump in first-quarter operating costs,
outstripping a sales gain of 29 percent. Bank of America Corp.
reported first-quarter profit that missed projections.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency raised the
severity rating of the nuclear crisis at its stricken Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant to seven, the same as the 1986 Chernobyl
disaster. Japan’s Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said that the country’s March 11 earthquake, its largest
on record, may result in a larger hit to the economy than
previously estimated.  Kazakhmys slumped 8.7 percent, while Antofagasta retreated
7.1 percent. Copper dropped 4.9 percent on the London Metal
Exchange this week as record Chinese production added to supply
and stronger-than-forecast growth in the country prompted
speculation the government might further curb lending. Basic-
resources shares were the worst performers among 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx 600.  Commerzbank Drops  Commerzbank plummeted 16 percent, the largest weekly
decline in almost two years. Germany’s second-biggest lender
raised 4.3 billion euros from selling conditional mandatory
exchangeable notes, or Comen, at 4.25 euros apiece. Germany’s
bank-rescue fund, Soffin, will convert 1.4 billion euros of
silent participations, a form of non-voting capital, into shares
to maintain its stake at 25 percent plus one share.  National Bank of Greece, Alpha Bank SA,  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  and
 EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  all lost more than 8 percent.  They yield on Greece’s 10-year bond climbed above 13
percent for the first time since at least 1998 this week as
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told Die Welt
newspaper that the Mediterranean country may need to restructure
its debt. Schaeuble sought yesterday to retreat from the
comments, telling reporters in Washington that “the conclusions
from it are somewhat misguided.”  Hochtief, Pandora  Hochtief AG (HOT)  tumbled 7.5 percent. Germany’s largest publicly
traded builder said pretax profit may fall about 50 percent this
year after its Australian unit predicted a loss and announced a
A$757 million ($800 million) stock sale.  Pandora A/S, the Danish jewelry maker that sold shares last
year, declined 15 percent after its 2011 sales forecast missed
most analyst estimates. The company said revenue will rise to at
least 8.34 billion kroner ($1.56 billion) this year. The average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts was for revenue of
8.59 billion kroner.
      Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO)  sank 11 percent after Chief
Executive Officer Nigel Clifford quit after less than a year in
charge. Two months ago, the software company lowered its
forecasts for sales and adjusted earnings, saying performance
since the start of the fiscal second half had been
disappointing.  Roth & Rau AG (R8R)  soared 16 percent after Meyer Burger
Technology AG made a 357 million-euro ($516 million) bid to
combine their solar-equipment units. Roth & Rau agreed to a 22
euros-a-share offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  