-- 
Ex-New York Official Hevesi Gets Up to 4 Years in Prison for Pay-to-Play

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-04-15T21:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/hevesi-gets-up-to-four-years-in-prison-in-new-york-state-pension-scandal.html
Former New York State Comptroller
 Alan Hevesi , who pleaded guilty in a pay-to-play scandal at the
state pension fund he once ran, will go to prison for as many as
four years.  Hevesi, 71, the highest-ranking official convicted in an
investigation of corruption at the pension fund, was sentenced
to a minimum of one year today by State Supreme Court Justice
Michael Obus in Manhattan. Hevesi, a Democrat, resigned in 2006
after four years as comptroller.  “I publicly disgraced myself,” Hevesi told the judge at
his sentencing hearing. “I have only myself to blame. I will
live with this shame for the rest of my life.”  Hevesi pleaded guilty in October to the crime of receiving
reward for official misconduct. He admitted giving preferential
treatment to Markstone Capital Partners, approving $250 million
in pension-fund investments in exchange for almost $1 million in
gifts, including $75,000 in travel expenses, $380,000 in sham
consulting fees for a lobbyist, and more than $500,000 in
campaign contributions.  “Instead of using his power to protect the pension fund,
he abused his power to pad his pocket and the pockets of his
friends,” Ellen Biben, the former special deputy attorney
general for public integrity at the  New York  Attorney General’s
Office, told Obus today. Biben, now the state’s inspector
general, asked for the maximum sentence, or 1 1/3 years to four
years, to “help restore the faith in state government.” Jail
time wasn’t mandatory.  Morris Sentence  Henry “Hank” Morris, Hevesi’s former political
consultant, was sent to prison for as long as four years in
February. Morris, who reaped $19 million in fees through 23
state investments while acting as a middleman, admitted that the
investment process at New York’s pension fund was manipulated to
benefit him, his associates and contributors to Hevesi’s
campaign. Morris agreed to forfeit the $19 million.  Bradley Simon, Hevesi’s lawyer, urged Obus not to jail his
client. Simon noted Hevesi’s age and asked the judge “to take
into account his life in entirety.”  Hevesi spent more than two decades as a state Assemblyman
before he was elected city and then state comptroller.  “Mr. Hevesi personally benefited from $75,000,” Simon
told the judge, referring to travel costs picked up by Elliott
Broidy, the founder of Markstone Capital Partners. “There seems
to be a view that he somehow lined his pockets in the amount of
$1 million personally. It’s simply not true.”  Violating Public Trust  Though the judge said he took into account Hevesi’s “good
works,” when a person in a position of public trust “violates
that trust, the damage, though not easily quantified, is quite
profound,” Obus said.  Hevesi could be released after 10 months if he completes
certain programs, such as 400 hours of community work, and has
good behavior while incarcerated, said Linda Foglia, a
spokeswoman for the New York State Department of Correctional
Services. He also is immediately eligible to apply for work-
release, she said.  He was taken into custody this afternoon at the medium-
security Ulster Correctional Facility in upstate Napanoch, New
York, Foglia added in an e-mail.  Public Pension Fund  Former New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo , now the
state’s governor, in 2007 started to investigate New York’s
Common Retirement Fund. It is the nation’s third-largest public
pension fund, valued at $140.2 billion as of Dec. 31, according
to the state comptroller’s office.  “It is a new day in  Albany  and the old way of doing
business will not be tolerated,” Cuomo said today in a
statement. “Hevesi was a statewide elected official who
admitted violating his oath for personal and political gain, and
we must continue to root out corruption wherever it may be
found.”  Eight people pleaded guilty in connection with Cuomo’s
probe, including Broidy. In addition to the criminal cases, at
least six people and 21 firms settled with Cuomo, paying more
than $170 million. Steve Rattner, a co-founder of private-equity
firm Quadrangle Group LLC, agreed to a civil settlement of $10
million in December after being accused of arranging kickbacks
to Morris. Quadrangle also settled.  35-Year Career  Hevesi was sole trustee of the New York state pension fund
from 2003 to 2006, the official responsible for managing and
investing its money. He resigned as comptroller after pleading
guilty to a felony in December 2006 for using state employees to
chauffeur his disabled wife, ending his 35-year career in
politics.  “Alan Hevesi was appropriately punished for abusing his
position,” Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said in a
statement. “Today’s sentencing decision will help achieve my
office’s principal objective of restoring New Yorkers’ faith in
their state government.”  State Supreme Court Justice Lewis Bart Stone, who accepted
Hevesi’s plea in October, said that the ex-official would be
considered a first-time felony offender at sentencing on the
pension-fund charge because he “did not commit the acts which
are part of this crime subsequent to the time he was convicted
of a felony.”  Simon sought to have Stone recuse himself from sentencing
Hevesi after learning March 1 that the judge was a trustee and
executor of the estate of Simon’s estranged father. Simon argued
the relationship meant the judge had a conflict of interest in
sentencing his client.  Stone transferred the case for sentencing, citing publicity
over his relationship with Simon’s parents.  Queens College  Before his 2002 election as state comptroller, Hevesi
served for eight years as  New York City ’s comptroller. He spent
22 years in the state Assembly, representing a district in the
borough of Queens while he was a professor of political science
at Queens College. He holds a doctorate in public law and
government from  Columbia University  in New York.  Hevesi was re-elected to a second term as state comptroller
in November 2006 in the face of a finding by the state ethics
commission that he had violated the law.  The next month, he pleaded guilty to defrauding the
government and agreed to resign from office. He admitted using
state employees as drivers and personal aides for his disabled
wife. Hevesi’s 2006 plea deal spared him prison time.  Money, Wealth  “It’s never been about money and wealth for Mr. Hevesi,”
Simon said in court today. “He understands he violated the
public trust. There are people under his watch that benefited
enormously, but we should also bear in mind that the pension
fund did remarkably well under his tenure.”  New York state in 2009 banned the use of placement agents
or lobbyists in investments with the pension fund, and banned
contributions from those who do business with the fund.  “I have changed the way the pension fund does business so
history cannot repeat itself,” Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli said
in a statement, while urging approval of a measure that would
stiffen fines for officials who break the law while performing a
public duty and strip them of taxpayer-funded pensions.
“Passage of my bill would be a much-needed step in rebuilding
the public’s confidence in its government.”  The case is People v. Hevesi, New York State Supreme Court,
New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 