-- 
Ex-Goldman Trader Returns 0.9% After Starting Hedge Fund 4 Days Post-Quake

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-15T06:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/ex-goldman-trader-returns-0-9-after-starting-fund-amid-quake.html
Hayate Atom Multi Strategy fund has
returned 0.9 percent since former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
trader Masaru Matsumoto started the Japan focused hedge fund
four days after the nation’s strongest earthquake on record.  The fund, which invests in stocks and futures indexes based
on a mathematical model, started with about $4 million from
domestic and overseas investors on March 15, said Matsumoto,
chief executive officer at Atom Investment Co. With a maximum
capacity of about 20 billion yen ($239 million), the fund aims
to raise about 2 billion yen over the next six months, he said.  Matsumoto began his fund a month ago, on the day Japanese
stocks suffered their third-worst daily decline in history as
Tokyo Electric Power Co. confirmed an explosion at its nuclear
reactor. The fund bases investments on an algorithmic model that
Matsumoto developed and which takes into account market moves,
fundamental analysis, news and “noise” factors that determine
stock moves, he said.  “This is a good time to start,” said Matsumoto, 35, who
previously traded equities and was the chief trader of yen
interest rate option trading at Goldman Sachs in  Tokyo . “We
lowered our risks to adjust to this crisis condition, but our
fund depends on a model that eliminates any human emotions, so
that has helped in a market like this.”  New Breed  Matsumoto joins a breed of managers who are setting up
their own shops in  Asia  after working at global financial firms.
More than 150 funds have started in the first quarter of this
year, according to  Eurekahedge Pte , a Singapore-based industry
data provider. The Eurekahedge Japan Hedge Fund Index declined
1.1 percent in March, based on preliminary figures.  Atom fund -- named after the Japanese animation character
Astro Boy, or Mighty Atom, because Matsumoto is a member of
 Japan ’s national team for the world arm wrestling championships
-- posted average annual returns of 61.3 percent based on
simulated trading from August 2004 through March 2010, according
to Matsumoto.  The fund had an annual Sharpe ratio, a formula which
analyzes whether investments offer enough return to offset their
risks, of 2.25 during the first month of trading, said
Matsumoto. The greater a fund’s Sharpe ratio, the better its
risk-adjusted performance.  Matsumoto started his fund four days after the earthquake
and ensuing tsunami that led to more than 28,000 missing or dead
and crippled nuclear plants in Fukushima prefecture, causing the
worst nuclear disaster since 1986 in Chernobyl.  Nikkei Plunge  On the day the fund that employs a long-short equity
strategy started, the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average plunged as much
as 14 percent, its biggest intraday slide since the stock market
crash of October 1987, on record trading volume. In a short
sale, a trader borrows stock and sells it in the hope it can be
bought back later at a cheaper price.  The Nikkei today declined 0.7 percent to 9591.52, bringing
its decline since the March 11 temblor to 8.1 percent.  To counter the slide and turbulence in the market, the fund
limited investments and made adjustments to the algorithm model
by reducing or eliminating some industries affected by the
nuclear and radiation disaster, such as utilities and fisheries
stocks, Matsumoto said.  The fund focuses on about 200 highly traded stocks, Nikkei
and Topix index futures. It currently invests in about 50
positions, instead of about 30 as usual, to diversify its risk,
Matsumoto said.  “I know very well the weakness for these models, so I had
to make some tweaks after the crisis,” Matsumoto said. “There
is no such historic data for this sort of event, and the model
strictly picks the investments based on historical data, so the
more it gathers information, the more accurate the investment
picks become.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 