-- 
Ex-Taylor Bean’s Farkas Testifies He Didn’t Commit Crimes

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-16T00:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/ex-taylor-bean-chairman-lee-farkas-testifies-he-didn-t-commit-crimes.html
Lee Farkas , the former chairman of
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp. on trial for allegedly
masterminding a $1.9 billion fraud scheme, testified that he
didn’t commit any crimes.  Farkas told jurors today in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia, that his company constantly had cash problems as would
be expected at a growing company funding hundreds of new
mortgages a day. Farkas said the government’s evidence of
wrongdoing amounted to paperwork mishaps or transactions that
investigators misunderstood.  “I didn’t believe at the time I committed any crimes and I
don’t believe now that I committed any crimes,” Farkas said.  Farkas, 58, is charged with orchestrating a fraud involving
fake mortgage assets that duped some of the country’s largest
financial institutions, targeted the federal bank bailout
program and contributed to the failure of Montgomery, Alabama-
based Colonial Bank.  He is charged with 14 counts of conspiracy and wire, bank
and securities fraud. If convicted of the single conspiracy
charge, Farkas faces as many as 30 years in prison.  Prosecutors concluded their case against Farkas yesterday
after eight days of testimony by almost two dozen witnesses,
including officials at  Freddie Mac ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Former Colleagues  Six of those who testified were former colleagues or
associates of Farkas who had pleaded guilty to conspiracy
charges.  Closing arguments are scheduled for April 18.  Taylor Bean, based in Ocala,  Florida , was servicing more
than 500,000 mortgages including $51 billion of Freddie Mac
loans when it collapsed in August 2009, according to court
records.  Prosecutors allege the fraud began in 2002 when Farkas had
trouble meeting operating expenses, such as payroll and
mortgage-loan servicing payments owed to the government-
sponsored Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae.  With assistance from officials at Colonial Bank, at one
time among the country’s 50 biggest, Farkas masked shortfalls of
about $15 million a day by moving money from another  Taylor Bean 
account into the company’s master account, then returning the
money later in the day, according to a related lawsuit by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  By December 2003, Taylor Bean was overdrawing its account
by about $150 million a day, the SEC said.  Four-Hour Testimony  Farkas, in about four hours of testimony, denied ordering
anyone to move money among the Taylor Bean accounts and said he
and Taylor Bean officials didn’t have authority to do it.  “I can’t run an overdraft,” Farkas said. “I have no
access to the master account.”  The government alleges that Farkas and other conspirators,
in a scheme they called “Plan B,” began sending mortgage data
to  Colonial Bank  for loans that didn’t exist or that Taylor Bean
had already committed or sold to other investors.  By the end of 2007, the scheme consisted of about $500
million in fake residential  mortgage loans  and about $1 billion
in unmarketable residential mortgage loans and securities, the
SEC said in court papers.  ‘Plan B’  Farkas said he and others at Taylor Bean and Colonial used
“Plan B” to describe many things. He said it was also common
to inadvertently sell loans that didn’t exist.  “It happens quite often,” Farkas said.  Farkas said many of the loans the government described as
fake were legitimate, older loans that the company would find in
its records.  Patrick Stokes, deputy chief of the U.S. Justice
Department’s fraud section, asked Farkas about e-mail messages
between him and alleged co-conspirators that identified wire
transfers from Taylor Bean to pay for the company’s jet. The
money was backed by notes for property that didn’t exist, Stokes
said.  “These were simply notes,” Farkas said. “They were not
fake loans, they were notes from myself to Taylor, Bean &
Whitaker.”  Farkas admitted that the loan used to pay down a $15
million debt was backed by a trade assignment agreement that was
“no good.”  “No investor was assigned to this trade assignment to
Colonial?” Stokes asked.  ‘Could Be’  “That could be,” Farkas said.  Farkas and the alleged co-conspirators diverted cash from
Ocala Funding LLC, a financing vehicle used and controlled by
Taylor Bean, to cover its losses, according to court papers.  Farkas testified he had little involvement in Ocala
Funding, saying he didn’t understand well how it operated.
Farkas said Ocala Funding was run by  Paul Allen , Taylor Bean’s
chief executive officer, who has pleaded guilty to conspiracy.  Farkas denied asking Taylor Bean’s treasurer, Desiree
Brown, to divert funds from Ocala Funding. Brown pleaded guilty
to conspiracy and testified for the government.  By August 2009, Ocala’s deficit had grown to $1.5 billion,
according to Allen.  As Colonial Bank struggled to stay afloat, Allen and Farkas
tried to raise $300 million from private investors to secure a
cash infusion from the federal Troubled Asset Relief Program,
according to Allen. Farkas is accused of falsely representing
that he had commitments from investors for the money.  Stokes asked Farkas about the investor list, which Colonial
Bank’s parent company used as the basis for a filing with the
SEC.  “That was an interim investor list,” Farkas said. “The
only one who misunderstood that was you.”  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 