-- 
Gold-Shortage Threat Drives Texas Schools Hoarding 664,000 Ounces at HSBC

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-04-18T22:34:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/texas-university-endowment-holds-almost-1-billion-in-gold-bars.html
Dallas hedge-fund manager J. Kyle Bass helped advise the University of Texas Investment Management
Co. on taking delivery of 6,643 gold bars, worth $991.7 million
yesterday, that are stored in a bank warehouse in  New York .  Bass, who made $500 million with 2006 bets on a U.S.
subprime-mortgage market collapse, said managers of the
endowment, known as UTIMCO, sought board approval to convert its
gold investments into bullion this year. A board member, Bass,
41, said he was asked to help with that process.  While Bass, a managing partner at  Hayman Capital Management
LP , said in an April 16 e-mail that “the decision to purchase
and take delivery of the physical gold” was made by endowment
staff members, “I helped where I could.” Gold futures touched
a record $1,498.60 an ounce today in New York before settling at
$1,492.90.  The Texas fund’s $19.9 billion in assets ranked it behind
only  Harvard University ’s endowment as of August, according to
the National Association of College and University Business
Officers. Last year, UTIMCO added about $500 million in gold
investments to an existing stake, said Bruce Zimmerman, the
endowment’s chief executive officer. The fund’s managers sought
to take delivery of bullion to protect against demand for the
metal overwhelming supply, according to Bass.  Contracts Exceed Supply  Open interest in gold futures and options traded on the
Comex typically exceeds supplies held in its warehouses. If the
holders of just 5 percent of those contracts opted to take
delivery of the metal, there wouldn’t be enough to cover the
demand, Bass said.  “If you own a paper contract where they can only deliver
you 10 cents on the dollar or less, you should probably convert
it to physical,” said Bass, who isn’t related to  Fort Worth ’s
billionaire Bass family. He said holding cash wasn’t a better
choice because the rate of inflation exceeds money-market rates
by 2.5 percent to 3 percent, eroding the value of cash.  “The call to take delivery is more of a challenge to the
system and it borders on the anarchistic,” said Ralph Preston,
a principal at  Heritage West Financial Inc. , a San Diego company
that specializes in futures trading. “It’s like the Republicans
trying to overturn President Obama over the birth certificate
issue. It’s poor sportsmanship.”  Storage Costs  Bullion banks generally charge his clients about $15 a
month to store a 100-ounce bar of gold, the amount covered by a
single contract, Preston said. The  Texas  fund negotiated with
Comex to pay about 0.1 percent of the metal’s value, Bass said.  That would indicate an annual cost of about $992,000 to
store the delivered gold, based on today’s price. By comparison,
the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest exchange-traded fund backed by
bullion, charges a management fee of 0.4 percent of invested
assets. That would reach almost $4 million for the Texas fund.  Sovereign-debt concerns also boosted demand for the metal
today, driving Comex futures to an all-time high as  Standard &
Poor’s  revised its U.S. credit outlook to negative. The price
has climbed 31 percent in the past year.  “Why hold your money in dollars when the Fed can double
and triple the supply rather quickly and quietly and won’t even
tell us what they are doing,” U.S. Representative Ron Paul, a
Texas Republican who has for decades favored a return to a
currency backed by precious metals, said today in a telephone
interview. “Logic tells me a lot more people will do it.”  10-Year Rally  Gold’s 10-year rally has attracted billionaire investors
such as  George Soros  and  John Paulson , who seek a store of value
as record-low  interest rates  erode returns on currencies.  “You’re starting to see institutional investors accepting
gold and commodities as legitimate investible assets and taking
physical control of them,” said  Michael Cuggino , who helps
manage about $12 billion at the Permanent Portfolio Funds in  San
Francisco . About 20 percent of the fund is in gold stored in
Comex warehouses.  “Central banks are printing more money than they ever
have, so what’s the value of money in terms of purchases of
goods and services,” Bass said April 15 in a telephone
interview. “I look at gold as just another currency that they
can’t print any more of.”  Few investors take physical delivery of bullion. As of
April 14, 2,860 contracts this month, about 0.5 percent of total
open interest, had been converted to metal, exchange data show.  Slowing Deliveries  Physical deliveries have slowed as gold topped records this
year, said Blake Robben, a senior market strategist who handles
deliveries of Comex metals for clients at Chicago-based broker
Lind-Waldock.  “It’s usually wealthy individuals with net worth over $1
million who want to take delivery to diversify away from the
dollar,” Robben said. “Generally, it’s a big hassle and not
worth it to take delivery.”  Investors should be wary of government attempts to curtail
holding gold, Paul said, citing U.S. ownership restrictions in
the 1930s. “Governments don’t like to be embarrassed.”  To own 100 ounces of gold futures with Lind-Waldock,
investors pay a $100 fee and put up $6,571 in a margin account
to buy a single contract. To take delivery of a 100-ounce bar,
investors have to pay the contract’s full price.  Bass, a Texas Christian University graduate who was named
to the endowment’s board in August, is a former salesman with
Bear Stearns Cos. and Legg Mason Inc. He said about 5 percent of
his hedge fund is invested in gold.  The endowment, which oversees funds held by the University
of Texas System and  Texas A&M University , has 664,300 ounces of
bullion in a Comex-registered vault in New York owned by  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the London-based bank, according to a report
distributed at a meeting in Austin last week. The fund said its
cost basis for the gold investment was $764 million.  “I simply voted as a board member to approve the storage
facility and concurred with their decisions,” Bass said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .
Pham-Duy Nguyen in  Seattle  at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 