-- 
Mexico May Keep Rate at 4.5% With Inflation at Five-Year Low

-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-04-15T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/mexico-may-keep-rate-at-4-5-with-inflation-at-five-year-low.html
Mexico ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged today after consumer
prices last month rose at the slowest pace since 2006.  Banco de Mexico’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens,
will extend its longest-ever pause and keep the benchmark rate
at a record low 4.5 percent for an 18th straight meeting,
according to all 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yields on interest future contracts have declined since
April 4, pushing back bets on the first rate increase to
September from July, after a report showed annual inflation at a
58-month low in March. Slowing prices and recent comments by
policy makers suggest that the bank, known as Banxico, probably
won’t use language in the statement that accompanies today’s
decision signaling that a rate increase is imminent, said Jimena Zuniga at Barclays Capital Inc in  New York .  “Given that inflation is finally at 3 percent, this will
be unlikely to trigger a more hawkish tone,” said Zuniga, who
forecasts the next interest rate increase in January 2012. The
central bank “hasn’t shown much readiness to react to the
growth and inflation outlook.”  Among the major Latin American countries that use inflation
targeting, only Mexico has yet to raise rates in the past year
as prices increase at the third-slowest pace in the region after
Chile and  Peru .  Futures contracts for the 28-day  interbank rate , known as
TIIE, show investors expect policy makers will increase the key
rate as soon as September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. As recently as April 4, yields predicted Carstens
would raise rates in July.  Room to Grow  Mexican Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  yesterday said in
an interview on Mexico City-based Radio Formula that rates
“won’t move much” from current levels in coming months.  The central bank expects the economy to expand at the upper
end of its forecast range of between 3.8 percent and 4.8 percent
this year, Carstens said April 7. Still, the economy still has
room to grow before it fuels inflation because unemployment
remains higher than in 2008 and private investment growth is
slow, he said.  Mexico’s annual inflation rate fell to 3.04 percent in
March, which was the lowest since the 3 percent reading in May
2006, and is less than half the 6.3 percent recorded in  Brazil ,
the region’s largest economy. U.S. consumer prices rose 2.1
percent year on year in February.  Mexico’s jobless rate was 5.38 percent in February,
compared with 3.24 percent in May 2008, according to the
national statistics agency.  ‘You’re Going to See’  The central bank will begin raising before year-end because
inflation will start to quicken after this month, the economy
will perform better than expected, and the peso may weaken as
the U.S. Federal Reserve prepares the market for a rate increase
at the start of 2012, said Rafael de la Fuente, a senior
economist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “You put everything together and you have enough to start
thinking about a hike in Mexico,” said de la Fuente, who
forecasts an increase in October. “An earlier hike might make
sense given you’re going to see the economy growing and a
consolidation of domestic demand.”  The central bank won’t change rates until January 2012,
according to the median forecast in a survey of economists by
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  In Brazil, the central bank has boosted borrowing costs 100
basis points this year.  GDP Estimates  The  International Monetary Fund  and Mexico’s government
raised their 2011 economic growth forecasts in recent days.  Gross domestic product will expand 4.6 percent this year
after 5.5 percent growth in 2010, the fastest in a decade,
according to the IMF. The fund previously forecast GDP growth of
4.2 percent.  Finance Minister Ernesto Cordero said Latin America’s
second-biggest economy may expand as much as 5 percent in 2011,
up from a previous estimate of 4 percent, on U.S. demand for
automobiles and other exports.  The rebound in the U.S. last year helped drive Mexican
exports to a record $298 billion.  The peso yesterday rose 0.5 percent to 11.7125 per  U.S.
dollar , its strongest level since October 2008. The currency has
gained 5.4 percent this year, the fifth-best performance against
the dollar among the 16-most traded currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  