-- 
Mexico Central Bank Pauses at 4.5% for 18th Meeting Amid Benign Inflation

-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-04-15T15:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/mexico-central-bank-pauses-at-4-5-for-18th-meeting-amid-benign-inflation.html
Mexico’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged today and suggested it will
remain on hold amid slowing inflation.  Banco de Mexico’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens,
extended its longest-ever pause and kept the overnight rate at
4.5 percent for an 18th straight meeting. The decision matched
the forecast of all 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The recent slowing of  core inflation  may partly reverse in
coming months, the bank said in a statement. Still, the tone of
the statement suggested that policy makers will keep borrowing
costs unchanged in coming months, said Joel Virgen, an economist
at Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  “There’s a recognition of inflation risks,” said Virgen,
who forecasts the bank will increase borrowing costs in October.
“But the bottom line is they haven’t started signaling
expectations for an eventual hike.”  Inflation in Latin America’s second-biggest economy slowed
“significantly” in the first quarter and should remain within
the bank’s forecasts for the rest of the year, the bank said in
a statement.  The board “will watch prices for grains and raw materials
with special attention, and inflation components that could
cause unexpected pressure,” the bank said. “The bank will
adjust its monetary position if this possibility materializes.”  Among the major Latin American countries that use inflation
targeting, only  Mexico  has yet to raise rates in the past year
as prices increase at the third-slowest pace in the region after
Chile and  Peru .  The peso, which has risen 5.4 percent this year, rose 0.1
11.6974 at 11:31 a.m. New York time.  ‘No Inflationary Pressure’  Policy makers kept borrowing costs at a record low as the
annual inflation rate is near a five-year low, the peso is
trading at a 30-month high and growth remains below potential,
said Alfredo Thorne at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB.  “Inflation is at one of the lowest levels we’ve had,”
said Thorne, who is head of global markets at Banorte, from
Mexico City. “As opposed to other countries, there’s no
inflationary pressure.”  Futures contracts for the 28-day  interbank rate , known as
TIIE, show investors expect policy makers will increase the key
rate as soon as September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. As recently as April 4, they predicted Carstens would
raise rates in July.  Mexican Finance Minister Ernesto Cordero yesterday said
rates “won’t move much” from current levels in coming months
in an interview on Mexico City-based Radio Formula.  Growth  The central bank expects the economy to expand at the upper
end of its forecast range of between 3.8 percent and 4.8 percent
this year, Carstens said April 7. Still, the economy has room to
grow before it fuels inflation because unemployment remains
higher than in 2008 and private investment growth is slow, he
said.  Mexico’s annual inflation rate eased to 3.04 percent, which
was the slowest since a 3 percent reading in May 2006, and half
the 6.3 percent recorded in  Brazil , the region’s largest
economy. U.S. consumer prices rose 2.1 percent year on year in
February.  Mexico’s jobless rate was 5.38 percent in February,
compared with 3.24 percent in May 2008, according to the
national statistics agency.  The central bank won’t change rates until January 2012,
according to the median forecast in a survey of economists by
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  Brazil Rates  In Brazil, the central bank has boosted borrowing costs 100
basis points this year.  The  International Monetary Fund  and Mexico’s government
raised their 2011 economic growth forecasts in recent days.  Gross domestic product will expand 4.6 percent this year
after 5.5 percent growth in 2010, the fastest in a decade,
according to the IMF. The fund previously forecast GDP growth of
4.2 percent.  Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said Latin America’s
second-biggest economy may expand as much as 5 percent in 2011,
up from a previous estimate of 4 percent, on U.S. demand for
automobiles and other exports.  The rebound in the U.S. last year helped drive Mexican
exports to a record $298 billion.  The peso yesterday rose 0.5 percent to 11.7125 per  U.S.
dollar , its strongest level since October 2008. The currency is
the fifth-best performer against the dollar among the 16-most
traded currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net 
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  