-- 
Fatigue ‘Crisis’ at U.S. Flight-Safety Agency Underscored by Resignation

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-04-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/faa-resignation-may-not-fix-flaws-as-fatigue-still-seen-as-risk.html
The U.S. air-traffic control
chief’s resignation may be the first among many steps needed to
fix an agency battered by reports of workers who were sleeping
instead of guiding planes safely to their destination.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  must address decades-
old concerns about controller fatigue by examining staffing,
procedures and tiredness management programs, said Darryl Jenkins, chairman of the  American Aviation Institute , a
Washington group that does commercial-aviation research.  The FAA is an “enormous, painfully slow” bureaucracy,
Jenkins said. “Something has to happen and be publicized on
nationwide TV for weeks before it will be addressed. We never
deal with anything until there is a crisis.”  The FAA, which regulates safety in the world’s busiest
airspace, said yesterday Chief Operating Officer Hank Krakowski
resigned after reports that four controllers have been caught
sleeping on the job this year. The incidents made the agency the
butt of jokes from comedians such as  Jay Leno  at the same time
it was responding to a hole in a  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  jet and
a regional aircraft clipped by an Airbus A380 on the ground at
 New York ’s Kennedy airport.  “They have not had a good couple of weeks,” House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman John Mica
said of the FAA. “They smart” from the sleeping-controller
reports, the Florida Republican told a group of reporters.
“That’s got to hurt.”  “One head did roll,” Mica said yesterday. “More heads
may roll in FAA.”  ‘Nodding Off’  Resignations mean nothing if the agency doesn’t ensure
towers are adequately staffed systemwide, said  Kevin Mitchell ,
chairman of the Business Travel Coalition.  “It shouldn’t be any surprise that any of these people are
nodding off,” said Mitchell, whose Radnor, Pennsylvania group
represents corporate travel managers. “Why hasn’t the FAA been
listening to the air traffic controllers union for the last 20
years?”  Criticisms echo those from three years ago, when the FAA
was faulted for doing too little in response to cracks found in
Southwest planes and then panned for overreacting, grounding
planes for safety inspections and stranding 273,000 travelers.  The FAA has also been faulted for cost overruns on an
overhaul of computers at 20 centers that direct aircraft at high
altitudes, making $161 million in improper payments for airport
projects and moving too slowly to a satellite-based air-traffic
system from one using ground radars.  ‘Cleaning House’  The FAA said April 13 that a controller slept while a
medical flight with an ill patient tried to land at Reno-Tahoe
International Airport in  Nevada . That brought to four the number
of workers reported by the FAA as napping, including one who was
on duty alone at  Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport  as
two airliners landed after midnight.  Yesterday’s resignation showed Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, who oversees the FAA, was “outraged,” said David Stempler, president of the Air Travelers Association in  Chevy
Chase ,  Maryland . The action may help remove “a bad spot” on
the FAA caused by the sleeping reports, he said.  “This is cleaning house,” Stempler said. “Bringing all
the incidents up to the fore and dispensing with them at one
time -- the broom will sweep.”  Asked in an interview yesterday if the move will help the
FAA’s image, LaHood said, “I’m not in the image business, I’m
in the safety business.  ‘‘We can do better in making sure the aviation industry is
the safest it can possibly be,” he said.  Sleep Patterns  The test going forward is whether the FAA can address the
concerns of controllers, who are extremely busy on day shifts
and bored at low-activity towers during overnight hours, Jenkins
said.  Options could include having FAA locations that are busier
handle the traffic at airports with little activity overnight,
he said. “The issue is not sleeping as much as it is that there
are so few operations” at some towers, he said.  The  National Transportation Safety Board  asked the FAA  four
years ago  to work with the controllers’ union to develop a
fatigue awareness program and revise schedules and practices.  Sixty-one percent of controllers worked schedules that
opposed normal sleep-wake patterns, the NTSB found. A schedule
may look like this, the NTSB said then: The first day, a 3 p.m.
shift start; the second day, a 2 p.m. start; the third day, 7
a.m.; the fourth day, 6 a.m.  The worker may return to work a fifth shift at 10 p.m. on
the fourth day to get a longer weekend, the board said.  ‘Not Acceptable’  Fatigue is a “systemic problem, we need to address it in a
thoughtful way,” said Kenneth Quinn, a former FAA general
counsel and a partner with Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP
in  Washington . “It’s not an easy fix. Just adding more people
to a tower is not necessarily the answer.”  The FAA said April 13 it will add an extra controller at
the 27 towers staffed with one worker on the midnight shift.
 Randy Babbitt , the FAA’s chief, and Paul Rinaldi, the
controllers’ union president, will visit facilities around the
country next week to reinforce the need for “the highest
professional standards,” the FAA said in its statement.  “This is not acceptable,” Babbitt said of the sleeping
incidents in an interview yesterday. “It’s not acceptable to
controllers, it’s not acceptable to the traveling public, and
it’s not going to happen again.”  “Staffing levels and fatigue are at the root of the
problem,” Rinaldi said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  