-- 
Facebook Stakeholder Usmanov Says Web Asset Returns Peaked

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-04-15T13:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/facebook-stakeholder-usmanov-says-web-investment-returns-may-have-peaked.html
Alisher Usmanov, who together with
fellow Russian billionaire Yuri Milner owns about 10 percent of
Facebook Inc., said he’s cautious to invest more money into
Internet companies as prices may have peaked.  “Investments in Internet companies start to bring less
profits compared with two or three years ago when we began to
invest in them almost at a startup level,” Usmanov said in a
phone interview. The $500 million March acquisition of a 5
percent stake in Chinese Web retailer  360buy.com  through Usmanov
and Milner’s  DST Global  may have been his last big direct Web
investment for some time, he said.  Usmanov and Milner are among Internet investors that have
been backing some of Silicon Valley’s fastest growing
businesses. Their firm led a $135 million investment in daily-
deals site Groupon Inc. last year and was part of a group that
put $180 million into Zynga Game Network Inc., a social-gaming
service, in 2009.  “There’s certainly a lot of concern that we’re getting
into a real bubble around Internet companies, and I can
understand that some people are getting cautious,” said Keith Arundale, a London-based venture capital consultant and former
director in PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s global technology
group. Very high valuations “seem to be extending to a lot of
Internet companies” both large and small, he said.  Surging Valuations  When Usmanov and Milner bought 1.96 percent of Facebook in
2009, the deal valued the company at as much as $10 billion.
Today, research firm  Nyppex LLC  values the world’s most-used
social networking site at $65 billion.  In March, Milner and Usmanov set up a second fund, called
DST Global 2, for further investments in Internet companies.  “I’ll just be a financial investor in this fund, which
will have a number of investors,” Usmanov said.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  are helping to raise money for the new fund, he said.
Usmanov himself may focus on working with his existing Internet
investments, he said. Milner’s spokesman Leonid Solovyev
declined to comment.  Usmanov, who made his $18 billion fortune through metal
investments, is also the second-largest shareholder of Arsenal
football club with 27 percent of the  London  team. Usmanov also
owns 26.9% of  Russia ’s Web company Mail.Ru Group, which fetched
about $1 billion in an initial public offering in London in
October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 