-- 
Fed Policy Makers' Inflation Views Differ Ahead of Consumer Price Report

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-04-15T16:47:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/fed-policy-makers-differ-over-policy-as-inflation-accelerates.html
Federal Reserve policy makers aired
their differences over how to tackle accelerating inflation
before a report showed the cost of living in the U.S. rose in
March for a ninth consecutive month.  Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke said in Washington yesterday
that rising commodity costs aren’t resulting from U.S. monetary
policy and don’t warrant higher  interest rates , while Fed
Governor Daniel Tarullo said he sees no sign of inflation
spreading more broadly. Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker
and Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  indicated they’re more
concerned about prices, with Lacker saying the central bank must
tighten credit before inflation gains speed.  The comments highlight an emerging debate among Fed
officials over what steps to take after completing $600 billion
of Treasury purchases through June. Policy makers were divided
at their last meeting on March 15, with a “few” officials
saying tighter credit may be warranted this year, while a “few
others noted that exceptional policy accommodation could be
appropriate beyond 2011.”  Central bankers must validate expectations of businesses
that inflation will remain low “by conducting monetary policy
in such a way that inflation does not accelerate,” Lacker said
yesterday at the University of Baltimore. “I believe we need to
heed the lesson of the last recovery that inflation is capable
of rising even if the level of economic activity has not
returned to its pre-recession trend.”  Core Inflation  Another official,  Narayana Kocherlakota , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis , said yesterday in Helena,
 Montana , that core inflation “is very low right now” and he
doesn’t see many signs of price pressures.  Kocherlakota and Plosser vote on the policy-setting  Federal
Open Market Committee  this year, while Lacker does not. Duke and
Tarullo, as governors, have permanent votes.  The consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent for a second
month, in line with the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department showed
today in Washington. Excluding volatile food and energy, the so-
called core gauge rose 0.1 percent, less than forecast and
restrained by lower clothing expenses and smaller gains in
medical care.  Treasuries climbed today after the consumer-price report
and on speculation that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may
worsen, damping investors’ appetite for risk. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note fell to 3.44 percent at 12:28 p.m. in New
York from 3.5 percent yesterday.  ‘Extremely Doubtful’  “It’s difficult to see strong underlying inflation
pressures,”  Charles Evans , president of the  Federal Reserve
Bank of Chicago , told reporters today after a speech in New
York. “While I’m monitoring inflation” and inflation
expectations, he said, “I am extremely doubtful we need an
adjustment in monetary policy.” He is a voting member of the
FOMC this year.  Duke and Tarullo offered remarks that were closer to the
views of Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s top two lieutentants, Fed
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and William C. Dudley, President of
the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York .  Duke, 58, answering questions after a speech yesterday,
said “it would not be helpful if monetary policy reacted to
every move in a very volatile price. If we had raised rates and
tightened up the economy in 2008, imagine how bad financial
crisis might have been.”  Panel Discussion  Tarullo, 58, speaking separately at a panel discussion in
the capital yesterday, said that “to this point at least we
haven’t seen indications” that the recent increase in total
inflation will “pass through into core inflation,” which
excludes food and fuel.  Regarding the Fed’s $600 billion large-scale asset purchase
program, “I don’t see any need to either terminate it
prematurely or to increase it during its pendency, both of which
have been articulated as options in our statements along the
way,” Tarullo said.  Plosser, 62, took a different tack in a speech yesterday at
the annual Hyman P. Minsky conference in New York, organized by
the Levy Economics Institute of Bard College.  “The apparent strengthening of the  U.S. economy  suggests
that, in the not-too-distant future, monetary policy will have
to begin reversing course from a very accommodative policy
stance,” Plosser said.  Regional Survey  The Fed said in its Beige Book report this week that the
economy expanded at a “moderate” pace across much of the U.S.
in February and March, led by manufacturing, with labor markets
showing improvements in most regions.  The economy is “firmly in recovery mode, and the
fundamentals for future growth are strong,” Lacker said. The
pickup in  consumer spending  is “solidly grounded in improving
fundamentals,” and business expansion “should make a
significant contribution to growth this year,” he said.  Economists forecast the world’s largest economy will expand
at a 2.9 percent annual pace this year, according to the median
estimate of 74 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey conducted
from April 1 to April 7. That compares with a 3 percent median
projection in March.  The FOMC said at its last session March 15 that the economy
is on a “firmer footing” and unanimously affirmed plans to buy
the Treasuries through June. Bernanke will hold his first press
conference following the FOMC’s statement on April 27.  The economy added a greater-than-forecast 216,000 jobs in
March, and the  unemployment rate  fell to the lowest level in
more than two years, marking a drop of a full percentage point
over four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  