-- 
Evans Says Low Inflation, High Unemployment Call for Further Accommodation

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-04-15T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/fed-s-evans-says-inflation-unemployment-call-for-accommodation.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said low inflation and high unemployment
both call for continued easy U.S. monetary policy, and there’s
little evidence of emerging asset bubbles.  “At present, we’re underrunning both our inflation
objective and our employment objective,” Evans said in a speech
in  New York . “Both call for monetary policy accommodation.”  U.S. central bankers are debating how to address rising
inflation and when to start tightening policy after the Fed ends
its purchases of $600 billion of Treasuries in June. Richmond
Fed President Jeffrey Lacker and Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser 
have indicated they’re concerned about prices, with Lacker
saying the central bank must tighten credit before inflation
gains speed.  Evans, echoing the view of Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
said monetary policy shouldn’t be used to address asset prices
such as the housing bubble that triggered the longest recession
since the 1930s. Evans and other Fed officials will update their
economic forecasts and review the Fed’s bond purchase plan at
their April 26-27 meeting amid a strengthening labor market and
higher inflation.  The Fed’s second round of asset purchases has come under
fire from Republican leaders in Congress, who say it risks
inflating asset-price bubbles and stoking inflation. Kansas City
Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  dissented last year from record
monetary stimulus.  Stock Prices  Higher stock prices and narrowing junk bond spreads have
been cited as evidence of “overheating asset markets, possibly
increasing the risk of a destabilizing asset bubble,” Evans
said at the 20th Annual Hyman P. Minsky Conference on the State
of the U.S. and World Economies organized by the Levy Economics
Institute of Bard College. “Are these developments evidence of
an incipient bubble? I don’t think so.”  “But even if there were stronger evidence of a bubble, I’m
not convinced that leaning against it is good policy. Even if
the Fed could accurately detect a bubble in real time, and even
if we decided that a bubble-pricking exercise would be
warranted, monetary policy is too blunt an instrument for this
task.”  Rather, regulatory policy should be used to address
financial stability, Evans said. Large U.S. banks should be
required to have “substantial” minimum capital, and one option
is to require banks to hold debt that would automatically
convert to equity at a time of stress, he said.  Creditors must take losses when banks fail, and market
discipline should be used rather than government bailouts, Evans
said.  Government Assistance  “Bondholders of major institutions” need to believe
“that future financial workouts will occur without special
assistance from the government. To date, though, I haven’t seen
very strong evidence that these investors get the message.”  The cost of living in the U.S. rose in March for a ninth
consecutive month, led by increases in food and fuel costs, a
Labor Department report today showed.  The consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent for a second
month, in line with the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Excluding volatile food and energy, the so-
called core gauge rose 0.1 percent, less than forecast and
restrained by lower clothing expenses and smaller gains in
medical care.  Evans has led the Chicago Fed since September 2007 and is a
voting member this year of the FOMC. He has been among the
FOMC’s strongest supporters of monetary stimulus since last
year. He represents a five-state region that includes  Iowa  and
most of  Illinois ,  Indiana ,  Michigan  and  Wisconsin .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
1310 or  smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  