-- 
First Investment Bank Finances Bulgarian Steel Mill Purchase

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-04-15T13:59:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/first-investment-bank-finances-bulgarian-steel-mill-purchase.html
First Investment Bank AD,
Bulgaria’s sixth-largest lender by assets, helped Nadin, the
country’s biggest scrap dealer and recycler, finance the
purchase of the production assets of the bankrupt  Kremikovtzi AD (4KW) 
steel mill, Economy and Energy Minister Traicho Traikov said.  Eltrade Company EOOD, affiliated to Nadin, completed the
316 million-lev ($233.6 million) payment and plans to restart
the mill’s electrical furnace and casting units, Traikov told
reporters in Sofia today. Eltrade, set up last month with
capital of 20,000 lev, was the only bidder in the fourth auction
on April 12 for Kremikovtzi’s assets, after a 44 percent price
cut.  The mill was placed in receivership in 2008 after failing
to pay investors holding 325 million euros ($468 million) of
bonds. Attempts to sell it to ArcelorMittal and Ukrainian
billionaire Konstantin Zhevago three years ago failed, prompting
the Sofia City Court to declare it bankrupt.  Kremikovtzi’s buyer will resume operation of the two units
after meeting European Union environmental safety requirements,
Traikov said. They will be used to process the dismantled parts
of the mill’s older facilities during the next three years, he
said.  “Thus 80 percent of Kremikovtzi’s site will be cleaned up
and there will be a functioning clean plant,” Traikov said.  Nadin runs a recycling factory near Sofia and a dozen scrap
yards throughout the country, according to its  website .
Kremikovtzi, built in the 1960s, shut coke and metals output in
May 2009. It was previously owned by Pramod Mittal, the younger
brother of  ArcelorMittal (MT)  Chief Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  