-- 
Ford Missing Market-Share Goal Adds Pressure to Cut Prices

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-04-15T20:09:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/ford-missing-market-share-goal-adds-pressure-to-boost-discounts.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , after increasing
its share of the U.S. light-vehicle market for the last two
years, is falling short of its retail goal this year, which may
put pressure on the automaker to offer larger discounts.  Ford in the first quarter had 13.6 percent of the U.S.
retail auto market, which excludes sales to fleet buyers,
according to researcher Edmunds.com. That trailed the 14.1
percent target Ford’s board set for executives to match or
exceed this year, according to the Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker’s government filings.  Ford’s share slipped as  General Motors Co. (GM)  increased sales
incentives 11 percent in the first three months of the year,
according to Autodata Corp. of  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . Ford,
which reduced discounts by 9.1 percent in the first quarter, saw
its total U.S. market share fall to 16.2 percent from 16.8
percent a year earlier, Autodata said.  “We believe Ford’s management could be forced to become
more aggressive with incentives to avoid additional market share
loss,” Joseph Amaturo, an analyst with the Buckingham Research
Group who rates Ford “neutral,” said in an April 12 research
note. “We are increasingly concerned about net-price erosion.”  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , who has emphasized
profits over market share, said Ford will maintain pricing
discipline.  “The most important thing about our plan is profitable
growth, so that leads us to tremendous discipline on everything
about the business,” Mulally told reporters April 13 in
 Detroit . “The number one thing is to match the production
capacity to the real demand.”  Americas Share  Ford, which earned $6.56 billion last year, failed to
achieve its market share targets globally and in the Americas,
according to its proxy statement filed this month. Ford achieved
44 percent of its corporate market-share goal and 58 percent of
its target for the Americas, the proxy said.  Ford has said its market share in  Europe  fell to 7.6
percent last year from 8.9 percent in 2009 as it resisted
matching competitors’ discounts. The automaker said its retail
market share in the U.S. last year was 14.1 percent, trailing
the board’s 14.2 percent target.  Mulally said Ford will continue to avoid the heavy, profit-
eroding discounts that U.S. automakers used in the past to keep
factories running.  “We will always be very disciplined about our production
and our pricing and have the pricing reflect the real demand and
inherent value of the product,” he said.  Retail Target  Ford hasn’t met its retail market-share target in any month
since October, when it sold 14.5 percent of the cars and trucks
purchased by individual consumers, according to automotive
researcher R.L. Polk & Co. of Southfield, Michigan. Ford’s
retail share fell to 13.2 percent in February, the most recent
month Polk has analyzed.  In March, Ford raised incentives and surpassed GM in
monthly U.S. sales for the second time in the last 13 years,
said Michelle Krebs, a West Bloomfield, Michigan-based analyst
for Edmunds.  “GM’s retail share was higher than Ford’s in March,
despite Ford beating GM in total,” Krebs said. “Not good if
Ford resorts to incentives as well as high fleet percentages
again -- old habits.”  Ford should continue to put a priority on profits over
market share, said  Brian Johnson , a Chicago-based analyst for
 Barclays Capital .  Incentives ‘Crutch’  “Anyone would like to improve market share; the question
is how do you go about doing that without resting on the easy
crutch of incentives,” said Johnson, who rates the shares
“overweight/neutral.” “They were well ahead of plan on
profit, cash flow, pricing and cost reduction, even if market
share was a bit low.”  Ford’s total U.S. market share rose to 16.7 percent last
year from 14.4 percent in 2008, according to Autodata, as new
models such as the Fusion sedan and Fiesta subcompact attracted
buyers. Ford’s share gains in 2009 and 2010 represented the
first consecutive annual improvements since 1992 to 1993, the
company said.  Ford also gained consideration from car buyers when it
avoided the bankruptcies and government bailouts that beset the
predecessors of GM and Chrysler Group LLC in 2009.  Ford’s board used market-share targets for 8.33 percent of
its formula for determining cash bonus and performance stock
grants for top executives. The board’s compensation committee
said U.S. retail share is “the best measurement” of consumer
acceptance.  Compensation Formula  Global profits before taxes accounted for 30 percent and
automotive operating  cash flow  accounted for an 30 percent,
according to the proxy. Business unit profit before taxes
accounted for 15 percent of the formula, while cost performance
and quality each represented 8.33 percent.  Ford executives’ performance exceeded every target except
market share, according to the filing.  Compensation for Ford’s five top-paid executives rose 64
percent to $75.9 million last year from $46.4 million in 2009,
according to the proxy. That included incentive bonus awards
paid at 180 percent of the target on the corporate level and 181
percent for the Americas region.  The board’s compensation committee wrote that it
“considered our outstanding 2010 performance-to-metrics and our
execution of our One Ford Plan as the primary reasons for paying
out the award to the full extent that they were earned.”  Ford shares, which climbed 68 percent in 2010, fell 10
cents to $14.71 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have dropped 12 percent this year.  Mulally Pay  Mulally’s 2010 compensation rose 48 percent to $26.5
million, including salary, bonus, stock, option awards and other
pay. Ford last month also gave Mulally $56.5 million in stock
for the turnaround since he joined the automaker from Boeing Co.
in 2006. He halted three years of losses and led Ford to $9.28
billion in net income in the last two years.  “I am very pleased that we continue to align the
compensation with the business performance of Ford,” Mulally
said April 13 when asked about criticism of his pay package by
the United Auto Workers union. “This is the way it should be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  