-- 
Former Goldman Trader Flamand’s Fund Said to Trail Peers in First Quarter

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-04-15T14:22:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/former-goldman-trader-flamand-s-fund-said-to-trail-peers-in-first-quarter.html
Edoma Partners LLP, the hedge fund
started by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  trader Pierre-Henri Flamand last year, was little-changed in the first quarter, said
two people with knowledge of the firm.  The fund gained about 0.2 percent in the first three months
of 2011, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the firm’s performance is private. The pool, which received
almost $2 billion from investors, began trading in November.  Event-driven funds such as Edoma that trade securities of
companies going through mergers, bankruptcies and other events
rose by 3.5 percent on average in the first quarter, according
to data compiled by Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Flamand, 40, ran Goldman Sach’s largest internal hedge fund
before stepping down last year after U.S. lawmakers questioned
whether banks should be permitted to make speculative bets with
their own capital. He shut Edoma to new customers after requests
by clients to invest exceeded the firm’s expectations, according
to another person with knowledge of the fund.  Martina Slowey, Edoma’s London-based chief operating
officer, declined to comment.  Flamand worked at New York-based Goldman Sachs for 15
years. In 2007, the firm named him head of Goldman Sachs
Principal Strategies, a unit that sought to profit from
discrepancies in the values of securities, company filings show.  Goldman Sachs decided to shut down the principal strategies
unit after the  U.S. Congress  in July approved the Dodd-Frank
Act. The law, a response to the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression, included a provision known as the Volcker rule
that restricts banks from making bets with their own money.  Volcker Rule  The legislation was named after former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , who advocated separating lending units
from  investment banking  out of concern that speculative trading
could put institutions taking money from depositors at risk.  Hedge funds  are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether assets will rise or fall. Funds climbed
an average of 2.23 percent in the first quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  At least five former Goldman Sachs employees work at Edoma,
including Ali Hedayat and Emmanuel Niogret, who both traded for
the Principal Strategies unit.  Morgan Sze, who also ran Goldman Sachs Principal
Strategies, started a hedge fund in  Hong Kong  this month with
more than $1 billion of commitments. Ariel Roskis and Daniele
Benatoff, two London-based traders who worked on the Principal
Strategies desk, are also starting a hedge fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  