-- 
France to Issue Secularism Guide in Sarkozy Pushes on ‘Values’

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-04-15T14:53:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/france-to-issue-secularism-guide-in-sarkozy-pushes-on-values-.html
France  plans to distribute booklets
detailing the precepts of secularism, described as a “core
value” by Interior Minister Claude Gueant, as President  Nicolas Sarkozy  prepares a re-election bid.  Gueant, Sarkozy’s former chief of staff, told religious
leaders in Paris today that he wanted to “reinforce national
cohesion and open the way for France to be more centered on its
core values,” his office said in a statement.  The meeting with religious leaders capped a week that began
with the enactment of a law banning facial veils in public
places. Beyond the rulebooks, which will be distributed by the
end of May, Gueant is seeking to expand the  teaching of
secularism in schools , introduce “republican training” for
imams and end Muslims praying in the streets.  France has between 5 and 6 million Muslims in a population
of 65 million, making it western  Europe ’s largest Muslim
community.  The enactment of the law and the debates around secularism
come a year before French presidential elections, with a survey
by BVA showing late last month that Sarkozy doesn’t have enough
support to make it through to the second round of the vote.  Sarkozy has pushed for debates on Islam and French
secularism as anti-immigrant leader Marine Le Pen’s National
Front gains in polls.  In a speech last month in central France, Sarkozy
celebrated what he called the country’s Christian heritage and
its Jewish roots. “As the president of a secular republic, I
can say that because  it’s the truth. I am not proselytizing,  I
am just looking at the history of our country,” he said in le
Puy-en-Velay on March 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  