-- 
G-20 Agrees on System to Identify Imbalances Before They Imperil Economies

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-04-15T21:43:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/g-20-agrees-on-system-to-identify-imbalances-before-they-imperil-economies.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs agreed
on details of a new surveillance system aimed at highlighting
and rectifying flaws in the world economy before they imperil
growth.  The officials concluded talks in  Washington  today by
outlining four methods they will use to decide when indicators
such as budget deficits and external trade balances appear
excessive. A country identified as having persistently dangerous
levels of two of the measures will be subjected to further study
and may have remedies suggested.  The aim of the plan is to spot imbalances earlier and then
prescribe policies to fix them before they infect the world
economy. The hope is such a process will deliver more-balanced
international expansion after uneven trade and investment flows
helped trigger the credit crisis.  “The guidelines operate like a net which holds the
countries which violate or do not respect” them, French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  told reporters. Seven countries,
including the U.S. and China, are large enough to be of systemic
importance and will face tougher monitoring, officials said.  The discussions proved difficult as China signaled concern
that the initiative will give the U.S. and  Europe  new ammunition
in their push for the yuan to appreciate faster. Differences
over the root causes of imbalances and the lack of an
enforcement mechanism may still undermine the initiative, said
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia
in Toronto.  ‘A Fix’  “They’re working toward a fix, but we’re a long way from
fixing the global imbalances,” said Toronto-based Sutton.  The G-20 oversees 85 percent of the world economy and
policy makers including U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Brazilian central bank governor Alexandre Tombini
met as the number of risks to expansion grows. Higher  oil prices 
are sapping  consumer spending  in the U.S., tighter monetary
policy is curbing demand in China,  Japan  is struggling after
last month’s earthquake and tsunami and Europe is still battling
a debt crisis.  “The global recovery is broadening and becoming more self-
sustained, with increasingly robust private demand growth,” the
officials said in a statement. ‘But downside risks remain.”  Unrest in the Middle East and Japan’s natural disaster
“have increased economic uncertainty and tensions in energy
prices,” they said. Policy makers said there is “adequate
spare capacity to meet global energy demand.”  Guidelines  The G-20 also agreed to strengthen coordination “to avoid
disorderly movements and persistent exchange rate
misalignments” and to establish a path to increasing the number
of currency that comprise the IMF’s Special Drawing Rights.
Policy makers will also research the use of  capital controls 
further, officials said.  Having agreed in February to monitor indicators, including
budget deficits and private savings rates, for signs of
imbalances, the G-20 today outlined the guidelines against which
they will be assessed. Two are focused on the circumstances and
history of each economy and the others on historical comparisons
with the remainder of the G-20 and similar countries.  Nations accounting for more than 5 percent of the G-20’s
gross domestic product will be more rigorously studied given
their “greater potential for spillover effects,” the statement
said. Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the group is
“not exactly the G-7 -- you have to include China and  India .”  Self-Reinforcing Cycle  The G-20 wants to avoid a repeat of the last expansion when
trade imbalances opened, which helped spark the deepest global
recession in seven decades.  China  and other Asian nations
recycled the dollars from their trade surpluses into U.S. bonds,
depressing global yields, while U.S. consumers relied on the low
interest rates to drive an unsustainable global spending spree
and record trade deficit, in a self-reinforcing cycle.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week predicted global
current account imbalances will remain wide if countries with
trade surpluses, such as China, fail to spur domestic demand and
those with trade deficits, like the U.S., don’t save more. Data
also showed China’s currency reserves exceeded $3 trillion for
the first time; in the U.S., lawmakers are at odds over how to
pare a record budget deficit.  The next step is for officials to fine-tune the plan and
present leaders with a list of those countries aggravating
imbalances before a November summit in Cannes,  France . Those
countries would be counseled by their counterparts on which
policies to deploy.  Bullied  Slowing agreement on the guidelines has been suspicion on
China’s part that it’s being bullied into letting the yuan
appreciate more quickly. China has limited its currency’s gain
to about 4.5 percent against the dollar since the end of 2009,
sparking criticism it is fueling domestic inflation, building
excessive reserves and exacerbating trade deficits.  Chinese central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said today in
the southern Chinese province of Hainan that the G-20 should
focus on economic issues and that his nation will continue to
allow more flexibility in the yuan. Chinese officials say low
 interest rates  in the west are causing strong capital flows into
emerging markets such as theirs, a position echoed by the Group
of 24 developing nations yesterday.  “The communique has fully reflected demands of all parties
and is balanced,” China vice finance minister  Zhu Guangyao  said
today. “China is satisfied with the result.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Washington at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in Washington at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  