-- 
G-20 Nears Deal on Imbalances as China Maintains Currency Plan

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-15T18:40:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/g-20-nears-deal-on-imbalance-indicators-as-china-maintains-currency-plan.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs moved
closer to establishing an early-warning system designed to
highlight and rectify flaws in the world economy to ensure more
balanced growth.  Two months after agreeing on the indicators that can detect
whether and where economic imbalances are forming, G-20 finance
ministers and central bankers are meeting in Washington today to
devise benchmarks against which they’ll be judged. A list of
economies that risk breaching the guidelines will now be
crafted, with the U.S. likely to be among those on it, an
official from a G-20 country said.  “We’re very close” to a pact, French Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde  told reporters today.  The G-20 wants to smooth uneven trade and investment flows
that helped spark the credit crisis by being faster to spot
flaws in individual economies and prescribing policies to fix
them before they roil the global economy. China’s concern that
it’s being bullied into letting its currency appreciate faster
is slowing discussions, and the final agreement may still suffer
from the lack of an enforcement tool.  Chinese central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said today in
the southern Chinese province of Hainan the G-20 should focus on
economic issues and that his nation will continue to allow more
flexibility in the yuan.  Oil Prices   The G-20 oversees 85 percent of the world economy.
Officials, including U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and Brazilian central bank governor Alexandre Tombini, are
meeting as risks to expansion mount. A 35 percent increase in
oil prices in the past six months is sapping  consumer spending 
in the U.S., tighter monetary policy is curbing demand in China,
 Japan  is struggling after last month’s earthquake and tsunami,
and Europe is still battling a debt crisis.  “The economic recovery is fragile,” Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  said yesterday. There are “lots of things
to worry about, and we want to make sure we don’t fall back into
another crisis.”  Officials are trying to avoid a repeat of the last
expansion when trade imbalances opened, which then helped spark
the deepest global recession in seven decades.  China  and other
Asian nations recycled the dollars from their trade surpluses
into U.S. bonds, depressing global yields, while U.S. consumers
relied on the low  interest rates  to drive an unsustainable
global spending spree and record trade deficit.  Domestic Demand  The  International Monetary Fund  this week predicted global
current-account imbalances will remain wide if countries with
trade surpluses such as China fail to spur domestic demand. Data
also showed China’s currency reserves exceeded $3 trillion for
the first time, and U.S. lawmakers are at odds over how to pare
a record budget deficit.  At talks in Paris in February, officials agreed to monitor
indicators, including budget deficits, the external imbalance
and private savings rates. In a sign of the discord that still
simmered today, the Chinese obtained omission of foreign
exchange reserves and diluted the final language so that it
mentioned the current account’s components and not its title.  “There are some bumps along the road,” Flaherty said.  Today’s agreement will outline how economies will be
assessed using four gauges, one focused on the specific economy
and three forms of comparison to other countries, the official
from a G-20 country said on condition of anonymity. Countries
breaching two of the four benchmarks will be identified and
subjected to more monitoring, the official said.  Cannes Meeting  G-20 policy makers aim to deliver a report to their leaders
at a November summit in Cannes,  France , highlighting which
economies are still inflating imbalances. Those doing so would
be counseled by their counterparts on which policies to follow.
Economies representing more than 5 percent of the group’s gross
domestic product, such as the U.S. and China, may be held to a
higher standard, Lagarde said.  Threatening the initiative is suspicion on China’s part
that the U.S. and  Europe  may use the guidelines as a tool to
prod the Asian nation into letting the yuan appreciate faster.
China has limited its currency’s gain to about 4.5 percent
against the dollar since the end of 2009, sparking criticism it
is fueling domestic inflation, building excessive reserves and
exacerbating trade deficits.  ‘Political Tool’  Li Yong, a vice Chinese finance minister, said this week
the G-20’s guidelines could be used as a “political tool” to
curb his nation’s economic development. Chinese officials say
low interest rates in the west are causing strong capital flows
into emerging markets such as theirs, a position echoed by the
Group of 24 developing nations yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  Washington  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  