-- 
G-20 Agrees on Guidelines to Judge Imbalances: Full Text

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-04-15T20:54:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/g-20-agrees-on-guidelines-to-judge-imbalances-full-text.html
Following is the text of a
statement released today by the Group of 20 countries:  Communique  Meeting of Finance Ministers and Central bank Governors,
 Washington  DC, 14-15 April 2011  1. We, the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors, met today to address the economic challenges at hand
and to progress on our previous commitments. We reaffirmed that
our overriding objective is to improve the living standards of
all our citizens through strong economic and jobs growth. We
expressed our solidarity with the Japanese people after the
tragic events, our readiness to provide any needed cooperation,
and our confidence in the resilience of the Japanese economy and
financial sector.  2. The global recovery is broadening and becoming more
self-sustained, with increasingly robust private demand growth.
But downside risks still remain. We agreed to remain vigilant
and to take the actions required to strengthen the recovery and
reduce risks.  Events in some Middle-East-North African countries and in  Japan 
have increased economic uncertainty and tensions in energy
prices. We noted there is adequate spare capacity to meet global
energy demand.  3. In order to enhance our mutual assessment process to
promote external sustainability, we agreed on a set of
indicative guidelines (see attached) that complete the first
step of our work to address persistently large imbalances. We
now launch the second step of this process with an in-depth
assessment of the nature of these imbalances and the root causes
of impediments to adjustment. Based on this analysis, the IMF
assessment on progress toward external sustainability, as well
as the other aspects of our mutual assessment process, we will
ascertain for our next meeting the corrective and preventive
measures that will form the 2011 action plan to ensure Strong,
Sustainable and Balanced Growth, to be discussed by Leaders at
the Cannes Summit.  4. To strengthen the international monetary system, we
agreed to focus our work, in the short term, on assessing
developments in global liquidity, a country specific analysis
regarding drivers of reserve accumulation, a strengthened
coordination to avoid disorderly movements and persistent
exchange rates misalignments, a criteria-based path to broaden
the composition of the SDR, an improved toolkit to strengthen
the global financial safety nets, enhanced cooperation between
the IMF and regional financial arrangements, the development of
local capital markets and domestic currency borrowing, coherent
conclusions for the management of capital flows drawing on
country experiences. We also agreed on the need to strengthen
further the effectiveness and coherence of bilateral and
multilateral IMF surveillance, particularly on financial sector
coverage, fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies.  5. We welcome the entry into force and the activation of
the expanded and more flexible New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB).
We will work to complete the steps required to implement the
2010 quota and governance reform by the Annual Meetings of 2012.  6. Commodity prices face increasing pressures. We welcomed
the recommendations of the IEF, IEA and OPEC and committed to
improve the timeliness, completeness and reliability of the JODI
Oil database. We welcomed the work of international
organizations on their report to address excessive price
volatility in food and agricultural markets, and its impact on
 food security . We look forward to receiving their final
recommendations, including on risk management and mitigation
tools. We stressed the need for participants on commodity
derivatives markets to be subject to appropriate regulation and
supervision, called for enhanced transparency in both cash and
derivatives markets as previously recommended by IOSCO, and
asked IOSCO to finalize, by September, its recommendations on
regulation and supervision in this area especially to address
market abuses and manipulation, such as through formalized
position management powers including the authority to set ex-
ante position limits where appropriate, among other powers of
interventions.  7. We welcomed the preliminary proposals of the FSB to
strengthen its capacity, resources and governance including
representativeness and asked the FSB to put forward formal
proposals at its July meeting for review at our next meeting. We
took stock of progress made to determine a cohort of global
SIFIs and confirmed that the FSB will make recommendations on a
multi-pronged framework with more intensive supervisory
oversight, effective resolution capacities and higher loss
absorbency capacity. We look forward to public consultations on
SIFI recommendations and request a macroeconomic impact study by
FSB and BCBS, in cooperation with BIS and IMF, to be reviewed at
our next meeting. We welcomed the FSB work on the scope of
shadow banking and look forward to the recommendations that the
FSB will prepare for our next meeting on the regulation and
oversight of the shadow banking system. We committed to set
high, internationally consistent, coordinated and non-
discriminatory requirements in our legislations and regulations
implementing FSB recommendations on OTC derivatives markets and
stressed the need to avoid overlapping regulations. We urge all
jurisdictions to fully implement the FSB principles and
standards on compensation. We call on the FSB to undertake
ongoing monitoring in this area and will assess the results of
the 2nd peer review on compensation practices by our next
meeting. We will review at our next meeting progress made by the
IASB and FASB towards completing their convergence project by
the end of 2011 and look forward to the outcome of the ongoing
IASB governance review process. We welcomed ongoing work of OECD
and FSB and other relevant international organizations to
develop common principles on consumer protection in financial
services.  8. We agreed to maintain momentum for action to tackle non-
cooperative jurisdictions and to fully implement the G20 anti-
corruption action plan. We asked the Global Forum to report to
us on ways to improve the effectiveness of exchange of tax
information. We tasked the  World Bank , working with Regional
Development Banks, and the IMF, in coordination with other
relevant organizations, to conduct the analysis on mobilizing
sources of  climate change  financing, including public and
private bilateral and multilateral as well as innovative
sources, drawing inter alia on the AGF report consistent with
the objective, provisions and principles of the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change. We support the work of the
transitional committee established for the design of the Green
Climate Fund. We reemphasize the importance of implementing the
Seoul Development Consensus on Shared Growth and its Multi-year
Action-Plan. We look forward to concrete recommendations from
the High level panel on infrastructure investment by September.  G20 Indicative Guidelines for Assessing Persistently Large
Imbalances  1. Our aim is to promote external sustainability and ensure
that G20 members pursue the full range of policies required to
reduce excessive imbalances and maintain current account
imbalances at sustainable levels.  2. In February we agreed on a set of indicators that will
allow us to focus through an integrated 2-step process on those
persistently large imbalances that require policy action. These
indicators are (i) public debt and fiscal deficits; and private
savings rate and private debt (ii) and the external imbalance
composed of the  trade balance  and net investment income flows
and transfers, whilst taking due consideration of exchange rate,
fiscal, monetary and other policies.  3. To complete the first step, we have agreed today on
indicative guidelines against which each of these indicators
will be assessed. While not policy targets, these guidelines
establish reference values for each available indicator allowing
for identification of countries for the second step in-depth
assessment. Four approaches will be used:  1 - A structural approach, which is based on economic models and
grounded in economic theory, which benchmarks G20 members
against each indicator in a way that takes into account specific
circumstances including large commodity producers (e.g. its
demographic profile, oil balance or trend growth).  2  - A statistical approach which benchmarks G20 countries on
the basis of their national historical trends.  3 - A statistical approach which benchmarks G20 country’s
historical indicators against groups of countries at similar
stages in their development.  4 - A statistical approach which draws on data, benchmarking G20
country’s indicators against the full G20.  4. Statistical approaches are based on the 1990 to 2004
period, as this is the period that preceded the large build up
in external imbalances. Reference values drawn from 1990-2010
were also provided as a complement. In all four approaches,
forecast figures over the 2013-15 period are compared to the
values suggested by the guidelines to determine whether or not
an in depth assessment should be undertaken.  Those countries
identified by at least two of the four approaches as having
persistently large imbalances will be assessed in-depth to
determine in a second step the nature and root causes of their
imbalances and to identify impediments to adjustment. In
carrying out this assessment, we will take due account of the
 exchange rate  and monetary policy frameworks of members. For
members of the euro area with its governance framework, this
assessment will involve the appropriate authorities. National
circumstances will also be taken into account. In the second
step assessment, the independent IMF analysis will rely on IMF
forecast data, while countries’ own assessments can use national
data.  5. For the identification of countries that will move into
the second stage, the selection rules for G20 countries
accounting for more than 5 % of G20 GDP (on market exchange
rates or PPP exchange rates) will reflect the greater potential
for spillover effects from larger economies.  1 Private debt based on data from 1995 to 2009 reflecting data
availability  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 