-- 
Geithner Says G-7 March Yen Intervention Curbed Economy Risk

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-15T15:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/geithner-says-g-7-march-yen-intervention-curbed-economy-risk-1-.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the coordinated intervention by the Group of Seven
nations in March was a “very important” effort to contain the
risk to the global economy posed by a rising Japanese currency.  “I think it is very important that we were able to come
together as the G-7 in exceptional circumstances a few weeks ago
to help Japan contain the risk that a sharp appreciation of the
yen would damage the recovery,” Geithner said in brief remarks
at the Treasury Department, where he met Japanese Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda . The two officials met alongside spring
meetings of the G-7, the Group of 20 nations and the
 International Monetary Fund .  The intervention “was a good sign of the world’s support
for  Japan  and the capacity of the major economies to come
together” to “do something useful for the global economy,”
Geithner said. He and Noda declined to answer a question about
the prospects of future intervention.  The G-7 jointly intervened in foreign-exchange markets to
stem the rise of the yen after the earthquake and tsunami in
Japan. It was the first joint intervention in more than a
decade.  In its March 18  statement , the G-7 nations said they will
“monitor exchange markets closely and will cooperate as
appropriate.” The group, which includes the U.S., Japan,
 Germany , France, the U.K., Italy and  Canada , also expressed its
“readiness to provide any needed cooperation” to assist
Japan’s recovery.  Stronger Yen  The yen advanced against all 16 of its major peers today as
Treasuries also gained on speculation that central banks would
step up efforts to curb inflation. The 10-year Treasury yield
slid eight basis points to 3.42 percent at 10:47 a.m. in  New
York . The yen strengthened 0.4 percent against the dollar and
0.8 percent against the euro.  Noda said the G-7 intervention was “significant and
effective,” and he thanked Geithner for supporting the action.
He said the G-7 nations appreciated the seriousness of the
conditions leading up to the move.  “Secretary Geithner was so kind” to “quickly respond to
our request,” Noda said, speaking through an interpreter. Japan
wanted “to avoid the situation whereby the further appreciation
of our currency would further negatively impact the Japanese
economy.”  Both finance ministers expressed confidence that Japan’s
economy would rebound and be able to contribute to broader
global growth again.  “We feel this tragedy deeply,” Geithner said, stressing
he has confidence “in the basic strength and resilience and of
the Japanese people and in the Japanese economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  