-- 
Georgia Legislature Follows Arizona in Passing Immigration-Rules Overhaul

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-04-15T16:19:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/georgia-legislature-follows-arizona-in-passing-immigration-rules-overhaul.html
Georgia  passed a  bill  giving state
law enforcement and businesses broader authority to identify
undocumented immigrants, after a similar effort in  Arizona  was
blocked by federal courts.  Under the legislation, police are allowed to verify the
immigration status of people suspected of certain crimes and
arrest those in the country illegally. It also would require
businesses with at least 10 employees to use a federal database
to check that new hires are authorized to work in the U.S.  “We don’t mind taking care of people, let’s just take care
of our own people,” Renee Unterman, Republican Senator from
Buford, said on the floor of the legislature in Atlanta
yesterday. “I don’t want to take care of  Mexico ’s people that
are here illegally.”  The  legislation  passed the Republican-controlled House and
Senate last night. Governor Nathan Deal intends to sign the
bill, a spokesman, Brian Robinson, said in an e-mail today.  Georgia’s bill follows a law in Arizona, passed in April
2010, requiring police to determine the immigration status of
people stopped for questioning. A lower court’s ruling to block
the central provisions of that law was upheld by the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in  San Francisco  on April 11. Utah Governor Gary Herbert signed a similar bill into law in  March .  Delayed by Challenges  Legal challenges to Arizona’s law have caused some of the
more than 20 states where similar legislation was introduced to
delay passing the measures, said Ann Morse, program director at
the Denver-based  National Conference of State Legislatures .  “States are unlikely to go forward while the law is
enjoined in court,” she said in a telephone interview.  The Georgia bill would allow racial profiling and “the
flames of hate to be fanned,” said Senator Nan Orrock, a
Democrat from Atlanta, on the Senate floor.  The Georgia Chamber of Commerce and the Georgia
Agribusiness Council objected to provisions in the bill that
would require businesses to use the federal E-Verify program to
check that new employees are authorized to work. Lawmakers in
states including  Florida ,  Alabama , and  Tennessee  are considering
similar legislation.  Requiring employers to use the federal system will open
them up to lawsuits if they “trip over any one of the many
rules” in the program, Bryan Tolar, president of the Georgia
Agribusiness Council, wrote in an op-ed this month in
 Savannahnow.com , a community website affiliated with the
Savannah Morning News.  It also risks leaving immigrants in Georgia, where the U.S.
Census Bureau found the Hispanic population almost doubled in
past the decade, wary of police and less likely to contact them
when they see crimes, making communities less safe, said Azadeh
Shahshahani, a project director at the  American Civil Liberties
Union of Georgia .  “It’s going to turn Georgia into a ‘show-me-your-papers’
state,” she said in a telephone interview from Atlanta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 