-- 
Germany Floats Greek Restructuring as Papandreou Seeks Cuts

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-04-16T15:52:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/germany-floats-greek-restructuring-as-papandreou-pushes-cuts.html
German officials are putting Greek
debt restructuring on the table over declarations by leaders in
Athens and policy makers elsewhere in Europe that  Greece  will
make good on its obligations.  German Deputy Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer said yesterday
a Greek restructuring “would not be a disaster.” The previous
day, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  was quoted by Die Welt
newspaper as saying “further measures may have to be taken” if
Greece flunks a June audit.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s deputies are raising what has
been a taboo issue for European officials -- a restructuring by
a euro member -- to show its unwillingness to contribute to more
bailouts,  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh. Berenberg
Gossler & Co. in  London , said in a phone interview. Germany is
the largest contributor to European Union rescue funds, which
have been tapped by Ireland, Greece and  Portugal .  “This is part of a gambit in negotiations,” Schmieding
said. “If Greece doesn’t get access to markets, the funds will
probably run out sometime in 2012. That, I think, is the German
message: Don’t count on us to add more money.”  The remarks by Hoyer were the most explicit by a European
official showing a 110 billion-euro ($159 billion) bailout for
Greece may fail to prevent the first default by a euro country.
Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou yesterday repeated his
vow to avoid a restructuring as his government announced 76
billion euros of austerity measures.  ‘We Are Worried’  Greece has “done a tremendous job in reforming the
country,” Hoyer, who is minister for European affairs, said in
an interview in Berlin. “Whether all this is enough, whether
the results will be there soon enough, is a different question.
We are looking at the economic developments, the fiscal
developments in Greece and we are worried.”  Bonds of  Europe ’s most indebted nations fell for a third
day, pummelled by a Moody’s Investors Service downgrade of
Ireland to the lowest investment grade and Hoyer’s comments. The
yield on 10-year Greek debt jumped 55 basis points to 13.83
percent, widening the spread over German bunds to a record 1,045
basis points.  ‘No Disaster’  “A haircut or a restructuring of the debt would not be a
disaster,” said Hoyer, a member of the Free Democratic Party, a
junior partner in Merkel’s coalition. If Greece’s creditors
agreed that talks “would be helpful toward a restructuring of
the debt, then of course this would be supported by us.”  In a statement in  Washington  today, Martin Kotthaus, a
spokesman for Schaeuble, dismissed a  Financial Times  report that
German officials are considering a plan to enable holders of
Greek sovereign bonds to swap them for safer securities
guaranteed by Euro-member countries. Another option would be for
a trust to buy the bonds and extend their maturity or retire
them, unidentified officials in the chancellery and the  Finance
Ministry .  “There have been media reports today regarding German
plans for Greek sovereign debt restructuring,” Kotthaus said by
e-mail. “These plans have no basis in reality.”  Merkel is on the defensive after losing control of a key
state in a regional election last month amid public opposition
to nuclear power. Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  and their Free
Democratic coalition partners trail the opposition  Social
Democrats  and Greens by 38 percent to 50 percent, an FG Wahlen
poll for ZDF television showed yesterday. The gap has widened to
from 8 points last month as the Greens surged.  Greek Cuts  The questions over Greek finances came as Papandreou
stepped up efforts to reduce the  budget deficit , outlining 26
billion euros in cuts and 50 billion euros in asset sales.  The Finance Ministry in  Athens  said the sales will cut debt
by 20 percentage points by 2015. The government, with debt of
about 300 billion euros, will sell stakes in phone, power and
gambling companies and the Athens airport to trim a debt load
set to peak at 159 percent of gross domestic product in 2012.  “Greece’s problems won’t be solved by restructuring its
debt but by restructuring the country,” Papandreou said. “Even
if with the wave of a wand the debt disappeared, Greece in a few
years would have debts again without these reforms.”  The measures are aimed at meeting a target, agreed with the
EU and the IMF as a condition for the bailout, to cut the
deficit to less than 3 percent of GDP by 2014 and a self-imposed
goal of reducing it to below 1 percent by 2015. The government
still aims for a deficit of 7.4 percent this year, even after
first-quarter revenue missed the target by 1.4 billion euros.  Backing Greek efforts, European officials have dismissed
restructuring as a policy option.  ‘Fragile’ Environment  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said April 14 that a debt restructuring in the euro
region could cause a “chain reaction through the banking
sector,” calling the environment still “fragile.”  European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said
that he doesn’t see a threat of a default in Greece or Ireland.  “I don’t think any restructuring is really justified. We
have to stick with programs that are now in place both for
Greece and Ireland and very soon also for Portugal,” he said in
an interview in  New York  yesterday. “I hope that after that
markets will consider the situation as being more stable.”  Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said April 6 that
 Germany  prefers that Greece pursue austerity measures. “There
is no instrument for such a restructuring,” he said.  Still, yields on two-year Greek debt at 18.5 percent
suggest investors are anticipating they’re not going to be
repaid in full and on time.  “The issue of Greece is not whether there will be debt
restructuring, but when it will be done,”  Nouriel Roubini , the
economist who predicted the global financial crisis, said
yesterday at a conference in Almaty,  Kazakhstan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 