-- 
Germany Would Back Greece Debt Restructuring, Hoyer Says

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-04-15T16:14:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/germany-would-back-greece-if-it-sought-debt-restructuring-minister-says.html
A Greek debt restructuring “would
not be a disaster” and  Germany  would back a voluntary effort to
ease the struggling euro member’s payment terms, Deputy Foreign
Minister Werner Hoyer said. The euro and Greek bonds fell after
his comments.  The remarks by Hoyer were the most explicit by a European
official showing a 110 billion-euro ($159 billion) bailout for
Greece may fail to prevent the first default by a euro country.
His message contrasts with Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s pledge to avoid a restructuring.  Greece has “done a tremendous job in reforming the
country,” Hoyer, who is minister for European affairs, said in
an interview today in Berlin. “Whether all this is enough,
whether the results will be there soon enough, is a different
question. We are looking at the economic developments, the
fiscal developments in  Greece  and we are worried.”  Bonds of  Europe ’s most indebted nations fell for a third
day after a Moody’s Investors Service downgrade of Ireland to
the lowest investment grade and Hoyer’s comments. The yield on
10-year Greek debt jumped 55 basis points to 13.83 percent,
widening the spread over German bunds to a record 1,045 basis
points. The euro weakened 0.2 percent to $1.4454 at 12:10 p.m.
in New York.  “A haircut or a restructuring of the debt would not be a
disaster,” said Hoyer, a member of the Free Democratic Party
that’s the junior partner in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government. If Greece’s creditors agreed that talks with the
Greek government “would be helpful toward a restructuring of
the debt, then of course this would be supported by us.”  Schaeuble Comments  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble today sought to
retreat from comments in an interview published yesterday in the
German newspaper Die Welt suggesting Greece may have to seek a
debt restructuring.  “The conclusions from it are somewhat misguided,”
Schaeuble told reporters in  Washington , when asked whether he
was suggesting Greece needed to restructure a debt load of about
300 billion euros.  Merkel’s deputies are raising what has been a taboo issue
for European officials -- a restructuring by a euro member -- to
show its unwillingness to contribute to more bailouts,  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh Berenberg Gossler & Co. in
 London , said in a phone interview. Germany is the largest
contributor to European Union rescue funds.  German Gambit  “This is part of a gambit in negotiations with the
others,” Schmieding said. “The German message is: Don’t count
on us to add more money.”  The questions over Greek finances came as Papandreou’s
government promised to step up efforts to cut the  budget
deficit , outlining 26 billion euros in new austerity measures
and 50 billion euros in asset sales.  The  Finance Ministry  in Athens said the sales will cut debt
by 20 percentage points by 2015. The government will sell stakes
in the country’s phone, power and gambling companies and airport
to trim a debt load expected to peak at 159 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012.  “Greece’s problems won’t be solved by restructuring its
debt but by restructuring the country,” Papandreou said today
at a Cabinet meeting in comments broadcast by state-run Net TV.
“Even if with the wave of a wand the debt disappeared, Greece
in a few years would have debts again without these reforms.”  Backing Greek efforts, European officials have dismissed
restructuring as a policy option.  ‘Chain Reaction’  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said yesterday that a debt restructuring in the euro
region could cause a “chain reaction through the banking
sector,” calling the environment still “fragile.”  European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said
that he doesn’t see a threat of a default in Greece or Ireland.  “I don’t think any restructuring is really justified. We
have to stick with programs that are now in place both for
Greece and Ireland and very soon also for  Portugal ,” he said in
an interview in  New York  today. “I hope that after that markets
will consider the situation as being more stable.”  Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said April 6 that
Germany prefers that Greece pursue austerity measures. “There
is no instrument for such a restructuring,” he said.  Still, with two-year Greek yields rising to 18.5 percent,
investors are anticipating they’re not going to be repaid in
full and on time.  “The issue of Greece is not whether there will be debt
restructuring, but when it will be done,”  Nouriel Roubini , the
economist who predicted the global financial crisis, said today
at a conference in Almaty,  Kazakhstan ’s financial center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  