-- 
German Renewable Energy Law to Reflect Cost, Market Integration

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-04-15T15:37:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/german-renewable-energy-law-to-reflect-cost-market-integration.html
German Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen said an update of the country’s renewable energy law
must focus on maintaining costs and integrating power from  wind
turbines  and solar panels into the broader  electricity market .  “Cost efficiency and market integration will be the
leading issues in the new version,” Roettgen said at a press
conference in Berlin today. The minister said key points of the
update could be put to Cabinet on June 6 and that wind will be
at the center of renewable energy output in the country.  Germany, which put its nuclear power policy under review on
safety concerns after explosions at Japanese reactors, is
scrambling to boost output and alternative energy sources. That
means managing both volatile output from wind turbines and solar
panels, where generation depends on the weather, as well as
costs for subsidizing the implementation of the technology.  Power grid operators are required to give priority to
electricity from wind parks and solar panels over nuclear and
fossil-fuel-fired power plants unless the stability of the
network is threatened.  “We have to steer the legal framework to more market
integration,” Roettgen said. “That means that those people who
are generating renewable energy will soon have to see themselves
not only as feeding in power to the grid for a tariff but that
they have to increasingly become market actors who respond to
supply and demand.”  Germany  plans to generate 80 percent of its power from
renewable sources in 2050 and will have to “continue the
course” of managing the associated costs, the minister said.  Roettgen cited two reductions in the above-market rate paid
to solar panel owners since  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition
took power in October 2009 as an example of cost-management. He
didn’t specify what further action the government will take.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  