-- 
Giants Stadium Seeks Information on Lehman Auction-Rate Securities Hedging

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S c i n t a
-- 
2011-04-15T14:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/giants-stadium-llc-seeks-information-on-lehman-auction-rate-swaps-hedging.html
Giants Stadium LLC asked a  New York 
bankruptcy court to require collapsed investment bank  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  to provide information on how it hedged
auction-rate securities swaps dating to 2007.  The company, which helped finance the construction of the
$1.6 billion  New Jersey  stadium the National Football League
team shares with the New York Jets, said Lehman hasn’t provided
documents on how it calculated losses on the swaps, according to
a court filing yesterday in Manhattan. Lehman in 2008 filed the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  “Giants Stadium is entitled to information concerning the
debtors’ derivative valuation methodology as well as information
concerning any and all transactions debtors may have entered
into in order to offset the risk,” the company, represented by
attorneys at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, said in the filing.  In an interest-rate swap, two parties exchange payments on
an agreed-upon amount of principal, typically with one paying a
fixed rate while the other pays a floating rate.  The swaps contracts were made with Lehman’s unit Lehman
Brothers Special Financing. The bank was to pay the actual rate
of interest on auction-rate securities over the term of bonds
used to finance building the stadium in exchange for a fixed
rate from the Giants, the team said in papers previously filed
with the court.  Needs Access  Giants Stadium  LLC said it needs access to documents and to
interview Lehman representatives to understand the losses on the
swaps, which it terminated in 2008, days after Lehman sought
court protection. Giants Stadium LLC has filed $301.8 million in
claims against Lehman in its bankruptcy case related to swap
deals, according to court filings.  In April 2008, Giants Stadium LLC told bondholders it would
redeem $100 million in debt, one of seven series of $650 million
of bonds it sold for the 84,000-seat stadium in East Rutherford,
New Jersey, after interest costs soared. The Jets borrowed $650
million from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and the Royal Bank of Canada, while
the Giants got the same amount from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Lehman, the Jets said.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Scinta at   cscinta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  