-- 
Goldman’s Gary Cohn Focus of Lawyer Wrangle Over Rajaratnam Trial Defense

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-15T23:08:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/goldman-s-gary-cohn-focus-of-lawyer-wrangle-over-rajaratnam-trial-defense.html
Federal prosecutors said they were
prepared to summon  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  President  Gary Cohn 
as a witness to rebut Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s defense in his insider-trading trial.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told U.S. District
Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan on April 12 that the
government would call Cohn to testify if a defense witness,
former Galleon U.S. President Richard Schutte, was permitted to
tell jurors about comments Cohn made at a meeting with
Rajaratnam on July 31, 2008.  “That’s hearsay” and shouldn’t be allowed as evidence,
Brodsky told the judge, according to a transcript of a
“sidebar” conference that jurors and others in the courtroom
couldn’t hear. If the defense witness testified about Cohn’s
comments, Brodsky said, “We are prepared to call Mr. Cohn, and
we would be allowed to do that as part of our rebuttal case.”  Schutte, who completed his testimony yesterday, wasn’t
asked by Rajaratnam’s lawyers about Cohn’s comments at the
meeting. Rajaratnam’s attorneys may finish their defense of the
billionaire hedge fund manager on April 18. Brodsky told Holwell
yesterday that prosecutors intended to present a rebuttal case.
He didn’t mention Cohn or identify other potential witnesses.  “We have a bit of a rebuttal case we’re still preparing,”
Brodsky said.  Lucas van Praag, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, also declined to comment.  Intel, Clearwire  Rajaratnam, 53, has been on trial since March 8 in the
largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
The Sri Lankan-born money manager is accused of gaining
$63.8 million from tips leaked by corporate insiders and hedge-
fund traders about a dozen stocks, including Goldman Sachs,
 Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  He
denies wrongdoing, saying he based his trades on research.  Summations in the case may begin next week, the judge said.  Gregg Jarrell, the top economist for the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission from 1984 to 1987, testified today as an
expert witness for Rajaratnam. Jarrell, who now teaches at the
University of Rochester’s graduate school of business in  New
York , said the tips Rajaratnam allegedly received weren’t
material to Galleon or didn’t comprise inside information.  Certainty, Uncertainty  Jarrell showed jurors charts displaying press articles and
analyst reports about the stocks Rajaratnam is accused of
trading based on inside information.  On cross-examination by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter, Jarrell testified that mergers and acquisitions are
almost always preceded by analysts and journalists speculating
on whether the deal will go through.  Streeter asked Jarrell if a trader with access to accurate
information from a corporate insider has an advantage.  “If you have certainty, in a world of uncertainty, that’s
an advantage,” Jarrell said.  Jarrell’s testimony will continue April 18.  The discussion about Cohn came on April 12 as prosecutors
objected to Schutte’s testimony about a meeting he and
Rajaratnam had with Cohn. At that July 31, 2008, meeting, the
Galleon and Goldman Sachs executives discussed the “potential”
that the New York-based investment bank would “combine with an
entity that had a large deposit base,” including a commercial
bank or insurance company, Schutte testified.  Goldman Tip  The defense offered Schutte’s testimony to respond to the
government’s claim that  Rajat Gupta , then a Goldman Sachs board
member, tipped Rajaratnam two days before that meeting that the
bank was considering buying  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  or
Wachovia Corp. Through Schutte’s testimony, the defense may have
been trying to show that the alleged tip from Gupta didn’t
involve confidential information.  Brodsky objected, according to the transcript of the
sidebar conference with the judge, saying defense lawyers wanted
to elicit “a hearsay statement that Mr. Cohn made at the
meeting” about Goldman Sachs possibly making “a certain
plan.” Brodsky then said the government would summon Cohn on
rebuttal if there was such testimony, according to the
transcript.  Cross-Examination  In the end, Schutte didn’t testify about Cohn’s comments at
the July 2008 meeting. Under cross-examination by Brodsky,
Schutte said he didn’t ask Cohn at the meeting whether Goldman
Sachs was planning to buy a bank imminently and that Cohn didn’t
address the issue.  Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein ,
testifying at the trial on March 23, said Gupta violated the
firm’s confidentiality policies by allegedly telling Rajaratnam
about its earnings and strategic plans. Rajaratnam is accused of
earning $4.6 million by trading on tips about the New York-based
investment bank.  Gupta denies wrongdoing and hasn’t been criminally charged.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has brought an
administrative action against him.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  