-- 
Goldman Sachs Gets Approval for Indian Primary Dealer Permit

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-15T09:12:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/goldman-sachs-gets-approval-for-indian-primary-dealer-permit-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  received
approval from India’s central bank to become a primary dealer,
allowing it to underwrite government bonds in the world’s
second-fastest growing major economy.  The investment bank, based in New York, will be able to
start the operations on April 18, according to a  statement  on
the website of the  Reserve Bank  of India.  The permit will let Goldman Sachs compete to help the
finance ministry raise an estimated 4.17 trillion rupees ($94
billion) from debt in the year ending March 31. The U.S. firm,
which lacks a license that would enable it to trade currencies
in India, trailed rivals including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  in entering the nation’s primary dealership business.  Goldman Sachs expects to receive a banking license in the
nation in three to six months, according to a March 21 report by
Guy Moszkowski and Steven J. Chubak, analysts at Bank of America
Corp. who met with the investment bank’s Asian senior management
team in  Hong Kong  last month. Edward Naylor, a spokesman for
Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong, declined to comment.  The investment bank currently employs about 100 people in
its Mumbai office and another 3,500 in Bangalore to provide
back-office services for its global operations. It has invested
about $2 billion in India, most of it since 2005, buying stakes
in companies including  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , Max India Ltd.
and TVS Logistics Services Ltd.  Last month, Goldman Sachs agreed to buy Mumbai-based
Benchmark Asset Management Co. for an undisclosed amount. That
transaction gives it access to a market where assets managed by
mutual funds more than tripled to 6.8 trillion rupees in the
five years ended Dec. 31, according to the Association of Mutual
Funds of India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  