-- 
Google Investors Say They Wanted More From Page on Analyst Call

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/google-investors-say-they-wanted-more-from-larry-page-during-earnings-call.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  investors say they got
scant reassurance from new Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page 
during this week’s earnings conference call, following a surge
in operating expenses.  Page spoke for less than 2 minutes and 30 seconds near the
beginning of the April 14 call with analysts, which lasted about
an hour. Page, who wasn’t originally slated to speak on the
call, said he was pleased with first-quarter results and that
there was strong momentum at the company.  “The thing that has spooked everybody is the combination
of the expense numbers being higher than people anticipated --
and this kind of odd, slightly disconnected-sounding, ‘Hey,
everything is great,’” said Bob Rice, general managing partner
at New York-based Tangent Capital Partners LLC, which owns
Google shares. “The whole way it was staged was bizarre.”  Page, facing rising competition from rivals  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Facebook Inc., is ramping up spending on hiring and marketing.
That’s pushing up operating costs. First-quarter profit
excluding some items was $8.08 a share, below the $8.12 average
of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Google declined $47.81, or 8.3 percent, to $530.70
yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest drop since
December 2008. The shares have fallen 11 percent this year.  Aaron Zamost, a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, declined to comment.  More Clarity Needed?  While it’s too early to tell how well Page is performing,
he could have helped investors with a broader discussion of the
company’s perspective on spending, said Ryan Jacob, chief
investment officer at Los Angeles-based Jacob Funds.  “ Wall Street  hates uncertainty,” said Jacob, whose funds
include Google holdings. “A lot of the expenditures they’re
making are somewhat discretionary to whatever management’s
strategies and goals are. To elaborate on that from the CEO’s
position I think would have given a bit more clarity to
people.”  Operating costs during the first quarter rose 54 percent,
the biggest jump in three years, partly because of a hiring
spree. The company had 26,316 employees at the end of the
quarter, up 7.9 percent from the end of December. Research and
development costs rose 50 percent from a year earlier, while
sales and marketing climbed 69 percent.  ‘Very Excited’  During the call with analysts, Page emphasized that Google
had sales growth of 27 percent last quarter and that there have
been improvements in its main search business.  “I’m very excited about Google and our momentum,” said
Page, 38. “I’m very, very optimistic about our future.”  Even before Page took over last week, Google was moving
away from having its CEO on quarterly calls. The company said in
the first quarter of last year that then CEO  Eric Schmidt  would
stop joining calls. He did speak on a call in January when the
company announced he would become executive chairman and Page
would replace him as chief.  In his first week on the job, Page promoted seven of his
managers to senior positions, including  Andy Rubin , who heads up
mobile efforts, and Vic Gundotra, who is in charge of social
initiatives, according to a person briefed on the changes. The
executives will report directly to Page, the person said.  Page’s changes are designed to streamline engineering and
product development, placing a single manager in charge of each
product group, said Chris Gaither, a company spokesman. Page
said in January that the company needs to stay nimble even as it
becomes larger.  While Page needs to prove himself, he has the opportunity
to be a strong CEO in the tradition of Microsoft Corp.’s  Bill Gates  and Apple’s  Steve Jobs , said Morris Mark, president of
Mark Asset Management Corp. in  New York .  “I do like some of the things he’s done so far -- the
reorganization in the key divisions, freeing those divisions to
have room to maneuver, to create, to innovate,” Mark said in a
televised interview on “Bloomberg West.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  