-- 
Google Shares Decline After Company Posts Biggest Jump in Costs Since 2008

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-04-15T20:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/google-falls-after-posting-biggest-increase-in-costs-since-2008.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  shares fell the most
since December 2008 after a first-quarter hiring binge and
increased marketing led to the biggest jump in operating
expenses in three years.  First-quarter operating costs rose 54 percent, outstripping
a sales gain of 29 percent to $6.54 billion, the  Mountain View ,
California-based company  said  yesterday. Profit excluding some
items was $8.08 a share, below the average analyst estimate of
$8.12 compiled by Bloomberg.  Larry Page , who replaced Eric Schmidt as chief executive
officer last week, is ramping up spending to pursue new growth
opportunities, including mobile and video advertising. Google
boosted hiring by more than 1,900 people during the quarter,
part of a plan to add at least 6,000 this year. At the same
time, he’s grappling with growing regulatory scrutiny of the
company’s market-leading Internet-search business.  “The concern is that the expense discipline may be leaving
as  Eric Schmidt  steps away,” said  Clayton Moran , a  Boca Raton ,
Florida-based analyst at Benchmark Co., who recommends buying
the stock and doesn’t own it. “The company through the
recession had shown significant financial discipline.”  Google declined $47.81, or 8.3 percent, to $530.70 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
have dropped 11 percent this year.  Sales Growth  The $6.54 billion in sales -- a figure that excludes
revenue passed on to partner sites -- topped the $6.32 billion
average of estimates. First-quarter net income climbed 18
percent to $2.3 billion, or $7.04 a share, from $1.96 billion,
or $6.06, a year earlier.  “The investors we have actually understand that we are
building businesses for the long term,” Patrick Pichette, chief
financial officer, said in an interview yesterday. “They also
want growth, which we delivered this quarter.”  Google, while demanding financial accountability
internally, continues to invest in areas such as marketing of
the Chrome Web browser, Pichette said during a conference call
with analysts. The earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , meanwhile,
crimped ad sales during the quarter. That impact will carry over
into the latest period, he said.  The current investments will help fuel future revenue
growth, even if they push up costs in the short term, said Larry Haverty, a portfolio manager at Gamco Investors Inc. with more
than 60,000 shares of Google.  Making It Work  “They have tremendous technology,” Haverty said during a
televised interview with “Bloomberg West.” “I’m confident
having watched this thing for 37 quarters that these guys one
way or the other are smart enough to turn incremental revenue
into profit.”  The company is relying on its Android operating system and
last year’s acquisition of AdMob Inc. to tackle the mobile
market, putting it in closer competition with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  There
are now about 350,000 Android devices being activated a day, up
from about 300,000 a day in January, Jeff Huber, senior vice
president of engineering, said during the call.  Google also is increasingly squaring off against Facebook
Inc. in social features and display advertising -- the banners
and videos that appear on websites. Google introduced a social-
networking service last month that lets users point out search
results to friends.  The company had 26,316 employees at the end of the first
quarter, up 7.9 percent from the end of December. Research 
and development costs rose 50 percent from a year earlier,
while sales and marketing climbed 69 percent.  Regulatory Challenges  Schmidt, who became executive chairman when Page stepped
into the CEO role, is now focusing on external affairs and
government relations.  Google faces deepening challenges on the regulatory front.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is weighing a broad antitrust
probe, people familiar with the matter said this month. And the
European Commission and Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  have
begun investigations into whether Google is skewing its search
results to favor its own businesses over competitors’ websites.  The heavier scrutiny should be expected as Google gets
larger, Pichette said. Regulators have a job to do and the
company works closely with government agencies, he said.  In his first week on the job, Page promoted seven of his
managers to senior positions, including  Andy Rubin , who heads up
mobile efforts, and Vic Gundotra, who is in charge of social
initiatives, according to a person briefed on the changes. The
executives will report directly to Page, the person said.  Keeping Pace  Page’s changes are designed to streamline engineering and
product development, placing a single manager in charge of each
product group, said Chris Gaither, a company spokesman. Page,
38, said in January that the company needs to maintain its pace
as Google becomes larger.  The rising costs show Page is focused on long-term results,
even if investors aren’t happy about it, said Sameet Sinha, an
analyst with B. Riley & Co. in  San Francisco . He recommends
buying the stock, which he doesn’t own.  “He’s saying, ‘I’m not afraid of spending,’” he said. “I
know it will impact my stock, but I’m more of a product guy and
a technologist, and I care more about creating technology and
putting it out there. And if it means taking a short-term hit,
so be it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  