-- 
Greece Plans $110 Billion in Austerity Measures, Asset Sales to Cut Debt

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-04-15T15:16:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/greece-will-cut-spending-sell-assets-to-meet-debt-goal-won-t-restructure.html
Greece  plans to carry out 76
billion euros ($110 billion) in austerity measures and state-
asset sales to meet budget-deficit goals as Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  vowed the country won’t restructure its debt.  Greece will enact 26 billion euros in deficit cuts and 50
billion euros in asset sales through 2015, the  Finance Ministry 
said today in an e-mailed statement from Athens. The measures
will cut the deficit to near 1 percent of gross domestic product
by 2015, from a targeted 7.4 percent this year, Finance Minister
 George Papaconstantinou  said.  Papandreou is trying to convince investors that the country
won’t have to renege on its debts after getting a 110 billion-
euro bailout last year from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund . Greek bond yields have soared to a
record after a German official said that Greece may have to
renegotiate its debt burden.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Greek debt
instead of benchmark German bunds widened to 1,043.63 basis
points as of 3:20 p.m. in  London  today, the most since before
the euro’s debut in 1999. The yield on the Greek 10-year bond
rose 54 basis points to 13.82 percent.  “Greece’s problems won’t be solved by restructuring its
debt but by restructuring the country,” Papandreou said earlier
today at a Cabinet meeting in comments broadcast by state-run
Net TV. “Even if with the wave of a wand the debt disappeared,
Greece in a few years would have debts again without these
reforms.”  Debt Reduction  The government will sell stakes in the country’s phone,
power, gas and gambling companies and airport to raise funds to
trim debt expected to peak at 159 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012, according to today’s statement. The sales aim
to slash debt by 20 percentage points of GDP by 2015.  Greece will sell a stake in  Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO) , reduce its holding in  Public Power Corp SA (PPC)  to
34 percent from 51 percent and will begin selling down its stake
in Athens International Airport. The sales will help raise 15
billion euros by 2013 and 50 billion euros by 2015.  As part of the austerity package, Greece will cut defense
spending by 1.2 billion euros, or 0.5 percent of GDP, reduce
public-sector wage costs by 2 billion euros, or 0.9 percent of
GDP, and trim spending on pensions by 2.5 billion euros, or 1.1
percent of GDP, according to the statement. A crackdown on  tax
evasion  will yield 3.5 billion euros, or 1.5 percent of GDP.  Deficit Targets  The measures are aimed at meeting a target, agreed with the
EU and the IMF as a condition for the bailout, to cut the
deficit to less than 3 percent of GDP by 2014 and a self-imposed
goal of reducing it to below 1 percent by 2015. The government
still aims for a deficit of 7.4 percent this year, even after
first-quarter revenue missed the target by 1.4 billion euros.  Today’s measures include 3 billion euros in unspecified
savings to account for any fiscal slippage this year, according
to the statement.  Papandreou said economic growth will return to Greece next
year after nearly three years of recession. Speaking on live
television after the economic plan was unveiled, he said talk of
a debt restructuring must stop. Greece can’t halt its reforms
“in the middle of the road” and next year “can be the start
of the way out,” he said.  No Disaster  A Greek debt restructuring “would not be a disaster” and
 Germany  would back a voluntary effort to ease the struggling
euro member’s repayment terms, German Deputy Foreign Minister
Werner Hoyer said today in an interview in Berlin.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today that
financial markets misinterpreted an interview he gave to German
newspaper Die Welt, which cited him yesterday as saying Greece
may have to seek a debt restructuring. Reactions to it were
“somewhat misguided,” he told reporters in  Washington .  “Given Greece’s limited progress so far on the fiscal
adjustment, it is not a surprise to us that the political voices
arguing for a debt restructuring are on the rise across core
European countries, be it in Germany,  Finland  or the
Netherlands,” Barclays Capital economists Fabio Fois and Frank Engels wrote in a note to investors today. Still, “these types
of comments are not helpful.”  European Central Bank Governing Council member Athanasios Orphanides said “the whole of  Europe ” is supporting Greece and
that he’s “amazed at the strong sense” that a restructuring of
Greek debt is unavoidable.  “I don’t see any reason to be concerned about the
sustainability of Greek debt,” he said at a conference in  New
York  today.  Matter of Time  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who predicted the global
financial crisis, said today that restructuring of Greek debt is
a matter of time. “The issue of Greece is not whether there
will be debt restructuring, but when it will be done,” he said
at a conference in  Kazakhstan .  Papaconstantinou acknowledged in an April 1 interview that
Greece’s 2010 deficit may be more than the government’s initial
9.4 percent projection. The figure, currently under review by EU
statistics agency Eurostat, may be revised to above 10 percent,
the Kathimerini newspaper reported on March 29.  Greece’s Public Debt Service Management Agency will sell
1.25 billion euros of 13-week treasury bills on April 19, the
agency said in a statement today. Greece has continued to hold
regular T-bill auctions even as it remains frozen out of
international bond markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 