-- 
Gross Alone Beating Stocks as Bears Fail to Profit From Crashes

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-04-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/gross-alone-beating-s-p-as-two-crashes-in-decade-fail-to-boost-bear-funds.html
Two market crashes in a decade
haven’t helped  bear-market  mutual funds avoid the distinction of
worst-performing strategy. The only exception: Bill Gross.  Gross, best-known for overseeing the world’s biggest bond
mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., also runs the
top-ranked fund that bets on a decline in stocks. The $1.6
billion  Pimco Stocksplus TR Short Strategy Fund (PSTIX)  has advanced 3
percent annually in the past five years, the only bear-market
mutual fund to beat U.S. stocks over that period, according to
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Bear funds trailed equities over five and 10
years, and were the worst performers over both periods.  “Few people are smart enough to tell where the market is
going,”  Geoff Bobroff , an  East Greenwich , Rhode Island-based
consultant to money managers, said in an interview. “ Bill Gross 
and his team have developed the right tool kit here.”  Bear funds have failed to profit from two crashes in a
decade, the second of which, from 2007 to 2009, erased $11
trillion in market value and left the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index below where it stood 11 years ago. After surging a record
30 percent in 2008, the funds slumped 34 percent in 2009 and 24
percent the following year as the stock market rebounded,
according to  Morningstar , which is based in  Chicago .  U.S. mutual funds that short, or wager on a decline in
stock markets, have on average tumbled at an annual rate of 10
percent over the 10 years through March, the most of 90
strategies tracked by Morningstar. They’ve fallen 13 percent
over the past five years. The group includes 42 funds, with
active as well as passive strategies, some of which attempt to
amplify market gains or losses.  ‘Poor Performance’  “Bear funds have had a really poor track record,” Nadia Papagiannis, an analyst at Morningstar, said in an interview.
“One period of good performance isn’t good enough to make up
for several years of poor performance.”  The funds have been a niche strategy since the first were
started in the mid-1980s. They have about $4.8 billion in
assets, accounting for less than 0.1 percent of the $8.4
trillion in stock and bond assets, Morningstar data show. Funds
that invest in large-company stocks, the most popular, have
about $2.4 trillion in assets.  Bear funds have attracted money after the recent market
crashes, with investors pouring $4.7 billion into the strategy
in 2009 and 2010. Assets in bear mutual funds peaked at $5.5
billion as of Dec. 31.  Lifting Returns  The funds can bet against the stock market by short-selling
individual stocks or by using derivatives to short indexes such
as the  S&P 500 . Shorting involves selling borrowed securities
with the expectation that their value will fall and they can be
bought back cheaper at a later time.  Gross’s fund, started in 2003 to provide “inverse
exposure” to the market, uses derivatives to bet against the
stock market, and may use borrowed money and fixed-income
securities to lift returns, according to information posted on
the website of  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco.  The fund allows investors to potentially profit in two
ways. If the stock market is declining, investors gain from the
short positions. If the stock market is rising, investors can
offset losses from the short positions through the fixed-income
portfolio. The Pimco fund returned 49 percent in 2008 when the
S&P 500 fell 38.5 percent. The fund declined 14 percent in 2009
and 8.5 percent in 2010.  ‘Difficult on Bears’  “In effect, it’s two funds in one,” said Rick Lake, co-
chairman of Greenwich, Connecticut-based Lake Partners Inc.,
which advises institutions on $3.5 billion in assets. “The
outperformance is due to the recent strong performance of bond
funds in general and Pimco bond funds in particular.”  Gross was not available for comment, said  Mark Porterfield ,
a spokesman for Pimco.  Unprecedented efforts by the  Federal Reserve  to stimulate
the economy have helped the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index double
from its March 2009 low. That hurt funds including those founded
by  David Tice  and Charles Minter, who are known for their
persistently gloomy views on the market.  “Prices do diverge from fundamentals if you have so much
government intervention,” Douglas Noland, who has worked with
Tice for more than a decade, said in an telephone interview.
“It’s very difficult on us bears. It’s frustrating.”  Noland and colleague Ryan Bend run the $1.3 billion
Federated Prudent Bear Fund, which was founded by Tice and
profited from the managers’ conviction in late 2007 that stocks
would fall 50 percent. The fund, owned by Pittsburgh-based
 Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , rose 27 percent the following year. It
has fallen 44 percent since March 9, 2009.  Grizzly Fund  The top-performing actively managed bear mutual fund during
2008 was Steven Leuthold’s $90 million  Grizzly Short Fund (GRZZX) , which
returned 74 percent. Even with that gain, the fund has declined
at an annual rate of 9 percent over the past five years.  Funds that magnify the inverse return of a specific index
have been hurt particularly bad. The Direxion Monthly Emerging
Markets Bear 2x Fund, which aims to provide investors with twice
the inverse return of an emerging markets index, is down 51
percent over five years, the worst performer in the category.  “Leveraged funds can really amplify losses,”
Morningstar’s Papagiannis said.  Paying a Premium  Funds that employ techniques such as shorting are also more
expensive than traditional long-only funds, said Todd
Rosenbluth, a senior director at New York-based Standard &
Poor’s. The average expense ratio of funds that have the ability
to short is 2 percent, compared with 1.3 percent for large-cap
value funds, he said.  “Investors are paying 70 basis points more for these
alternative strategies, which will hurt returns even more,” he
said.  The Federated Prudent Bear Fund and the $97 million
 Comstock Capital Value Fund (DRCVX) , the oldest bear-market mutual fund,
use a combination of options, short sales and fixed-income
securities that reflect their conviction that the U.S. stock
market will decline.  Comstock Partners, which is owned by Mario Gabelli’s Rye,
New York-based mutual-fund company  Gamco Investors Inc. (GBL) , in 1985
opened a mutual fund that allowed managers to bet on rising as
well as falling markets. Minter said he started out bullish and
turned pessimistic just before the stock market crash of 1987.
Betting on a decline in equities helped the Comstock fund return
34 percent in 1987, when the S&P 500 rose 2 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘We Got Slaughtered’  The Comstock fund, managed by Minter and Martin Weiner,
suffered when the managers doubted the stock market rally from
1995 to 2000. Their skepticism only paid off after the market
crashed in 2001 and 2002, helping the fund advance 65 percent
during those two years. In the four-year market recovery that
started in 2003, the fund lost 51 percent.  Moves by then-Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan 
“created a cyclical  bull market  between 2003 and 2007,” Minter
said in a telephone interview from Philadelphia. “We got
slaughtered throughout that period,” Minter said.  In a March report outlining Comstock’s macroeconomic
forecast, Minter and Weiner said U.S. stocks are in a “secular
bear market.” The rising levels of  U.S. debt , continuing
weakness of the U.S. housing market, and high valuations of U.S.
stocks will push the market down over the next several years,
the managers said.  ‘Two Ways to Lose’  Pimco’s Gross and Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian
have coined the term “new normal” to describe diminishing
market returns against the backdrop of higher government
intervention, persistent unemployment and the decreasing role of
the U.S. in the world economy.  Despite the Pimco bear fund’s performance relative to
peers, Lake Partners’ Lake said investors need to be
“judicious” about how much they put into such strategies. The
Pimco fund may be vulnerable to losses if the stock market
continues to go up and an increase in  interest rates  pushes bond
returns down.  “If that happens, investors potentially have two ways to
lose money,” Lake said. “There is no all-weather strategy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 