-- 
Groupon Said to Choose Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley as IPO Underwriters

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-04-15T21:52:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/groupon-said-to-choose-goldman-sachs-morgan-stanley-as-ipo-underwriters.html
Groupon Inc.  is close to retaining
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as the lead
underwriters for a planned initial public offering later this
year, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The banks, which haven’t yet been formally hired by
Groupon, would help handle an IPO that’s likely to take place
before October, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the talks were private. Groupon has discussed terms that
would value the company between $15 billion and $25 billion, two
people familiar with the matter said last month.  Groupon, the top provider of online daily discounts, has
drawn growing interest from Wall Street since December, when it
decided to consider an IPO instead of accepting a $6 billion
takeover bid from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  The company has been holding
discussions with Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and other banks
since January, including a meeting with Goldman Sachs Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  at Groupon’s Chicago
headquarters, a person familiar said at the time.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, declined to
comment, as did  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for New York-based
Goldman Sachs, and Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley
in  New York .  Groupon offers discounts of as much as 90 percent from
local businesses, such as restaurants, nail salons and clothing
stores. It then keeps a portion of the revenue.  While Groupon leads the daily-deal market, it faces
mounting competition from rivals such as LivingSocial. That
company recently raised $400 million in funding, two people
familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  Groupon’s valuation in private-market trading rose to $5.6
billion in the first quarter of this year, up 19 percent over
the fourth quarter of last year, according to New York-based
research firm Nyppex LLC. That valuation is based on
transactions among institutional investors.  The  Wall Street  Journal reported earlier that Groupon was
expected to hire the banks for its IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  