-- 
Micro Focus Falls as CEO Quits After Less Than One Year

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-04-15T15:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/micro-focus-falls-as-ceo-clifford-quits-after-less-than-a-year.html
Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO) 
plunged the most in two months in London trading after Chief
Executive Officer Nigel Clifford quit “with immediate effect”
after less than a year in charge.  The  software company , based in Newbury, southern  England ,
said in a statement today that it’s sticking with previous
guidance for trading in the financial year ending April 30.  Two months ago, Micro Focus lowered its forecasts for sales
and adjusted earnings, saying performance since the start of the
fiscal second half had been disappointing.  “If you need to change the leadership, there is no point
in waiting around,” Tintin Stormont, an analyst at Singer
Capital Markets with a “buy” rating on the stock, said in a
telephone interview. “You need to crack on and this is a
company that needs to crack on.”  Micro Focus fell as much as 17 percent, and closed 7.8
percent down to 291.8 pence, the biggest decline since Feb. 15.  Clifford, a former chief executive officer of Symbian Ltd.,
which supplies the software platform for Nokia OYJ mobile
phones, took over as CEO of Micro Focus last May 1. The company
also appointed  Mike Phillips  as finance chief last year.  Chairman Kevin Loosemore is assuming an executive role, the
company said in the statement.  “My immediate priority is to deliver the year-end in line
with shareholder expectations,” Loosemore said in the
statement.  Software companies generate revenue from licencing sales
that customers tend to agree toward the end of the final quarter
of the fiscal year, Stormont said. “This is a very critical
number they have to hit and they know that,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 