-- 
In ‘War Horse,’ Equine Hero Triumphs Over Horror: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/in-war-horse-equine-hero-triumphs-over-horror-jeremy-gerard.html
His name is Joey, and he makes two
of the most sensational stage entrances Broadway has ever seen.  In the first, near the opening of “War Horse,” he is a
spirited, spindle-legged foal prancing about as if he owned the
Devonshire countryside. Birds fly and chatter above him; a nosy
goose eyes him warily.  A bit later he explodes through the mist, rearing and
snorting, the blood of a draught-horse and thoroughbred pulsing
through his veins, in a coup-de-theatre no less memorable for
the fact that this magnificent creature is a puppet.  Beginning at the outset of World War I and ending with the
Armistice in 1918, “War Horse” follows Joey’s ravaged and
ravishing journey from country farm to the battlefields of
 France  and home again.  It is almost coincidentally the story of Albert Narracott,
the boy whose love for Joey will take him on an equally
harrowing chase through the war years and finally make a man of
him.  This astonishing production comes to  Lincoln Center Theater 
from Britain’s  National Theatre , where it opened in 2007 and
continues in the  West End . I doubt you’ll have ever seen
anything like it.  Nice Ears  These are not the horse-masked dancers of “Equus.” Joey
and several other steeds, notably the regal Topthorn, are life-
size Bunraku-style constructions formed of bamboo ribbing,
diaphanous fabric and features -- limbs, tails and manes -- that
are manipulated with breathtaking acuity by three actors for
each of them. I found myself won over by the meticulously
choreographed movement and especially the extraordinary
liveliness of Joey’s eyes and ears.  “War Horse” was first a little-heralded novel for young
readers by Michael Morpurgo. It was adapted by Nick Stafford,
but the real transformation was undertaken by  Handspring Puppet
Company , a Cape Town-based troupe whose handiwork has been seen
at the  Brooklyn Academy of Music’s  Next Wave Festival.  Marianne Elliott and Tom Morris’s simple, elegant staging
presents a large company in multiple roles and with a refreshing
lack of technological gimmickry. The dance-like movement created
by Toby Sedgwick makes poetry of every scene. The only
detraction is the portentous score by Adrian Sutton, which adds
unnecessary bombast to some of the show’s most stirring scenes.  Unforgettable Joey  A broad white banner across the proscenium serves as a
screen for projections by 59 Productions and elemental settings
by Rae Smith (who also designed the very apt costumes) that take
us from Devon to Calais and the Somme valley. Abjuring fancy
special effects, “War Horse” still manages to be the great
spectacle of the season.  Stafford never departs from the children’s-book contours of
the story. Albert (played with intense passion by Seth Numrich)
must separate from his sad loser of a father and doting mother.
He will witness the thundering violence of war and the near-
death of his beloved Joey. The climax, which is overwrought and
even a bit silly, never is in doubt, ultimately robbing the play
of deeper emotional involvement.  But Joey? He’ll nuzzle his way into your heart. You won’t
soon forget him.  At the Vivian Beaumont Theatre,  Lincoln Center , Broadway at
West 65th Street. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.lct.org  Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 