-- 
Inflation Accelerates More Than Forecast to 8.98% Adding Pressure on Rates

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-04-15T12:22:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/india-s-wholesale-price-inflation-accelerates-more-than-forecast-to-8-98-.html
India ’s inflation accelerated more
than economists estimated in March as the cost of fuel and
manufactured goods rose, putting pressure on policy makers to
raise  interest rates  in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 8.98 percent from
a year earlier after an 8.31 percent gain in February, the
commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today. That
exceeded all 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey, where the
median forecast was for an 8.36 percent increase.  Expansion in India’s $1.3 trillion economy has boosted
consumer demand and spurred manufacturing, car sales and credit
growth, stoking price risks and prompting the central bank to
raise rates eight times since early 2010. Inflation in the first
quarter has exceeded the  Reserve Bank of India ’s forecast that
price increases would be 8 percent by the end of March this year.  “Inflation is going to remain uncomfortably high this
year,” said Leif Eskesen, Singapore-based chief economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc. “The RBI needs to raise rates more
aggressively and we are looking at three more rate increases
this year.”  Stocks dropped the most in seven weeks, with the Bombay
Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index falling 1.6 percent. The yield
on the 8.08 percent bond due in August 2022 rose 4 basis points
to 8.24 percent, the highest level since Feb. 8, as of the 5 p.m.
close in Mumbai. The rupee strengthened 0.4 percent to 44.33 a
dollar, paring the week’s loss to 0.6 percent.  Rate Increase  Rising oil and commodity costs and sustained economic
growth are escalating pressure on Asian central banks to boost
borrowing costs.  China  on April 5 raised rates for the fourth
time since mid-October.  Vietnam ,  Taiwan ,  South Korea  and
 Thailand  also increased borrowing costs this year to curb
inflation, and Singapore said yesterday it would allow further
currency gains.  China’s economy  grew a more-than-estimated 9.7 percent in
the first quarter and inflation accelerated in March to the
fastest pace since 2008, with consumer prices rising 5.4 percent
from a year earlier, a report showed today.  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on March 17
increased the repurchase rate by a quarter point to 6.75 percent
after raising the inflation forecast for the second time since
late January, when he estimated it at 7 percent by March end.
The central bank’s next monetary policy announcement is
scheduled for May 3.  Food Inflation  “In the absence of a strong supply response, increasing
demand will inevitably lead to higher prices,”  Reserve Bank 
Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said April 5. He said a “monetary
response is warranted” should demand exceed supply and stoke
inflation.  Manufactured-products inflation was 6.21 percent in March,
compared with 4.94 percent in February, today’s report showed.
Fuel and power prices rose 12.92 percent, compared with 11.49
percent the previous month. India relies on imports to meet
three-quarters of its annual energy needs.  Food prices rose 8.28 percent in the week to April 2,
compared with 9.18 percent in the previous week, the commerce
ministry said in a separate report today.  India’s economy  may expand as much as 9.25 percent in the
year ending March 31, 2012, the  finance ministry  said in
February.  Production Growth  Still, India’s industrial production growth unexpectedly
slowed to 3.6 percent in February, a report showed this week.  “Even as industrial production continues to be volatile,
other indicators, such as the latest purchasing managers’ index,
direct and indirect tax collections, merchandise exports and
bank credit, suggest that the growth momentum persists,” the
central bank said in the March 17 statement.  India’s industrial output has fluctuated since May, when it
registered a 12.2 percent expansion. The growth eased to 7.2
percent in June, rebounded to 15.1 percent in July, slid to 4.9
percent in September and then recovered in October, according to
government data.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest carmaker,
plans to boost capacity by 21 percent in the current financial
year as part of investment plans totaling as much as 40 billion
rupees ($900 million), Chief Financial Officer Ajay Seth said in
an interview on April 6. The company’s sales climbed to a record
in March.  Recent data show lenders are giving loans at a faster pace
than the central bank’s target. Commercial loans rose 21.4
percent from the previous year as of March 25, more than the 20
percent rate prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India.  Rising Salaries  Manufacturing grew for a 24th straight month, with the
purchasing managers’ index holding unchanged at 57.9 in March
from February, when it accelerated at the fastest pace in three
months, HSBC Holdings and Markit Economics said April 1.  Salaries in India this year may rise the most in the Asia-
Pacific region, fueling consumer demand, a survey by Aon Hewitt
LLC showed March 8. Spending under the government’s National
Rural Employment Guarantee Act of 2005 has surged almost
fourfold to 399 billion rupees.  Demand may find more support from Finance Minister Pranab
Mukherjee’s budget for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012,
which plans to spur spending and exempt incomes below 180,000
rupees from tax, higher than the previous threshold of 160,000
rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  