-- 
India’s Rupee Ends Best Weekly Rally in Six Months on Importers

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-04-15T12:57:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/india-s-rupee-ends-best-weekly-rally-in-six-months-on-importers.html
India ’s rupee ended its best weekly
rally in six months on speculation the nation’s refiners will
step up dollar purchases to pay for oil.  Crude on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  has risen 18
percent this year, making it more expensive for the country that
depends on imports to meet 75 percent of its energy requirements.
The currency rose today, paring its weekly loss, after a
government report showed inflation accelerated more than
economists’ estimates, adding pressure on the central bank to
add to the eight rate increases in the past 15 months.  “Oil is a dominating factor in the rupee’s decline and I
see no reason for a change in this trend in the near term,”
said  Roy Paul , deputy general manager at Federal Bank Ltd. in
Mumbai. “We have only to watch the pace of decline because the
macro-economic factors are unlikely to change.”  The rupee declined 0.6 percent this week to 44.33 per
dollar at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency had strengthened in each of the last
four weeks, the longest streak of gains since mid-October.
Financial markets in Mumbai were closed yesterday for a holiday.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 8.98 percent from
a year earlier after an 8.31 percent gain in February, the
commerce ministry said today. That exceeded all 28 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey, where the median forecast was for an
8.36 percent increase.  Offshore forwards indicate the currency will trade at 45.08
against the dollar in three months, compared with expectations
for a rate of 44.68 a week ago. Forwards are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  