-- 
Infosys Forecasts Profit Margin May Drop to Record Low Amid Rising Wages

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-04-15T09:15:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/infosys-forecasts-profit-margin-may-drop-to-record-low-amid-rising-wages.html
Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO)  forecast
higher wages will erode profitability as  India ’s second-largest
software developer grapples with its highest annual rate of
employee turnover in at least 13 years.  The operating profit margin will probably drop by 2.9
percentage points this fiscal year after it declined to 29.5
percent last year, Chief Operating Officer S. Dinesh Shibulal
said today in Bangalore, where the company is based. That would
result in the company’s lowest annual margin since at least
2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Employee attrition accelerated to 17 percent last year as
competitors including  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  stepped up
hiring efforts. Profits at Indian software exporters will be
under pressure as they boost wages to attract talent in the
world’s second-fastest growing major economy, analysts said.  “Attrition is going to be stubborn,” said Vihang Naik, an
analyst at MF Global-Sify Securities Pvt. “Post recession, the
volume growth was sudden, the clamor for resources has been
high. Companies had to recruit new employees to fuel their
growth. I am a bit skeptical right now on Infosys’s ability to
maintain margins.”  Infosys had its biggest intraday plunge in almost two years
today after forecasting sales that lagged behind analysts’
estimates and fourth-quarter profit that missed expectations.
Earnings will also be damped by a stronger rupee, Shibulal said.  Infosys Vs Tata  Infosys, which had 127,000 employees at the end of
December, said attrition rose from 13.4 percent in March 2010.
That’s the biggest rate of departures since at least 1998,
according to Bloomberg calculation from company annual reports.
Hiring of employees and salary raises for existing staff will
probably dent margins by 1.1 percentage points, Shibulal said.  In January,  Tata Consultancy , India’s biggest software
exporter, had reported a 14.4 percent attrition rate in its
fiscal third quarter. The company will announce its full-year
results next week in Mumbai.  Infosys, which added a net 3,041 employees in the fourth
quarter, said the operating margin in the fourth quarter was 29
percent, compared with 30 percent in the third quarter. Salaries
are expected to rise by between 10 percent and 12 percent this
fiscal year, while for workers outside of India, it may be about
1 percent to 2 percent, Shibulal said.  “Utilization actually came down,” Shibulal said of using
the company’s workers. “That is why the impact on margins
happened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  