-- 
Infosys Technologies Profit, Sales Miss Analysts' Estimates; Shares Plunge

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-04-15T11:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/infosys-profit-revenue-miss-analysts-estimates-sending-shares-tumbling.html
Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) , India’s
No. 2 software exporter, fell the most in almost two years in
Mumbai after forecasting sales that trailed analysts’ estimates
and reporting fourth-quarter profit that missed expectations.  The shares had their biggest decline since May 2009, after
the Bangalore, India-based software-services provider said sales
in the year that began this month would be in the range of 317.3
billion rupees ($7.16 billion) to 322.7 billion rupees. The
average of 52 analysts’ estimates was for 341.5 billion rupees.  Infosys’s profit in the three months ended March missed
analysts’ estimate, the third time in four quarters, after
clients shortened the length of orders and the rupee
appreciated. Growth in contracts for information technology-
services in the U.S., the company’s biggest market, could hit a
roadblock if legislators pass rules that would make it more
expensive to bring skilled workers to the country for work.  “The results are much below expectations,” said Srishti Anand, an analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. “The sales guidance for
next quarter is also muted.”  Infosys declined 9.6 percent to 2,989.50 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close of trading in Mumbai. The stock was the worst
performer on the Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark 30-company
Sensitive Index, dragging it down 1.6 percent. Larger rival  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , which will report earnings on April
21, fell 1.6 percent, while third-ranked  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  slid 4.8
percent.  Bearish Bets  Futures traders boosted bearish bets on Infosys. Open
interest, or the number of contracts that haven’t been closed,
jumped 46 percent to 41,294, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Its April futures were at 3,015 rupees.  The company’s directors will meet on April 30 to decide on
a management succession plan, Infosys said. T.V. Mohandas Pai,
director and head of human resources development, will leave the
company by June 11. K. Dinesh, a co-founder, will retire.  Increasing competition with Tata Consultancy Services and
other companies is also lifting the churn rate. Attrition in the
fourth quarter was 17 percent compared with 13.4 percent a year
earlier, Infosys said.  Net income rose to 18.2 billion rupees in the three months
ended March 31 from 16 billion rupees a year earlier. That
compared with the 18.9 billion-rupee average of 27 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Petering Off’  Sales grew less than estimated after clients cut the tenure
of contracts and the rupee gained against foreign currencies,
slashing the repatriated value of Infosys’s overseas earnings.  “Growth may be sluggish,” said Girish Pai, an analyst at
Centrum Broking Pvt. in Mumbai, who has a “hold” rating on the
stock. “Some of the growth the companies saw over the last year
has been driven by pent-up demand and some extra demand coming
from mergers and acquisitions-related integration work. That, I
think, is kind of petering off.”  Fourth-quarter sales were 72.5 billion rupees, compared
with 59.4 billion rupees a year earlier. That missed the 74.6
billion-rupee average of analysts’ estimates.  Infosys also forecast higher wages will erode profitability
as the company grapples with its highest annual rate of employee
attrition in at least 13 years. The operating profit margin will
probably drop by 2.9 percentage points this fiscal year after it
declined to 29.5 percent last year, Chief Operating Officer S. Dinesh Shibulal said.  That would result in the company’s lowest annual margin
since at least 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Infosys, which added a net 3,041 employees in the fourth
quarter, said the operating margin in the fourth quarter was 29
percent, compared with 30 percent in the third quarter. Salaries
are expected to rise by between 10 percent and 12 percent this
fiscal year, while for workers outside of  India , the increases
may be about 1 percent to 2 percent, Shibulal said.  “Utilization actually came down,” Shibulal said of using
the company’s workers. “That is why the impact on margins
happened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  