-- 
Innkeepers Added $2 Million Bonus for Restructuring Officer, Creditor Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-15T20:23:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/innkeepers-2-million-bonus-a-burden-on-bidders-midland-says-1.html
Innkeepers USA Trust ’s proposed
reorganization plan adds a $2 million bonus for the company’s
chief restructuring officer that hasn’t been approved by the
 bankruptcy court  and puts a burden on bidders for the hotel
owner’s assets, creditor Midland Loan Services Inc. said.  The payment wasn’t negotiated as part of a so-called
stalking-horse, or starting, bid that Midland and others made
for the assets, and bidders at an auction to seek higher offers
should know whether another $2 million burden is imposed on
them, Midland said in papers filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in  Manhattan .  Innkeepers needs to request court approval for the bonus to
Marc Beilinson or have the management incentive plan rejected,
said Midland, a division of PNC Bank.  “Creating a new, $2 million administrative obligation in
favor of an insider via the Management Incentive Plan where no
incentives existed before is hardly an action within the
‘ordinary course of business,’” Midland said in the filing.  Innkeepers filed an outline April 8 of its plan to
reorganize that disclosed the planned bonus. An auction is set
for May 2. The starting bid for most of Innkeeper’s 72 hotels,
from Lehman Ali Inc. and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC, values
the properties at $970.7 million.  The offer from the unit of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
and Connecticut-based asset manager Five Mile also includes
 Midland  and  Apollo Investment Corp.   Paul Basta, a lawyer for Innkeepers, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  Expired Agreement  Beilinson’s employment agreement expired Jan. 31, and the
board determined that keeping him was key to a restructuring.
Compensation consultant Johnson Associates Inc. approved a plan
that includes as much as $2 million in incentives linked to
progress in restructuring the company, according to Innkeepers’
outline of its reorganization plan.  “It was also discovered that the CRO received bonus
payments of $2 million shortly before the bankruptcy filing,
while the debtors were experiencing financial difficulties,”
Midland said. He got a total of $4 million in bonuses and more
than $900,000 in salary in the year before the bankruptcy was
filed, Midland said.  The terms of the April 8 plan shield Beilinson from claims
to recover that money as a transfer made out of the estate,
Midland said.  Innkeepers will seek approval May 10 of the terms of its
reorganization, with the main part covering 65 hotels. Two
sites, the Anaheim and Ontario Hilton hotels, would be sold or
turned over to secured lenders. For the remaining five hotels,
the parties are “exploring multiple options,” according to
court papers.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  