-- 
Eleven Charged in Manhattan for Fraud in Online-Gambling Money Laundering

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-15T22:11:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/internet-poker-entrepreneurs-charged-with-fraud-money-laundering-by-u-s-.html
Founders of Internet gambling
companies PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker were
among 11 people charged by the U.S. in a case that seeks at
least $3 billion in forfeitures and penalties.  A revised indictment issued yesterday includes charges of
bank fraud,  money laundering  and illegal gambling. It is the
latest in a series of criminal cases against Internet gambling
companies brought by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan .  PokerStars , based on the Isle of Mann, Ireland’s  Full Tilt
Poker  and  Absolute Poker  of  Costa Rica  are the leading online
poker sites doing business with U.S. customers, according to the
indictment. The charging documents name two principals from each
company and others who allegedly worked with them to illegally
process payments.  “These defendants concocted an elaborate criminal fraud
scheme, alternately tricking some U.S. banks and effectively
bribing others to assure the continued flow of billions in
illegal gambling profits,” Bharara said today in a statement.
“To circumvent the gambling laws, the defendants also engaged
in massive money laundering and bank fraud.”  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. enacted a law in
2006 barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites, PokerStars, Full Tilt and Absolute Poker worked around
the ban to continue operating in the U.S.  $5.1 Billion Market  The Internet poker market was $5.1 billion last year,
7.1 percent higher than 2009, according to U.K.-based  H2
Gambling Capital , which supplies data on the industry. The
global online gambling market now is about $30 billion.  None of the poker company principals indicted are in the
U.S. and they haven’t been arrested, Bharara’s office said.
Those charged include Isai Scheinberg and Paul Tate of
PokerStars; Raymond Bitar and Nelson Burtnick of Full Tilt
Poker; and Scott Tom and Brent Beckley of Absolute Poker.  Michele Clayborne, a spokeswoman for Full Tilt, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left at her office
seeking comment. An e-mail sent to Absolute Poker’s spokesman,
David Clainer, was returned as “undeliverable” and a telephone
number posted on the company’s website was inoperable.  Jennifer Roberts, a spokeswoman for PokerStars, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail left at her office after regular
business hours.  Tricked Banks  The poker companies named in the indictment are accused of
using fraudulent means to circumvent federal laws and “trick”
banks into processing the payments on their behalf.  In one instance, after U.S. banks and financial
institutions detected and shut down multiple fraudulent bank
accounts used by the betting websites in late 2009, Scheinberg
and Bitar developed a new processing strategy that didn’t
involve lying to banks, prosecutors said.  They allegedly concealed the money they received from
gamblers by disguising it as payments to hundreds of non-
existent online merchants purporting to sell items online such
as jewelry and golf balls.  Of the billions of dollars in payment transactions that the
poker companies tricked the U.S. banks into processing, about
one-third of the funds went directly to the poker companies as
revenue for so-called “rake” charges to players on almost
every poker hand played online, prosecutors said.  PokerStars, Full Tilt and their payment processors
persuaded the principals of a few, small local banks facing
financial difficulties to engage in such processing in return
for multimillion dollar investments in the banks, the U.S. said.  Civil Complaint  The indictment and a related civil complaint filed by
Bharara’s office seek at least $3 billion in money laundering
penalties and forfeiture from the poker companies and the
defendants.  A federal judge has seized about 76 bank accounts in 14
countries which the U.S. says contained the proceeds of the
charged offenses. A judge has also ordered the seizure of five
domain names used by the poker companies to operate their
illegal online businesses in the U.S., Bharara’s office said.  In September,  Sportingbet Plc (SBT)  agreed to forfeit $33 million
in proceeds that the company provided to U.S. customers. The
U.K. Internet gambling company said it would maintain a
permanent restriction on providing Internet gambling services to
U.S. customers unless the law changes, according to the
agreement reached with Bharara’s office to avoid prosecution.  The same month, a Canadian charged with laundering
$350 million for foreign Internet gambling companies was
sentenced to six months of house arrest after pleading guilty to
processing offshore bets of U.S. citizens. Douglas Rennick, who
faced as long as 12 months in prison, also was ordered by U.S.
District Judge  Sidney Stein  in New York to forfeit $17 million.  The case is U.S. v. Scheinberg, 10-CR-336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  