-- 
Demand for U.S. Assets Declined in February, Treasury Says

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-04-15T15:13:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/international-demand-for-u-s-assets-declined-in-february-treasury-says.html
Global demand for U.S. stocks,
bonds and other financial assets fell in February from a month
earlier, the Treasury Department said today.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$26.9 billion during the month, compared with net buying of
$51.1 billion in January, according to a report issued in
 Washington . Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners purchased a net $97.7 billion, compared with net
buying of $30.6 billion the previous month.  Global investors “still like the U.S. as a safe haven,”
said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York . “Demand may have been on the
upswing as the month came to a close as Mideast unrest, the
Libya revolt, came after the Presidents Day weekend.”  The economy relies on foreign investment to finance its
budget and trade deficits, and the Treasury’s reporting on long-
term securities captures international purchases of government
notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt and securities issued by
government agencies.  China , the biggest foreign holder of Treasuries, saw its
portfolio little changed at $1.15 trillion. Japan, the second-
largest holder, increased its holdings by $4.4 billion to $890.3
billion in February. The  United Kingdom  increased its holdings
by $17.6 billion to $295.5 billion in February.  Hong Kong ,
counted separately from China, reduced its holdings by $3.5
billion to $124.6 billion.  Budget Deficit   The government is forecast to report a record annual budget
deficit for fiscal 2011. The White House and Congress last week
reached agreement on a spending plan for the current fiscal
year, which started Oct. 1, and are now working on a plan extend
the statutory debt limit by next month.  “Purchases of U.S. securities likely jumped in March with
the  Japan  earthquake,” Rupkey said. “We need to continue to
monitor purchases here, especially of U.S. Treasuries, as the
inability of U.S. politicians to come up with a credible long-
term plan to reign in deficit spending could eventually make
global savings fund managers look elsewhere for a new safe
home,” he said.  Treasuries advanced as U.S. consumer prices excluding food
and fuel rose less than forecast in March and speculation
increased that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may worsen,
damping investors’ appetite for risk.  Yields on 10-year notes dropped eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 3.42 percent at 11:12 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Before today’s report was issued by the Treasury, the five
economists taking part in a Bloomberg News survey estimated net
long-term TIC flows would total $40 billion in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  