-- 
Irish Bonds Drop After Moody’s Downgrade; Spanish and Greek Debt Slides

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-04-15T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/irish-bonds-drop-after-moody-s-downgrade-spanish-and-greek-debt-slides.html
Ireland’s bonds led a third day of
declines by the securities of  Europe ’s most indebted nations
after Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s credit rating
to the lowest investment grade.  The spread between Greek 10-year debt and equivalent German
securities widened to 10 percentage points, while Spanish bonds
slid for a third day. German two-year notes declined as data
showed European inflation accelerated. Moody’s today lowered
Ireland to Baa3 from Baa1 and left its outlook negative, meaning
more cuts will probably follow. A report yesterday cited German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  as saying Greece may need to
renegotiate its debt burden.  “We’ve had quite a lot of bad news about the peripherals
in the past couple of days,” said  Glenn Marci , a strategist at
DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . It “was a lot of bad news in a short
period of time, and the spreads are suffering a lot.”  Irish 10-year yields rose 38 basis points to 9.72 percent
at 4:42 p.m. in London, the highest since April 6. The 5 percent
security maturing October 2020 fell 1.875, or 18.75 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,444) face amount, to 71.52. The five-year yield
surged 49 basis points to 10.15 percent.  Ireland’s credit rating was cut two levels by Moody’s as
the government struggles to lower the  budget deficit  and restore
economic growth. Ireland now shares the same rating as  Iceland ,
 Tunisia ,  Romania  and  Brazil .  Portuguese yields reached new records amid concern that
nations in the euro region will be forced to restructure their
debts. The Iberian nation last week followed  Greece  and Ireland
in requesting financial aid as it attempted to stem surging
borrowing costs.  Greek Austerity  The extra yield investors demand to hold Greek 10-year debt
instead of equivalent German securities surpassed 1,000 basis
points, the most since before the euro’s debut in 1999, and the
10-year yield climbed to a new record high of 13.83 percent. The
government announced 76 billion euros in austerity measures and
state-asset sales to meet budget-deficit goals.  “The level of Greek yields is shocking,” wrote ING Groep
NV rate strategist Alessandro Giansanti in an e-mailed note.
“What is worrying the market is the Greek government’s ability
to collect revenues and the difficulty to reduce the
expenditure.”  Nouriel Roubini , the New York University professor who
predicted the global financial crisis, said restructuring of
Greek government debt is a matter of time.  ‘When, Not If’  “The issue of Greece is not whether there will be debt
restructuring, but when it will be done,” he said today at a
conference in Almaty, Kazakhstan’s financial center. “One can
make the same argument for Portugal’s government and Irish
banks,” he said.  Greek two-year note yields rose 68 basis points to 18.51
percent, while 10-year securities yielded 13.83 percent, 55
basis points higher. Portugal’s 10-year bond yield surpassed 9
percent for the first time since 1997, and the two-year yield
also climbed to a record 9.84 percent.  John Lipsky , the International Monetary Fund’s No. 2
official, said that “the markets have their doubts” about the
bailout programs in Greece and Ireland.  “No one ever expected that a program as strenuous as the
Greek program would receive immediate endorsement by the
markets. They want to see delivery,” Lipsky said in an
interview on Bloomberg Radio.  Euro-Region Inflation  Spanish 10-year yields rose nine basis points to 5.42
percent, amid mounting investor concern that  Portugal ’s bailout
won’t stop the debt crisis from spreading. The difference in
yields between Spanish and German 10-year debt widened for a
fourth day to as much as 205 basis points.  German debt rose even after data showed euro-region
inflation accelerated to the most in more than two years.  Consumer prices in the 17-nation euro region rose 2.7
percent in the year to March, up from a 2.4 percent pace in
February, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. That’s above an initial March estimate of 2.6
percent and the fastest since October 2008. Euro-area exports
rose 1.6 percent in February from the previous month, a separate
report showed.  The benchmark German 10-year bund yield dropped five basis
points to 3.38 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 