-- 
LivingSocial Is Next Bet for Steve Case After Zipcar Payoff

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/livingsocial-is-next-bet-for-steve-case-after-zipcar-payoff.html
America Online co-founder  Steve Case , recasting himself as a venture capitalist, pledged to
invest $200 million in fast-growing companies in 2005. With his
bet on Zipcar Inc., he’s now made that cash back.  After Zipcar’s first day of trading on April 14, the car-
sharing company has a market value of $1.12 billion. Case’s
 Revolution LLC  owns about 18 percent of the company, valuing its
stake at $199 million. That adds to his earlier gains from
Revolution Money, a financial-services business he sold to
 American Express Co. (AXP)  last year.  LivingSocial, an online-coupon service taking on market
leader Groupon Inc., is the next shot at profit for Case’s fund.
Like his other investments, he got in early enough to help
transform the ambitious startup into a business with broader
consumer appeal.  “It’s the same playbook we ran with AOL -- trying to take
a big idea that initially was a little company and make it into
a big company,” Case said this week in an interview. “It’s a
lot of fun to be partnering with entrepreneurs who have big
ideas around consumer businesses that can change the world.”  Case, who helped start AOL in 1985, founded Revolution 20
years later to invest his own money in consumer, health, real
estate and hospitality companies. He dedicated $200 million to a
unit called  Revolution Growth , where he’s made six investments.
He has a related entity called  Revolution Ventures  that invests
in less mature companies.  American Express Deal  Revolution Money, which provides credit-card and online
money-transfer services, was one of the six startups in the
Growth portfolio. Other backers in that company included Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and U.S. Venture Partners.
When it sold to American Express in 2010, the business fetched
$300 million.  Case, 52, runs Revolution Growth with former AOL executives
 Ted Leonsis  and Donn Davis. They’re now trying to raise about
$400 million from outside investors for a fund, according to two
people with knowledge of the plan. The AllThingsDigital  blog 
reported on the effort last month.  In August 2005, four months after opening Washington-based
Revolution LLC, Case bought a majority stake in Flexcar, a
Zipcar competitor, for an undisclosed price. He made the bet
after using the service in  Washington  to get to meetings around
the city. His stock turned into shares of Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Zipcar when that company acquired Flexcar in
2007. Zipcar revenue has taken off since then, jumping to $186.1
million in 2010 from $106 million in 2008.  Zipcar Surges  “We really believed in the idea and believed that,
particularly in major cities and college campuses, it was
something that would get broad adoption,” Case said.  Zipcar surged 56 percent in its first day of trading on
April 14. The stock gave up some of those gains yesterday,
dropping 84 cents, or 3 percent, to $27.16 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market.  Revolution is the largest Zipcar shareholder, followed by
Silicon Valley firms Benchmark Capital and  Greylock Partners ,
according to a regulatory filing. For now, Case’s Zipcar gains
are only on paper. He and other insiders must hold onto their
shares for six months before they can sell.  In 2008, Case invested in Web startup LivingSocial, led by
Tim O’Shaughnessy, another former AOL employee. At the time, the
site let users discover and review things such as books, movies
and music. After converting into a daily-deal coupon site, it
stands to generate $1 billion in revenue this year, according to
two people familiar with the company’s finances.  ‘Seize the Day’  LivingSocial, like Revolution, is based in Washington, an
area where Case has targeted investments.  SnagFilms LLC  is
located there, and  Clearspring Technologies Inc.  is in nearby
McLean, Virginia.  As fast as LivingSocial has grown, it trails Chicago-based
Groupon, which is said to be on pace for as much as $4 billion
in 2011 sales. The market they’re competing in hardly existed
two years ago, and Case has encouraged LivingSocial to pour
money into sales and marketing to “seize the day,”
O’Shaughnessy said.  “He has the ‘been there, done that’ credentials,
particularly in a consumer environment,” O’Shaughnessy, 29,
said in an interview. “When you look at a lot of investors out
there, they haven’t been at the helm of a ship that has tried to
do those things.”  Peter Barris, a Groupon investor at  New Enterprise
Associates  in  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland , north of Washington, says
he prefers to partner with Case. Their firms are both investors
in Clearspring and SnagFilms.  “He’s a smart guy and I wouldn’t bet against him,” said
Barris, who’s known Case for about 20 years. “I see NEA
collaborating more than competing with him.”  AOL’s Struggles  While Case is credited with helping build AOL into a Web
giant -- valued at more than $150 billion at its peak -- he’s
also known for orchestrating the disastrous purchase of Time
Warner Inc. for $124 billion in 2001. Case stepped down as
chairman of the combined company two years later. AOL was spun
out of Time Warner in 2009 and is now valued at $2.1 billion.  Clearspring co-founder Hooman Radfar is more interested in
Case’s successes than his failures. Case first invested in
Clearspring in 2007, when the startup’s online service for
advertisers and publishers reached 100 million monthly unique
users. The company now has an audience 10 times that size, and
Radfar credits Case with that growth.  “Take that number and that’s Steve,” said Radfar, 30, who
started the company in 2004. “He’s willing to take very, very
big risks. The key word when you think of Steve is big.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  