-- 
J&J May Buy Trauma Company Synthes for $20 Billion, WSJ Says

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-04-15T22:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/j-j-is-in-talks-to-buy-synthes-for-about-20-billion-wsj-says.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  reportedly may
spend about $20 billion to buy  Synthes Inc. (SYST) , the biggest maker
of devices to treat bone fractures and trauma, in a deal that
may boost flagging sales at J&J’s orthopedic unit.  Johnson & Johnson, the world’s second-biggest seller of
health products, is in talks with Synthes, the Wall Street
Journal reported today, citing people familiar with the matter.
It’s unclear what stage the talks are at and discussions could
still fall through, the newspaper reported.  Synthes would give  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J hip
screws, plates, surgical power tools and instruments to treat
spinal and soft-tissue injuries that generated $3.69 billion in
sales last year. J&J, the world’s biggest maker of artificial
hips, saw joint-implant revenue fall in last year’s fourth
quarter, hurt by the economy’s drag on medical procedures as
well as a recall of hips used in 93,000 patients.  The acquisition would be “a good deal” for J&J, giving it
access to a market growing faster than the hip and knee
business, said  Jeff Jonas , a Gabelli & Co. analyst in  New York ,
in a telephone interview. Skeletal trauma “is more of a
specialized niche that hasn’t attracted many players, and
Synthes is the dominant presence in that market.”  Synthes, based in West Chester,  Pennsylvania , and traded in
Switzerland, has a market capitalization of $18.5 billion. Its
shares rose 8.1 Swiss francs, or 6.2 percent, to 138.7 Swiss
francs today in Zurich trading and have gained 17 percent since
March 17, its low point for the year.  J&J rose 54 cents to $60.56 in New York Stock Exchange
trading today and has lost 7.6 percent in the previous 12
months.  William Price, a J&J spokesman, declined to comment in a
telephone interview. “As a policy, we don’t comment on rumor
and speculation,” he said.  Calls to Synthes’  West Chester  office were referred to the
company’s investor-relations office in Zurich. A telephone
message left there after normal business hours wasn’t
immediately returned.  Pfizer Inc., based in New York, is the world’s biggest
maker of health-care products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  