-- 
Japan’s Bonds Rise, Snapping Three-Week Loss, as Stocks Decline

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-04-15T22:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/japan-s-bonds-rise-snapping-three-week-loss-as-stocks-decline.html
Japan ’s bonds completed their first
weekly gain in a month as a stronger yen and stock declines
boosted demand for the relative safety of government debt.  Ten-year futures gained for a third day yesterday as a
Chinese report showed consumer prices rose more than analysts
forecast, stoking concern policy makers there will take more
measures to cool growth. Japan’s Economy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
said yesterday that raising taxes was an option to fund
reconstruction from last month’s record earthquake and tsunami.  “The yen’s weakening trend against the dollar is reversing,
and domestic stocks are falling, supporting bonds,” said Makoto Noji, a senior debt and foreign-exchange strategist in Tokyo at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a unit of Japan’s third-largest
publicly traded bank by assets.  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due in March 2021 fell
3.5 basis points this week to 1.285 percent at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
price rose 0.307 yen to 100.131 yen. The yield declined to 1.27
percent yesterday, the lowest since April 5.  Ten-year futures for June delivery gained 0.48 this week to
139.10 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.7 percent yesterday as
the yen strengthened during Asian trading hours, cutting the
value of overseas income at Japanese companies.  China ’s Growth  China’s economy  grew 9.7 percent in the first quarter while
consumer prices increased 5.4 percent in March from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau in Beijing said yesterday. The
median forecasts in Bloomberg surveys of economists were for
economic growth of 9.4 percent and inflation of 5.2 percent.  Demand for bonds was tempered on concern Japan will need to
sell more debt to pay for reconstruction after last month’s
disaster that the government estimates may have caused 25
trillion yen ($300 billion) in damage.  “Movement in bonds has been limited due to the short-term
negative outlook for the economy and bond issuance concern,”
said Akio Kato, team leader for Japanese debt in  Tokyo  at
Kokusai Asset Management Co., which runs the $32 billion Global
Sovereign Open fund.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has said the government will put
together more than one extra budget for rebuilding, starting
with a proposed 4 trillion yen initial package.  “We have to issue bonds at the beginning as we can’t
increase taxes immediately and, even if we could, we can’t
collect money right away,” Vice Finance Minister Mitsuru Sakurai told reporters in Tokyo on April 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 