-- 
Japan Opposition Leader Tanigaki Says Prime Minister Kan Should Resign

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 
2011-04-15T05:41:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/japan-opposition-leader-tanigaki-says-prime-minister-kan-should-resign.html
The head of Japan’s largest
opposition party said Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  should quit over
his handling of last month’s earthquake and the ongoing nuclear
crisis, signaling less cooperation on recovery efforts.  “The time has come for the prime minister to decide
whether to stay or step down,”  Sadakazu Tanigaki , head of the
 Liberal Democratic Party , said at a press conference yesterday,
according to a transcript of his remarks. “To continue under
this structure would be unfortunate for the Japanese people.”  The comments came four days after Kan’s  Democratic Party of
Japan  suffered a setback in local elections, the first since the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami devastated the northeast and
crippled a nuclear power plant. Opinion polls show voters favor
a DPJ-LDP coalition to cope with what Kan has called  Japan ’s
worst crisis since World War II.  Tanigaki yesterday said that while he stood by his March 13
pledge “to cooperate with all our might” in recovery efforts,
“we have no choice but to criticize when things go in the wrong
direction.” He said his party disagrees with the DPJ on how to
fund an initial stimulus plan that Cabinet members say could be
as large as 4 trillion yen ($48 billion).  The DPJ lost two key governor races in the April 10
elections, and more than 60 percent of voters disapprove of
Kan’s handling of the crisis at the Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in
Fukushima, according to a Yomiuri newspaper poll published on
April 4. The survey said 64 percent favor a DPJ-LDP government.  ‘More Remote’  “The possibility of a coalition was unlikely to begin with
and is even more remote now,” said Jun Okumura, a former trade
ministry official and a senior adviser with the Eurasia Group in
 Tokyo . “Tanigaki is pushing him, but Kan will try to ride it
out.”  Kan’s approval rating rose seven percentage points to 31
percent from 24 percent the month before, the Yomiuri said. The
newspaper polled 1,036 people and provided no margin of error.  Kan last month agreed to LDP demands to drop plans to
increase cash handouts to families with children in an effort to
win their support for the rebuilding package. Lawmakers disagree
on how to finance the spending, an issue in a country with the
world’s largest public debt, and opposition legislators have
called on the DPJ to increase revenue by ending discounts on
highway tolls.  Administration officials have said they want to avoid
selling new bonds to fund the package.  Before the catastrophe struck, Kan was battling with the
LDP, which refused to pass legislation authorizing sales of
deficit covering bonds. His approval ratings plunged and calls
for him to resign rose amid party campaign finance scandals.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  