-- 
J&J Is Said to Hold Acquisition Talks With Device-Maker Synthes

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-04-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/johnson-johnson-said-to-hold-takeover-talks-with-switzerland-s-synthes.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  may buy  Synthes
Inc. (SYST) , the biggest maker of devices to treat bone fractures and
trauma, as it seeks to boost flagging sales at its orthopedic
division, according to a person briefed on the discussions.  A deal is far from certain and may be days or weeks away,
said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
talks are private. With Synthes’s current market capitalization
of $18.4 billion, an acquisition would be the biggest deal in
Johnson & Johnson’s 125-year history.  Synthes would give  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J hip
screws, surgical power tools and instruments to treat spinal and
soft-tissue injuries that generated $3.69 billion in sales last
year. J&J, the world’s biggest maker of artificial hips, saw
joint-implant revenue fall in last year’s fourth quarter, hurt
by a decline in medical procedures and a recall of 93,000 hips.  The deal would be “probably one of the smarter ones J&J
could do,” giving it access to a trauma market growing faster
than its traditional orthopedic business, said  Jeff Jonas , a
Gabelli & Co. analyst in New York, in a telephone interview.
“Historically, it’s been more of a specialized niche that
hasn’t attracted many players, and Synthes is the dominant
presence in that market.”  The acquisition would be J&J’s biggest since the $16.6
billion purchase of New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s consumer health
unit in June 2006. Johnson & Johnson has announced 52 pending or
completed deals in the past five years, with an average size of
$669 million and a typical premium of 40 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Synthes Surges  Synthes, based in West Chester,  Pennsylvania , and traded in
 Switzerland , rose 8.1 Swiss francs, or 6.2 percent, to 138.7
Swiss francs yesterday in Zurich trading. The company has gained
17 percent since March 17, its low point for the year.  J&J rose 54 cents to $60.56 in New York Stock Exchange
trading yesterday and has lost 7.6 percent in the past 12
months.  William Price, a J&J spokesman, declined to comment in an
e-mail. Calls to the Synthes’s  West Chester  office were referred
to the company’s investor-relations office in Zurich. A
telephone message left there after normal business hours wasn’t
immediately returned. The talks were first reported yesterday by
the Wall Street Journal.  Motrin, Tylenol  Johnson & Johnson has voluntarily recalled more than 50
products since the beginning of 2010, led by 40 brands of
Tylenol, Motrin and other over-the-counter children’s products
as well as artificial hips whose failures have sparked lawsuits
by more than 1,000 patients. The consumer recalls cost the
company $900 million in lost sales last year and have sparked a
federal criminal probe of possible manufacturing violations.  The company may seek purchases of $10 billion or more to
bolster its stock as its cash reserves near record highs, said
David Lewis, a Morgan Stanley analyst in  San Francisco , in a
note to clients April 6. J&J had cash and short-term investments
of $27.7 billion at the end of 2010. Its revenue was little
changed last year at $61.6 billion.  Synthes has a “great trauma franchise” that would be
“synergistic with ortho,” at J&J, Lewis said in his note. The
acquisition of Synthes may raise antitrust concerns over the
shared spinal-care business with J&J’s existing DePuy unit, he
said. DePuy generated $5.59 billion last year, 9 percent of the
company’s revenue.  The U.S. trauma market is growing by 6 percent to 7 percent
a year, said Adam Feinstein, a Barclays Capital analyst in New
York, in a Feb. 17 note. Synthes’ spinal-care business sold
about $982 million in 2010, second only to Minneapolis-based
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  in a $7.1 billion global market, Feinstein said.  Revenue Gap  Synthes would help J&J fill the revenue gap left by the
loss of patent protection to top-selling drugs, among them the
antipsychotic Risperdal and migraine pill Topamax, said Jonas,
of Gabelli & Co.  “It seems like they’ve been building cash to do a big
deal,” he said. “They’ve been struggling with sales growth for
the last couple of years and by doing a bigger deal, you do
jump-start the sales expectations.”  Synthes makes instruments, implants and biologic materials
to fix wounds to the human skeleton and its soft tissues,
according to its  website . The company traces its roots to 1958,
to a venture by four Swiss surgeons, the  website  says.  Billionaire Hansjoerg Wyss, Synthes’ chairman and former
chief executive officer, controls 48 percent of the company’s
shares along with the Wyss Family Trusts, according to Bloomberg
data.  Industry Deals  There have been 420 acquisitions in the U.S. medical
products industry in the past five years with an average
disclosed deal size of $258.5 million and an average announced
premium of 60 percent.  Medical devices generated 40 percent of J&J’s $61.6 billion
in sales last year. The company has looked at buying Smith &
Nephew Plc,  Europe ’s biggest marker of artificial hips and
knees, Bloomberg News reported on Feb. 2, citing people familiar
with the potential deal. Sky News reported Jan. 10 that Smith &
Nephew was the target of an $11.2 billion takeover offer from
J&J.  Smith & Nephew, which has a market capitalization of $10.1
billion, said Jan. 14 that it wasn’t engaged in any talks that
could lead to a takeover.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  