-- 
Kevin Na Takes 16 Shots on Par-4 Hole at Texas Open to Set PGA Tour Record

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-04-15T04:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/kevin-na-takes-16-shots-on-par-4-hole-at-texas-open-to-set-pga-tour-record.html
Kevin Na shook his head as he left
the ninth green at the Texas Open yesterday, having taken 16
shots to set a record for the highest score on a par-4 hole at a
U.S. PGA Tour event.  The South Korean took two fewer shots than the tour record
for a single hole, set by John Daly on the par-5 sixth at the
1998 Bay Hill Invitational in  Orlando ,  Florida . Ray Ainsley
needed 19 shots to complete the par-4 16th in the second round
of the 1938 U.S. Open at Cherry Hills Country Club in Englewood,
 Colorado .  Na, 27, who has never won on the world’s richest golf
circuit, arrived at the ninth hole at the TPC  San Antonio  at 1-
under par. He finished his round in a tie for 140th place at 8
over, having played the second half in 3-under par.  Stewart Cink , the 2009 British Open champion, and J.J. Henry are tied
for the lead at 5 under, a shot ahead of five players, including
Masters Tournament runner-up Adam Scott.  Na’s trouble began when he pushed his tee shot at the ninth
into woods on the right of the hole. He tried again from the
tee, only to achieve the same result. This time, he elected to
try to find the ball and play it.  His next shot, his fourth, struck a tree then hit him,
incurring a two-stroke penalty. He swung at the ball a further
six times without managing to get it out of the woods before
finding the green with his 14th shot and taking two putts.  Na thought he’d taken 15 shots before officials reviewed
the hole on video in the scorer’s hut and confirmed he’d taken
16.  “It’s all a blur,” said Na, who finished third at the
Northern Trust Open in February and in a tie for fifth place at
the Bob Hope Classic a month earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 