-- 
Keystone Pipeline Advances in Revised Environmental Study

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-04-15T22:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/keystone-pipeline-advances-in-revised-environmental-study.html
A  revised environmental study 
issued today by the U.S. State Department reaffirms support for
a proposed  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  pipeline that would deliver crude
oil from the oil sands of Canada to the U.S. Gulf Coast.  The Supplemental Draft Environmental Impact Statement backs
the conclusion of last year’s initial draft, which found that
the pipeline would have “limited adverse environmental
impacts.”  The 1,700-mile pipeline would cut through Montana, South
Dakota, Nebraska,  Kansas ,  Oklahoma  and  Texas . A  Department of
Energy  report made public in February said that the pipeline,
combined with efforts to reduce U.S. demand for oil, “could
essentially eliminate Middle East crude imports longer term.”  The State Department, in a news release, said it expects to
decide whether to approve the pipeline by the end of the year.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in October that the
department was “inclined” to approve the pipeline to reduce
reliance on Middle East oil.  Republicans in Congress have pushed for swift approval of
the project, which they say will help reduce energy costs and
create 118,000 jobs. Environmentalists have expressed concern
that the pipeline would increase air pollution and  greenhouse
gases , and pollute an aquifer in Nebraska that provides drinking
water for 2 million people.  From Alberta  The Keystone XL pipeline would funnel up to 700,000 barrels
of crude a day extracted from tar sands in Alberta to refineries
in Texas, according to the State Department. The agency has
jurisdiction over whether the project can proceed because the
pipeline would cross an international border.  Oil sand is like black tar melded onto sand and clay.
Critics argue that refining the sand creates more greenhouse
gases than traditional crude oil processing and point to the
risk of leaks in the 1,711 miles long, 36-inch wide pipe.  Utah  and a few other states have oil sand reserves. They do
not rival  Canada ’s, which are the largest in  North America .  Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, international program director for
the  Natural Resources Defense Council , said the report, the
second of its kind on the proposed pipeline, is incomplete.  It’s “as inadequate as their first go-round, with the
State Department merely paying lip service to critical issues
such as pipeline safety,” the way it will cross over aquifers
and questions of environmental justice around refineries that
will handle the oil sands, Casey-Lefkowitz said in a statement.  Environmentalist Concerns  The NRDC and other environmental organizations, as well as
senators from Nebraska, which the pipeline would cross, have
written to the State Department asking that these issues be
addressed, Casey-Lefkowitz said.  “Apparently, they did not get the message,” she said.  The State Department has held more than 20 public comment
meetings along the pipeline route in Montana,  South Dakota ,
Nebraska, Oklahoma, and Texas, as well as in  Washington , D.C.,
according to a statement on their  website .  A notice in the Federal Register will be posted on April
22, giving the public 45 days to comment on the proposal. After
that, federal agencies with an interest in the pipeline,
including the Department of Energy, the Department of
Agriculture and the  Environmental Protection Agency , will have
90 days to comment on whether the pipeline is in the national
interest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  