-- 
Kidnapped Italian Activist Found Dead After Hamas Police Storm Gaza House

-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 
2011-04-15T07:12:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/kidnapped-italian-activist-found-dead-after-hamas-police-storm-gaza-house.html
An Italian activist from the pro-
Palestinian International Solidarity Movement was found dead in
the northern  Gaza Strip  after Hamas stormed the building where
he was being held by kidnappers, Hamas officials said.  Hamas forces found the body in a raid three hours after the
activist had been seized, the officials said, speaking on
customary condition of anonymity. Two of the captors were
arrested and a third managed to flee, they said.  The International Solidarity Movement identified the
Italian as Vittorio Arrigoni, and said he was also a journalist
who wrote for the Italian newspapers Il Manifesto and
Peacereporter. He had been active in the Palestinian cause for
almost 10 years and stayed on in Gaza after participating in one
of the aid flotillas trying to break  Israel ’s embargo a year
ago, Anna Stevens, a colleague, said by phone from the group’s
office in Ramallah.  Previous kidnappings in Gaza include the capture of BBC
reporter Alan Johnston in March 2007, and the abduction in
August the previous year of two Fox News journalists. Most
hostages have been freed after intervention by the Palestinian
Authority.  A video posted on YouTube yesterday showed a blindfolded
man and a leaflet from a group identifying itself as Jihadi
Salafi, demanding that Hamas release members held in Gaza jails
in return for the activist. It also said it would execute the
hostage if its demands were not met within 30 hours. The
authenticity of the video couldn’t be confirmed.  Hamas fought with members of Jihadi Salafi, which says it
was inspired by al-Qaeda, in 2009 and 22 people were killed in
the clashes. Hamas has run Gaza since 2007 when it seized
control of the territory, ending a partnership government with
 Palestinian Authority  President  Mahmoud Abbas , after winning
parliamentary elections the previous year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  