-- 
Nasdaq Takeover of NYSE Not Dead With $1.3 Billion More Looming: Real M&A

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-15T20:47:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/nasdaq-takeover-of-nyse-not-dead-with-1-3-billion-more-looming-real-m-a.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  may be able
to add about $1.3 billion in cash to its bid for NYSE Euronext,
according to borrowing levels for its previous acquisitions.  Nasdaq OMX could increase the $42.88 a share offer it made
with  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  by about $5.10 before its
ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization matched the weighted average level of previous
takeovers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP and the New York-based company. Lenders
have already pledged $2.1 billion.  Borrowing the additional amount would put the company’s
investment-grade credit rating in jeopardy, a risk it may be
willing to bear to beat  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  of  Frankfurt  in
bidding for the New York Stock Exchange owner, Macquarie Group
Ltd. said. NYSE Euronext is weighing its own incentives for
shareholders after rejecting Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s offer even
though it’s valued 16 percent higher than  Deutsche Boerse ’s.  Nasdaq OMX has “typically taken on a lot of debt and
created companies that produce more cash flows, and paid those
debt levels down quickly,” said  Ed Ditmire , an exchange analyst
at Macquarie in New York. “They have a relatively flexible
approach to what is the right credit rating for them.”  Standard & Poor’s  has a long-term credit rating for Nasdaq
OMX of BBB, the second-lowest investment grade ranking, and
placed it under review on April 1. Nasdaq OMX said in an April
10 statement that it is focused on staying out of junk status.
Adding $1.3 billion would take leverage above a level that Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  considers ideal, according to
a Sept. 22 earnings call.  Speculative Grade  The owner of the second-biggest U.S. stock exchange behind
the NYSE may still be willing to accept a speculative-grade
rating rather than lose the takeover battle, according to
Patrick O’Shaughnessy, an exchange analyst at Raymond James
Financial Inc. in  Chicago . Boosting debt wouldn’t keep the
acquisition from adding to earnings, he said.  “We don’t view a downgrade to junk as a deal-breaker,”
O’Shaughnessy said. “The existence of so much variable rate
debt will greatly limit Nasdaq’s strategic flexibility and make
its earnings highly sensitive to a rising interest rate
environment, but would not prevent the acquisition from being
nicely accretive.”  Refinancing Costs  Nasdaq OMX projects it would owe $6.52 billion should it
succeed with the bid, including  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s debt and $2.1
billion in financing for the offer, according to an April 1
presentation. Nasdaq OMX may face additional refinancing costs
because owners of NYSE Euronext’s $2.07 billion of fixed-rate
bonds due in 2013 and 2015 can request immediate repayment
should a takeover of the company result in a downgrade to below
investment grade, according to the latest annual report.  Including $14.24 in cash, Nasdaq OMX and Atlanta-based ICE
were offering $42.88 a share for NYSE Euronext, compared with
Deutsche Boerse’s all-stock agreement valued at $37.10, based on
prices at 4:14 p.m. New York time yesterday. The value of the
Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid increased 0.8 percent to $43.24 today.  NYSE Euronext climbed 0.3 percent to $39.01 today.  Nasdaq 
OMX advanced 1.4 percent to $28.21, and ICE rose 1.1 percent to
$122.02. Deutsche Boerse slid 0.7 percent to 54.09 euros.  Nasdaq OMX took on almost $1 billion in debt to buy the
Inet electronic trading system in 2005, selling the rest of
Instinet Group Inc. as part of the deal. That boosted debt to
6.55 times Ebitda. After the 2008 purchase of Stockholm-based
OMX AB, the ratio reached 3.55. For Philadelphia Stock Exchange,
it climbed to 3.91, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Leverage Ratios  Without changing the amount of stock it is offering,
dipping into cash or selling units, $1.3 billion in additional
debt would push Nasdaq’s leverage to 4.36 times Ebitda, the
weighted average of past deals. In the three transactions,
Nasdaq OMX lowered the leverage ratio at least 20 percent within
18 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Frank De Maria, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, didn’t respond
to two e-mails seeking comment.  Richard Adamonis  of NYSE
Euronext and Naomi Kim of Deutsche Boerse declined to comment.  Nasdaq OMX and ICE have a total of $1.36 billion in
unrestricted cash that they could contribute to a higher offer.
As part of the April 1 bid, ICE’s leverage ratio would climb to
a record 1.6, Bloomberg data show. The company could add almost
$600 million to that to get to 2 times, NYSE Euronext’s long-
term target. In the proposal, Nasdaq OMX would assume all of
NYSE Euronext’s debt.  “We have a tremendous ability if we want to use debt,”
ICE Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Sprecher said in an April 1
interview, referring to debt beyond the amount already
committed. ICE doesn’t have a debt rating, he noted.  Adding Debt  Kelly Loeffler, an ICE spokeswoman, said the $1.65 billion
cash portion of ICE’s proposal would be financed with borrowed
money. “We could maintain what bankers view as an investment
grade rating with higher debt,” she said yesterday.  S&P cut Nasdaq OMX to junk from investment grade about five
months after the Inet deal and left it there for almost two
years. The company lowered its leverage ratio by 37 percent
within 18 months of the deal’s close, Bloomberg data show.
Nasdaq OMX’s long-term target debt level is 2 times Ebitda, with
leeway to go up to 3.5 times for acquisition periods, according
to the Sept. 22 earnings call.  The company said it aims for a 2.5 ratio within the same
time frame for the NYSE Euronext transaction, according to an
April 1 conference call following the bid announcement. Combined
2011 Ebitda would be $1.8 billion, according to Sandler O’Neill.  ‘Substantial  Cash Flow ’  “We will use our substantial cash flow to rapidly de-
lever, and as soon as we reach our target leverage ratio, which
should be in 18 months, we will seek to reignite our capital
return plans,” Greifeld, 53, said during the call.  Nasdaq OMX borrowed money in December to buy back 22.8
million shares from Borse Dubai Ltd. for about $497 million. The
company owed $2.32 billion as of Dec. 31, with $733 million in
unrestricted cash available, according to its presentations.  “We had already put them at a negative outlook back in
December when they issued some debt to repurchase the shares
from the Borse Dubai,” Charles Rauch, the primary credit
analyst for Nasdaq OMX at S&P, which put Nasdaq OMX on credit
watch negative following the bid, said in an interview. “They
were already approaching the tolerance levels at that time.”  Rauch added that the  credit-rating  company will be
reviewing the combined entity’s leverage and monitoring “the
ability of this company on a combined basis to generate
sufficient cash flow to pay down quickly.”  Takeover Exceptions  Companies in S&P’s BBB category had a three-year average
leverage ratio of 2.3 times Ebitda, according to S&P data
through 2009. The highest junk rated group had debt that
averaged a level 3 times Ebitda.  “Companies are willing to go above their long-term normal
targets for acquisitions,” said Michael Wong, a Chicago-based
analyst at Morningstar Inc. Since Nasdaq OMX’s offer is still
higher than Deutsche Boerse’s, “there’s no real reason why they
should have to increase it. The caveat to that would be that
they might, just to compensate for the possibility of higher
execution risk and having to entice the shareholders,” he said.  Nasdaq OMX is counting on Greifeld’s history of cutting
costs and integrating companies. Its bid includes 28 percent
more expense reductions and synergies than the Deutsche Boerse
deal, according to company statements. Both bidding groups have
said their estimates are likely conservative.  Greifeld said in an April 10 statement that Nasdaq OMX and
ICE have already received “very positive” responses from NYSE
shareholders. NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse are considering
financial incentives to win support for their merger, four
people with direct knowledge of the matter said this week.  ‘Could Unfold’  No decisions have been made, according to the people, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
If action is taken, it is unclear whether a special dividend or
another form of payment would be made before or after the deal’s
closing and which shareholders would get it.  Three people with direct knowledge of the matter said on
April 11 that Deutsche Boerse, which needs 75 percent of its
shareholders to vote in favor of the NYSE Euronext merger for it
to go through, doesn’t plan to raise its offer.  Deutsche Boerse “appears reluctant to increase its bid for
NYSE, which we believe could partly be driven by the higher
shareholder hurdle,” Christopher Harris, a Baltimore-based
analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co ., who said NYSE Euronext has the
capacity to pay a special dividend of $1.50 a share, wrote in a
report April 13. “While a special dividend by NYSE could
appease certain shareholders, other strategic maneuvers by both
sides could unfold in coming months.”  Overall, there have been 7,146 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $707.6 billion, a 31 percent increase from
the $541.2 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 