-- 
Nasdaq Is Said Open to Amex Sale to Win NYSE Takeover Approval

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-04-16T00:41:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/nasdaq-omx-open-to-amex-sale-to-get-nyse-deal-approval-wsj-says.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  may consider
a sale of the NYSE Amex unit of  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  to gain antitrust
approval for a takeover of the exchange operator, according to a
person familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  Executives at Nasdaq OMX and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
are trying to convince shareholders of the New York Stock
Exchange owner to back their bid after the NYSE Euronext board
last week affirmed its commitment to a merger with Frankfurt-
based  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)  As part of the effort, Nasdaq OMX
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  is seeking portray his
offer as likely to be cleared by regulators.  Winning NYSE Euronext’s U.S. equities business would give
New York-based Nasdaq OMX a monopoly over corporate stock
listings in the world’s biggest capital market. By selling Amex,
Nasdaq OMX would let go of a venue where smaller companies list
their shares.  “He’s getting the ball going in the right direction,” said
 Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger arbitrage
strategist at Capstone Global Markets LLC in New York. “It’s
still a distance off in terms of how much he needs to do. Saying
‘I’m going to divest a shed from my house,’ isn’t going to get
the DOJ and antitrust guys to say, ‘Oh, great.’”  Greifeld told hedge fund managers today that he hoped to
get guidance from antitrust officials at the Department of
Justice in six or seven weeks, the Wall Street Journal reported.  Equities, Derivatives  Robert Madden, a Nasdaq OMX spokesman, declined to comment.  Should the Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid prevail, Nasdaq OMX would get
NYSE Euronext’s listings business and equities and options
trading platforms and Atlanta-based ICE would take the company’s
Liffe derivatives operation in the U.S. and Europe.  Duncan Niederauer , the CEO of NYSE Euronext, said regulators may oppose
concentrating all U.S. stock listings with one company.  NYSE Euronext owns the New York Stock Exchange as well as
NYSE Amex and NYSE Arca, which offers exchange-traded funds.
Nasdaq Stock Market is the second-largest venue for U.S.
listings after the Big Board. NYSE Euronext bought the  American
Stock Exchange  for $260 million in October 2008, renaming it
NYSE Amex. Amex trades U.S. equities and options.  NYSE Euronext accounted for 27 percent of U.S. equities
volume in the first quarter, compared with Nasdaq OMX’s 19
percent, according to data compiled by Barclays Plc. Each
exchange operator runs three stock markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 