-- 
Nestle Sees Profitability Improving After Sales Beat Estimates

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-04-15T09:39:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/nestle-s-first-quarter-sales-exceed-analyst-estimates-on-emerging-markets.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food
company, reported first-quarter sales growth that beat estimates
and said profitability will improve in the second half as it
raises bottled-water prices and sells more premium pet food.  So-called organic revenue gained 6.4 percent, the Vevey,
Switzerland-based company said on its website today. Analysts
expected a 5.9 percent gain in the measure, which excludes
acquisitions, divestments and currency shifts, according to the
average of 17 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Organic sales rose 12 percent in emerging markets, where
the company gets about a third of revenue. That surpassed growth
of 3 percent in developed countries. Price increases added 1.5
percentage points to revenue growth, Nestle indicated, adding
that pricing should “tick up” over the course of the year.
Nestle said it expects full-year margins to improve at constant
currency rates, fueled by the second half.  “It’s a strong set of figures driven by emerging markets,
but  Europe  and  North America  were better than expected and not
just driven by pricing,” Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets, said by e-mail.  Nestle rose as much as 1.6 percent in Zurich trading and
was up 50 centimes, or 0.9 percent, at 53.75 francs as of 11:13
a.m. The shares are little changed in the past year, compared
with Kraft Foods Inc.’s 6.1 percent gain and PepsiCo Inc.’s 0.7
percent advance.  ‘Solid as a Rock’  The volume of goods sold increased 4.9 percent in the
quarter, Nestle said, beating the 3.7 percent average estimate
of the analysts. Higher pricing may lead to a deceleration in
volume growth, Roddy Child-Villiers, head of  investor relations ,
said on a conference call. He declined to give a forecast for
margins in the first half.  “Nestle was solid as a rock in the first quarter, and is
guiding for more of the same in the balance of the year,”
 Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a note.  Nestle increased prices on bottled water in emerging
markets such as Latin America and Asia in the first quarter, and
probably will increase pricing for the entire unit in the full
year, Child-Villiers said. The Swiss company owns the world’s
largest bottled-water brand in Pure Life.  Total first-quarter sales fell 9.3 percent to 20.3 billion
Swiss francs ($22.7 billion), Nestle said. Revenue was curbed by
the franc’s gain against currencies such as the dollar and euro,
which the company said reduced growth by 9.8 percentage points.  Organic sales of Nespresso coffee capsules rose about 20
percent in the quarter, Nestle said.  L’Oreal Stake  The maker of Gerber baby food and Purina pet food repeated
that it expects 2011 organic sales growth of 5 percent to 6
percent. The company said it aims to boost underlying earnings
per share excluding currency swings each year.  Input-cost inflation this year will probably be near the
top end of Nestle’s forecast range of 2.5 billion francs to 3
billion francs, Child-Villiers said.  Nestle said yesterday it will decide what to do with its
stake of 30 percent in  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s biggest cosmetics
maker, in 2014. In April of that year, a right of first refusal
between the Swiss company and Liliane Bettencourt, L’Oreal’s
biggest shareholder, expires. Nestle has agreed not to raise its
stake until at least six months after Bettencourt dies.  “You don’t make a decision about selling a holding of that
value other than within the strategic context,” Child-Villiers
said on the call. “If we haven’t sold it, does it therefore
mean that personal-care is something we want to be in? Obviously
not, because if we’re going to sell the business, there’s got to
be any number of conditions in place for us to do so.”  Management Changes  Nestle has “plenty of time” to inform investors of how
its strategy evolves, and its focus currently is on food,
beverages, nutrition and wellness, Child-Villiers said. One
option would be keeping the stake, he said.  Frits van Dijk, head of Nestle’s business in  Asia , Oceania,
 Africa  and the Middle East, will retire in September, the
company also said today. Nandu Nandkishore, who became head of
Nestle’s nutrition unit last year, will replace him.  Kurt Schmidt, who heads infant nutrition in North America,
will replace Nandkishore, Nestle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 