-- 
New Zealand’s Inflation Won’t Be a ‘Problem,’ Bill English Says

-- B y   S t e p h e n   E n g l e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-04-15T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/new-zealand-s-inflation-won-t-be-a-problem-bill-english-says.html
New Zealand  Finance Minister Bill English said that while the nation’s inflation rate may have
approached 5 percent in the first quarter, it won’t be a problem
in coming years.  “We’re not greatly concerned about it,” English said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday at the Boao
Forum for  Asia  in southern China’s Hainan province. “There will
be some pressures there as the economy picks up, but we’re in
pretty good shape on inflation.”  English is preparing the May 19 budget against a background
of weaker economic growth and one-time costs including an
estimated NZ$8.5 billion ($6.8 billion) from earthquakes in the
southern city of Christchurch. Consumer prices rose 2.3 percent
in the fourth quarter from the third, the most since 1989, after
the government increased the  sales tax  on goods and services.  Prices increased a further 1 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three-month period, according to the median of
12 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
annual inflation rate rose to 4.6 percent from 4 percent, the
survey shows. The inflation report is due at 10:45 a.m. local
time on April 18.  “We’re getting a spike in the headline number now, but
underlying inflation in New Zealand has been 2 percent to 3
percent now for the best part of a decade,” English said.  New Zealand’s dollar has gained about 9 percent against its
U.S. counterpart in the past month, the best performer among 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Reserve Bank Governor
Alan Bollard on April 12 said the  exchange rate  is being buoyed
by record-high prices for the nation’s commodity exports and he
expects that to continue.  Quake Impact  Bollard on March 10 slashed his 2011 growth forecast to 1.3
percent from 2.7 percent and cut the official cash rate to 2.5
percent to bolster confidence after a magnitude 6.3 quake struck
Christchurch on Feb. 22, killing at least 170 people and
wrecking homes, roads and central-city offices.  “New Zealand has high rates of insurance, most of the
damage people have seen will be covered by insurance and
reinsurance, so we see it as a driver of growth next year,”
English said. “I think we might surprise ourselves with the
resilience of the economy bouncing back, and confidence bouncing
back after the earthquake.”  International demand for the government’s bond issuance,
which is rising to fund the cash costs of the earthquake, is
“quite strong,” he said.  The finance minister is seeking to curb spending, outline a
track to surplus and avoid a ratings cut after  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered the outlook on New Zealand’s AA+ long-term rating to
negative in November.  Bond Issuance  “In the budget in May we’ll be outlining the track back to
surplus over the next three or four years, which we believe will
be quite credible,” English said. “So the issuance could be up
a bit over the next couple of years, but then it will flatten
off as we get to surplus.”  The  budget deficit  will be more than NZ$16 billion in the
year ending June 30, the finance minister said this week,
reiterating earlier forecasts. The government estimates a return
to a surplus by 2016.  The administration on April 12 increased planned bond sales
for the year ending June 30 to NZ$16.5 billion and said it will
review borrowing in the budget.  On  China , English said direct flights between the nation
and New Zealand will be the start of a “big upswing” in
tourism from the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Bilateral trade between the two countries has grown about
40 percent in the last couple of years, aided by their “very
successful” free-trade agreement, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  