-- 
News Corp. Offered Sienna Miller 100,000 Pounds to Settle Case

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-04-15T16:59:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/news-corp-offered-sienna-miller-100-000-pounds-to-settle-case.html
Actress  Sienna Miller  was offered
100,000 pounds ($163,000) by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit to settle a
lawsuit over allegations her mobile phone was hacked into by
journalists at the News of the World newspaper.  The offer is more than she could expect to receive at a
trial, News International lawyer Michael Silverleaf said at a
hearing in London today. Silverleaf said the court should
dismiss the suit as an abuse of process whether she accepts the
offer or not.  There is “no reasonable prospect” of a court giving her
that much if she won her case, so she shouldn’t be allowed to
proceed with it, Silverleaf said. “Civil litigation does not
exist for people to vent their feelings in public.”  Miller, 29, is one of more than 20 celebrities and
politicians suing  News Corp. (NWS)  over the more than four-year-old
phone hacking scandal. The company apologized and offered to
settle some of the cases last week after two journalists linked
to the paper were arrested.  Miller’s lawyer, Hugh Tomlinson, said his client hasn’t
decided whether to settle the case. News International gave her
21 days to make her decision and there are still 12 days left,
he said.  “We haven’t accepted the offer, we haven’t rejected the
offer,” Tomlinson said. He also said during the hearing that it
was possible that Miller might also have had her e-mail hacked
into as well as her voice-mail.  Test Cases  Justice Geoffrey Vos said that there must be a full hearing
next month. The offer to Miller should be kept open until 12
days after he has ruled on the abuse-of-process motion, he said.  Vos also asked lawyers today to select as many as five test
cases by next month so that he can rule on liability and damages
for guidance in the remaining litigation.  “The most important question really is: what happened, and
what are the damages?” Vos said. “Otherwise we will be going
on forever. Some people may want that, but I don’t.”  Daisy Dunlop, a News International spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed statement that the judge’s recommendations support the
company’s “intention to apologize and to deal with these cases
in the most fair and efficient way possible.”  Settlement Offers  News International has written to eight people, including
Miller, sports agent Sky Andrew and former government minister
Tessa Jowell, offering to settle. It asked another nine,
including soccer player Paul Gascoigne, actress Leslie Ash and
jockey Kieren Fallon, to provide more evidence to facilitate a
settlement.  The offer to settle the lawsuit hasn’t slowed the number of
lawsuits over phone hacking. Another complaint was filed by
lawyer Graham Shear over phone hacking and Tomlinson said Jude Law, Miller’s former boyfriend, may also file a claim.  Jason Beer, a lawyer for  London ’s Metropolitan Police, said
at the hearing this morning that since the apology by the
newspaper police have been “flooded with calls” from people
worried that their messages were accessed by reporters.  He said that more than 40 policemen are cataloging 9,200
pages of notes seized from private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire 
in an attempt to determine how many people were victims of phone
hacking. Mulcaire was jailed in 2007 along with the News of the
World’s former royal editor,  Clive Goodman , for hacking into the
mobile phones of members of the royal household.  Voice-Mail Passwords  Beer said he hoped to have a figure within four weeks. He
said that there were 91 voice-mail passwords in the notes and
more phone numbers.  Separately today, police are considering a review of
statements by News International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks about journalists paying officers for information.  Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dick
wrote to a House of Commons committee to say police will review
whether there are grounds for a criminal probe. The review is
centered on a statement Brooks made to the committee in 2003
“regarding press paying police officers for information,”
according to an e-mailed statement from the committee today.  Brooks submitted a statement to lawmakers earlier this
month to “clarify” the 2003 remarks.  “I was responding to a specific line of questioning on how
newspapers get information,” Brooks said in comments posted on
the Parliament website. “My intention was simply to comment
generally on the widely held belief that payments had been made
in the past to police officers.”  Dunlop declined to comment on the committee statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  