-- 
Google Faces Antitrust Complaints in South Korea on Popularity of Android

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-04-15T05:33:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/nhn-files-complaints-against-google-to-south-korean-regulator.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the largest Internet-
search company, is facing antitrust complaints in  South Korea  as
mobile phones using its Android software gain dominance, adding
to global scrutiny of the company’s businesses.  NHN Corp. (035420)  and  Daum Communications Corp. (035720) , operators of South
Korea’s two largest Internet search sites, said in statements
today they filed complaints against Google with the country’s
Fair Trade Commission for blocking local phone carriers and
manufacturers from embedding their search applications in
devices using the Android operating system.  “Android is an open platform, and carriers and partners
are free to decide which applications and services to include,”
Lois Kim, a Seoul-based spokeswoman for Google, said today by
phone. “We’re looking forward to working with the FTC to
address any questions they may have.”  Google is facing increasing scrutiny from regulators
globally as it bolsters its search business. The U.S. Federal
Trade Commission is considering a broad investigation into the
 Mountain View , California-based company’s dominance of the
Internet-search industry, two people familiar with the matter
said April 5. The European Commission and Texas Attorney General
 Greg Abbott  have also begun probes into its business practices.  Search Applications  Google has banned South Korean phone manufacturers from
including Web search applications made by other companies under
its marketing contracts, Seongnam-based NHN said in its
statement. Google has delayed certifying the use of its software
for handset makers that violated the condition, the South Korean
company said.  Daum learned about Google’s practices while trying to have
its applications installed and has evidence to prove its claims,
the Seoul-based company said.  Kwon Cheol Hyun, head of the service-industry monitoring
division at the FTC, declined to comment, citing internal policy
not to speak to the press about ongoing or pending
investigations.  The Android system, used in such devices as HTC Corp.’s
Desire HD and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S, surged more
than nine-fold in 2010, according to Gartner Inc. research on
units sales to end users. The Google operating system will
likely become the world’s best-selling smartphone system this
year with about a 40 percent share, passing  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s Symbian,
which has about 21 percent, according to International Data
Corp.  About 70 percent of the more than 10 million smartphones
sold in South Korea were Android-based devices as of March 31,
according to an estimate by Park Jong Soo, an analyst at Hanwha
Securities Co. in  Seoul .  NHN and Daum together control about 90 percent of Web
searches on personal computers in South Korea, according to Lee Chang Young, an analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in Seoul.
Google’s share is between 1 percent and 2 percent, Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  