-- 
Nigerian President Jonathan Likely to Win Vote as Opposition Fail to Unite

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-16T14:49:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/nigerian-incumbent-jonathan-is-frontrunner-in-presidential-vote.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  headed into today’s election in  Africa ’s top oil
producer as the firm favorite after the opposition failed to
unite behind a single candidate to stand against him.  Voters lined up at polling centers across the country for
their opening at 8 a.m. local time, the Independent National
Electoral Commission said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The reports we have show that voter turnout is much
higher than what we had during last week’s election,” Jibrin
Ibrahim, director of the Abuja-based Center for Democracy and
Development, which is monitoring the elections, said by phone
today.  Ballot stuffing and under-age voting were reported in some
northern states including Benue, Bauchi, Gombe and Kano, while
election observers were arrested in the central Plateau and
Kwara states, and in the southern Anambra and Delta states,
Ibrahim said, citing reports from members of his group.  Nigerians are choosing whether to give power to Jonathan, a
53-year-old Christian from the oil-rich southern Niger River
delta region, where an armed insurgency, now largely quiet, cut
the nation’s crude output by 28 percent from 2006 to 2009. His
two main challengers, both Muslim northerners, are former
military ruler  Muhammadu Buhari , 68, and Nuhu Ribadu, the 50-
year-old ex-head of the anti-graft agency.  Reduced Majority  “It’s an emotional thing for the Niger delta to have one
of their own at the top,” Anyakwee Nsirimovu, executive
director of Port Harcourt-based Institute for Human Rights and
Humanitarian Law, said by phone yesterday.  While Jonathan’s ruling People’s  Democratic Party  saw its
majority in the Senate and House of Representatives reduced in
last week’s legislative elections, it still scored well
throughout Africa’s most populous nation. To win in the first
round, Jonathan must obtain a majority and secure 25 percent of
the vote in two-thirds of Nigeria’s 36 states. Results from the
120,000 voting stations are due within 48 hours, according to
the electoral commission.  While Jonathan’s campaign slogan is a “breath of fresh
air,” his PDP has ruled  Nigeria  since it emerged from military
rule in 1999. There are no real ideological differences between
the candidates, said Rotimi Oyekanmi, the chief executive
officer of Renaissance Capital West Africa.  Infrastructure Spending  “Instead, there are a number of critical issues. One is
the power situation, another is the Niger Delta and then
corruption,” he said yesterday by phone from Lagos, Nigeria’s
commercial capital. “They all seem to be saying the same things,
though saying they’ll do better than the other.”  Jonathan has pledged to target spending on infrastructure,
including power and railways, in a bid to boost employment in a
country where more than half of the people live on less than $1
a day, according to the  United Nations Development Programme .  “The road map for power, which aims to improve power
supply by selling the state-owned power companies to investors,
is one critical thing he has done,” Oyekanmi said.  Buhari and Ribadu have said that Jonathan has failed to
tackle poverty, corruption and violence.  Opinion Poll  Jonathan was leading in the latest public opinion poll
conducted by  Ipsos  for  ThisDay , the Lagos-based newspaper
reported on April 6. The survey said 62.1 percent of the voters
favored Jonathan for today’s vote, compared with 23.6 percent
for Buhari and 6 percent for Ribadu, with more than 6 percent
undecided.  In last week’s vote, “the PDP has won across the country,
unlike the other parties,” Clement Nwankwo, executive director
of the  Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre , said by phone yesterday
from Abuja, the capital. “In places it didn’t win, it came
second. I think that lead will be difficult to overturn by the
other parties.”  The son of a canoe-making family with a degree in zoology,
Jonathan was relatively unknown when he emerged onto the
political stage in 1999 as the deputy governor of Bayelsa state.
He became governor when his boss, Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, was
impeached by the state assembly after being charged in the U.K.
with  money laundering . In 2007, he was picked as the running
mate on the PDP ticket and in May assumed the presidency when
Umaru Yar’Adua died.  Amnesty  Yar’Adua started an amnesty program in the Niger River
delta that calmed militant attacks. Hague-based  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
of  San Ramon ,  California ,  Total SA (FP)  of  France  and  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI) 
run joint ventures with the state oil company that pump more
than 90 percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Nigeria’s oil and gas industry, which accounts for 80
percent of government revenue, earned $59 billion last year,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  The competition for the spoils of office spurred a violent
electoral campaign with at least 25 people killed during the
legislative vote,  Independent National Electoral Commission 
Chairman  Attahiru Jega  said on April 13.  An explosion was reported at about 8:30 p.m. yesterday at
an electoral commission office in the northeastern city of
Maiduguri, capital of Borno state. No one was hurt, Borno Police
Commissioner Mike Zuokumor said by phone today. Earlier in the
day two people, including a soldier, were killed and seven
others injured when unknown gunmen opened fire on residents in
the city’s Gwange distract, according to police. Four suspects
have been arrested in connection with the shooting, Zuokumor
said.  Election Violence  Investor concern over election-related violence and mainly
Muslim-Christian clashes in the north, which have claimed more
than 200 lives since Dec. 24, sparked a surge in demand for
foreign currency, according to the central bank. The naira
reached an 18-month low against the dollar on March 17.  “In a pre-election period all investments are suspect,”
Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a telephone interview from Abuja
on April 11.  The last elections, in 2007, were described as flawed by
international and local monitors for violent intimidation of
voters, falsification of figures and widespread ballot-snatching.  While there were bomb attacks on some polling stations and
ballot snatching and vote tampering in others, most
international and local observers said last week’s legislative
elections were generally free and fair.  ‘Political Space’  “If you don’t have an election sufficiently trusted by the
people, it could cause problems and even lead to conflict,”
Emmanuel Ezeazu, the director of the Alliance for Credible
Elections, a coalition of civil groups, said by phone from Abuja.
“People will think they don’t have enough political space to
express themselves and they’ll look for alternative means.”  Voting in 15 percent of all legislative seats was deferred
until April 26 due to problems with ballot papers that caused
the three-stage elections to be postponed by one week. The vote
for state governors and legislators will take place the same day.  “There are going to be problems,” former Canadian Prime
Minister  Joe Clark , a co-leader of the  National Democratic
Institute ’s observer team, said yesterday by phone from Abuja.
“The real issue has to do with the seriousness of those
problems, whether they are local or more general. But no one
expects this will be without problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 