-- 
Nigeria’s President Jonathan Eyes Election Win Against Divided Opposition

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-04-15T14:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/nigeria-s-president-jonathan-eyes-election-win-against-divided-opposition.html
Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan will probably win tomorrow’s election in  Africa ’s top
oil producer, bolstered by the opposition’s failure to agree on
a single candidate to stand against him.  Jonathan, a 53-year-old Christian from the oil-rich
southern Niger River delta region, faces two main challengers,
both from the Muslim north: former military ruler  Muhammadu Buhari , 68, and Nuhu Ribadu, the 50-year-old ex-head of the
anti-graft agency.  While Jonathan’s ruling People’s  Democratic Party ’s saw its
majority in the Senate and House of Representatives reduced in
last week’s legislation elections, it still scored well
throughout Africa’s most populous nation. To win in the first
round, Jonathan must obtain a simple majority and secure 25
percent of the vote in two-thirds of Nigeria’s 36 states.  “The PDP has won across the country, unlike the other
parties,” Clement Nwankwo, executive director of the  Policy and
Legal Advocacy Centre , said by phone today from Abuja, the
capital. “In places it didn’t win, it came second. I think that
lead will be difficult to overturn by the other parties.”  While Jonathan’s campaign slogan is a “breath of fresh
air,” his PDP has ruled  Nigeria  since it emerged from military
rule in 1999. There are no real ideological differences between
the candidates, said Rotimi Oyekanmi, the chief executive
officer of Renaissance Capital West Africa.  Critical Issues  “Instead, there are a number of critical issues. One is
the power situation, another is the  Niger Delta  and then
corruption,” he said today by phone from Lagos, Nigeria’s
commercial capital. “They all seem to be saying the same
things, though saying they’ll do better than the other.”  All land borders were to be closed from midday today until
6 a.m. on April 17 to “ensure a peaceful and hitch-free” vote,
the Ministry of Internal Affairs said in an e-mailed statement.  Jonathan has pledged to target spending on infrastructure,
including power and railways, in a bid to boost employment in a
country where more than half of the people live on less than $1
day, according to the  United Nations Development Programme .  “The road map for power, which aims to improve power
supply by selling the state-owned power companies to investors,
is one critical thing he has done,” Oyekanmi said.  Buhari and Ribadu have argued that Jonathan has failed to
tackle poverty, corruption and violence.  Opinion Poll  Jonathan was leading in the latest public opinion poll
conducted by  Ipsos  for  ThisDay , the Lagos-based newspaper
reported on April 6. The survey said 62.1 percent of the voters
favored Jonathan for next week’s vote, compared with 23.6
percent for Buhari and 6 percent for Ribadu, with more than 6
percent undecided.  The son of a canoe-making family with a degree in Zoology,
Jonathan was relatively unknown when he emerged onto the
political stage in 1999 as the deputy governor of Bayelsa state.
He became governor when his boss, Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, was
impeached by the state assembly after being charged in the U.K.
with  money laundering . In 2007, he was picked as the running
mate on the PDP ticket and in May assumed the presidency when
Umaru Yar’Adua died.  Yar’Adua started an amnesty program in the Niger delta that
calmed militant attacks that had cut more than 28 percent of the
nation’s oil output from 2006 to 2009. Hague-based  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
of  San Ramon ,  California ,  Total SA (FP)  of  France  and  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI) 
run joint ventures with the state oil company that pump more
than 90 percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Leadership Test  Jonathan, an ethnic Ijaw, would be the first elected
president from the region.  “It’s an emotional thing for the Niger delta to have one
of their own at the top,” Anyakwee Nsirimovu, executive
director of Port Harcourt-based Institute for Human Rights and
Humanitarian Law, said by phone today. “What isn’t clear is if
Jonathan will provide the leadership that will address the
region’s problems.”  Nigeria’s oil and gas industry, which accounts for 80
percent of government revenue, earned $59 billion last year,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  The competition for the spoils of office spurred a violent
electoral campaign with at least 25 people killed during the
legislative vote,  Independent National Electoral Commission 
Chairman  Attahiru Jega  said on April 13.  Delayed Vote  Voting in 15 percent of all legislative seats was deferred
until April 26 due to problems with ballot papers that caused
the three-stage elections to be postponed by one-week. Voting
for state governors and legislators will take place the same
day.  Investor concern over election-related violence and mainly
Muslim-Christian clashes in the north, which have claimed more
than 200 lives since Dec. 24, sparked a surge in demand for
foreign currency, according to the central bank. The naira
reached an 18-month low against the dollar on March 17.  “In a pre-election period all investments are suspect,”
Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a telephone interview from Abuja
on April 11.  The Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index declined for
the first day in four, falling 0.4 percent to 24,818.63 by 10:35
a.m. in Lagos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The last elections, in 2007, were condemned as flawed by
international and local monitors for violent intimidation of
voters, falsification of figures and widespread ballot-
snatching. Jonathan pledged a more transparent vote and won
plaudits by appointing a respected academic, Jega, to as chief
of the electoral commission.  Generally Fair  While there were bomb attacks on some polling stations and
ballot snatching and vote tampering in others, most
international and local observers said last week’s legislative
elections were generally free and fair.  “The crisis that faced Nigeria from 2007 was mainly one of
legitimacy arising from the elections not being credible,”
Nwankwo said. “Even if it’s apparent that there’s a clear lead,
it has to be legitimate, otherwise it will be a hollow
victory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 