-- 
Norway Changes Green Certificate Proposal to Help Industry

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-04-15T12:54:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/norway-changes-green-certificate-proposal-to-help-industry-1-.html
Norway  changed a proposal for its
green certificate system with Sweden to allow exemptions for
power-intensive industry and the forestry sector after
complaints the legislation would result in plant closures.  The government issued a bill to parliament for a green
electricity certificate system with Sweden to be established on
Jan. 1, the Petroleum and Energy Ministry said.  The government agreed on exemptions for companies including
Yara International ASA and  Norske Skogindustrier ASA (NSG)  after
complaints Norwegian industry didn’t receive similar opt-outs as
Swedish counterparts. Norske Skog, the world’s fourth-largest
maker of publication paper, had threatened to shut its plants in
the Nordic country.  “It has been important for us to ensure that the green
certificate market doesn’t move Norwegian value-creation across
the border,” Petroleum and Energy Minister Ola Borten Moe said
at a press conference in Oslo. “This has been achieved.”  Norway and  Sweden  are seeking to increase renewable energy
production to curb  carbon emissions . The European Union, of
which Sweden is a member, aims to produce 20 percent of its
energy from renewable sources by 2020. Virtually all of Norway’s
power comes from renewable hydropower, compared with about 50
percent in Sweden.  ‘Good Balance’  “It’s not every day the industry can say the government
has struck a good balance between making significant steps
forward for the Norwegian energy market, without it affecting
our competitiveness,” Norske Skog Chairman Eivind Reiten said
at the press conference. “It’s no secret that the Norwegian
forest industry is in a very demanding position given domestic
cost levels and weaknesses in certain markets.”  Sweden began its green certificate program in 2003, in
which users must buy certificates corresponding to a proportion
of their power use. The certificates are granted to renewable
producers, who can redeem them for cash or sell on the market.  Norway and Sweden together plan to build renewable energy
capacity of 26.4 terawatt-hours by 2020, Borten Moe said today.
Should half of this capacity be built in Norway, it would result
in clean-energy investments of 50 billion kroner ($9.2 billion),
the minister said. Authorities aim to have a binding agreement
in place with Sweden by the summer.  The country also expects to conclude talks with the EU on
the share of renewables in its energy mix by the end of the
year, Borten Moe said in an interview. An accord needs to be in
place before the market with Sweden is implemented.  “We’re assuming we’ll reach an agreement within the set
timeframe,” he said. Talks were “challenging,” he said.  Norway canceled plans to introduce a certificate program in
2006 after calculations by the Petroleum and Energy Ministry
showed the power bill for Norwegian consumers would double
compared with the cost of Swedish electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  