-- 
Obama’s Fundraising for 2012 Campaign Starts Among His Earliest Investors

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-04-15T04:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/obama-turns-to-his-earliest-supporters-in-launching-2012-fundraising-push.html
President  Barack Obama  began his
re-election fundraising drive yesterday in Chicago among some of
his earliest political investors and near his 2012 campaign
headquarters, telling supporters they have “still got business
to do.”  Addressing donors at three fundraisers, Obama listed his
first-term accomplishments, including a law overhauling the U.S.
health-care system and new regulations on the financial industry.
The next challenge, he said, is bringing the budget into line
and reducing the nation’s long-term deficit.  “If we apply some practical common sense to this, we can
solve our fiscal challenges and still have the America that we
believe in,” he told his hometown audience. “That’s what the
2012 campaign’s going to be about.”  The evening may raise more than $2 million for Obama and
the  Democratic National Committee , according to a party official
not authorized to share the information. The second event, which
attracted about 50 people to the upscale restaurant MK, had an
admission price of $35,800 per person, according to the
invitation.  “I’m prepared to finish the job,” said Obama, 49, who
filed for re-election last week. “I hope you are too.”  Obama also sought to instill some of the idealism that
propelled his first campaign for the White House.  “That campaign in 2008 wasn’t my campaign,” he told a
crowd of more than 2,000 at  Chicago ’s Navy Pier. “It was your
campaign.”  Deficit Speech  The president traveled to Chicago a day after outlining his
approach to bringing down the nation’s cumulative deficit by $4
trillion over 12 years. He set a target of reducing the annual
U.S. deficit to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2015,
compared with the 10.9 percent of GDP projected for this year.  The Republican alternative, a budget drawn up by
Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , would cut $6.2 trillion
over the next decade, largely by scaling back Medicare and
Medicaid, the federal health-care programs for the elderly and
the poor. It also would cut individual and corporate income
taxes.  The president invoked his daughters in making the case for
measured budget cuts.  “I don’t want a smaller America for Malia and Sasha, for
your kids, for your grandkids,” he said at MK. “I want a big,
generous, energized, optimistic country.”  Obama said his speech on the budget and the deficit was
“not a partisan shot at the other side; it was an attempt to
clarify the choice that we have as a country.”  ‘Nation of Potholes’  Under the Republican vision, he said, the nation wouldn’t
be able to invest in roads, bridges and high-speed rail.  “We would be a nation of potholes,” he said.  The president was introduced by his former chief of staff,
 Rahm Emanuel , who will become Chicago’s mayor on May 16. Emanuel
said Obama had brought the nation to the “doorstep” of an
economic recovery.  Among Obama’s longtime donors at the events were  Penny Pritzker , who led the fundraising effort for his 2008 campaign,
and John Rogers, chairman of Chicago-based Ariel Investments LLC,
also one of his top  2007-08 fundraisers .  The president was to spend the night in Chicago, a rarity
since his inauguration on Jan. 20, 2009. Before this trip, he
had slept nine nights in the house he owns in Chicago’s Kenwood
neighborhood since entering the White House.  Obama has other fundraisers scheduled this month in  New
York  and  California  as he tries to balance politics and his
presidential duties at a time when the nation is dealing with
8.8 percent unemployment, wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan , and
military action in  Libya .  Fundraising Efforts  Donors have said they feel the pressure to raise more money
early in the campaign cycle, as Republican governors seek to
weaken the president’s allies in organized labor and the U.S.
Supreme Court has eased restrictions on campaign spending.  Jim Messina , a former White House deputy chief of staff who
is running the re-election campaign, has asked the top
fundraisers to collect at least $350,000 each this year alone.
For the last presidential campaign, members of Obama’s national
finance committee were each asked to raise $250,000 for the
2007-08 election cycle.  The higher bar has been set in part because Democrats don’t
know whether Obama will be helped or hurt by the  Supreme Court ’s
Citizens United decision and by Republican governors’ efforts to
make it harder for unions to collect membership dues.  Obama raised a record $745 million in 2007-08, and he was
the first major-party nominee to reject public financing for the
general election.  Messina has called it “pie-in-the-sky speculation” that
Obama’s campaign will raise $1 billion for 2012, as some
analysts have suggested.  “The only way we are going to finish is the same way we
began this journey, and that is together,” Obama said at Navy
Pier, shortly before donning a cap for the hometown Chicago
Bulls basketball team.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  