-- 
Obama Sees Libya ‘Stalemate,’ Qaddafi’s Eventual Departure

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-04-16T13:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/obama-sees-libya-stalemate-on-the-ground-qaddafi-ousted-over-long-term-.html
Forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi 
shelled  Libya ’s rebel-held coastal city of Misrata as U.S.
President  Barack Obama  said the conflict has become a
“stalemate on the ground militarily.”  Qaddafi is “getting squeezed” in many ways, Obama said in
an interview with the  Associated Press . “I think over the long
term, Qaddafi will go and we will be successful.”  The attacks on Misrata, the main rebel-held city in the
west, have made Libya’s third-largest city a symbol of the
limitations of NATO’s air campaign to protect civilians.
Qaddafi’s forces have fired ground-to-ground Grad rockets and
cluster bombs, a type of anti-personnel munition that scatters
small bomblets over a wide area, into residential areas, the New
York Times and  Human Rights Watch  reported.  Cluster bombs “pose a huge risk to civilians, both during
attacks because of their indiscriminate nature and afterward
because of the still-dangerous unexploded duds scattered
about,” said Steve Goose, arms division director at  Human
Rights Watch .  Obama acknowledged the limits to what air power can do in
situations such as Misrata. “The fact of the matter is that, in
the absence of actual soldiers on the ground, Qaddafi’s forces
are still going to be able to at least defend their current
positions, particularly when we’re concerned about collateral
damage, civilian casualties,” he said in the interview.  Tanks, Rockets  Rebels have struggled for weeks to take and hold cities in
central Libya, which have been the focus of most of the fighting
since the uprising began in February. Opposition forces today
advanced once again on the strategic oil town of Brega after
four days of NATO airstrikes there, Al Jazeera television
reported.  Mustafa Gheriani, a spokesman for the opposition
Transitional National Council, said he disagreed with Obama’s
comments about a stalemate. “The revolution is continuing all
over Libya, in Misrata, in Zentan and the Amazeegh area, even in
Tripoli,” he said today in an interview in the eastern rebel
stronghold of Benghazi.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in Berlin,
where NATO foreign ministers met to try to resolve differences
over Libya, that the alliance has a “solid and sustainable”
consensus on objectives and that “we all need to be a bit
patient.”  Clinton said that while she wasn’t aware of the use of
cluster bombs over Misrata, “I am not surprised by anything
that Colonel Qaddafi and his forces do.”  Fighting in Misrata at close quarters makes things
“difficult,” she added.  Long Mission  North Atlantic Treaty Organization leaders “are now
realizing that this is not a very short mission,” German Deputy
Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer said in an interview yesterday.
“It takes much longer, it’s much more complicated, it’s much
more demanding than some had expected.”  Germany  is one of the
NATO members opposed to the military action, although it backs
economic and political measures to force Qaddafi from power.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, challenging the
extent of the military operations, said NATO must move
“urgently” toward a political solution. “Using excessive
military force will lead to additional casualties among
civilians,” he said in Berlin where he joined talks with NATO
foreign ministers.  Oil Markets  Oil rebounded as U.S. consumer sentiment and industrial
output increased, signaling higher fuel demand in the world’s
biggest crude-consuming country. Crude oil for May delivery
increased $1.55, or 1.4 percent, to settle at $109.66 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  Elsewhere in the region, activists said Syrian security
forces blocked roads to thwart protesters whose defiance of
President Bashar al-Assad persisted for a fifth Friday after the
announcement of Cabinet changes two days ago. Routes to the
Damascus suburbs of Douma and Harasta were blocked by vans and
concrete blocks as thousands of people took to the streets,
Damascus-based human-rights activist Razan Zaitouneh said on her
Facebook page. There were rallies in Homs, Aleppo, Qamishli, the
port city of Latakia and Daraa, a flash point for dissent last
month, she said.  Clashes between protesters and authorities in  Jordan  left
83 security officers and eight civilians injured, Al Arabiya
television said, citing the country’s head of general security.  Regional Unrest  In Yemen, protesters around the country rejected a Gulf
Cooperation Council plan to end political turmoil because it
doesn’t insist on President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s immediate
departure.  Foreign ministers from NATO’s 28 member states and leaders
from other allied nations took part in the talks in Berlin.  “We are also searching for ways to provide funding for the
opposition so that that they can take care of some of these
needs themselves,” including helping the rebels sell oil,
Clinton said. The rebels are seeking to borrow $2 billion
secured by Libyan government assets abroad that have been
frozen.  The opposition has drafted a constitution that calls for
full equality regardless of race or religion and freedom of
speech and peaceful assembly, the Wall Street Journal reported
on its website, citing Abdel Moneim Bendardf, a senior adviser
to the movement’s leader Mustafa Abdel Jalil. The document was
drafted by a group of intellectuals for the interim Transitional
National Council, the newspaper said.  Allied Participants  Only 14 NATO members -- plus  Sweden , Qatar and the  United
Arab Emirates  -- are participating in some aspect of the
military operation known as “Unified Protector,” most under
rules preventing them from attacking Qaddafi’s forces except in
self-defense. About five NATO nations, led by  France  and the
U.K., are known to be targeting Qaddafi’s ground forces.  Obama said the international intervention, under a UN
Security Council mandate, has averted an assault on rebel-held
Benghazi, Libya’s second-largest city.  “Some civilians may be still getting killed, but we don’t
have wholesale slaughter in places like Benghazi, a city of
700,000” and Qaddafi “is getting squeezed in all different
kinds of ways,” Obama said in the AP interview.  “He’s running out of money. He is running out of supplies.
The noose is tightening, and he is becoming more and more
isolated,” Obama said. “And my expectation is, is that if we
continue to apply that pressure and continue to protect
civilians, which NATO is doing very capably, then I think over
the long term, Qaddafi will go and we will be successful.”  ‘Goof Participation’  Obama said he sees no need to increase the U.S. military
role “at this point.”  “We’ve gotten good participation from our coalition
partners. They are doing exactly what they promised they would
do,” he said. “They are still striking at targets, Qaddafi
targets, particularly those that start moving on the offensive
against opposition areas. And what we’re doing is we’re still
providing jamming capacity, intelligence, refueling.  “So we’ve still got a lot of planes in the air up there,”
he said. “We’re just not the ones who are involved in the
direct strikes on the ground for the most part.”  NATO said in a statement April 14 that allies taking part
in the conflict set three conditions for ending air strikes on
Qaddafi’s forces: an end to all attacks by Qaddafi loyalists on
civilians, withdrawing soldiers to bases, and allowing aid into
the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Berlin at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  