-- 
Obama Gives Donors Inside View of Political Wrangling on Budget

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-04-15T15:18:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/obama-gives-donors-inside-view-of-political-wrangling-on-budget.html
President  Barack Obama  said at a
private fundraiser that he told Republicans during budget
negotiations they wouldn’t be able to win policy fights by
“nickel-and-diming me” on spending, according to  CBS News .  Speaking to donors in  Chicago  last night, Obama suggested
that Republican proposals on the budget had as much political as
fiscal purpose. He criticized attempts to attach provisions that
would have effectively killed parts of the health-care law to a
spending measure for the rest of the fiscal year.  “I said, ‘You want to repeal health care? Go at it. We’ll
have that debate,” Obama said, according to  CBS  which monitored
a feed of his remarks inadvertently transmitted back to the
White House press room. “You’re not going to be able to do that
by nickel-and-diming me in the budget. You think we’re stupid?”  He also was critical of Republican Representative  Paul Ryan 
of  Wisconsin , who was the main author of his party’s plan to cut
$6 trillion of spending over a decade, according to CBS.  Ryan portrays himself as “just being America’s
accountant,” Obama said, according to CBS. “This is the same
guy that voted for two wars that were unpaid for, voted for the
Bush tax cuts that were unpaid for, voted for the prescription
drug bill that cost as much as my health care bill -- but wasn’t
paid for.”  “So it’s not on the level,” he said.  The deficit debate is emerging as a 2012 campaign issue for
both parties, and Obama has framed it as offering voters a clear
choice in the next election, when he will be seeking a second
term.  ‘Social Compact’  In an April 13 speech outlining his own plan to cut the
deficit, Obama said the Republican budget plan “is less about
reducing the deficit than it is about changing the basic social
compact in America.”  Ryan called Obama’s speech “partisan rhetoric.”  “What we heard today was not fiscal leadership from our
commander in chief -- what we heard today was a political
broadside from our ‘campaigner in chief,’” Ryan said at a news
conference after Obama’s budget address.  Obama made last night’s remarks after reporters covering
the fundraising event were ushered out. They were transmitted to
the White House press room, where a CBS reporter was still
working, according to the network.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 