-- 
Obama Says Debt Increase Will Require Deal on Spending Cuts

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-15T17:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/obama-says-debt-cap-increase-will-require-deal-on-spending-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama  said
congressional action to increase the government’s debt limit
will require a compromise with Republicans on trimming the
federal budget.  A debt-ceiling increase is “not going to happen without
some spending cuts,” the president said in an interview with
the Associated Press today in  Chicago .  “All of us agree we have to get control of our spending
and live within our means,” the president said.  Congress is set to begin debate soon on raising the
government’s $14.29 trillion legal debt limit. The Treasury
Department projects that it will hit the cap on May 16, though
it could use emergency measures to avoid default until about
July 8.  Obama and members of his economic team have warned that
failure to approve an increase could be catastrophic for the
 U.S. economy  and financial markets.  A stalemate that blocks action on the debt limit “could
plunge the world economy back into recession.” Obama said in
the AP interview. Still, he said he is confident lawmakers would
ultimately act to raise it. “We always have,” he said.  Obama’s Plan  Obama on April 13 outlined his plan to reduce the deficit
by $4 trillion over 12 years by increasing  tax revenue  and
reducing spending. He set a target of reducing the annual U.S.
deficit to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2015,
compared with the 10.9 percent of GDP projected for this year.  The Republican spending alternative, a budget drawn up by
Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , would cut $6.2 trillion
over the next decade, though it wouldn’t balance the budget
until 2040 because of offsetting tax cuts.  Obama said Ryan’s proposal “fundamentally changes our
society” by cutting too much from federal programs, including
education and medical care for the elderly.  “There are some fundamental differences in overall
approach,” Obama said, and those issues will likely be a focus
of debate in next year’s presidential election.  Obama said efforts by the U.S. and its allies to prevent
the killing of civilians in  Libya  by forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  have succeeded, but now the situation is “a stalemate
on the ground, militarily.”  The U.S. and other nations in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization began missile and air strikes against Qaddafi on
March 19.  Obama said he didn’t expect Qaddafi to have been removed
from power by now, though he believes that will happen “over
the long term” as the Libyan leader runs short of money and
supplies.  “The noose is tightening,” he said. “Over the long term
Qaddafi will go and we will be successful.”  Obama reiterated his stance that the military prison at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, should be closed, though that has not
happened because of congressional opposition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  