-- 
Hoenig Says Rising Rates Could Spur 33% Fall in Farm Values

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-15T19:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/hoenig-says-rising-rates-could-cause-33-fall-in-farm-values.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig  said that an increase in interest rates
could trigger a 33 percent decline in the price of agricultural
land.  “If interest rates rise we could lose a third of the value
of that land in a very short time,” Hoenig said today in a
speech in  West Lafayette ,  Indiana .  Land prices are possibly being driven by “inflationary
impulses,” and “it’s also driven by interest rates” at
unusually low levels, he said in a lecture for the Purdue
University Department of Agricultural Economics.  Prices for irrigated cropland during the fourth quarter of
last year rose 14.8 percent in parts of the seven states in the
 Kansas City Fed  region from a year earlier, the bank said in a
February report. The increase was 12.9 percent for non-irrigated
land. A majority of rural bankers surveyed by the regional bank
said land values would climb in the next few months.  Hoenig, speaking later in his presentation, reiterated his
view that the Fed should raise the benchmark interest rate to 1
percent and then pause. He was the lone dissenter from every Fed
meeting in 2010 and has repeatedly said the Fed’s near-zero
interest rates and record monetary stimulus could lead to
instability in financial markets and the broad economy. Hoenig
plans to retire from the central bank in October,  High land prices are “perhaps where they’re supposed to
be. I doubt it,” he said, noting that interest rates on loans
to purchase agricultural land are far below the longer-run
average of 7 percent to 7.5 percent.  ‘Chicken Little’  “I’m not trying to be Chicken Little here and say the sky
is falling.  But if it’s too good to be true, it’s not true,”
he said. “You can’t lever indefinitely at zero interest rates
and not have that come down on you.”  In February, Hoenig testified to Congress that “this run-
up in farmland values has occurred, however, amid financial
markets characterized by high levels of liquidity and unusually
low interest rates.”  “It is nearly impossible to determine how much of the
farmland boom may be an unsustainable bubble driven by financial
markets and how much results from fundamental changes in demand
and supply conditions,” he  told the Senate Agriculture
Committee .  Corn Price  The price of corn has risen about 114 percent in the last
year, according to the Department of Agriculture. The price of
cotton has increased about 143 percent in the same period.
National average gas prices were $3.82 on April 14, up 33
percent from a year earlier, according to the American
Automobile Association.  The Labor Department reported today that overall prices in
March were 2.7 percent higher than a year ago and core prices
1.2 percent higher.  “So-called  core inflation  was up modestly, total inflation
up robustly, but total inflation is what I worry about,” Hoenig
said.  The presidents of the Fed’s regional banks rotate voting on
monetary policy. Hoenig does not vote this year. The central
bank said in its March policy statement that the pressures from
rising commodity prices are likely to be “transitory” and said
that “longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable,
and measures of underlying inflation have been subdued.”  Hoenig, the Fed’s longest-serving policy maker, will retire
exactly two decades after beginning his tenure as Kansas City
Fed president in 1991. He is required under internal Fed rules
to retire at age 65, an age he will reach in September. He
joined the Kansas City Fed in 1973 as an economist in banking
supervision after earning his doctorate at  Iowa State
University .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in West Lafayette, Indiana at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  