-- 
Tognum Calls Daimler, Rolls-Royce $4.54 Billion Takeover Bid Inappropriate

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-04-15T14:18:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/tognum-rejects-daimler-rolls-royce-tender-offer-price-as-inappropriate-.html
Tognum AG (TGM) , a German maker of
industrial engines, rejected a takeover offer from  Daimler AG (DAI) 
and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) , saying the bid valuing the company at
about 3.15 billion euros ($4.54 billion) is too low.  Daimler and Rolls-Royce’s offer of 24 euros for each share
is “not appropriate,” the Friedrichshafen, Germany-based
company said in a statement today. Tognum still welcomes the
approach from a business perspective, it said. The two suitors
said their bid “fully and attractively values the company.”  Owners holding about 30 percent of the shares have rejected
the joint bid, a person familiar with the situation said last
week. Investors, including  ING Groep NV (INGA) , First Eagle Investment
Management and Delta Lloyd Asset Management, have written to
Tognum opposing the offer, the person said, speaking on
condition of anonymity because the communication is private.  Daimler and Rolls-Royce started their public tender for the
German engine manufacturer on April 6, pressing ahead even
though the stock has been above the bid since March 9, when
Tognum said it hadn’t agreed on a price. The prospective buyers
are seeking more than 50 percent of the shares in the tender,
which runs until May 18. Daimler has pledged its stake.  Tognum Stock Gains  Tognum rose as much as 35 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 26.30
euros and was up 0.4 percent as of 3:54 p.m. in Frankfurt
trading, valuing the company at 3.43 billion euros. The bid is
30 percent higher than Tognum’s March 4 closing price, the last
trading day before the prospective buyers expressed interest.  “Rolls-Royce and Daimler do not share Tognum’s view that
the offer price is not appropriate,” the companies said in a
statement sent by e-mail. “The offer we have made has a
compelling industrial logic.”  ING and First Eagle are Tognum’s biggest shareholders after
Daimler, holding more than 12 percent of the shares combined,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Daimler, which owns
28.4 percent, has said prior to today’s announcement that it was
sticking to the bid.  Daimler’s stake allows it to block efforts by other
potential suitors. Shareholders with more than 25 percent of any
German company have the power to veto major strategic moves.  ‘Gut Reaction’  “It’s all very well for the company to turn it down, but
they’ve already got a chunk in the bag in terms of the holdings
Daimler has,” said  Howard Wheeldon , senior strategist at BGC
Partners in London. “It’s a gut reaction, but I expect they
will continue to pursue it.”  Gaining control of Tognum, which Daimler once owned, would
give the two companies the world’s second-largest maker of high-
speed diesel engines for the marine, energy and defense
industries after Caterpillar Inc. London-based Rolls-Royce,
whose engines power Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  planes, plans to
integrate its Bergen business, which makes gasoline and diesel
engines for ships and power generators, with Tognum.  Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks, sold
Tognum, then called MTU Friedrichshafen, for 1.6 billion euros
to Stockholm-based private equity firm EQT Partners to help pay
for reorganizing Chrysler in March 2006, when it still owned the
U.S. carmaker.  After an initial public offering by Tognum at 24 euros a
share in July 2007, Daimler bought a 22 percent stake for 585
million euros in April 2008, increasing the holding to more than
25 percent three months later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  