-- 
Oil May Rise Next Week on Mideast Unrest, Saudi Output Cuts, Survey Shows

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-04-15T20:07:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/oil-may-rise-on-mideast-unrest-saudi-output-cuts-survey-shows.html
Crude  oil prices  may increase on
speculation unrest in the Middle East will curb exports as  Saudi
Arabia  reduces production, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Fifteen of 33 analysts, or 45 percent, forecast crude oil
will increase through April 21. Nine respondents, or 27 percent,
predicted prices will decline and nine projected little change.
Last week, 49 percent of respondents said futures would gain.  Prices have advanced 18 percent this year as unrest spread
from Tunisia to  Egypt ,  Libya , Yemen, Bahrain and  Syria .  Iran  may
be helping Syria’s government suppress political protests, U.S.
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said yesterday in
 Washington . Human Rights Watch said in an April 12 report that
at least 130 people have been killed in the Syrian crackdown.  “There are no signs that the situation in the Middle East
is getting any better,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market
strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis .
“Syria is looking downright ugly right now.”  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil production and held 61
percent of proved reserves in 2009, according to BP Plc, which
publishes its BP Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  Saudi Arabia, the biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, reduced its crude oil output in
April by 300,000 barrels per day, John Sfakianakis, chief
economist at Riyadh-based Banque Saudi Fransi, said yesterday in
a telephone interview.  “The Saudi headlines are a major worry,” O’Grady said.
“It’s a big deal.”  Crude oil for May delivery fell $3.13, or 2.8 percent, to
$109.66 a barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Futures are up 28 percent from a year ago.  The oil survey has correctly predicted the direction of
futures 47 percent of the time since its start in April 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  