-- 
Oil Heads for First Weekly Loss in a Month Amid Inflation, Demand Concern

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-04-15T12:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/oil-heads-for-first-weekly-loss-in-a-month-amid-inflation-demand-concern.html
Oil slipped, heading for its first
weekly decline in  New York  in a month, amid concern that this
year’s rally in prices is stoking inflation and starting to
erode demand for fuel.  Futures fell as much as 0.7 percent after Chinese data
showed that inflation in the world’s biggest energy user
accelerated in March to the fastest pace since 2008. Total U.S.
crude inventories rose 1.63 million barrels to 359.3 million
last week as refiners slowed processing rates, the Energy
Department said on April 13. The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s chief said the alliance needs more attack jets to
target Libyan ground forces as Muammar Qaddafi’s troops continue
their attacks.  “Crude oil prices have pushed ahead of where fundamentals
currently suggest,” analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. led by
 Jeffrey Currie  in London wrote in a report today. “The near-
term downside risk to prices has risen in recent weeks” on
“nascent signs of demand destruction in the  United States .”  Crude for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell as much as 70 cents to $107.41 a barrel and was at $107.48
at 1:45 p.m. London time. Yesterday, the contract increased $1,
or 0.9 percent, to settle at $108.11, the highest close since
March 11. Prices are up 26 percent from a year ago and headed
for a weekly decline of 4.7 percent. Brent oil for June
settlement was down 17 cents at $121.83 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  China’s GDP, Inflation  China’s economy  grew 9.7 percent in the first quarter while
consumer prices rose 5.4 percent from a year earlier, the
statistics bureau said at a briefing in Beijing today. The
median forecasts in Bloomberg News surveys of economists were
for growth of 9.4 percent and inflation of 5.2 percent.
Industrial output increased 14.8 percent year-on-year, exceeding
estimates of 14 percent.  “The Chinese data is both bullish and bearish for
commodities,” said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager with
Astmax Ltd. in  Tokyo . “It’s a difficult situation for the
Chinese government. They would like to sustain the economic
growth for as long as possible, but they have to control
consumer prices.”  Taming prices is the government’s top and “urgent”
priority,  China ’s cabinet said after meeting in Beijing this
week to review the performance of the world’s second-biggest
economy. Officials aim to hold full-year inflation at 4 percent.  Brent Premium  “We still expect oil prices to march higher because there
is a strong correlation historically between China’s industrial
output growth and oil prices,” said  Gordon Kwan , head of
regional energy research at Mirae Asset Securities in  Hong Kong .
“We expect Brent prices to test $130 a barrel next week, also
because of escalating tensions in  Libya  and because European
refineries are coming back from maintenance.”  May futures for the European benchmark traded at a premium
of $14.25 a barrel to U.S. futures yesterday. June contracts for
Brent and WTI were at a difference of $13.79 a barrel today.  The difference between front-month contracts in  London  and
New York surged to a record $19.54 on Feb. 21 as unrest spread
in the Middle East and North Africa and stockpiles climbed at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New York futures. The
spread averaged 76 cents last year.  “The physical costs of shipping crude from Cushing to
western Europe should stop the spread from getting too wide,”
Stephen Schork, president of the Villanova, Pennsylvania-based
consultant Schork Group Inc., said today in a report, referring
to the potential to ship arbitrage cargoes from the U.S.  NATO’s Libya Campaign  The limitations of the NATO’s air campaign have become
evident as forces loyal to Qaddafi stepped up their assault in
Misrata, Libya’s third-largest city, and pressed their attack on
rebels near the oil port city of Brega. The rebels said 47 were
killed in Misrata yesterday by regime shelling, al-Jazeera
reported. Only five NATO nations, led by  France  and the U.K, are
known to be targeting Qaddafi’s ground forces.  “This is very much unlike what happened in  Iraq ,” said
Mirae’s Kwan. “This looks like a multiyear, see-saw military
event that will push  oil prices  higher.”  The conflict in Libya is the bloodiest in a wave of
uprisings that has toppled leaders in Egypt and Tunisia and
spread to Algeria, Bahrain,  Iran , Oman, Syria and Yemen.  The suspension of Libyan exports has put the market out of
balance and prices are likely to set new highs this year,
according to analysts at Barclays Plc.  ‘Little Compensation’  Oil demand growth remains close to the “unsustainably high
pace” recorded in 2010, and there has been “little
compensation” for the loss of production from Libya by other
members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
they said.  “The oil market is currently massively out of
equilibrium,” Barclays analysts led by  Paul Horsnell  wrote in a
report today. “The highs for oil prices this year are not yet
in.”  Crude oil prices may increase on speculation unrest in the
Middle East will curb exports as  Saudi Arabia  reduces
production, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Fifteen of 33
analysts, or 45 percent, forecast crude oil will increase
through April 21. Last week, 49 percent of respondents said
futures would gain.  Saudi Arabia, the biggest oil producer in OPEC, pumped 9
million barrels of crude a day in March, the highest level since
October 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. It
developed two blends to offset the shortfall in Libya.  The country reduced its crude oil output in April by
300,000 barrels a day, John Sfakianakis, chief economist at
Riyadh-based Banque Saudi Fransi, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  