-- 
Tokyo Disneyland ‘Comforts’ Japanese Reeling From Earthquake

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-04-15T11:10:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/tokyo-disneyland-draws-thousands-seeking-sense-of-comfort-.html
Tokyo Disneyland  opened earlier
than its 8 a.m. schedule today as about 10,000 people lined up
to visit the amusement park that had been shut for five weeks 
by the strongest  earthquake  on record to hit Japan.  “I could hardly sleep last night because I was too
excited,” Takashi Katakura, 56, said as he waited to get
inside. “Disneyland is the place that cheers me up, and I
never age here.”  The  earthquake  damaged its parking lot and turned some of
the ground to mud in the surrounding areas, which didn’t have
reinforced foundations like the resort does. People have
hoarded food and necessities as a crippled nuclear plant 135
miles (217 kilometers) north of Tokyo has leaked radiation.
More than 28,000 people are dead or missing and the  Asian
Development Bank  has warned of the possibility of a recession.  The long lines outside Tokyo Disneyland “symbolize a
change in people’s mindsets,” said  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief
economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute Inc. “It means
that people can go out and enjoy themselves once again, even if
power supply and many problems remain.”  Oriental Land Co., which operates Tokyo Disneyland and
 Tokyo DisneySea , rose 1.5 percent to 6,850 yen at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo trading. Today’s gain pared the stock’s drop
since the March 11 earthquake to 17 percent, compared with the
broader Topix index’s 9.6 percent decline.  Reinforced Foundations  “People want a place where they can feel a sense of
comfort,” Toshio Kagami, chairman and chief executive officer
of Oriental Land, said in an interview at the park today. “The
number of guests today exceeds expectations.”  The  Disney resort , which sits on reclaimed land in Urayasu
city near the eastern edge of Tokyo, changed its closing time
to 6 p.m. instead of 10 p.m. to conserve energy. The  Tokyo
DisneySea  theme park remained shut.  While the quake triggered ground liquefaction, which
causes soil to act like quicksand, across much of the 1,455
hectares (3,600 acres) of reclaimed land in Urayasu, the main
park areas didn’t suffer as they sit on 15-meter (49-foot) deep
reinforced foundations.  The earthquake and ensuing tsunami, as well as the damage
to the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear facility, may lead to a 10
percent decline in Japan’s retail sales this year, convenience-
store chain FamilyMart Co. said April 7. Retailers including
 Japan ’s biggest, 7-Eleven owner Seven & I Holdings Co., have
forecast earnings declines because of the disaster.  Power Shortage  The monthlong closure of the Tokyo resort may have cut
Oriental Land’s revenue by about 21 billion yen ($252 million),
according to Bloomberg calculations using data from the company.
Sales at the theme parks, which generate more than 80 percent
of Oriental Land’s revenue, may suffer during summer as power
supply is regulated to avoid a large-scale blackouts.  “If consumption slumps from disruptions in power supply,
that’s a problem, but if consumption drops as people cut back
on leisure activities because they feeling it’s inappropriate
to be enjoying themselves when others are in tough situations,
that’s a bigger problem,” Nagahama said.  The government said it plans to urge companies to reduce
power use by as much as 25 percent this summer. The magnitude-9
temblor prompted Tokyo Electric Power Co. to shut  power plants 
including the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear facility.  Tokyo and eight nearby prefectures, which account for
about 40 percent of the country’s gross domestic product, may
have a shortage of 8,000 megawatts this summer even as Tepco,
as the power company is known, plans to boost its capacity to
52,000 megawatts. That shortfall is equal to the amount of
power that would be  generated  by four Hoover Dams.  Relief Fund  “We will decide on our next steps based on the result
this weekend of our energy-saving measures” such as dimming
lights and cutting back on air-conditioning, Kagami said in an
interview at the park. “We will fully cooperate with cutting
electricity use, but safety comes first.”  Some lights inside shops and restaurants will be turned
off, the company said. The  Big Thunder Mountain  roller coaster
wasn’t operating as workers repaired parts of the walls damaged
by the earthquake.  Toko Tanaka, professor of media studies at  Waseda
University , said it’s “too early” for  Tokyo  Disneyland to open.
“Reviving the economy may be important, too, but we shouldn’t
rush with reopening Disneyland and starting the baseball
games,” she said in a phone interview. “How can you prioritize
those over the situation in Fukushima, which isn’t settled
yet?”  Oriental Land  said  it will donate 300 yen to a relief fund
for every customer who goes to the park from today to May 14.  The park’s opening is an “upbeat message to the world,”
Hiroshi Mizohata, commissioner of the  Japan Tourism Agency ,
said at a briefing in Tokyo.  Masamichi Katori, 27, said he’ll cut back on his
electricity use to help ensure there will be enough power for
Tokyo Disneyland, which he visits three times a month. “Today
is the day I’ve been waiting for,” he said, before he and his
son, who was dressed as Donald Duck, ran off to chase some
Disney mascots.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  