-- 
London Police to Look Into Possible Payments From Reporters

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-04-15T13:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/london-police-to-look-into-possible-payments-from-reporters-1-.html
London police are considering
whether to start an investigation into statements by News
International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks about
journalists paying officers for information.  Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dick
wrote to a House of Commons committee to say police will review
whether there are grounds for a criminal probe. The review is
centered on a statement Brooks made to the committee in 2003
“regarding press paying police officers for information,”
according to an e-mailed statement from the committee today.  News International, the U.K. unit of  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News
Corp. (NWS) , has been under fire for the practices of reporters at the
News of the World newspaper. The unit apologized and offered to
settle some cases filed by more than 20 celebrities and
politicians over allegations journalists accessed private
mobile-phone voice-mail messages for stories.  The force will “conduct a scoping exercise to establish
whether there are now any grounds for beginning a criminal
investigation resulting from the comments made by Rebekah
Brooks,” Dick said in the letter, according to the Home Affairs
Committee statement.  Daisy Dunlop, a spokeswoman for News International,
declined to comment.  Brooks submitted a statement to lawmakers earlier this
month to “clarify” the 2003 remarks.  ‘Widely Held Belief’  “I was responding to a specific line of questioning on how
newspapers get information,” Brooks said in comments posted on
the Parliament  website . “My intention was simply to comment
generally on the widely held belief that payments had been made
in the past to police officers.”  At a London hearing today in the phone hacking cases, Judge
Geoffrey Vos asked lawyers to select as many as five test cases
so he can rule on liability and damages for guidance in the
remaining litigation.  “The most important question really is: what happened, and
what are the damages?” Vos said. “Otherwise we will be going
on forever. Some people may want that, but I don’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  