-- 
Hong Kong U-turn Wins Tsang ‘One-Night Stand’ Budget Reprieve

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-04-15T05:16:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/hong-kong-approves-8-billion-in-handouts-in-revised-budget.html
Hong Kong  Financial Secretary John Tsang won approval for HK$62.2 billion ($8 billion) of handouts
after caving in to pressure from  lawmakers  for cash and tax
rebates amid widening inequality that is driving dissent.  Tsang’s budget passed by 33 votes to 19 late last night
after his U-turn last  month  secured the backing of pro-Beijing
members of the Legislative Council. All 6.1 million Hong Kong
permanent residents will get a HK$6,000 handout, while 1.5
million taxpayers will get a rebate of the same amount.  The measure was like a “one-night stand” with a
government that behaved irresponsibly to win short-term support,
Wong Sing-chi, a  Democratic Party  lawmaker who voted against the
bill, said March 25. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said March 14
that Hong Kong must resolve “deep-rooted conflicts” and close
an  income gap  that’s at its widest since the British colony
returned to  China  in 1997.  “We will see more protests against this seemingly lame-
duck administration,” said  Joseph Cheng , a political-science
professor at the  City University of Hong Kong . “There’s a
rising risk of policy paralysis as the government is seen as
rather incompetent in its handling of the budget. They don’t
seem to realize the substantial grievances underlying their nice
statistics.”  Hong Kong’s gross domestic product expanded 6.2 percent in
the three months ended Dec. 31, and at the fastest pace in four
years for the whole of 2010. Tsang this week estimated fiscal
reserves of HK$583 billion, or 31 percent of gross domestic
product, by the end of March next year.  Unemployment Falling  The jobless rate fell to 3.6 percent in the three months
through February, the lowest since the start of the global
financial crisis in 2008.  Still, inflation will accelerate this year to the highest
since 1997, spurred by food-price gains and increasing rental
costs, the government said. Hong Kong home prices have surged 69
percent from the beginning of 2009 to reach the highest level
since 1997, according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  After Tsang announced his revised budget, Hong Kong police
arrested more than 100 people in clashes with protesters
demanding more help for the poor. Hong Kong’s top official,
Chief Executive Donald Tsang, was assaulted last month by
protesters who said he was ignoring the plight of the poor.
Demonstrators stormed a public event by Eva Cheng, secretary for
transport and housing, on April 10 to oppose an increase in
subway fares.  Rags, Riches  The median annual income for the poorest 10 percent of Hong
Kong’s families fell to HK$37,200 ($4,788) last year, from
HK$50,700 in 1997. Earnings for the richest 10 percent surged 13
percent to HK$961,800 from HK$849,000, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd. and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) 
controlling shareholder  Li Ka-shing , 82, said last month the
Hong Kong property market will remain “healthy, barring
unforeseen adverse changes,” after Cheung Kong reported a 35
percent increase in net income last year. Li, whose legendary
rise from plastic-flower seller to become Hong Kong’s richest
man earned him the moniker “Superman,” oversees an empire
spanning ports, real estate, hotels, retailing, infrastructure
and energy.  “Fewer people now believe that they can aspire to be the
next Li Ka-shing, and people now expect the government to
provide better social security at the expense of the super
rich,” said Joseph Lau, a senior economist at Societe Generale
SA in Hong Kong. “The government should be less laissez-faire
and more pro-active in policy making than it has historically
been to improve the standard of living,” Lau said.  ‘Property Bubble’  Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the de-facto central bank,
said this week that it is concerned about the risk of a
“credit-fuelled property bubble.” The bank has tightened rules
on mortgage lending three times since October 2009.  Lawmakers of  Democratic Party  and Hong Kong Confederation
of Trade Unions on March 9 blocked the passage of a bill
providing temporary funding for the government in an
unprecedented move, demanding the government to build
government-subsidized and affordable homes. The lawmakers later
approved a revised plan.  “When we have the poor living in cage homes and struggling
to make ends meet by collecting cardboards on the street, how
could we proud of the economic prosperity in the city?” said
Christine Fang, chief executive at the  Hong Kong Council of
Social Service , an advisory body to the government.  Tsang scrapped his first proposal to add money to
residents’ pension plans and said he would instead inject HK$1.5
billion into a fund that aims to help the poor.  “These relief measures aim to reduce the stress for
residents and they have been well received,” Tsang said this
week.  At last month’s National People’s Congress in Beijing, Wen
put fighting inflation and soaring home prices at the forefront
of government policy this year to head off social instability.
The  United Nations ’ world food prices index climbed to a record
in February. Costlier food this year contributed to riots across
northern  Africa  and the Middle East that toppled leaders in
Egypt and  Tunisia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  