-- 
Ireland Credit Rating Cut Two Levels by Moody's to Lowest Investment Grade

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-04-15T12:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/moody-s-cuts-irish-rating-two-levels-as-government-struggles-to-plug-gap.html
Ireland’s credit rating was cut two
levels by Moody’s Investors Service to the lowest investment
grade as the government struggles to lower the  budget deficit 
and restore economic growth.  Moody’s reduced the rating to Baa3 from Baa1, leaving the
country’s outlook on negative, according to an e-mailed
statement today. That’s the same rating as Iceland, Tunisia,
 Romania  and  Brazil .  Standard & Poor’s  on April 1 cut Ireland’s
rating one level to BBB+ with a stable outlook.  Irish taxpayers may spend as much as 100 billion euros
($145 billion) trying to solve  Europe ’s worst banking crisis as
the country draws funds from last year’s bailout. Ireland is
trying to convince investors at home and abroad it has finally
plugged the hole in its lenders after four failed attempts
following the collapse of the country’s property boom in 2007.  Irish debt restructuring is not a “plausible scenario,”
 Dietmar Hornung , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Moody’s, said in a
telephone interview today. The country has a “good track record
of delivering” fiscal consolidation, while the negative outlook
reflects the “unbalanced risks” facing the nation.  ‘Significant Adjustments’  Ireland’s  Finance Ministry  said in a statement today that
initial targets of its 85-billion euro rescue package have been
met and the austerity program is “on track.” The government
faces “significant adjustments” in fiscal policy to ensure
debt remains on a “sustainable path” and its return to the
sovereign-debt markets, the ministry said.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said today the process of
injecting capital into lenders will be completed by the end of
July, with the exception of Irish Life & Permanent Plc. He said
that the European Commission and the  European Central Bank  don’t
expect any additional bank capital needs.  Fitch Ratings yesterday affirmed Ireland’s BBB+ rating and
removed the threat of a downgrade, calling latest efforts to
resolve the banking crisis “credible.” The ratings company
maintained a negative outlook, citing “significant threats to
an economic recovery and fiscal consolidation.”  Ireland’s central bank yesterday forecast gross domestic
product to rise 0.9 percent this year, saying consumer demand
will remain “subdued” as the government cuts spending. The ECB
last month projected the 17-member euro-region economy will
expand about 1.7 percent in 2011.  ‘Weak’ Prospects  “The country’s weak economic growth prospects are driven
by the fiscal consolidation process, the ongoing contraction in
private-sector credit, and a more adverse interest-rate
environment,” Moody’s said. “The Irish government’s financial
strength could decline further if economic growth were to be
weaker than currently projected, or if fiscal adjustment were to
fall short of the government’s planned consolidation.  Ireland’s government has injected about 46 billion euros
into banks and taken majority stakes in four of them. Central
bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said on March 31 it’s realistic to
expect Bank of Ireland Plc and Irish Life & Permanent Plc, the
two lenders not already owned by the government, to fall under
state control.  Other euro-region governments are also seeking ways to
lower budget deficits and restore investor confidence. S&P last
month cut Portugal for the second time in a week to the lowest
investment-grade rating of BBB-. The country last month became
the third euro nation after Greece and Ireland to ask for aid.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said yesterday that a debt restructuring in the euro
region could cause a ‘‘chain reaction through the banking
sector,” calling the environment still “fragile.”  “The downgrade is disappointing to say the least,”
Bloxham Stockbrokers analysts including Dublin-based  Alan McQuaid  said in an e-mailed note today. “However, given the
ongoing uncertainty over Ireland’s fiscal position, it is not
altogether surprising.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  