-- 
Los Angeles Economic Chief Beutner Resigns to Run for Mayor

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-04-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/los-angeles-deputy-mayor-to-seek-top-city-job-correct-.html
Austin Beutner, co-founder of New
York-based investment bank  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , resigned
after 15 months as Los Angeles’s deputy mayor for economic
policy to run for the top job.  Beutner, 51, filed papers with the Los Angeles City Ethics
Commission to begin an “exploratory campaign” for mayor of the
nation’s second-most populous city, according to a statement
yesterday.  “I’m doing it because I think I can make a difference,”
Beutner said in a telephone interview. He said boosting
employment in the city would be his top priority.  Beutner is seeking to succeed Antonio Villaraigosa, who
can’t run because of  term limits , in the March 2013 election. He
will face Controller Wendy Greuel and Councilwoman Jan Perry,
who are already running, and possible contenders in County
Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky, City Council President Eric Garcetti
and state Senator Alex Padilla.  Beutner served since January 2010 as first deputy mayor at
a $1-a-year salary. He was charged with boosting business hiring
in a metropolitan area with an unemployment rate of 11.5 percent
in February, compared with 8.9 percent nationally.  Los Angeles 
almost ran out of cash last year and faces a $350 million
deficit for the fiscal year starting July 1.  As deputy mayor, Beutner helped persuade city officials to
cut in half the time it takes to permit new bars and restaurants
and to introduce a three-year tax holiday for companies moving
to Los Angeles, according to Carol Schatz, president of the
Center City Association of Los Angeles, a business advocacy
group.  Chinese Carmaker  Beutner said he lured the U.S. base of Chinese electric-car
maker BYD Co.  to Los Angeles by getting the city to offer
incentives, including reduced port fees and $2 million of street
and other improvements for the Shenzhen, China-based company’s
new building.  Named earlier this year to a commission examining a
proposal to build a National Football League stadium in the
city, Beutner described the project as a job creator,
particularly if it could be done without public funding.  “We’re the only city that can privately finance a
stadium,” he said in an interview last month.  Beutner retired from Evercore in 2008 after breaking his
neck in a bicycle accident. He earned more than $12 million in
his last three years at the company, according to U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filings.  He said he didn’t know how much he’d spend on the campaign,
although he plans to tap contributors.  “I believe in markets,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  