-- 
Osborne Says U.K.’s Labour Isolated on Deficit-Reduction Plans

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-04-15T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/osborne-says-u-k-s-labour-isolated-on-deficit-reduction-plans.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said the opposition  Labour Party  is isolated
internationally over its calls to slow his deficit-cutting plans
after President  Barack Obama  mapped out proposals to narrow the
U.S. budget shortfall.  Osborne, a Conservative, said Obama’s plan is similar to
the U.K.’s in its scale and pace and that Labour’s Treasury
spokesman,  Ed Balls , is almost alone in urging slower
reductions. Osborne said the budget debate in Washington has
shifted in recent days in favor of tougher action.  “The British Labour Party are now entirely isolated, I
think, in the international community in arguing against the
pace of deficit reduction that is taking place in many, many
countries,” Osborne told reporters today in  Washington , where
he is meeting other Group of 20 finance ministers. “That has
left them, the British Labour Party, in no man’s land.”  Osborne’s plan to eliminate the bulk of the deficit within
four years has dominated the political debate in the U.K. in the
past year. It’s left him open to attacks from Balls, who says
Osborne is driven by ideology and the cuts leave Britain’s
nascent economic recovery too exposed to any shocks. The
austerity measures have helped erode the  Conservative Party ’s
standing with voters.  ‘Fundamental Shift’  “The debate here in Washington has changed in terms of
debts and deficits,” Osborne said. There is “a fundamental
shift in the debate.”  Spain ’s efforts to reassure investors in
recent months are also proof of the need to cut deficits,
Osborne said.  Obama’s plan, outlined in a speech this week, would cut $4
trillion in cumulative deficits within 12 years through a
combination of spending reductions and tax increases.  Osborne’s aides say that equates to narrowing the deficit
by 8 percent of gross domestic product in the U.S. by 2015,
compared with an 8.4 percent reduction in the U.K. The annual
squeeze is even greater in the U.S., equivalent to 2 percentage
points compared with 1.6 percent in the U.K..  Both countries will also seek to make spending cuts account
for about three quarters of the consolidation and tax increases
for about a quarter, according to the aides.  Labour argues that Osborne is putting the recovery at risk
by embarking on the biggest fiscal consolidation since World War
II at a time when accelerating inflation is eroding  living
standards .  Job Cuts  Balls says the government’s plans -- which squeezed 6
billion pounds from the spending bill in the fiscal year that
ended last month and will cut 320,000 jobs from the public
sector -- are biting too soon.  The economy contracted by 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter
and will grow by 1.7 percent this year, according to government
forecasts issued last month, less than the 2.1 percent
previously predicted.  Osborne also said today the G-20 will monitor the progress
on his deficit plan as it steps up surveillance of national
economies.  “I fully expect the U.K. to be one of those countries,
given our very high deficit and our very high levels of private
debt and rising levels of public debt,” Osborne said. “I am
very relaxed about that because that is a situation that I
inherited, and the plan we have put in place to deal with it is
universally seen as credible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Washington at  gvina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  