-- 
German Stocks Advance; Adidas, K+S, BASF Rise as Commerzbank Shares Slide

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-04-15T16:20:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/most-german-equities-advance-siemens-k-s-adidas-increase-in-frankfurt.html
German stocks advanced, trimming
the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) ’s weekly decline, as consumer confidence
and manufacturing data in the U.S. exceeded economists’
forecasts.  Adidas AG (ADS)  rose 2.2 percent after promoting the world’s
lightest basketball shoe. K+S AG gained 1.3 percent as  Europe ’s
largest potash miner said it may increase prices for the crop
nutrient.  The DAX climbed 31.73, or 0.4 percent, to 7,178.29 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The measure has still fallen 0.5
percent this week as Japan said its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant may release more radiation than Chernobyl,  Alcoa
Inc. (AA)  began the U.S. earnings season with sales that missed
analysts’ estimates and concern returned the Europe’s weakest
economies may be forced to reschedule debt repayments. The
broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  gained 0.5 percent today.  “Data coming from the U.S. point to a surprisingly strong
 U.S. economy ,” said  Robert Halver , head of research at Baader
Bank AG in Frankfurt. “It gives us a chance to compete against
the crisis we’re going through with Japan and the debt crisis.
We should see a small upward trend in the coming weeks.”  In the U.S., manufacturing in the  New York  region expanded
in April at the fastest rate in a year, a sign that factories
will further propel the economic recovery. The Federal Reserve
Bank of New York’s general economic index rose to 21.7 from 17.5
in March. Economists had projected a reading of 17, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. Confidence  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for April rose to 69.6 from March’s
67.5 reading that was the lowest since November 2009.  The cost of living in the U.S. rose in March for a ninth
consecutive month, climbing 0.5 percent, led by increases in
food and fuel costs that have yet to filter down to other goods
and services.  Adidas, the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
rallied 2.2 percent to 46.87 euros, the highest price in a
month, after introducing the AdiZero Crazy Light shoe in New
York yesterday.  K+S gained 1.3 percent to 53.65 euros, the first advance
this week. The company may increase potash prices to secure
revenue growth as investments to reduce environmental harm curb
the company’s capacity.  “Wholesalers are extremely positive on business,” Joachim Felker, the board member responsible for the company’s potash
operations, told journalists at an event at a mine in the German
town of Merkers yesterday.  BASF Rises  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest chemicals company, advanced
1.7 percent to 64.05 euros. Symrise AG, the maker of flavors and
fragrances, gained 1.6 percent to 21.25 euros.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, climbed
1.6 percent to 94.68 euros. The company may receive 5 billion
euros ($7.2 billion) of train orders from Deutsche Bahn AG, dpa-
afx reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the
contract. The rail operator’s supervisory board will meet on
April 21 to approve the order, the  news agency  said.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest lender, tumbled
4.3 percent to 4.41 euros, a seventh day of declines for the
longest falling streak since August, as WestLB AG reduced its
price estimate for the shares. The bank faces “material risks”
including uncertainty over the price and timing of the sale of
its Eurohypo AG commercial real-estate unit, Neil Smith, an
analyst at WestLB AG wrote in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  