-- 
Overheating Threatens Asia as China, India Rate Rises Fail to Tame Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-15T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/overheating-threatens-asia-as-china-india-rate-rises-fail-to-tame-prices.html
Inflation in  China  and India
accelerated by more than economists forecast in March as rising
commodity costs and inflows of capital threaten to overheat
economies across  Asia .  In China, consumer prices rose 5.4 percent from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since 2008, a  statistics bureau  report
showed yesterday. India’s wholesale prices jumped 8.98 percent
as fuel costs rose, according to a commerce ministry statement.  The reports reinforce the International Monetary Fund’s
warning this week that Asian officials must quickly tighten
monetary and fiscal policies to reduce the risk that economies 
in the region will boom and then bust. Four interest-rate 
increases in China since the start of 2010 and eight in  India  
have failed to tame price pressures in the two fastest-growing
major economies.  The Chinese and Indian data are “pointing to a common risk
the major economies in the region face -- overheating,” said
Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist with  Barclays Capital 
who previously worked at the  World Bank  and Hong Kong Monetary
Authority. “Policy makers should boost  interest rates  and allow
their currency to gain faster to help subdue such a threat.”  South Korea ,  Malaysia  and China should let their currencies
climb faster as rising oil and commodity prices add to inflation
pressures, she said.  Inflation Ceiling  Emerging-market stocks fell on concern that central banks
will need to strengthen tightening measures. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index declined 0.2 percent as of 8:06 a.m. in  New York 
yesterday.  China’s economy  grew a more-than-estimated 9.7 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier and inflation exceeded the
government’s 4 percent full-year target for a third month,
yesterday’s report showed. The median forecasts in Bloomberg
News surveys of economists were for growth of 9.4 percent and
inflation of 5.2 percent.  The yuan touched 6.5290 per dollar yesterday, the strongest
level since 1993, before closing at 6.5325. The currency has
gained about 4.5 percent in the past year, Bloomberg data show.  The People’s Bank of China may imminently boost reserve
requirements for lenders to drain cash from the economy, Credit
Agricole CIB and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group said. The
reserve ratio is 20 percent for the biggest banks and the one-
year benchmark for borrowing costs is 6.31 percent after the
most recent increase on April 5.  ‘Aggressive’ Tightening  “There is little economic moderation despite aggressive
monetary tightening,” said Liu Li-Gang, an ANZ economist in
 Hong Kong  who formerly worked for the World Bank. “Inflation
remains a top risk.’  Asian policy makers must “normalize” monetary and fiscal
policies to avoid boom-bust cycles, the IMF said in a semiannual
economic outlook this week.  Credit growth is accelerating in Hong Kong, India and
 Indonesia  and remains “high” in the region’s biggest economy,
China, the Washington-based lender said. Capital flows to Asia
are likely to persist, the IMF said.  The fund said that “an abrupt slowdown of economic
activity in China, perhaps following a credit and property boom
and bust cycle, would adversely affect the whole region.”  China’s cabinet said this week that rising property prices
in many cities and increasing inflation expectations are key
concerns as the nation wrestles with the aftermath of a record
17.5 trillion yuan ($2.7 trillion) of lending over 2009 and 2010.  Overshooting Estimates  In India, inflation in the first three months of 2011
exceeded a central bank forecast. The increase in wholesale
prices last month was more than all 28 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey, where the median was 8.36 percent.  India’s bonds slumped, driving 11-year bonds yields to a
two-month high, after the inflation report. The yield on the
8.08 percent note due August 2022, the most-traded government
debt, rose four basis points to 8.24 percent at the 5 p.m. close
in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system.  Expansion in India’s $1.3 trillion economy has boosted
consumer demand and spurred manufacturing, car sales and credit
growth, stoking price risks. Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on March 17 increased the repurchase rate by a quarter
point to 6.75 percent. The next monetary-policy announcement is
due May 3.  “Inflation remains stubbornly high and above the level
expected by policy makers,” Royal Bank of Canada said in a
report after yesterday’s wholesale-price release. “The RBI has
been among the most proactive of emerging-market central banks
in normalizing policy rates over the last 12 months, but this
persistence in price pressures suggests that policy makers will
need to do more.”  Commodity Costs  The bank expects India to boost policy rates by half a
percentage point this quarter, rather than the quarter-point
increase it predicted previously.  India’s economy  may expand as much as 9.25 percent in the
year ending March 31, 2012, the  finance ministry  said in
February. Commercial loans rose 21 percent from the previous
year as of March 25, more than the 20 percent rate prescribed by
the central bank.  In China, inflation was largely driven by food costs, which
rose 12 percent in March from a year earlier. The leaders of
 Brazil ,  Russia , India, China and  South Africa  said at a meeting
in China this week that volatile commodity prices pose a threat
to the global economy, calling for more regulation.  Volatility “poses new risks for the ongoing recovery of
the world economy,” the leaders said, according to a communiqué
from their summit in the Chinese resort of Sanya. The BRICS, as
the five are known, also called for greater vigilance over the
impact of the flow of capital from developed economies into
emerging markets.  In China, the central bank may increase the yuan’s
flexibility to help counter inflation, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
this week. The Chinese currency is described by the U.S. as
undervalued and a factor in global economic imbalances.  --Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei, Kartik Goyal. With assistance from
 Jay Wang  in  Singapore , Unni Krishnan in New Delhi. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 vruan1@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  