-- 
Moynihan Says Bank of America Has ‘Work to Do’ Before Increasing Dividend

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-15T17:50:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/moynihan-says-bank-of-america-has-work-to-do-before-increasing-dividend.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said the firm’s dividend may
not rise from 1 cent a share until next year as the biggest U.S.
lender struggles to tame costs tied to defective mortgages.  “We’re doing the work we need to do” so that the Federal
Reserve will approve an increase, Moynihan, 51, said today in a
conference call with analysts and investors. The Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank’s efforts will continue “whether we
get the dividend in the second quarter, third quarter, fourth
quarter, first quarter, next year, this year.”  The bank was left behind as competitors including JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . got Fed approval last month to
increase their payouts following a review of their ability to
withstand another economic slump. Moynihan had previously told
investors the bank may raise its dividend this year. After the
rejection, the firm announced plans to re-apply for an increase
in 2011’s second half.  “It doesn’t help with the credibility issue,” said Andrew Marquardt, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York .
“Bank of America just doesn’t have a ton of confidence from
investors and analysts alike. Certainly I didn’t have them in
the capital-deployment camp.”  The bank’s first-quarter net income declined 36 percent to
$2.05 billion, or 17 cents a share, missing analysts’ estimates
on what Moynihan called “one-time” charges and as revenue from
 consumer banking  slipped. The firm booked about $3 billion in
costs tied to faulty mortgages, foreclosures and lawsuits and
agreed to resolve loan disputes from bond insurer  Assured
Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  in a $1.6 billion settlement.  Settlement Costs  Costs include additions to reserves fueled by new
repurchase requests from U.S.-owned Fannie Mae, managers said
during a conference call. In January, Bank of America Chief
Financial Officer Charles Noski said a $3 billion settlement
with  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , along with existing reserves,
had “largely addressed” liabilities to the companies.  Bank of America slipped 21 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $12.92
at 1:43 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
firm has dropped more than 33 percent in the past year, the
worst performance in the 24-company KBW Bank Index, on concern
that claims from investors and homeowners for faulty mortgages
and foreclosures will cost more than Moynihan has budgeted.  “We have work to do in this company that we knew we had to
do in the first half of this year” including paring assets and
preparing for regulatory changes, Moynihan said today in an
interview with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack.” After that is completed, “then I’m sure that
we’ll be in the position to get the dividend increased.”  Fed’s Decision  Lenders including Bank of America, which had a 64-cent
payout until 2008, slashed dividends during the financial crisis
to conserve capital as loan losses piled up. This year, the Fed
tested the capital adequacy of the 19 biggest banks, allowing
most to pay more money to shareholders.  “Ultimately the decision to increase the dividend will be
one determined in part by approval by the  Federal Reserve ,”
said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman.  Revenue for the first quarter declined 16 percent to $27.1
billion. Results were aided by $2.2 billion released from
reserves, a figure exceeding some analysts’ estimates and a
benefit not typically considered reliable.  “Our expenses are higher than we’d like them to be, but a
lot of that expense is due to the 2,500 people, 2,700 people we
added in mortgage this quarter to continue to deal with the bad
assets,” Moynihan said in the interview. The company separately
cut jobs in mortgage origination.  ‘Mortgage Mess’  Bank of America was among the 14 largest U.S. mortgage
servicers required to pay back homeowners for losses from
foreclosures or loans that were mishandled under a settlement
announced two days ago.  The bank’s mortgage unit posted a $2.4 billion loss,
widening from $2.1 billion a year earlier. The deposits unit had
a $355 million profit, down by almost half from a year earlier,
on lower fees because of U.S. overdraft regulations. The cards
unit reported a $1.7 billion profit, 78 percent higher from a
year earlier as credit costs declined.  “Today’s report demonstrates why we are indifferent to
Bank of America shares; we believe a cheap stock and strong
franchises are offset by ongoing mortgage-mess costs and a
complete lack of momentum in traditional banking businesses,”
said  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in New York.
He rates the bank “market perform.”  Gary Lynch  To help with legal and regulatory disputes, Moynihan also
shook up management, hiring Gary Lynch, a former Securities and
Exchange Commission enforcement director and top legal officer
of Morgan Stanley. Noski, 58, will be replaced by Chief Risk
Officer Bruce Thompson, 46, by the second quarter, the bank
said. A serious illness in Noski’s family prevented him from
moving to  Charlotte  as he had planned, the company said.  The bank said the agreement with Assured Guaranty and its
subsidiaries covers the insurer’s outstanding and potential
repurchase claims on mortgage-backed securitizations. The accord
includes a $1.1 billion cash payment to Hamilton, Bermuda-based
Assured Guaranty and a loss-sharing agreement, the bank said.
The insurer’s shares surged 25 percent to $17.72 in New York
trading.  Concerns over potential liabilities from bad loans may have
been a reason the Fed rejected Bank of America’s request to
boost its dividend last month,  Frederick Cannon , director of
research at KBW Inc., wrote at the time. The bank asked for
permission to increase its 1-cent-a-share payout to 3 cents,
then later to 4 cents, said a person with knowledge of the
request.  Messages to Investors  The episode cast doubt on Moynihan’s assurances to
investors in January and March that he expected to be able to
raise the dividend this year. The bank, the only U.S. lender
among the biggest four that didn’t get Fed approval to raise its
payout, said March 18 that it would resubmit a proposal in the
second half, without explaining why it had to. Five days later,
the bank said in a filing that the Fed “objected” to the
bank’s proposed increase.  Banks are releasing reserves set aside for loan losses back
into earnings as the economy improves. The U.S. unemployment
rate unexpectedly fell to a two-year low of 8.8 percent in March
as employers created more jobs than forecast and retail sales
advanced for a ninth month.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets, said this week that first-quarter profit surged 67
percent to $5.56 billion as provisions for soured mortgages and
credit-card loans fell. Citigroup Inc., the No. 3 bank, and No.
4-ranked Wells Fargo & Co. are scheduled to report results next
week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 