-- 
Toyota’s Molten Metal Turned Lump Shows Post-Quake Challenge

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-04-15T07:58:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/toyota-s-molten-aluminum-turned-lump-shows-post-quake-power-challenge.html
Iwaki Diecast Co.’s 15 electric
furnaces shut down as the March 11 earthquake knocked out power,
turning 12 tons of aluminum bubbling at 670-degrees Celsius into
solid lumps of metal.  The supplier to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  lost 440 pounds of
spilled aluminum and a magnesium die-cast plant washed away by
the tsunami that followed in Yamamoto, Miyagi prefecture. Diesel
generators were brought in to restore power and it took four
days to melt the blocks so parts production could resume on
March 22, Managing Director Hiroto Yokoyama said.  “We are almost back to where we were before the
earthquake,” Yokoyama said in an interview at the factory.
“But the big question is, what will happen this summer?”  A power shortage threatens to hamper the northern Tohoku
region’s economic recovery following the magnitude-9 earthquake
and tsunami, which led to damages estimated to be as much as 25
trillion yen ($299 billion).  Japan  faces possible blackouts in
the coming months after the natural disasters reduced national
power-generating capacity by 8 percent.  The combined capacity of nuclear, oil and coal-fired
generators, including the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station, halted
after March 11 totaled 22,422.6 megawatts, according to a
Bloomberg calculation based on statements from Tokyo Electric
Power Co. and Tohoku Electric Power Co., which supplies power in
the northern region.  Tokyo and eight nearby prefectures may have a shortage of
15,000 megawatts should temperatures this summer approach last
year’s level, according to Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
government.  Electricity Shortages  The government may restrict power supply to large users by
as much as 25 percent this summer and to households by up to 20
percent, it said last week.  Electricity shortages raise costs for manufacturers,
including Iwaki Diecast, forced to pay for alternative sources.
Diesel generators cost the company 400,000 yen a day for 3,000
liters of gasoline, Yokoyama said.  Toyota has bought wheels for gear torque convertors from
Iwaki since 2008, and when production failed, the carmaker
increased orders from another supplier in Toyoma prefecture,
said Kozo Sakurai, managing director at Toyota Motor Tohoku
Corp. in Miyagi.  Toyota Tohoku  Toyota Tohoku, which produces the torque convertors for the
Camry, Corolla and other models, is also concerned about power
shortages, Sakurai said. The company may start a 3 p.m.
production shift at a later time to avoid peak demand, he said.  “And of course, administrative staff won’t be able to use
air-conditioning,” Sakurai said in an interview at the factory.  Carmakers may also cooperate through a rotating production
schedule to save power, Toyota has said. The Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association, the industry’s primary trade group,
is expected to coordinate measures.  “The possibility of blackouts or limits to production has
me extremely worried,”  Miyagi prefecture  Governor Yoshihiro Murai said at his office in Sendai. “It would be very damaging
for the manufacturing sector.”  Toyota  Production at Toyota Tohoku will be at 40 percent of
capacity through at least the end of the month, as dictated by
Toyota, Sakurai said. Toyota has said it lost 260,000 units of
production from March 14 through April 8 after closing 18
factories because of shortages of electronic parts, rubber and
plastics.  Toyota shares fell 0.9 percent to close at 3,240 yen in
Tokyo. The shares have dropped 11 percent since March 10, the
day before the earthquake.  Cuts in production from limited parts and power supply may
cut Toyota’s operating profit by 200 billion yen in the current
fiscal year, said  Koji Endo , an auto analyst at Advanced
Research Japan in Tokyo.  For Northeast Japan, the electricity shortage may be eased
by a thermal plant restarting in Niigata prefecture in early
June and a new plant in Niigata that will start in July, said
Sota Notsu, a spokesman for Tohoku Electric in Sendai, the
capital of Miyagi.  Aomori Nuclear Plant  A nuclear-power plant in Aomori prefecture, which suffered
no damage from the earthquake and has not been operating, would
ease shortages, Murai said.  The Higashi Dori nuclear plant shut down on Feb. 6 for
routine inspection, Notsu said. The plant was scheduled to
restart in July, a plan likely to be delayed as it considers
safety issues and any changes in the central government’s
nuclear energy policy, he said.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency raised the
severity rating of its nuclear crisis to 7, the highest level,
matching the 1986 Chernobyl disaster, after increasing radiation
from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant prompted the government to
widen the evacuation zone.  “It’s easy to become hysterical and say nuclear energy is
bad,” Murai said. “But we need to think about this calmly and
rationally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  Tokyo  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  