-- 
Paul Allen Recalls Early Microsoft, Gates’s Odd Table Manners

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/paul-allen-recalls-early-microsoft-gates-s-odd-table-manners.html
In the mid-1970s, Microsoft was
little more than a couple of precocious uber-programmers. Only a
few years later, it both defined and dominated the personal-
computer market, changing the way the world worked while
generating vast fortunes for its two founders.  Now one of them,  Paul Allen , sheds his long-standing public
reticence with a new memoir, “ Idea Man .” In it, he recreates
the spirit of those early days in all their energy and tumult,
providing a fascinating look at what it took to build the
Microsoft behemoth. And he offers a guided tour of the personal
fascinations and foibles that have shaped his life in the almost
30 years since he stepped away from the company.  Most of all, “Idea Man” reacquaints us with his friend
from boyhood,  Bill Gates  -- not today’s epic philanthropist, but
the single-minded, chair-rocking, brilliant, sometimes ferocious
visionary who built the fortune he is now so determinedly giving
away.  This is the Gates who would occasionally doze off during
all-night programming sessions, his nose touching the keyboard
for a couple hours, then “open his eyes, squint at the screen,
blink twice and resume precisely where he left off -- a
prodigious feat of concentration.”  It’s also the Gates who was so socially maladroit he would
eat chicken with a spoon, who would abuse subordinates and who
most of all maintained a fearsome focus on crushing competitors
and building Microsoft into the colossus it became.  Coke-Bottle Glasses  In one of the book’s most memorable scenes, he and Allen,
on a business trip to  Tokyo , find themselves in a hotel elevator
next to “a long-haired guy with Coke-bottle eyeglasses and a
Japanese woman with curly black hair.” Allen, struck dumb until
they leave the elevator, asks, “Did you see that? That was  John Lennon  and  Yoko Ono .” “Really?” Gates replies. “Oh, yeah,
you might be right.”  That was Gates, Allen observes: “thinking about the
software business first, second, and third.”  The author’s self-portrait is in some ways nearly as
unflattering as his portrait of Gates, albeit for very different
reasons. The Microsoft-era Allen emerges in these pages as a
passive-aggressive figure, beaten down by Gates’s bullying and
nursing private resentment as his partner maneuvers to reduce
his share of the company to 40 percent, then 36 percent. Only
when, battling cancer, he overhears Gates and protege  Steve Ballmer  planning to dilute his holdings still further does he
draw the line. Bursting in on them, he shames them into backing
down, but the damage to his relationship with Gates and
Microsoft is already done.  ‘Scheming’  “I helped start the company and was still an active member
of management, though limited by my illness, and now my partner
and my colleague were scheming to rip me off,” he writes. “It
was mercenary opportunism, plain and simple.” By 1983, he was
gone from the company he helped build.  The Allen of the book’s later chapters, freed by his
departure and wealth from the need to be passive-aggressive,
sometimes seems just, well, passive -- a genuinely creative
thinker lacking the Gatesian fire to impose his vision on the
world around him.  Recognizing early the coming era of global connectivity --
long before the Internet, he dubs it “the Wired World” --Allen
acquires a huge stake in  America Online , then dumps it amid
hostility from the company and potential competition from
Microsoft, effectively leaving $40 billion on the table when AOL
later merges with Time Warner.  Bad Bets  He bets big on cable as a key component in his Wired World,
but his Charter Communications spirals into bankruptcy amid poor
decisions and management scandals. The leadership he installs at
his National Basketball Association team squanders fan goodwill
with a roster that earns the nickname “the Portland Jail
Blazers,” while its arena ends up in -- you guessed it --
bankruptcy.  Allen’s scientific and philanthropic ventures have fared
much better: funding cutting-edge research into how the brain
works; backing the project that won the X Prize for building a
private spacecraft; fueled by his Jimi Hendrix fixation,
commissioning  Frank Gehry  to design  Seattle ’s  Experience Music
Project  museum. With time, even his feelings toward Gates have
mellowed; when Allen had another bout with cancer in 2009, Gates
was “everything you’d want from a friend, caring and
concerned.”  Given his track record, you might not want to invest
alongside Paul Allen. But you might well enjoy working with him
to catch a few of the sparks the “Idea Man” throws off.  “Idea Man” is published by Portfolio/Penguin (358 pages,
$27.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is Bloomberg News’s technology columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 