-- 
Pell Grant Cuts Hurt For-Profit Colleges After 8-Fold Rise

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-15T20:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/pell-grant-cuts-hurt-for-profit-college-after-8-fold-increase.html
For-profit colleges, led by  Apollo
Group Inc. (APOL) ’s University of Phoenix, will be disproportionately
hurt by cuts in the $30 billion Pell Grant program for low-
income students.  Pell Grant aid to for-profit-college students grew almost
eightfold in the past decade to $7.5 billion in 2009-2010, and
now accounts for 25 percent of the funds, according to the U.S.
Education Department. Apollo, the largest U.S. for-profit
college with revenue of $4.8 billion, got $1 billion from the
grants in 2009-2010, said Jarrel Price, an analyst at Height
Analytics LLC in  Washington .  Congress and the Obama administration are targeting the
Pell Grant program for at least $1.8 billion in cuts as part of
efforts to reduce federal spending. Publicly traded for-profit
colleges receive on average almost 20 percent of their revenue
from Pell Grants and will be hurt in a number of ways, said
Bradley Safalow, an analyst with PAA Research in  New York .  “The Pell Grant issue will be a direct hit to margins at
a minimum, and an unquantifiable headwind for recruiting new
students,” Safalow said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Pell revenue has risen at for-profit colleges because they
serve low-income populations, and officials make sure that
qualified students apply for and receive the grants, said  Harris Miller , president of the  Association of Private Sector Colleges
& Universities , a Washington-based trade group.  Public College Comparison  More than 95 percent of eligible students seek Pell Grants
at for-profit colleges, while less than half of eligible
students at public, two-year community colleges apply for funds,
according to a 2009 study by Mark Kantrowitz, publisher of
Finaid.org, a website that provides information on financial
aid.  “Our numbers are proportionate to our share of the lower-
income population,” Miller said in a telephone interview.  Apollo declined to comment on the impact of Pell Grant cuts
on its revenue. The grants are awarded to students, who
determine how to spend their funds on direct and indirect costs
of education,  Manny Rivera , an Apollo spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  The budget deal reached last week includes the White
House’s proposed $1.8 billion reduction to the program, which is
widely used by students at for-profit colleges. The feature,
called “year-round Pell,” permits applicants to get two grants
in one year. The accord must be approved by Congress and signed
by the president to fund the federal government through
September.  Year-Round Funding  For-profit colleges received $545 million in year-round
Pell funds, or 32 percent of the total, last year, according to
the Education Department. Public two-year community colleges,
which enroll about 8 million students, or more than four times
as many as for-profit colleges, got about $455 million in year-
round Pell funding, or about 27 percent of the total.  The program was “much more costly than anticipated,” said
 James Kvaal , deputy undersecretary of education.  Republicans had proposed bigger cuts, reducing maximum
yearly  Pell Grants  15 percent to $4,705 per student. About 1.7
million people would have lost eligibility because the
Republican plan would also tighten income-eligibility
requirements, according to Finaid.org’s Kantrowitz.  “We need to make tough choices now to strengthen the
program for students most in need,” said Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican and chairman of the U.S. House
Education and the Workforce Committee.  More Cuts Ahead?  While the proposal to decrease the maximum grant died
during budget negotiations, the push to slash Pell further will
resurface next year, said Alice Bowie, also an analyst at Height
Analytics.  “We’re worried about 2012 more than anything else,” Bowie
said in a telephone interview. “This could be a harbinger of
things to come.”  About 328,000 of Apollo’s students received Pell Grants
last year, a 59 percent increase from 206,000 in 2008, PAA’s
Safalow said. Students have become more wary of taking on debt,
and the waning availability of grants may boost the difficulty
of attracting new students, adding to marketing costs, he said.  Pell Grants, created in 1972 by the late Democratic Senator
Claiborne Pell of  Rhode Island , give as much as $5,550 annually
to college students who complete applications and meet income
criteria. While getting a quarter of Pell Grants, for-profit
colleges enroll about 12 percent of U.S. students, according to
the Education Department.  Internet links to college recruitment websites highlight
the availability of Pell Grants. A hyperlink on a Google search
page labeled “Pell Grants for Moms” takes readers to a college
recruitment website. The website encourages applicants to fill
out a form and work with an “education counselor.”  For-Profit Logos  The website, run by a company called  classesandcareers.com ,
is dominated by information about for-profit colleges, including
the University of Phoenix, the  Washington Post Co. (WPO) ’s Kaplan
University, and  Grand Canyon Education Inc. (LOPE) ’s Grand Canyon
University.  Classesandcareers.com is a subsidiary of  One on One
Marketing Inc ., based in Levi,  Utah . Grand Canyon has a
marketing contract with the company, said Bill Jenkins, a
spokesman. Michelle Pore, a Kaplan representative, declined to
comment when reached by telephone. Apollo’s Rivera didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  One on One Marketing has had relationships with for-profit
colleges for several years, said Ashley Mullaney, a company
spokeswoman. It uses banner ads, text ads and keyword searches
to find students and matches them with programs “that have been
popular with past potential students,” she said in an e-mail.  ‘Not an Easy Vote’  For-profit colleges shouldn’t get Pell Grants, so the money
can be used by students at more affordable public universities
and colleges, said Charles Reed, chancellor of the  California
State University  system with 23 campuses and 412,000 students.  “Why do we keep giving them Pell money?” Reed said in an
interview.  Reed said he is concerned about the cuts to Pell because
 California  Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, is slicing $500
million, or 18 percent, from the university system’s budget to
reduce a projected $26.6 billion gap in the state’s 2012
finances.  Iowa Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin , the education committee
chairman who has investigated for-profit colleges, has called
for tighter control of federal student aid. Illinois Senator
 Richard Durbin , a longtime Pell supporter, said institutions
that receive Pell Grants should be examined more closely.  “I graduated from college and law school because I was able
to borrow from the federal government, and I’ve been a knee-jerk
vote for student aid because of that,” said Durbin, a Democrat,
in a telephone interview. “Now that I’ve seen the abuses of for-
profit schools, I’m not an easy vote.”  Corinthian’s Share  Pell Grants to students at nonprofit colleges more than
tripled to $22.4 billion in the decade through the 2009-2010
award year, the Education Department said.  Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO)  was the second-biggest recipient
of Pell Grants among for-profit colleges in 2009-2010, receiving
$510 million, or 29 percent of its $1.8 billion revenue from the
grants, Height Analytics’ Price said. Kent Jenkins, a spokesman
for Corinthian, declined to comment. Overall, as much as 90
percent of for-profit colleges’ revenue comes from federal
funds, including Pell Grants and U.S. government student loans.  Phoenix-based Apollo rose 14 cents to $40.10 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Corinthian Colleges,
based in  Santa Ana , California, gained 4 cents to $4.31. The
Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit Education Index of 13 companies lost
0.2 percent.  Congress, the U.S. Department of  Veterans Affairs , and
attorneys general in  Florida , Kentucky, Iowa and Illinois are
investigating a range of issues at for-profit colleges,
including recruitment, student-loan defaults, drop-out rates,
and use of military funds for education. The Education
Department is preparing to release rules that would tie
colleges’ eligibility for federal student aid, including Pell
Grants, to graduates’ incomes and loan repayment rates. For-
profit colleges have lobbied to head off the rules package,
called “gainful employment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  