-- 
Pemex Leads Record $4.6 Billion in Floating-Rate Bond Sales: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-04-15T12:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/pemex-leads-record-floating-rate-bond-offerings-mexico-credit.html
Mexican companies are selling a
record amount of floating-rate debt as speculation that the
central bank will raise borrowing costs this year erodes
investor demand for fixed-rate securities.  Petroleos Mexicanos , Banco Santander SA’s local unit, and
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s Banco Inbursa SA helped push sales of
bonds tied to the interbank rate to 54.3 billion pesos ($4.6
billion) this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Floating notes have accounted for 83 percent of all debt sold in
the Mexican local market this year, the most since 2005. In the
U.S., variable-rate bonds have accounted for 18 percent of
sales.  While inflation slowed to a five-year low of 3.04 percent
in Latin America’s second-biggest economy, traders predict that
the central bank will increase the key rate as soon as September
to prevent a two-year-old expansion from fueling faster price
increases.  Mexico  is the only major Latin American country that
hasn’t raised  interest rates  in the past year.  “The premium that a fixed rate can give you doesn’t
compensate for the risk that you’ll take that rates will
increase,” Guillermo Rodriguez, who helps manage $5.5 billion
of assets as director of investments with Corp. Actinver SAB,
said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. Actinver funds
have more than 90 percent of their bond holdings in floating-
rate securities, he said.  Central bankers led by Governor Agustin Carstens will keep
the benchmark rate at a record low 4.5 percent at a policy
meeting today, according to a Bloomberg survey of 14 economists.  Grupo Herdez  The 28-day  interbank rate , the benchmark for variable-rate
bonds, has fallen 4.5 basis points, or 0.045 percentage point,
this year to 4.83 percent. The average fixed-rate local
corporate debt climbed 110 basis points during the same period
to 7.73 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
average government fixed-rate bond yield rose 24 basis points to
6.78 percent, according to Bank of America Corp.  Grupo Herdez SAB, a Mexican producer of canned and bottled
food products, sold 600 million pesos of bonds maturing in 2014
to yield 60 basis points over the interbank rate, known as TIIE,
on Feb. 16. The Mexico City-based company paid a fixed rate of
7.93 percent in September for 600 million pesos of notes due in
2017.  “There’s a big difference between the floating rate and
the fixed rate,” Gerardo Canavati, director of planning and
chief financial officer for Grupo Herdez, said in a telephone
interview. “You have to think about it in terms of: How much
does my fixed rate cost, and how much does my floating rate
cost? And try to determine the middle ground.”  ‘Comfortable’ With Policy  Mexico’s March inflation slowed to half the 6.3 percent
rate in  Brazil , the region’s biggest economy.  Growing sales of floating-rate debt shows that Mexican
companies “are comfortable with Mexico’s current monetary
policy and see a less inflationary environment,” said  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-income research at
IDEAGlobal in  New York .  Petroleos Mexicanos, the state-owned oil producer, sold 10
billion pesos of five-year bonds to yield 21 basis points over
TIIE last month.  Officials at Pemex, as the Mexico City-based company is
known, Inbursa and Banco Santander’s local unit didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails and phone calls requesting
comment.  The peso dropped 0.3 percent to 11.7430 per  U.S. dollar 
today at 8:43 a.m. New York time.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 3 basis points
to 137, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Rate Futures  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose two basis points to 102, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  Yields on the interbank rate futures contract due in
September rose one basis point to 5.05 percent, indicating
traders expect a rate increase that month. As recently as April
11, they predicted that the central bank would raise borrowing
costs in August. In the past five years, the gap between the 28-
day TIIE and the overnight rate has averaged 36 basis points.  Investors are wrong to predict rate increases this year
because inflation will remain in check, said Alberto Bernal,
head of fixed-income research for Miami-based Bulltick Capital
Markets. He predicts that  Banco de Mexico  will start lifting
rates in January.  ‘Negative Shocks’  Mexico’s yield curve “is pricing in negative shocks on
inflation, deterioration of  credit quality , or very strong
growth, and I honestly don’t think that any of those are going
to materialize,” Bernal said in a telephone interview. “Growth
is going to be OK. And I don’t expect an inflation shock.”  The central bank’s five-member board has kept the benchmark
lending rate at 4.5 percent for a record 17 meetings after
cutting it 375 basis points in 2008 and 2009 to revive growth
amid the global financial crisis. Gross domestic product shrank
6.1 percent in 2009 after the U.S., the biggest buyer of Mexican
exports, slipped into recession.  The economy grew 5.5 percent last year, the most in a
decade, as a rebound in the U.S. pushed exports to a record $298
billion. Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said last month the
economy may expand as much as 5 percent this year, more than a
previous estimate of 4 percent.  “If you look at recent years, rates have come down, and
right now we’re at the bottom of the cycle,” Rodriguez said.
“The cycle is shifting and so the expectation is that rates
will increase.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  