-- 
Pentagon’s Top 95 Weapons’ Cost Rose 4% to $1.7 Trillion

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-04-15T21:45:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/pentagon-says-cost-of-95-top-weapons-rose-4-in-last-year.html
The U.S. Defense Department said
the cost of its 95 top weapons programs rose $63.9 billion or 4
percent to a total of $1.72 trillion in 2010 compared with an
assessment from the previous year.  The cost increases were included in the so-called Selected
Acquisition Reports sent to Congress today and posted on the
Defense Department’s website.  Major weapons programs whose costs increased the most
included  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter
program and the U.S. Navy’s DDG-1000 destroyer, ships made by
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc.
The F-35 program cost increases were already reported to
Congress in January.  The reports on the weapons costs are required by Congress
and are supposed to be quarterly for all of the Defense
Department’s major weapons systems. The programs that meet the
criteria are either designated as such by the defense secretary
or their total cost exceeds $1.8 billion each.  The Defense Department release also identified seven
programs whose costs had increased at least 15 percent from
their previous estimates and must be reported to Congress under
a 1982 cost-containment law known as Nunn-McCurdy.  The programs included:  --  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s Global Hawk drone.  -- The C-27J Joint Cargo aircraft made by a team including
Alenia  North America , part of the Italian conglomerate
Finmeccanica SpA, and  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) , of  New
York .  -- A chemical demilitarization program.  -- The Marine Corps Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle made by
General Dynamics that is already slated for cancellation.  -- The U.S. Army’s Infantry Brigade Combat Team program
managed by  Boeing Co. (BA)   -- The National Polar Orbiting Operational Environmental
Satellite, a weather spacecraft.  -- The Joint Land Attack Cruise Missile Defense Elevated
Netted Sensor, an aerostat mounted sensor made by  Raytheon Co. (RTN) 
to detect cruise missiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  