-- 
Peru Stocks Jump Most Since 2009 as Humala Weighs Endorsing Free Markets

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-04-15T21:33:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/peru-stocks-jump-most-since-2009-as-humala-studies-pledge-to-honor-markets.html
Peru’s benchmark stock index rose
for a second day, paring a weekly rout, after presidential
candidate Ollanta Humala said he would consider a pledge to
respect a free-market economy.  The Lima General Index rose 3.4 percent after plummeting 12
percent in the first three days of this week. Earlier today, the
measure the most since May 2009. The gauge is down 8.9 percent
for the week, the biggest drop since the five days ended Oct.
24, 2008. Peru’s sol snapped four days of declines, rising 0.1
percent to 2.8205 per  U.S. dollar .  Humala, 48, met yesterday with former Finance Minister
Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, who came in third place in the first
round, to seek his backing. Humala, whose Nationalist Party
platform proposes raising royalty fees on mining production and
renegotiating a free-trade deal with the U.S. signed by
President  Alan Garcia , said he will study a proposal drafted by
Kuczynski which urges respect for the constitution and the free-
market system.  “The drop was so spectacular this week that investors saw
the opportunity to buy underpriced stocks,” Pablo Leno, head of
trading at Celfin Capital SAB, said in a telephone interview.
“We’re going to see increasing market volatility in the weeks
ahead as we get closer to elections.”  Commodity Producers Rise  Endesa SA unit Edegel SA jumped 19 percent today, the most
since 1997, leading today’s gains. Canadian gold and copper
exploration company  Alturas Minerals Corp. (ALT)  advanced 15 percent.  The sol is down 1.9 percent since March 20, the worst
performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Humala won 31.7 percent of the first-round vote on April
10, with 98 percent of ballots counted. Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, daughter of imprisoned former president  Alberto Fujimori , finished second with 23.5 percent. The runoff vote is
slated for June 5.  Gross domestic product expanded 9 percent in the first
quarter, while the central bank has accumulated $45 billion in
international reserves, Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said
yesterday in an appeal to investors for calm.  Humala lost a runoff vote to Garcia by five percentage
points in 2006. A runoff is triggered if no candidate wins more
than 50 percent of the first round balloting.  The Andean nation’s stocks, bonds and currency slid in the
past month as Humala’s rise in pre-election opinion polls
bolstered concern that his presidency would block $50 billion of
mining, energy and infrastructure investment.  “Voters and investors attach a high policy reversal risk
to Humala,” BNP Paribas analyst Nader Nazmi wrote today in a
note to clients. Humala’s proposal to rewrite the constitution
to give the state greater control over natural resources will be
“counterproductive if implemented in  Peru .”  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 rose 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to a two-year high of 7.15 percent, according
to Deutsche Bank’s local unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  