-- 
Peru Miner Milpo to Invest $400 Million in Copper Project

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-04-15T23:54:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/peru-miner-milpo-to-invest-400-million-in-copper-project-1-.html
Cia. Minera Milpo SA, a Peruvian
zinc and lead miner, won the bidding for a copper and molybdenum
deposit stripped from  Inca Pacific Resources Inc. (IPR)  last year and
will invest $400 million in the project, the government said.  Lima-based Milpo will start up the  Magistral  deposit in the
northern Andes in 2015, state investment promotion agency
Proinversion said today in an e-mailed statement.  Peru  canceled
Vancouver-based Inca Pacific’s concession in October, alleging
the company failed to meet investment commitments.  “The objective was to select an investor who offered
financial and technical guarantees,” Proinversion said in the
statement. “One who will finance the necessary investment to
start production at the mine as soon as possible.”  Inca Pacific, which invested $40 million in the project, is
the first miner to be penalized in Peru since the government
canceled a development option for  Canada ’s Manhattan Minerals
Corp. in 2003. Magistral, which has 113.5 million tons of
reserves, will be able to produce 34,100 tons of copper a year,
according to Inca Pacific’s website.  Inca Pacific sought arbitration in March 2010, a process
that may take a year, Chief Executive Officer Michael Winn said
in a Feb. 1 interview. Arbitration will provide a “fair
solution to this issue,” Mining Minister Pedro Sanchez Gamarra
said in a March 7 interview.  ‘A Lot of Mistrust’  “We don’t recognize this sale and reserve the right to
pursue every legal avenue including internationally,” said
Andre Gauthier, Inca Pacific’s manager in Peru, in a telephone
interview from  Lima . “There is a lot of mistrust between the
government, the community and investors right now.”  Deputy Mining Minister Fernando Gala didn’t immediately
respond to telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Milpo is controlled by Sao Paulo-based Votorantim Metais
Ltda.  Inca Pacific fell 2.2 percent to 22.5 cents today on the
Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock has plunged by 45 percent
since the government seized the company’s guarantee in October
2009.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 