-- 
Pfizer Says Arthritis Drug Candidate Cut Symptoms in Study

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-04-15T20:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/pfizer-says-arthritis-drug-candidate-cut-symptoms-in-study-1-.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, said its experimental rheumatoid arthritis pill
reduced symptoms of the disease in a study that may help it
wrest part of a $12 billion market from rivals.  The drug, tofacitinib, led to “statistically significant
improvements” for patients at six months compared with a
placebo, New York-based Pfizer said in a statement today. The
pill met the primary goals of the study when given in a 10-
milligram dose, while missing on a measure for reducing the
progression of structural damage in a 5-milligram dose, the
statement said.  Pfizer is competing with biotechnology companies to develop
the first pill in a decade for  rheumatoid arthritis , which
destroys joints in 1.3 million Americans. The drug may bring
annual sales of $1.4 billion to treat the disease in 2015, said
 Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in San
Francisco, in a March 21 note. If approved, it would compete
with  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ Humira,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Remicade
and  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Enbrel, injectable drugs that now dominate the
market.  The results were mixed for Pfizer, since the ability to
prevent structural damage is “an important attribute” for
arthritis drugs, Lawrence Biegelsen, a Wells Fargo Securities
analyst in New York, said in a note to clients today. “We do
not believe this is a major issue for tofacitinib” as long as
the structural data is better at one year, he said.  Pfizer Shares  Pfizer gained 4 cents to $20.53 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares rose 20 percent in the 12
months before today.  The study, dubbed Oral Scan Phase 3, followed 800 patients
with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. Pfizer said
researchers found no new safety concerns for the pill, which was
formerly known as tasocitinib. An analysis of the results will
be submitted to a future scientific meeting, the company said.  The drug is the most-advanced pill in a family of
experimental treatments targeting a protein called JAK that
leads to joint destruction.  The study may lessen worries about the future of Humira,
which generated one-fifth of Abbott’s sales last year, said
David Lewis, a Morgan Stanley analyst in  San Francisco , in a
note to clients.  “Reports of Humira’s death are greatly exaggerated,” he
wrote. “Our sense is that expectations for tofacitinib are
optimistic.”  Abbott rose 75 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $51.75 at 12:51
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Shares of the
Abbott Park, Illinois-based company fell 2.5 percent in the 12
months before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  