-- 
Picasso Muse, Muti, Vinyl’s Spektor, Palestine: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/picasso-s-muse-muti-vinyl-s-spektor-palestine-n-y-weekend.html
Renee Fleming sings the Countess in
“Capriccio,” an elegantly arch blue blood with two artists
nipping at her ankles.  There’s Olivier, a poet, and Flamand, a high-strung
composer. What’s more important in an opera: words or music?
Hmmm. Geee ... The question keeps her -- and us -- occupied
until the opera’s end when Fleming, by way of answer, soars
through some of the most gorgeous music Strauss wrote for the
soprano voice.  At the  Metropolitan Opera ,  Lincoln Center , until April 23.
Information: +1-212-362-6000;  http://www.metoperafamily.org .  Saturday  Snatch up collector items during the fourth Annual Record
Store Day.  Held at more than 700 independent music stores across the
country and hundreds more internationally, Record Store Day is
practically a national holiday for vinyl nerds who line up hours
before doors are unlocked.  Labels produce limited editions of sought-after records
especially for this day, so there is always a scrum for the most
unusual vinyl.  This year, songstress Regina Spektor has released a
special-edition blue EP called “Four From Far.” The first 100
buyers at Other Music get into her intimate show at the store
today.  Think of it as the wedding-dress sale day at  Filene’s
Basement , but for dudes.  Information:  http://www.recordstoreday.com .  Saturday Afternoon  Pablo Picasso  was a middle-aged, married shortie when he
spotted a sexy blond teenager on a Paris street in 1927.  “I am Picasso,” he told the clueless 17-year-old.  Marie-Therese Walter became his obsession for the next ten
years, and you can see her at Gagosian Gallery.  In one portrait, her neatly parted hair is crowned with an
innocent garland, and, though she’s painted in profile, two
limpid eyes gaze straight at you.  It’s part of “L’amour Fou,” a show of more than 80
paintings, drawings and sculptures inspired by their secret love
affair organized by John Richardson, the artist’s indefatigable
biographer.  522 W. 21st St. Information: +1-212-741-1717;
 http://www.gagosian.com .  Celebrate spring with a glass of sparkling French rose and
pizza with newly arrived ramps, pecorino and pancetta at
Cookshop.  Then stroll along the increasingly green High Line.  156 10th Ave. Information: +1-212-924-4440.  Saturday Night  Meet Brit import Rooster Byron, a former daredevil who
still causes a ruckus wherever he goes. A Falstaffian pain to
petty tyrants, he can’t be intimidated by the usual methods,
even when they come to evict the lord of misrule from his woody
refuge.  Mark Rylance  reprises his performance in Jez Butterworth’s
“ Jerusalem ” on Broadway; both play and actor won awards in
London.  In previews at the Music Box Theatre, 239 W. 45th St.,
opening April 21. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://jerusalembroadway.com   Sunday  You don’t have to travel around the world to find exotic
treasures -- they’re at the SOFA  New York  Show at the Park
Avenue Armory.  Pick up a bouquet of yellow and white flowers made of blown
glass and steel by Flo Perkins displayed by Santa Fe Gallery
Chiaroscuro Contemporary Art.  What about Bernhard Schobinger’s singular brooch, “Herr
’K’” created from ferrotype, urushi and coral, depicting a
formally clad gentleman with bowler hat and a giant red nose?
It’s at Gallery S O from  London ’s Brick Lane.  In all, 600 artists from 12 countries can be found under
one drill-hall sized roof at the exposition of Sculpture Objects
and Functional Art.  643 Park Ave. Information: +1-212-616-3930;
 http://www.sofaexpo.com .  Sunday Afternoon  Patched back together after landing on his face in a fall
from the podium, Riccardo Muti is visiting New York with his
band, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.  On the program: Shostakovich’s Symphony No. 5, rounded out
with more mellifluous offerings by Liszt and Cherubini.  2 p.m. at  Carnegie Hall , 57th St. and 7th Ave.
Information: +1-212-247-7800;  http://www.carnegiehall.org .  Sunday Night  This is your last chance to see Mona Mansour’s “Urge for
Going,” and view the Israeli-Palestinian conflict through the
eyes of 17-year-old Jamila.  This scorching world premiere follows the Palestinian girl
as she grows up, increasingly restless and bitter, in a Lebanese
refugee camp, her family’s “temporary homeland for sixty
years.”  The ensemble play, staged by Hal Brooks, is part of the
 Public Theater ’s Lab series; all tickets are $15. It’s
accompanied by the “Third-Half Passport Collection,” an
exhibition of passports belonging to three generations of
Palestinians.  At the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-
212-967-7555;  http://publictheater.org .  (With assistance from Katya Kazakina, Jeremy Gerard and
Lili Rosboch. Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 