-- 
Putin Joins White Bears on Ice to Show Off Skating Prowess

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-04-15T18:07:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/putin-joins-white-bears-on-ice-to-show-off-skating-prowess.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  took to the ice in front of television cameras as he
joined a training session with youth hockey players.  Putin, 58, wearing a red uniform with his name on the back
and a red helmet, joined the White Bears and another team named
Forward at Moscow’s Luzhniki stadium late today as they prepared
for a championship final tomorrow. He only started to learn to
skate two months ago, his spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said.  “It’s an exciting and energetic sport,” said Putin as he
left the stadium, perspiring. “It reminds me of mountain
skiing, it’s less traumatic than soccer.”  Putin, who hasn’t ruled out returning to the presidency
next year, has made a name for himself with athletic stunts
since he came to power more than a decade ago. In 2000, Putin
co-piloted a jet into the war-ravaged city of Grozny, in 2009 he
dived in a mini-submarine to the bottom of Siberia’s Lake Baikal
and last summer he helped douse wildfires ravaging  Russia  from a
firefighting plane.  A keen skier, the prime minister has been at the forefront
of Russia’s preparations to stage the 2014 Winter Olympics in
the southern resort of Sochi.  Putin’s approval rating fell in March to 69 percent, a
five-year low, the  Levada Center  said on its  website  last month.
Even so, the survey showed that Putin remains the nation’s most
trusted politician, ahead of President  Dmitry Medvedev .  The 45-year-old former lawyer succeeded Putin as president
because the Constitution doesn’t allow more than two consecutive
terms. Both Medvedev and Putin have said they might run in the
March 2012 presidential vote.  The pollster surveyed 1,600 Russians on March 18-21. The
results carry a margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 