-- 
Putin Encourages BP Investment in Russia Amid Dispute With AAR

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-04-15T14:37:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/putin-encourages-bp-investment-in-russia-amid-dispute-with-aar.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
encouraged  BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  to keep
investing in Russia after a proposed alliance with OAO Rosneft
was blocked by BP’s billionaire partners in TNK-BP.  BP yesterday won a one-month extension to the deadline to
complete the $7.8 billion share swap and Arctic exploration pact
with the state-owned Russian oil producer after the partners in
TNK-BP won a temporary court injunction, claiming that BP must
pursue any new projects in the country through them.  “Putin offered encouragement for the company,” Dudley
told reporters in Moscow today. “He said we should continue to
invest in Russia.”  BP needs the Rosneft deal to ensure access to Kara Sea
exploration blocks in  Russia ’s Arctic, which may contain as much
as 100 billion barrels of oil. AAR, which represents the
partners in TNK-BP, have rejected offers of cash, participation
in other projects and a buyout of their business in exchange for
dropping the court challenge, Dudley said yesterday.  Dudley and Rosneft CEO Eduard Khudainatov talked today
before a trustees meeting of the Russian geographic society
meeting in Moscow, which Putin also attended.  Khudainatov said that Rosneft has sufficient funds if the
company and BP decide to buy out AAR’s stake in TNK-BP, though
finding a resolution to the dispute is up to BP and TNK-BP.
Rosneft isn’t looking for another partner to replace BP in
exploring the Kara Sea, he said.  Rejected Offer  Dudley said BP and AAR will now return to arbitration to
resolve the dispute and that the billionaires had rejected an
offer from Rosneft and BP of as much as $28 billion for their
half of the TNK-BP business.  BP’s billionaire partners in TNK-BP halted the deal in a
London court last month, on the grounds that the venture has
exclusive rights to negotiate on behalf of BP in Russia. The
injunction has been prolonged indefinitely by the arbitration
panel.  “BP has never made a constructive proposal to turn the
Rosneft deal over to TNK-BP as our shareholder agreement
requires,”  Stan Polovets , CEO of AAR, said yesterday. “AAR is
not interested in the selective parts of the deal that BP feels
it can give up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net 
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  