-- 
Rand Posts Biggest Weekly Drop in Almost a Year Versus Dollar on EU Debt

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-15T13:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/rand-gains-paring-biggest-weekly-drop-in-year-on-china-growth.html
The rand depreciated for a fifth
day against the dollar, and headed for its worst weekly decline
in almost a year, as  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis prompted
investors to sell high-risk assets.  The rand decreased as much as 0.7 percent to 6.8950 per
dollar, its weakest intraday level since March 28, and traded at
6.8869 at 3:07 p.m. in Johannesburg compared with 6.8491 at
yesterday’s close. The South African currency has lost 3.6
percent in the past five days, the biggest weekly drop since May
21 and the worst performance for the period out of more than 20
emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg. It traded 0.1
percent weaker at 9.9259 per euro, bringing its weekly retreat
to 3.2 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland’s credit ratings to
the lowest investment grade and indicated more downgrades may
follow. Europe’s currency fell to an almost one-week low against
the dollar yesterday after  Germany ’s finance minister and
 Standard & Poor’s  said  Greece  may need to restructure debt to
avoid defaulting.  “There is a bit of a pull-back in risk appetite,” said
Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of  South Africa ’s
fourth-biggest bank, said by phone today. “The rand is highly
correlated to the euro, so if the euro is going to struggle, the
rand will come under pressure.”  Lagging Rates  The rand’s decline this week against the euro was fuelled
by speculation that South  Africa  will lag interest rate rises in
the European Union, reducing the yield advantage of rand assets.  Inflation in Africa’s largest economy remains “well-
contained,” Gerhard van den Heever, the South African Reserve
Bank’s deputy chief economist, said yesterday. That may allow
the bank to leave its benchmark interest rate at a 30-year low
of 5.5 percent. The ECB last week raised its main rate to 1.25
percent and left the door open to further increases.  “There has been a temporary pull-back in the carry
trade,” adding to the rand’s weakness, Cruickshanks said. In
the carry trade, investors borrow in the currency of a country
with low  interest rates  to use the proceeds for purchasing
assets where interest rates are higher.  Bonds gained for a second day after the central bank failed
to allocate any six-year inflation-linked bonds at its weekly
auction, indicating investors are not concerned about price
increases in Africa’s biggest economy.  The 13.5 percent note due 2015 added 25 cents to 121.22
rand, driving the yield down six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 7.73 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  