-- 
U.S. Two-Year Yield Declines to Three-Week Low Ahead of Housing Reports

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-04-18T07:22:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/treasuries-poised-for-weekly-gain-as-federal-reserve-weighs-stimulus-cuts.html
Treasury two-year yields fell to
the lowest level in three weeks before reports that economists
said will show home sales and housing construction failed to
recoup February’s losses last month.  U.S. government securities ended the first half of April
with a 0.4 percent gain, heading for the biggest monthly advance
since August, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. A
smaller-than-forecast increase in U.S. consumer prices last week
eased concern that the Federal Reserve will increase  interest
rates  this year.  “Bonds in the U.S. will be a bit stronger for the next few
weeks,” said Hiroki Shimazu, an economist in  Tokyo  at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest publicly
traded bank by assets. “Fears of inflation have softened.”  Two-year yields were little changed at 0.69 percent as of
8:19 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 0.75 percent security maturing in March 2013 traded at 100
3/32. The rate earlier fell to 0.685 percent, the least since
March 25. Ten-year yields were little changed at 3.40 percent.  Purchases of existing homes climbed 2.5 percent in March,
after dropping 9.6 percent the prior month, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before the National Association of
Realtors report April 20. Separate figures tomorrow will show
builders began work last month on 8.6 percent more houses,
following a 23 percent plunge in February, the surveys show.  Slower Inflation  Treasury 10-year yields slid nine basis points on April 15
after the Labor Department said the  consumer price index 
excluding food and energy rose 0.1 percent in March, less than
the 0.2 percent increase forecast by economists.  Five-year inflation swaps dropped 10 basis points last
week, the most in nine months, to 2.55 percent. The securities
allow investors to exchange fixed-interest rates for returns
equivalent to the consumer price index.  Yields on 30-year principal-only bonds fell to a one-month
low of 4.83 percent. The securities are among the most sensitive
to costs because they don’t provide interest payments that
mitigate losses as inflation erodes the value of the one-time
principal payment.  The odds of an increase in the Fed rate by March dropped to
52 percent from 59 percent a week ago, futures contracts
indicate.  Inflation concerns may appear later in the year as the
economy improves, SMBC’s Shimazu said. Gold futures for June
delivery climbed to a record $1,489.70 an ounce today.  The 10-year yield will advance to 3.91 percent by Dec. 31,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  More Bearish  Traders became more bearish on Treasuries through the end
of June, based on a survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc. The
company’s sentiment gauge fell to 46 for the seven days ended
April 15 from 47 the week before. A figure less than 50
indicates investors expect prices to decline.  Investors are paying the smallest discounts for Treasuries
other than the newest, most-traded bonds since the start of the
financial crisis, a sign of growing demand even as the  Federal
Reserve ’s $600 billion buying program approaches its conclusion.  Yields on older notes with 10 years left to maturity have
fallen to within 11.4 basis points, or 0.114 percentage point,
of those on the newest securities of the same maturity, down
from the peak of 66.1 in January 2009, according to data from
Barclays Plc. The difference for so-called off-the-run notes
narrowed to as little as 6.6 basis points in February, the least
since May 2007.  While investors typically pay the most for benchmark
Treasuries, the shrinking gap suggests that U.S. borrowing costs
are unlikely to soar when the central bank’s second round of so-
called quantitative easing ends in June. The Barclays data show
that the spread in yields is less now than in the five years
before the credit crisis began in 2007.  “There will not be major disruptions in the functioning of
the Treasury market,” said Eric Pellicciaro, the New York-based
head of global rates investments at BlackRock Inc., which
manages about $3.56 trillion in assets. Participation in the
Treasury market will “remain high, if not higher,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 