-- 
Redford’s Lincoln Conspiracy Leads to Hanging Lady: Rick Warner

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/redford-s-lincoln-conspiracy-leads-to-hanging-lady-rick-warner.html
As she mounted the gallows on a
broiling summer day in 1865, Mary Surratt was shaded from the
sun by an umbrella. She and three men, all convicted of
conspiring to kill President  Abraham Lincoln , were about to be
hanged in a prison courtyard in Washington, D.C.  The umbrella is one of many fascinating details in Robert Redford’s “ The Conspirator ,” which focuses on the trial of the
first woman executed by the U.S. federal government.  Director Redford and screenwriter James Solomon deserve
credit for making a historical drama that largely sticks to the
facts. The depiction of Surratt’s trial by a military tribunal
is based on Solomon’s exhaustive research into the court
transcripts and other written accounts of the trial.  Accuracy, however, doesn’t always produce a stirring story.
“The Conspirator,” which is being released on the 146th
anniversary of Lincoln’s death, is a talky, often ponderous film
that’s better suited to the History Channel than your local
multiplex.  The movie offers a sympathetic portrayal of Surratt, a
widow who owned the Washington boarding house where John Wilkes Booth and his fellow conspirators plotted to kill Lincoln, Vice
President Andrew Johnson and Secretary of State William Seward.  The case against Surratt was relatively weak, mostly based
on her son John’s involvement with Booth and the fact that the
conspirators met under her roof. She denied knowing anything
about the Lincoln plot and refused to turn against her son, who
fled the country after the assassination. But the military court
-- Gitmo analogies are sure to be made -- wanted a swift, sure
resolution.  Ford’s Theatre  Surratt is played with quiet dignity by Robin Wright,
looking as stern as a Sunday school teacher. The other central
character is her unlikely attorney, Frederick Aiken (a bearded,
studious  James McAvoy ), a Union war hero who reluctantly agreed
to defend a Southern sympathizer accused of plotting to kill the
president.  Redford quickly sets the stage with cross-cut scenes of
Booth shooting Lincoln at Ford’s Theatre, co-conspirator Lewis
Powell savagely stabbing Seward in his bed (he survived) and
their partner George Atzerodt getting drunk and failing to carry
out his assignment to murder Johnson. The momentum stalls during
the courtroom scenes, which are robotically enacted like a 19th-
century version of “ Law & Order .”  The period costumes and setting (the film was shot in
Savannah,  Georgia ) are first rate, and Redford gets solid
supporting performances from  Tom Wilkinson  and Evan Rachel Wood.  “The Conspirator,” from Roadside Attractions, opened
yesterday across the U.S. Rating: **1/2  ‘The Imperialists’  Asya, the protagonist of “ The Imperialists Are Still
Alive ,” is an avant-garde  New York  artist of Arab descent who
grew up in Paris. She has a Mexican boyfriend, hangs out in
Chinatown and attends glamorous parties with her hip,
multiethnic friends.  Zeina Durra’s loosely constructed film is a semi-
autobiographical tale of a young woman searching for identity in
a potpourri of cultures. While living a bohemian life in
 Manhattan , she agonizes over her brother’s plight in  Beirut 
(which is being bombed by  Israel ) and a close friend who may
have been abducted by the CIA as a suspected terrorist.  Asya, sensitively played by Elodie Bouchez, reacts to
Middle East stereotyping through her art, including a nude photo
of herself wearing only a headscarf and a family-style portrait
of Arab women brandishing guns.  The film has no real plot; it just follows Asya and her
friends as they roam around New York. Fortunately, most of the
characters are funny, smart and likable.  “The Imperialists Are Still Alive,” from  IFC Films ,
opened yesterday in New York. Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 