-- 
House Passes Republican Plan That Will Help Guide Budget Debate

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-04-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/republicans-set-to-pass-ryan-plan-that-will-spur-next-u-s-budget-battle.html
The U.S. House yesterday passed a
Republican budget that would cut spending by more than $6
trillion over a decade and privatize Medicare in a party-line
vote that will help define the fight over the deficit into next
year’s elections.  By a vote of 235-193, lawmakers approved House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s proposal one day after wrapping
up their first budget battle of the year with passage of a $38.5
billion spending cut for 2011.  “Yesterday we cut billions, today we cut trillions,” said
Representative  Kevin McCarthy  of  California , the House’s third-
ranking Republican.  The measure is certain to die in the Senate, where
Democratic leaders have endorsed President  Barack Obama ’s
competing call to reduce the deficit through a combination of
tax increases and spending cuts.  “The  House Republicans  have let Tea Party zeal get the
better of them, and this vote will reverberate for a long
time,” said Senator  Charles Schumer , his chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat. “In the months to come, we will not miss a
single opportunity to remind the public that Republicans voted
to end Medicare in order to give extra tax breaks for
millionaires.”  No Democrats  voted  for Ryan’s plan, and four Republicans
also opposed it:  Representatives Denny Rehberg of  Montana ,
David McKinley of  West Virginia , Walter Jones of  North Carolina 
and  Ron Paul  of  Texas .  Unanswered Questions  Rehberg, who is running next year for the Senate, said in a
statement: “There are still too many unanswered questions with
regard to Medicare reform, and I simply won’t support any plan
until I know for a fact that Montana’s seniors will be
protected.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said “the president
agrees with House Republicans that we must reduce our deficit
and put our country on a fiscally sound path, but we disagree
with their approach.”  Carney also said that “any solution will require
Republicans and Democrats working together, and we are committed
to that process.”  The proposal from Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, relies
exclusively on spending cuts to reduce the government’s deficit,
slicing $6.2 trillion over 10 years from Medicare and scores of
other programs including Medicaid,  food stamps ,  farm subsidies 
and Pell college tuition grants.  Private Insurance  It calls for replacing the traditional Medicare health-care
system for the elderly with subsidies to buy private insurance
starting with people who turn 65 in 2022. It would also cut the
top corporate and individual tax rates from 35 percent to 25
percent. The plan wouldn’t balance the government’s books until
2040.  Most Americans would pay more for their health care under
the plan, according to the  Congressional Budget Office , while
states may have to cut participants in Medicaid, the federal-
state health-care program that serves the poor.  Representative Allen West, a freshman Republican from
 Florida , said he is ready to take the plan to his constituents.  “I’m not up here to worry about being re-elected,” West
said. “There is a dire situation” and “we have to explain it
to the people, not stand up and demagogue it and just try to
scare people.”  Representative Lou Barletta, a Pennsylvania Republican,
called the vote a “defining moment.”  “We’re doing it even at risk of our own political
future,” he said, “but we’re doing it for the next generation,
and that’s what I came here to do.”  Tax Policies  After yesterday’s vote, the chamber will need to produce
additional legislation to make specific changes to tax and
spending policies. That process could produce bills deviating
from Ryan’s plan, and some Republicans said it allows them to
back his budget even if they don’t support his policy
prescriptions.  “I don’t necessarily think that just by voting for the
budget, you’re signing on” to his proposals, said Missouri
Representative Jo Ann Emerson, co-chairwoman of a group of
Republican moderates known as the Tuesday Group.  “He doesn’t have control over what the committees do,”
she said. “You know what happens once the committee process
starts. It turns out to be a lot different.”  Framing Debate  Each side is seeking to frame the debate over Ryan’s budget
around large themes.  “It’s important to define ourselves with our actions and
show the country that we’re serious about getting this debt
under control,” Ryan said in an interview. “To sit back and
not do anything about it because of politics would be a huge
moral failing.”  Representative Rosa DeLauro, a Connecticut Democrat, said
the Republicans’ budget “throws seniors to the wolves.”  Yesterday’s vote opens another round of fighting over the
so-called discretionary part of the budget -- the areas
lawmakers control through annual appropriations bills. Ryan’s
plan calls for $31 billion in 2012 cuts, on top of the $38.5
billion in savings approved April 14 after negotiations that
almost led to a government shutdown.  “We’ll be going through this same battle all over again,”
said Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican on
the Budget Committee.  Ryan said the fact that his plan is coming to a vote shows
how “times have changed.” A similar budget plan by Ryan
attracted just 14 co-sponsors last year when Democrats
controlled the House. Ryan credited his party’s 87-member House
Republican freshman class, many elected with the help of Tea
Party activists, for the change.  “They brought a whole new perspective. They brought a lot
of energy, a lot of gumption, a lot of backbone to Congress,”
Ryan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  