-- 
RIM Said Weighing Bid to Top Google Offer for Nortel Patents

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/rim-said-weighing-bid-to-top-google-offer-for-nortel-patents-1-.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  is
considering a bid for  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ’s portfolio of
wireless technology patents that would top  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s $900
million offer, two people familiar with the plans said.  RIM, maker of the BlackBerry smartphone, is weighing an
offer that would keep Google from gaining control of about 6,000
Nortel patents and patent applications, said the people, who
couldn’t be identified because the plans aren’t public.  A group of technology companies, including mobile-phone
makers, may also bid on the patents to stop Google, two people
said. RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, is considering joining
the group, one person said. Nortel’s patents would allow buyers
to control and license technology used in BlackBerrys,  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, and devices that run on Google’s Android
operating system.  Handset makers may be motivated to pool their resources on
a bid to protect themselves should Google try to use the patents
to gain influence and royalties in the wireless industry, David
Mixon, a patent attorney at Bradley Arant Boult Cummings LLP,
said in an interview. The portfolio includes patents for
wireless-video and LTE, or long-term evolution, technologies.  “There is great potential to turn that patent portfolio
around and go after smaller competitors especially,” said
Mixon, who thinks the bidding should go beyond $1 billion.  ‘Stalking Horse’  Google earlier this month made the opening bid as part of a
“stalking-horse” agreement that will lead to a June 20 auction
if other bidders emerge. A second bidder will have to offer
Nortel at least $929 million and subsequent bids must be at
least $5 million more, according to the bidding rules.  Nortel filed for bankruptcy in January 2009 after a loss of
$5.8 billion as its customers put off spending on new equipment
amid the recession. Since then, Nortel has raised about $3
billion for its creditors by selling businesses, with the
patents portfolio the last of the major assets to be sold.  RIM co-Chief Executive Officer Mike Lazaridis declined in
an interview earlier this month to comment on whether his
company would bid for the patents, which include LTE patents he
has called a “national treasure” in the past.  RIM spokeswoman Tenille Kennedy said the company does not
comment on rumors or speculation. Aaron Zamost, a spokesman for
Google, declined to comment.  RIM fell 52 cents to $53.40 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
yesterday, and has dropped 11 percent this year. Nortel’s 10.75
percent bonds due in 2016 rose more than 1 percent to 91.63
cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “Nortel had some very good R&D engineers and I’m sure
there are some very valuable patents in that portfolio,” said
Alkesh Shah, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York .
He has an “overweight” rating on RIM.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  