-- 
Ringgit Gains, Paring Weekly Drop, on China Inflation, Growth

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-04-15T01:31:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/ringgit-gains-paring-weekly-drop-on-china-inflation-growth.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit advanced, paring
a weekly loss, on speculation  China  will let its currency
appreciate faster to tackle inflation.  The ringgit traded near a 13 year-high after Singapore
revalued its currency yesterday and said it would allow it to
strengthen to restrain rising prices. A government report today
will show inflation in China accelerated in March to the
quickest in more than two years, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Oil climbed for a third day in  New York , extending gains
this year to 19 percent.  “China has shown confidence with a series of gradual
policy tightenings, which should continue through the year given
the inflation tendency,” said Calbert Loh, head of treasury in
 Kuala Lumpur  at Bangkok Bank Bhd. “This could open up some room
for Asian currencies to appreciate a bit more.”  The ringgit climbed 0.1 percent to 3.0230 per dollar as of
9:10 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, trimming its loss for the week to 0.2
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
reached 3.0165 on April 11, matching the strongest level since
October 1997.  Consumer prices in China rose 5.2 percent in March from a
year earlier, versus 4.9 percent in February, the survey showed.
The world’s second-largest economy expanded 9.4 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, compared with 9.8 percent in
the preceding three months, according to a separate Bloomberg
survey. The statistics bureau will report at 10 a.m. in Beijing.  The Monetary Authority of  Singapore  re-centered its
currency band upwards yesterday, pushing the city-state’s dollar
to the highest level since at least 1981.  China including  Hong Kong  purchased 17.7 percent of
Malaysia’s exports in 2010, while Singapore bought 13.4 percent,
according to trade ministry statistics. They were the country’s
two largest overseas markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  