-- 
Roger Federer Beaten by Austria's Melzer in Quarterfinals of Monte Carlo

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-15T14:19:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/roger-federer-beaten-by-austria-s-melzer-in-quarterfinals-of-monte-carlo.html
Grand Slam record holder  Roger Federer  lost to Austria’s  Jurgen Melzer  in the quarterfinals of
the  Monte Carlo Rolex Masters , his earliest defeat this season.  Melzer, the world No. 9, beat Federer 6-4, 6-4 today on the
clay courts of the Monte Carlo Country Club. It was Melzer’s
first victory in four matches against the Swiss, who won a
record-extending 16th grand slam men’s singles title at the
2010  Australian Open .  “He did well,” Federer told reporters after the match.
“He played aggressive, was able to mix it up. Obviously, I
wasted way too many breakpoint chances today, which was
unfortunate.”  Federer failed to convert seven chances to break serve,
while he made 24 errors. Melzer converted two of five
breakpoints, and had 20 mistakes.  Federer, 29, has yet to win the  Monte Carlo  tournament,
traditionally the season’s first clay-court event for the
world’s best players. Federer reached the finals three times in
Monaco, each time losing to top-ranked  Rafael Nadal .  Nadal, who is seeking a record seventh consecutive Monte
Carlo title, advanced to the semifinals today by beating  Ivan
Ljubicic  of Croatia, 6-1, 6-3. The Spaniard is the reigning
champion at the French Open, where he’ll try to win a sixth
title starting next month.  After winning the season-ending ATP World Tour finals in
 London  in November, the third-ranked Federer had started this
season by taking the title in Doha. Since then, he has been
beaten three times by  Novak Djokovic , first in the semifinals of
the Australian Open, which the Serb won. Djokovic also beat
Federer in the final of Dubai and in the semifinals of  Indian
Wells , and Federer lost to Nadal in the last four in Miami last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  