-- 
Rubber in Tokyo Declines as China May Raise Interest Rates, Curbing Demand

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-04-15T03:50:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/rubber-in-tokyo-declines-as-china-may-raise-interest-rates-curbing-demand.html
Rubber declined for a fourth day,
heading for its worst loss in five weeks, as accelerated
inflation in  China  raised speculation that it may increase
 interest rates , curbing demand from the world’s largest user.  The September-delivery contract lost as much as 2.6 percent
to 430.8 yen per kilogram ($5,162 a metric ton) before trading
at 436.2 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange at 12:27 p.m.  China’s  statistics bureau  said today consumer prices rose
5.4 percent in March from a year earlier, the fastest pace since
2008. Taming prices is the government’s top and “urgent”
priority, China’s cabinet said after meeting in Beijing this
week to review the performance of the economy.  “Expectations for a further increase in Chinese interest
rates put a drag on rubber futures,” Takaki Shigemoto, a
commodity analyst at JSC Corp. in  Tokyo , said today by phone.  China’s central bank has lifted interest rates four times
since mid-October to curb inflation. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch said yesterday that an increase in  reserve requirements 
for banks may be “imminent” after the nation’s foreign-
exchange holdings jumped to a world record $3 trillion.  Losses in rubber futures were limited as data today from
the statistics bureau also showed  China’s economy  grew a more-
than-estimated 9.7 percent in the first quarter and industrial
production climbed 14.8 percent in March.  “Given the strength of China’s economy, car sales in the
nation are unlikely to slow significantly, even if the central
bank raises borrowing costs,” Shigemoto said.  Car Sales  China’s passenger-car sales grew in March at a pace that
was below forecasts after incentives ended and fuel prices rose,
the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said April 10.  Dispatches of cars including multipurpose vehicles and
sport-utility vehicles to dealerships rose 6.52 percent from a
year earlier to 1.3 million units, according to the Chinese
association. That pace was about one-tenth of the 63 percent
sales increase reported in March of last year.  Rubber futures have dropped 6 percent this week, the
biggest decline since the week ended March 11, amid concern that
 Japan ’s nuclear crisis may weaken  consumer spending  and car
sales. Japan raised the severity rating of its nuclear crisis to
the highest level on April 12, matching the 1986 Chernobyl
disaster, as increasing radiation prompts the government to
widen the evacuation zone and aftershocks rocked the country.  Rubber output in Thailand, the world’s largest exporter,
may improve next week as producers affected by a flood prepare
to resume operations, Shigemoto said.  The floods in 10 southern provinces killed 61 people,
according to Thailand’s Department of Disaster Prevention &
Mitigation. About 50,000 rai (19,641 acres) of rubber
plantations were damaged.  The Thai rubber market is closed for New Year holidays. The
physical price of Thai rubber was unchanged at 184.8 baht ($6.15)
a kilogram on April 12, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of  Thailand .  Rubber for September delivery in  Shanghai  lost 0.6 percent
to 35,440 yuan ($5,426) a ton at 11:28 a.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  