-- 
Saab Auto Finance Rescue Plan Wins Tentative Swedish Approval

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-15T17:30:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/saab-auto-finance-rescue-plan-wins-tentative-swedish-approval.html
Saab Automobile was thrown a
lifeline after the Swedish government approved with conditions a
finance plan for the automaker freeing up collateral used by
Saab to back a loan from the  European Investment Bank .  The collateral, which includes Saab’s factory and
headquarters in Trollhaettan,  Sweden , would let the carmaker
raise cash by selling and then leasing back the property.  “If this can give a good opportunity for Saab to continue
operations and eventually become profitable it’d be very good,”
Maud Olofsson, Sweden’s industry minister, told reporters today.  The plan still needs to be cleared by the  European
Investment Bank  and faces certain conditions, Olofsson said. If
approved, it would give Saab, which has been forced to halt
production amid a payment dispute with suppliers, some breathing
space while it awaits a government decision on whether it can
bring in Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov  as an investor.  Saab first suspended manufacturing on March 29 after
component makers stopped deliveries and demanded payment. Saab
Chief Executive Officer Jan-Aake Jonsson said on April 4 that
the carmaker’s liquidity “became more strained” during the
second half of the first quarter.  Saab hopes to “resume normal production within a week”
after securing funding, owner  Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR)  said April 12.  Antonov would be the buyer of Saab’s property, Olofsson
said today. Saab would get at least 30 million euros ($43.3
million) in a first payment and more money later, she said.  ‘First Step’  “This was the first step, we’ve been waiting for this way
too long,” Victor Muller, CEO of Spyker Cars, said in a telephone
interview today. “Now we can work on the various conditions they’ve
imposed that we’re trying to analyze. We will continue working through
the weekend to reach agreement on the various points.”  “The outcome of the discussions is still not certain,”
Spyker said in a statement today.  The Swedish government is guaranteeing Saab’s loan provided
last year by the EIB, the European Union’s lending arm. The plan
would cut the loan to 280 million euros from the 400 million
euros agreed previously. Saab so far has drawn 217 million euros
from the loan.  In a separate review, the Swedish government is evaluating
whether Antonov should be permitted to join Saab as a financier
and shareholder. The government, the debt office, the EIB and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  must all give their approval under the
contract signed when GM sold Saab to Spyker in February 2010.  Antonov is ready to invest at least 50 million euros in
Saab, Lars Carlstrom, his spokesman in Sweden, said on April 8.
The investor, who is also seeking to join the Swedish carmaker
as a shareholder, has agreed to cap his stake at below 30
percent, Carlstrom said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  