-- 
Tokyo Electric Expects to End Fukushima Nuclear Crisis as Early as October

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-04-17T09:52:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/safety-risk-outside-50-miles-of-fukushima-plant-low-u-s-says.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. expects to
resolve the crisis at its tsunami-hit Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
plant, center of the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl, as
early as October.  The utility known as Tepco expects a sustained drop in
radiation levels at the plant within three months, the company
said in a statement released at a news conference in Tokyo today.
Following that, a cold shutdown, where core reactor temperatures
fall below 100 degrees Celsius (212 degrees Fahrenheit), may be
achieved within three to six months, according to the statement.  “You aren’t generating any new fission products and it’s
going to get easier and easier to bring the reactors under
control,” said David Fletcher, an adjunct professor of chemical
and bio-molecular engineering at the  University of Sydney .
“It’s quite possible to do it in that sort of time. Seems like
some better news than what we’ve been hearing for a while.”  The cooling systems at the power station were knocked out
by a 15-meter (49-foot) surge following a magnitude-9 earthquake
on March 11, triggering the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl in 1986. Efforts to cool the reactors and stem
radiation leaks have been hampered by fires and aftershocks.
Chairman  Tsunehisa Katsumata  told reporters in Tokyo today that
he plans to resign when the time is “appropriate.”  “Maintain the cooling, that’s the main thing,” Fletcher,
who studied the 1986 disaster while working for the U.K. Atomic
Energy Authority, said by telephone from Sydney. “One would
hope they turn the corner and get reliable cooling.”  Radioactive Water  Radioactive water continued to accumulate in ditches near
the No. 2 and 3 reactors, Tetsuya Terasawa, a spokesman at Tepco,
told reporters today. Radiation levels in the sea near the plant
have also risen, according to Hidehiko Nishiyama, deputy
director-general at the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency.
Tepco has placed bags of sand and zeolite, a material that can
trap radiation, in the sea, Nishiyama said yesterday.  The utility halted a leak of highly radioactive water in
the sea from a pit near the No. 2 reactor, Tepco said on April 6.
The company separately ejected water with lower levels of
radiation from a treatment facility and trenches outside the No.
5 and No. 6 reactors, to make space for more dangerous fluids.  “Even as Tepco prepares tanks and a waste-management
facility, there will be a limit to storage space eventually,”
Tetsuo Ito, head of the Atomic Energy Research Institute at
Kinki University, said in an interview yesterday. “They must
find a way to purify contaminated water and re-inject it into
the reactor. If they can lower the radiation level of the water
enough, releasing it into the ocean may be an alternative.”  Cooling Reactors  In the next three months, Tepco plans to fill the reactor
containment vessels at the No. 1 and No. 3 units with water, the
company said in today’s statement. The utility will seal the
vessel of the No. 2 reactor before flooding it.  “For the No. 2 unit, the containment vessel is highly
likely to be damaged,” Vice President Sakae Muto told reporters
in Tokyo today. “If we flood the damaged vessel, the leak of
contaminated water will increase. We will continue injecting
water with care and monitor the volume of water leaked.”  Tepco plans to inject nitrogen into the containment vessels
of the No. 2 and No. 3 reactors by the end of April, Muto said.
The utility injected the inert gas into the No. 1 unit this
month to prevent hydrogen explosions.  The Fukushima plant has six generating units, of which
reactors Nos. 4, 5 and 6 were already shut for maintenance
before the tremor stuck on March 11.  Second Phase  Tepco will repair and strengthen the walls and base of a
pool containing spent fuel rods in the No. 4 reactor building
under the first phase of the plan, according to the statement.  Three to six months after the initial phase, Tepco will
attempt a cold shutdown of reactors No. 1, 2 and 3, the company
said. During this time, the utility will also cover the No. 1, 3
and 4 reactor buildings with scaffolding as a temporary measure
to reduce radiation emissions after the structures were damaged
by hydrogen blasts last month, according to the statement.  Japan ’s government plans within six to nine months from now
to tell families evacuated from the area whether they can return
home, Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said in a briefing in Tokyo
today. A 20-kilometer evacuation zone was imposed after the
plant accident. The government widened it this month to include
the towns of Iitate, Katsurao and Namie.  Radiation no longer poses “ significant ” health risks
beyond an 80-kilometer radius, according to the U.S. State
Department, as it cleared employees’ families to return to
Japanese cities including Tokyo, Nagoya and Yokohama.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  arrived in Tokyo
today for a five-hour stop in a show of solidarity for Japan
after the tsunami and earthquake last month left more than
28,000 people dead or missing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 