-- 
Scene Last Night: Edward Lampert, Sting, Abby Breslin, Lauder

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-15T15:50:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/scene-last-night-edward-lampert-sting-abby-breslin-lauders-elton-john.html
Steven O. Newhouse, chairman of
Advance.net, and his wife, Gina Sanders, vice president and
publisher of Lucky magazine, embraced in the ballroom of the
Waldorf Astoria last night as Sting performed “Fields of
Gold.”  A few tables away at the  Breast Cancer Research
Foundation ’s Hot Pink Party,  Edward Lampert , chairman of  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , found an interloper between him and his wife,
Kinga Lampert, a chairman of the event.  Hairstylist Frederic Fekkai asked Edward Lampert to slide
down a seat so he could chat with his wife, a trustee of the
Edward and Kinga Lampert Foundation.  Fekkai, whose luxury hair-care product company is now owned
by  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , is a director of  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia. (MSO)  Edward Lampert, an investor who earned an estimated
$1.1 billion last year, according to AR Magazine, kept snapping
pictures of the concert with his BlackBerry.  The party raised more than $4 million. Its 1940s glamour
theme included decor featuring pink feathers -- most notably on
large folding fans. Guests accessorized in pink, among them
Elton John, who performed before Sting; Richard Garriott, game
designer and astronaut; and Lizzie Tisch, who wore Michael Kors.  At cocktail hour, around large ice sculptures in which pink
lemons were suspended, guests sampled Mike’s Hard Pink Lemonade,
which has 5.2 percent alcohol.  “It’s a little sweet for me,” said Edward Lampert. “I
thought it’d be stronger.”  “I can’t drink it,” said Abigail Breslin of “Little Miss
Sunshine” fame, who was celebrating her 15th birthday. She
shared a table with Brenda Song, who had a role in “The  Social
Network .”  Lemonade  Evelyn Lauder, the force behind the foundation, praised the
lemonade makers, who were the event’s Hot Pink Premier Sponsor.
“Thank you for turning lemons into lemonade so BCRF can turn
research into a cure,” said Lauder.  “I’m already a fan. It’s a nice summer cocktail to have by
the pool,” said Catharine LaPuma, wife of Edward V. LaPuma,
senior managing partner of LCN Capital Partners LP.  Sting closed the party by inviting women to come on stage
and dance as he performed “Desert Rose.” One of the guests at
the Lamperts’ table, Coralie Charriol Paul, who had a cameo in
the party scene in  Oliver Stone ’s “Money Never Sleeps”)
bounded to the stage. Miss USA, Rima Fakih, was reluctant at
first but joined in when Sting called for belly dancing (it’s
one of her talents). It got rather frenzied and crowded up
there.  The Lamperts stayed put. Asked if he was happy his wife
hadn’t joined, Lampert replied, “I’m happy I wasn’t up there.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 