-- 
RBS, Barclays Draw Scottish Widows as Vickers Report Concern Fuels Drops

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-15T07:45:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/scottish-widows-bought-rbs-barclays-as-prices-dropped-before-u-k-report.html
Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership, which oversees about 40 billion pounds ($65
billion) of U.K. stocks, bought banks in the days before this
week’s report on the industry by a government-backed committee.  The Edinburgh-based fund company invested in  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
Britain’s third-biggest lender, as well as  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , two government-
controlled banks, U.K. stocks manager James Clunie said in an
interview yesterday. Lloyds is the parent of Scottish Widows.  “We’ve added a number of banking stocks in the last couple
of weeks,” Clunie said. “A lot of these stocks were doing
very, very badly going into the banking commission report. There
comes a point when the fears are discounted.”  The Independent Commission on Banking published its
recommendations on April 11 and said the U.K.’s biggest banks
should boost capital and protect their consumer businesses from
potential losses from their investment banking operations. It
also called for London-based Lloyds to ditch more branches than
the 600 being sold to meet European Union regulations.  Lloyds shares are up 3.3 percent this month, paring their
decline over the past year to 7 percent. RBS rose 6.7 percent in
April, trimming the 12-month drop to 3.1 percent. Barclays
gained 8.7 percent, reducing the decline from a year ago to 20
percent. The FTSE 100 Index has risen 0.9 percent since March 31
and is up 2.9 percent from 12 months ago.  “It’s purely estimated fair value and I think these stocks
look cheap,” said Clunie. “It’s cheap relative to the cash
flows being generated. There was a whole lot of negative news
that drove the prices down and they became value stocks.”  Lagging Performance  Scottish Widows  Investment is trying to improve the
performance of its stock funds to win new clients after they
increased by less than rivals Aberdeen Asset Management Plc and
Standard Life Investments last year. Scottish Widows’ assets
increased 3.2 percent to 146 billion pounds in 2010, lagging a
27 percent jump at Aberdeen and Standard Life’s 13 percent rise.  Clunie, 42, started running the U.K. Flexible Strategy
Fund, which can take short positions on stocks, in 2009. The
fund’s 4 million pounds of assets include some of Clunie’s own
money and investments from colleagues, he said.  “It’s a case of rebuilding a fund that had a bad
history,” said Clunie, who also is responsible for analyzing
the financial services industry for the U.K. stocks team.  Scottish Widows Investment overall used spare cash and also
sold some mining stocks to buy the banks, said Clunie,  The company’s 1.6 billion-pound U.K. Growth Fund has risen
0.4 percent this year, trailing the 1.83 percent average of 145
funds and placing it 126th, according to data compiled by
Chicago-based research firm Morningstar Inc. The fund gained 4.8
percent over the past year, ranking it 126th of 144 funds.  The U.K. Flexible Strategy Fund is up 3.5 percent this
year, more than twice the 1.34 percent average and ranking 47th
of 147 similar investment pools, Morningstar said. Over the past
12 months, the fund advanced 5.8 percent, placing it 21st of 126
similar funds, the figures show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  