-- 
Senate’s Goldman Findings, Nordic Banks, Jefferies, TARP Fees: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-15T12:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/senate-s-goldman-findings-nordic-banks-jefferies-tarp-fees-compliance.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  misled
clients and Congress about the firm’s bets on securities tied to
the housing market, the chairman of the U.S. Senate panel that
investigated the causes of the financial crisis said.  Senator Carl Levin, releasing the findings of a two-year
inquiry yesterday, said he wants the  Justice Department  and the
Securities and Exchange Commission to examine whether Goldman
Sachs violated the law by misleading clients who bought the
complex securities known as collateralized debt obligations
without knowing the firm would benefit if they fell in value.  The Michigan Democrat also said federal prosecutors should
review whether to bring perjury charges against Goldman Sachs
Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and other current and
former employees who testified in Congress last year. Levin said
they denied under oath that Goldman Sachs took a financial
position against the mortgage market solely for its own profit,
statements the senator said were untrue.  Much of the blame for the 2008 market collapse belongs to
banks that earned billions of dollars in profits creating and
selling financial products that imploded along with the housing
market, according to the report. The Levin-Coburn panel levied
its harshest criticism at investment banks, in particular
accusing Goldman Sachs and  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  of selling
collateralized debt obligations backed by risky loans that the
banks’ own traders believed were likely to lose value.  In a statement, New York-based Goldman Sachs denied that it
had misled anyone about its activities. “The testimony we gave
was truthful and accurate and this is confirmed by the
subcommittee’s own report,” Goldman Sachs spokesman Lucas van
Praag said.  In a statement, Deutsche Bank spokeswoman Michele Allison
said, “As the PSI report correctly states, there were divergent
views within the bank about the U.S. housing market. Moreover,
the bank’s views were fully communicated to the market through
research reports, industry events, trading desk commentary and
press coverage. Despite the bearish views held by some, Deutsche
Bank was long the housing market and endured significant
losses.”  Compliance Policy  Borg Seeks Nordic Accord on Capital as Nordea Threatens Move  Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said he will look at a
common Nordic solution for capital standards after  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA)  signaled that Sweden’s plans to implement the strictest rules
could make it leave  Stockholm .  Borg and other policy makers such as central bank Governor
Stefan Ingves have argued that the largest Nordic economy should
take the lead in tightening  capital requirements  as regulators
globally seek to introduce measures to stabilize the banking
system after the financial crisis. Sweden is home to four of the
Nordic region’s six biggest banks.  Nordea Chairman Bjoern Wahlroos said the largest Nordic
bank has a responsibility to its shareholders to seek the best
solution, according to a report April 13 in Dagens Industri’s
monthly magazine Dimension. Nordea is the product of mergers
between banks in  Finland ,  Norway ,  Sweden  and  Denmark .  Borg seeks to prevent future imbalances in its credit and
property markets and wants banks to follow stricter standards
than those set out by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision. The Swedish Bankers’ Association has said it will
fight rules that undermine competitiveness, while Nordea Chief
Executive Officer Christian Clausen has called the plan “not
realistic.”  For more, click here.  Commodity Trading Rules Targeted by Global Securities Watchdogs  International securities regulators will seek extra
regulation for agricultural and other commodities markets, the
 International Organization of Securities Commissions  said in an
e-mailed statement.  IOSCO plans to extend its existing work on commodities
beyond assessing the transparency and functioning of oil
markets, the Madrid-based group of supervisors said.  “Other markets including agricultural markets are crucial
for our economies,” IOSCO said. The “expanded focus” is
“likely to lead to proposals to improve market transparency,
oversight and anti market-abuse treatment for these commodities
markets where necessary.”  European Union finance ministers on April 9 approved
recommendations for stricter oversight of commodity-derivatives
trading following concerns that speculation is driving up prices
for raw materials.  IOSCO brings together securities regulators to set
international standards for financial-market supervision.  Dodd-Frank Rule-Making Deadlines Slip, Delaying Dozens of Rules  Brokers anxious about facing stricter standards for
handling clients’ accounts will have to wait at least three more
months for new rules -- and possibly longer.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has delayed the
timetable for setting a fiduciary standard for brokers -- just
one of dozens of Dodd-Frank Act regulations whose timetable is
slipping. Others include new rules for security-based swaps and
credit ratings.  The SEC’s latest rule-making  calendar , released last week,
indicates that the agency will miss adoption deadlines on a long
list of rules mandated by last year’s financial-regulatory
overhaul. The Dodd-Frank Act assigned more work to the SEC than
any other agency, and agency officials have admitted publicly
that the act’s expectations can’t be met.  Financial firms that have opposed the changes welcome the
postponements. For other firms, the delays prolong uncertainty
in regulation of credit-rating firms, derivatives, executive pay
and conflict-minerals disclosures.  The budget for the SEC, along with the rest of the federal
government, has been held at 2010 funding levels this year. The
squeeze will mostly affect how the agency will implement the
rules, Shapiro said; the main problem delaying the rule-writing
is the high volume.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Jefferies to Pay $2 Million for Disclosure Failure, Finra Says  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  agreed to pay about $2 million to
resolve Financial Industry Regulatory Authority claims that
three employees failed to disclose conflicts of interest while
selling auction-rate securities.  Brokers for New York-based Jefferies bought and sold ARS
for eight customers from August 2007 through March 2008 without
telling them about additional compensation they would earn,
Finra said in a statement. The brokers also didn’t tell the
clients they could have purchased comparable or similar
securities with higher yields, the regulator said.  Finra also filed a complaint against a third Jefferies
broker for his role in the matter, according to the statement.  “We are pleased to have reached an agreement with Finra
and to have this matter behind us,” Jefferies spokesman  Tom
Tarrant  said in a statement.  Jefferies began repaying customers in July 2008 for
commissions it received on ARS that froze, remitting about
$868,000 as of October 2010.  Treasury Needs Better Review of TARP Legal Fees, Audit Says  The  U.S. Treasury  risks paying too much in legal fees
related to bailouts because it isn’t adequately reviewing bills
from law firms, a government watchdog said.  The Treasury office managing the Troubled Asset Relief
Program needs to “improve controls over the review and payment
of legal fee bills,” according to a  report  yesterday from the
Office of the Special Inspector General for TARP. “Current
contracts and fee-bill review practices create an unacceptable
risk that Treasury, and therefore the American taxpayer, is
overpaying for legal services.”  The special inspector general’s office, or SIGTARP, said it
“found weaknesses” in the Treasury’s contract with law firm
Venable LLP. The contract didn’t include sufficient detail on
how Venable should prepare bills or how to describe tasks within
each bill.  The Treasury “has already taken steps” to implement
recommendations SIGTARP made to improve the review and payment
of legal fees, Timothy Massad, acting assistant secretary for
financial stability, said in a letter released with yesterday’s
report. The department “has implemented strong and effective
processes in regard to all its contracts, including those for
legal services,” he wrote.  “Venable fully cooperated with SIGTARP’s review,” the law
firm said in an e-mailed statement. “We have not had the
opportunity to read the full report. However, we are confident
that Treasury received fair value for the services that we
provided.”  Courts  SEC Sues Subprime Auto-Loan Dealer for $110 Million Fraud  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Inofin
Inc., a Massachusetts-based subprime auto-loan provider, and
five of its executives for illegally raising at least $110
million and then diverting investors’ money to businesses
including car dealerships and real-estate developments.  Inofin executives Michael Cuomo, Kevin Mann and Melissa
George raised the funds from hundreds of investors in 25 states
through the sale of unregistered notes, the SEC said yesterday
in a filing at U.S. District Court in  Boston . They told
investors they could expect returns of nine to 15 percent
because their subprime borrowers typically paid 20 percent
interest on average, the SEC said.  Inofin misrepresented the company’s financial performance
from as early as 2006 through this year, the SEC said. The SEC
also sued two sales agents, David Affeldt and Thomas Keough, for
illegally offering to sell the securities without being
registered as brokers, according to the complaint.  Phone calls to Inofin’s lawyer Mark DeGiacomo, Affeldt’s
lawyer Thomas Affeldt, Cuomo’s attorney William Kettlewell,
George’s lawyer Christopher Trombetta, Keough’s attorney Martin
Auerbach, and Mann’s lawyer Raymond Ausrotas, weren’t
immediately returned.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Inofin,
11-cv-10633, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston).  Kenneth Marsh Pleads Guilty in Gryphon Stock-Tip Fraud Case  Kenneth Marsh, who ran Gryphon Holdings Inc., pleaded
guilty to charges that he misled investors into paying fees for
phony stock tips and investment advice.  Marsh, 44, pleaded guilty yesterday to one count of
securities fraud before U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein in
Brooklyn,  New York . Marsh faces a prison sentence of as long as
14 years under federal sentencing guidelines, said Assistant
U.S. Attorney Roger Burlingame.  Marsh is the 17th of 18 defendants, including members of
Gryphon’s sales force, to plead guilty.  Alan Futerfas, Marsh’s lawyer, declined to comment after
the sentencing.  Marsh was charged in April 2010. He was also sued by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Marsh, 10-cr-00480, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Gryphon Holdings Inc., 10-cv-01742, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Interviews  FCIC’s Angelides Says Financial Crisis Was Avoidable  Phil Angelides, chairman of the  Federal Crisis Inquiry
Commission , discussed the report by Senator  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, on the causes of financial crisis and what
steps should be taken to prevent a second one from occurring.  Angelides spoke with Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s
“Fast Forward.”  For the video, click here and for more, see top section,
above.  Weild Urges Easing of Rules on Trading of Private Shares  David Weild, senior adviser at Grant Thornton LLP, talked
about U.S. regulations on trading of shares in closely held
firms such as Facebook Inc.  Weild spoke with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television’s
“Taking Stock.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Egypt ’s Sharkawy Appointed Head of Finance Regulator  Ashraf El Sharkawy was confirmed by Egypt’s prime minister
as chairman of the  Egyptian Financial Services Authority , the
market regulator, until June 2013, the EFSA said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  El Sharkawy will head the organization’s eight-member board
of directors, which includes Adel Abdel Hamid as deputy chairman
and Hisham Ramez, who also serves as deputy governor of the
central bank, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 