-- 
Serbian Opposition to Hold Protest Tomorrow, Seeks Early Vote

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-04-15T14:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/serbian-opposition-to-hold-protest-tomorrow-seeks-early-vote.html
The  Serbian Progressive Party , the
Balkan nation’s biggest opposition group, will hold a protest in
Belgrade tomorrow demanding early elections because the
government has failed to raise employment and living standards.  The protest, the second in two months, may attract as many
as 100,000 people, party leader Tomislav Nikolic told the
Belgrade-based newspaper Press in an interview today. Nikolic
wants early elections to be held on Dec. 18.  General elections in  Serbia  are due in March 2012 and a
survey published by the Danas newspaper on April 6 showed 66.4
percent of voters want the balloting moved forward.  Ten years after  Slobodan Milosevic ’s arrest for  war crimes ,
citizens are still waiting for authorities to make good on
promises to create jobs, stamp out corruption and build trust in
the Balkan nation’s institutions. No Cabinet since Milosevic’s
ouster has lasted four years, the government is struggling to
sell state assets, borrowing costs are the highest in  Europe  and
entry into the European Union is years away.  The Progressive Party lead a poll by Belgrade-based  Faktor
Plus  with 37.3 percent support, followed by the ruling
 Democratic Party  of President  Boris Tadic  with 28.2 percent. The
survey was conducted between March 22 and April 6 among 1,500
respondents. No margin of error was given.  Serbia is trying to become an EU candidate by the end of
the year and get a date for the start of membership talks.
Belgrade needs to convince the European Commission by mid-June
that it is making genuine effort to join the 27-member bloc. The
Commission is due to announce its opinion on Oct. 12.  Tadic has dismissed demands for early elections and Prime
Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  last month shuffled and downsized his
Cabinet. The government is offering borrowers a two-year
repayment relief period on long-term debts and to adjust wages
and pensions for inflation. It hopes for at least 1.4 billion
euros in foreign direct investment in 2011 to create new jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 Gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  