-- 
Sony, Nikon Narrow Gap to Canon With New Digital Camera Models

-- B y   K a z u y o   S a w a   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-04-15T08:05:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/sony-nikon-narrow-gap-to-canon-with-new-digital-camera-models.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Nikon Corp. (7731)  narrowed
the gap to  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest camera maker, last
year after introducing a new lineup of models.  Sony, the world’s second-biggest camera maker, controlled
17.9 percent of the market, improving from 16.9 percent a year
earlier, researcher IDC said in an e-mailed statement to
Bloomberg News yesterday. Nikon had 12.6 percent compared with
Canon’s 19 percent, which remained unchanged from a year ago.  Worldwide camera sales jumped 10 percent to 141 million
units last year, helped by the introduction of new models and
economic growth in markets such as  China . To win new customers,
Sony and Samsung Electronics Co. are among companies unveiling
devices that eliminated the need for a mirror in professional-
grade cameras, where Canon has the lead.  “Sony’s and Samsung’s launching new mirror-less digital
cameras helped them obtain more market share,” said Masahiko Ishino, an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co.  Samsung had 11.1 percent of the market last year, improving
from 10.9 percent. Kodak Co., Fujifilm Holdings Corp. and Casio
Computer Co. were among manufacturers who lost market share last
year, according to the data.  In the market for cameras with interchangeable lens, or
single lens reflex cameras, Canon controlled 44.5 percent of the
market, followed by Nikon with 29.8 percent and Sony with 11.9
percent, according to the data.  Following is the table for worldwide digital still camera
shipments by vendors from IDC  Japan  in an e-mail release
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kazuyo Sawa in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  