-- 
Sprint’s Hesse Says AT&T’s Purchase Poses Threat to Industry

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-15T22:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/sprint-ceo-says-at-t-deal-poses-serious-threat-to-industry-innovation.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Hesse  said  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s acquisition of  T-Mobile USA 
poses a “serious threat” to industry innovation.  “We just cannot let this happen,” Hesse said today at an
event in San Francisco. “If the proposed AT&T and T-Mobile
merger is allowed to go forward, it can also push the wireless
industry from competition to duopoly.”  AT&T said March 20 it agreed to buy T-Mobile from parent
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  for $39 billion, combining the second- and
fourth-largest U.S. wireless providers. The deal needs approval
from the U.S. Federal Communications Commission and  Justice
Department , and is to face hearings in Congress.  Hesse, whose company is the third-largest U.S. wireless
provider, said the merger would put control of 80 percent of the
wireless industry revenue into the hands of the two carriers,
the combined T-Mobile-AT&T and  Verizon Wireless .  He said regulators should consider what impact the merger
will have on consumer prices as well as innovation. The CEO, who
has starred in Sprint’s television commercials, reiterated
comments made by the company’s vice president of government
affairs last month.  The merger could restrict access to device makers among
smaller wireless companies, said Hesse. With the buying power of
the two largest wireless companies, “they could restrict access
to some of the cool devices,” he said.  FCC, Justice Department  “Given that Sprint is a major competitor to AT&T in the
hyper competitive wireless market Mr. Hesse describes, no one
should be surprised that they would oppose this merger,” said
 Jim Cicconi , senior executive vice president of external and
legislative affairs for AT&T, in an e-mailed statement. “This
hyper competitive market will not become less so simply because
of one transaction.”  Reid Walker, a spokesman for Bellevue, Washington-based T-
Mobile, declined in an e-mail to comment.  The FCC and Justice Department will work on parallel tracks
and coordinate with one another, said a U.S. official this week,
declining to be named because Dallas-based AT&T hasn’t yet
formally submitted the purchase for approval.  The FCC’s chief economist, Jonathan Baker, said last month
that the deal raises questions about whether it would lead to
higher prices for consumers.  AT&T has said it expects regulators will require it to
divest wireless spectrum and subscribers to win approval for the
acquisition, a person with knowledge of the situation said last
month.  Hesse declined to say if Sprint would bid for any assets
AT&T has to divest as a result of the regulatory process.  Sprint, based in  Overland Park , Kansas, fell 15 cents, or 3
percent, to $4.81 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have risen 14 percent this year.
AT&T rose 36 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $30.65 in New York.
Deutsche Telekom rose 18 cents, or 1.8 percent, to 11.26 euros
in Frankfurt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  