-- 
Standard Bank to Lag Behind 13% Rally in South Africa Stocks, Stanlib Says

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-04-15T07:26:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/standard-bank-to-lag-behind-13-rally-in-south-africa-stocks-stanlib-says.html
Standard Bank  Group Ltd.,  South
Africa ’s worst-performing bank stock, will keep lagging behind
rivals as it struggles to boost profit outside its home market,
said Stanlib Asset Management, which sold shares in its parent.  Standard Bank,  Africa ’s largest lender, has declined 7
percent this year compared with an 8 percent gain for  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED)  and 2 percent increase for  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  Profit in
2010 at Standard Bank fell 3 percent while Nedbank reported a 15
percent jump and first-half net income at FirstRand tripled
after it spun off its insurance businesses.  Stanlib expects a 13 percent rally in the FTSE/JSE Africa
All Share Index in the next 12 months, led by financial
companies including Johannesburg-based FirstRand and Nedbank,
Paul Hansen, director of retail investments, said in an
interview in the city. Investec and  Old Mutual Plc (OML)  are also
poised to gain, he said.  “Financials are very good assets to be buying right now,”
said Hansen, who helps manage 300 billion rand ($44 billion) at
Johannesburg-based Stanlib. Standard Bank “has faced major
problems across its operations inside and outside Africa and
some problems in South Africa,” he said.  Standard Bank, which is 20 percent owned by Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., fired about 2,000 workers last
year. Stanlib is a unit of Standard Bank’s insurance business
 Liberty Holdings Ltd. (LBH)   Despite the stock’s decline this year, its valuation is
still higher than that of FirstRand and Nedbank. Standard Bank
shares are trading at 13.6 times annual profit, compared with a
price-earnings multiple of 10.4 for FirstRand, 12.8 for Nedbank
and 13.9 for the MSCI Emerging Markets/Financials index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  