-- 
Stanford’s Levin Wins John Bates Clark Economist Award

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-04-15T23:33:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/stanford-s-levin-wins-john-bates-clark-economist-award-2-.html
Stanford University professor
Jonathan Levin won the John Bates Clark medal for the economist
under the age of 40 who contributed most to the profession.  “Levin is a leading scholar in the fields of industrial
organization and microeconomic theory, whose work stands out for
its combination of theoretical depth, empirical methods, and
compelling applications,” the  American Economic Association 
said in announcing the award.  The 38-year-old Levin has studied subprime lending, health
insurance, the allocation of radio spectrum and the economics of
Internet markets. In a series of papers on the subprime
automobile market, he found that demand rose sharply during the
tax rebate season and was highly correlated to the availability
of credit.  Together with Christopher Avery of  Harvard University ,
Levin developed a model to analyze the early admission process
for applicants at select colleges. One finding: high school
students who applied for early admission had a 20- to 30-
percentage point better chance of being chosen compared with
those who applied later. That’s equivalent to the student
scoring an additional 100 points on the SAT tests, according to
the paper.  Levin has done extensive work on auctions, from timber
sales by the U.S. Forest Service to online trading at eBay Inc.,
the  San Jose , California-based owner of the world’s largest e-
commerce market.  Utility Infielder  Barry Nalebuff, a professor of management at  Yale
University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , who co-wrote a paper with
Levin on electoral systems, likened the Stanford economist to a
utility infielder in baseball who can play every position.  “He can do it all,” said Nalebuff, who is also co-founder
and chairman of Honest Tea Inc., a beverage company in Bethesda,
 Maryland . “He really combines first rate theoretical and first
rate empirical work.”  The son of Yale University President Richard Levin, the
Stanford, California-based professor received a doctorate in
economics from the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in
Cambridge in 1999. He did his undergraduate work at Stanford and
got his masters in economics from Oxford University in the U.K.  Together with fellow Stanford University professor Paul
Milgrom, Levin worked as a consultant to Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo! Inc. a few years ago to try to help the company
with the design of its advertising markets.  ‘Good Chunk’  “A good chunk of my work has been trying to take modern
economic theory that was developed in an abstract way and think
about how you could make it really practical,” Levin said.  He said in a telephone interview that he has also focused
recently on “industrial organization,” looking at how
industries such as the subprime lending are constituted and
regulated.  “It’s incredibly exciting,” said Levin of winning the
award, adding that he found out about it via a phone call from
the association while he was walking around Stanford’s campus.  Past winners of the award include the late Milton Friedman,
 New York  Times columnist and Princeton University professor  Paul Krugman , and  Lawrence Summers , former director of President
Barack Obama’s National Economic Council. Data compiled by
Bloomberg News show that recipients of the medal have a little
more than one-in-three chance of eventually winning the  Nobel
Prize  in economics.  The John Bates Clark medal, started in 1947 as a biennial
prize, is now being awarded annually. It is named after the U.S.
economist who died in 1938 after spending most of his career
teaching at  Columbia University  in New York.  Esther Duflo, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, won the medal last year for her work in development
economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  