-- 
Tsunami-Ravaged Port Sees Sign of Rebirth as Fishing Boat Returns From Sea

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-04-15T01:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/tsunami-ravaged-port-has-hope-as-fishing-boat-returns-from-sea.html
As the tsunami tore through
northeastern  Japan  on March 11, Tokio Takatsuka was helming his
trawler to fishing grounds in the middle of the  Pacific Ocean .  A magnitude-9 quake, the largest recorded in Japan, had
unleashed waves that scraped away parts of villages and towns
where fishermen make their living. Unable to immediately reach
contacts in ports where he sold tuna, Takatsuka and his crew of
eight on the Hoyo Maru No. 18 continued to fishing grounds 2,500 
kilometers (1,550 miles) southeast of Japan.  Just over a month later, the Hoyo Maru was among the first
fishing boats to return to the Tohoku region, calling in on
Shiogama, a port 315 kilometers northeast of  Tokyo . The town’s
mayor and fish buyers greeted the men with sake and boxes of
apples as the return of the fleet offered a symbol of rebirth to
the areas hardest hit by the earthquake and tsunami.  “It means a great deal to bring this catch to port,”
Takatsuka, 62, said in an interview next to his boat yesterday,
where he wore a thick blue jacket for protection against the
coastal wind. “For the people here, no fish means no work.
Without it they have nothing.”  In Japan, the fishing industry contributes about 860
billion yen ($10.4 billion) to the economy each year and employs
about 222,000 people. While the portion of the overall economy
that represents has faded over the years, the industry is at the
heart of the island nation’s culture.  ‘Can’t Be Killed’  “Fishing isn’t bigger than other industries but the town
has grown up because of it and fresh tuna is 90 percent of what
this market sells,” Akira Sato, Shiogama’s mayor, said in an
interview following a ceremony yesterday to honor the
fishermen’s return. “The hope of a recovery can’t be killed.”  The earthquake and tsunami left more than 28,000 dead or
missing, according to the  National Police Agency . Almost 60,000
homes were destroyed. The government last month estimated the
damage caused by the disaster may swell to 25 trillion yen.  Japan’s economy may shrink 3 percent this quarter after the
temblor, before expanding in the second half, according to the
median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News in
the past week.  At the gathering the president of the fish market, Naoya
Shiga, offered Takatsuka and his men sake in gratitude. Fish
buyers presented the captain and his crew, which includes two
Japanese and six Indonesians, with boxes of apples.  Market Reopens  Takatsuka says his wholesaler called him on April 5 to say
the damaged market, where a fishing boat deposited by the
tsunami lies sideways over the road nearby, was going to reopen.
He preferred to return there rather than find a destination
outside of the area affected by the March 11 disaster, he said.  In Shiogama,  Miyagi  prefecture, the 100-meter long fish
market was closed for 23 days, opening on April 4 for an auction
for fish brought from other regions. During the quake, the floor
cracked and a pillar collapsed.  North of Miyagi, the tsunami unleashed about 106.6 billion
yen of damage to ports, boats and processing facilities in Iwate
prefecture, according to data from the prefectural government.  Fishing is the biggest industry in Rikuzentakata, Kesennuma
and Ishinomaki, where huge swaths of the towns were decimated by
the tsunami. Their fish markets haven’t yet opened.  The Hoyo Maru’s 16-ton catch of yellowfin tuna, albacore,
swordfish, sharks and other fish, sold in minutes. The yellowfin
tuna, prized for its use in sushi and sashimi, and the rest of
the bounty fetched about 10 million yen.  ‘Quite Good’  “The prices were quite good because buyers didn’t have any
stock,” Shiga, 63, said in an interview. “More boats will
arrive from June so we need to rebuild all the facilities
soon,” he said, adding that aftershocks have caused additional
damage. Shiogama’s fish market does about 10 billion yen in
annual sales, he said.  Takatsuka, the ship’s captain, described his catch as
“small” compared with the typical 35 tons. Still, the visit
was as important for supporting the town and the market as it
was for sales, he said.  Sales of fish in Japan have slumped since a damaged nuclear
reactor in Fukushima prefecture began leaking radiation into the
air and sea in the days following the earthquake, forcing the
government to ban milk and fish shipments from the area.  At the  Tsukiji fish market  in central Tokyo, sales of fresh
fish fell to an average 583 metric tons per day in the week
ended March 17, 28 percent lower compared with a year earlier.
In the week ending March 24, the latest figures available,
revenue fell 44 percent.  Wide Berth  The Hoyo Maru, which is based in Oita, southwest Japan,
sailed a wider berth of as much as 60 kilometers from the plant
as it made its way north to Shiogama, instead of hugging the
coast. The 76-ton white vessel will head out to sea in a month
once regular maintenance checks are completed, said Takatsuka,
who’s worked as a tuna fisherman since he was 15.  “The nuclear plant is our biggest concern and we want it
to be over soon,” Takatsuka said, adding that buyers have been
extra cautious about the  safety of fish . “So many other
businesses are also affected, not only fishing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  