-- 
Syngenta Quarterly Sales At Top End of Estimates on High Volumes

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-04-15T09:06:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/syngenta-quarterly-sales-at-top-end-of-estimates-on-high-volumes.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , which competes with
DuPont Co.’s Pioneer in the pesticide market, will maintain a
strong balance sheet in case a large acquisition target becomes
available, Chief Financial Officer John Ramsay said.  The company is continuously assessing potential takeover
targets, which tend to be smaller seed companies because these
are the most readily available to buy, Ramsay said in an
interview today.  “The bigger ones are more difficult to prize loose,” the
CFO said. “In crop protection, because of the size of the major
players now, it is quite difficult from a competition point of
view to see major moves, but we’re very much keeping a strong
balance sheet should the opportunities present themselves.”  Syngenta, whose rivals are Dow Chemical Co., Monsanto Co.
and Bayer AG, has accumulated $2 billion in cash and lowered its
debt-to-equity ratio to 20 percent from 28 percent last year. In
the $2 trillion  chemical industry , the value of deals involving
specialty chemicals is on a pace to reach the highest in a
decade this year, Bloomberg data show. By contrast, Syngenta
hasn’t made a purchase of more than $500 million for more than a
decade and it’s returning $850 million in cash to investors.  In the absence of large deals, Chief Executive Officer
Michael Mack and Ramsay spent a year sketching out a complete
internal overhaul. They’re merging crop-protection and seeds
divisions with a goal of added sales and savings of about $650
million by 2015. By adopting a single procurement system and
other measures, Syngenta is on course to generate $75 million of
those synergies this year, Ramsay said.  Sales Top Estimates  The Basel, Switzerland-based company today reported first-
quarter sales at the top end of a range of analysts’ estimates
as higher grain prices spurred investment among farmers. Revenue
increased 14 percent to $4.02 billion. Analysts predicted $3.93
billion in sales, according to an average of five estimates in a
Bloomberg survey, with the top prediction being $4.01 billion.  “As you’ve seen from our first quarter, we’re expecting an
awful lot of activity this year,” Mack said in the same
interview. “There’s an awful lot going on.”  The northern hemisphere’s growing season started well,
spurred by wheat growers in  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa 
and demand for seeds in markets like Ukraine, Syngenta said.  Recovering demand has helped stabilize prices from the
intensified competition last year that led most major agro-
chemical companies to offer larger-than-normal client rebates.
Syngenta has increased prices for crop protection by about 2
percent so far this year, and customers are largely accepting
the move, Ramsay said.  “This is a competitive market, we’ve put some prices up
and at this stage the competition have done likewise,” said
Ramsay. “Later in the season, the competition could decide to
give away the price increases through rebates, but at the moment
it’s looking pretty solid.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  