-- 
Syrian Demonstrations Persist After President Approves Cabinet Changes

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-04-15T14:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/syrian-protests-draw-thousands-after-assad-cabinet-changes-don-t-satisfy.html
Syrian security forces blocked
roads in Damascus to thwart a fifth week of protests against
President Bashar al-Assad after yesterday’s cabinet reshuffle
failed to calm demonstrators, activists said.  Routes to the Damascus suburbs of Douma and Harasta were
blocked by vans and concrete blocks, as thousands took to the
streets, Damascus-based human-rights activist Razan Zaitouneh
said on her Facebook page. There were rallies in Homs, Aleppo,
Qamishli, the port city of Latakia and Daraa, a flashpoint for
dissent last month, she said.  “The announcement of a new Cabinet is not seen as a new
reform gesture, given that a third of the new Cabinet is from
the old government,” Chris Phillips, an analyst at the
 Economist Intelligence Unit  in  London , said in a telephone
interview. “The demonstrators have every right to perceive this
as a backward step rather than a forward step in the reform
process and therefore it’s not surprising that the numbers
appear to have increased today.”  Protests have spread across Syria after the toppling of
leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia  by popular uprisings. New York-
based  Human Rights Watch  says at least 130 people have been
killed as Assad’s regime has cracked down on protesters. The
government has blamed the unrest on foreign-led conspirators who
have exploited legitimate expressions of popular demands.  ‘No Logic’  Security forces used teargas to disperse protesters in
Damascus, Al Arabiya television reported.  “People are protesting and the security forces are
carrying out arrests, trying to pressure people not to
demonstrate,” former Judge Haitham al-Maleh, 80, a human-rights
activist who was recently released from prison as part of an
amnesty, said by phone from  Syria . “This regime has no brain,
no logic other than repression, its all that it knows.”  Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s  National Organization for
Human Rights , who is in touch with people taking part in the
rallies, said from Cairo that “thousands” also gathered today
in Douma and that protests erupted in Deir al-Zour and Banias,
the coastal region where tanks were deployed to suppress
demonstrations in the past week. There were no reports of
gunfire, he said.  Assad issued a decree yesterday approving a new government
after the protests intensified. It is led by former Agriculture
Minister Adel Safar and retains Foreign Minister Walid Al- Muallem and Energy Minister Sufian Alao in their positions. The
continuation of key Cabinet members prompted Qurabi to say
yesterday that “there is no real difference with this new
lineup.”  Release Ordered  Assad also ordered the release of people detained during
the demonstrations who did not “commit criminal acts,” the
state-run SANA news agency reported late yesterday without
giving details.  Human Rights Watch  has said the security and
intelligence services tortured detained protesters and that it
is impossible to verify the number of those who remain in
detention. The Syrian president had promised to remove a state
of emergency in place since 1963 and end restrictions on
political and media freedoms.  The ambassadors of  France ,  Germany , Britain,  Italy  and
 Spain  met today with Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem,
the French Foreign Ministry said.  “The ambassadors expressed their very serious
preoccupations about the continued violence and deaths across
the country,” the ministry said in a statement on its website.
The envoys “reiterated their condemnation of the use of force
against peaceful protesters by the security forces and called on
the Syrian authorities to show restraint.”  The Syrian government should “respond to the legitimate
demands of the Syrian people by urgently enacting a program of
credible political reforms in order to provide for stability in
Syria,” the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 