-- 
House Republicans Move to Push Derivatives Rules to 2012

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-04-15T20:59:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/u-s-house-republicans-move-to-delay-derivatives-rules-18-months.html
U.S.  House Republicans  moved to
delay for 18 months all rulemakings involving derivatives under
the Dodd-Frank financial regulation law.  Four Republican lawmakers representing the  Financial
Services  and Agriculture committees introduced legislation to
extend the deadlines the Securities and Exchange Commission and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission are facing as they write
scores of new rules aimed at providing more transparency in the
$583 trillion international over-the-counter swaps market.  “The CFTC has placed speed over deliberation,”
Representative Michael Conaway of  Texas , one of the authors,
said at a House Agriculture Committee hearing on April 13.  The legislation’s chance of becoming law may be small.
House Republicans would need the support of the Democrat-led
Senate and White House to push the idea forward.  President  Barack Obama  signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law
last year in the wake of the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression. Reining in the trading of derivatives, which
are financial instruments based on the value of another security
or benchmark, was a primary goal of House and Senate Democrats
when they wrote the legislation.  House Republicans, who took power in January, have pushed
to revise -- and in some cases repeal -- the Dodd-Frank law.
Committee chairmen  Spencer Bachus  of Financial Services and
 Frank Lucas  of Agriculture have pushed the SEC and CFTC to slow
down the rulemaking process. Most of the rules required by the
new law are due by mid-July.  The legislation introduced today would line up the timing
with the Group of 20 finance ministers’ agreement that reform
must be implemented by December 2012.  ‘Competitive Disadvantage’  “There is no need to rush and meet arbitrary deadlines
when the rest of the world is at least 18 months behind the
 United States ,” Bachus, of  Alabama , said today in a statement.
“This bill will ensure that the United States is not placed in
a competitive disadvantage compared to the rest of the world.
Despite the best efforts of the regulators, the rules have not
been proposed in a logical sequence, and if implemented on the
current timeframe, could weaken U.S. markets during a period of
economic recovery.”  Before completing the rules, according to the legislation
filed today, the agencies would be required to hold public
round-tables and solicit comments from the financial industry
about the time and resources it would take to comply with the
regulations.  Regulation Costs  The CFTC has drawn criticism from Republican lawmakers, the
 CME Group Inc. (CME)  and others in the financial industry for not
adequately estimating the costs of regulations.  “If the regulators get this wrong, it will be difficult --
if not impossible -- for businesses of all shapes and sizes to
responsibly hedge their risks, and trading will be forced off of
U.S. markets to those overseas,” Representative  Scott Garrett ,
a New Jersey Republican and member of the Financial Services
committee, said in a statement.  CFTC spokesman Scott Schneider and SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment on the legislation. The SEC and CFTC
will hold a May roundtable to discuss appropriate dates for the
implementation “with an emphasis on getting the derivatives
rules right,” Nester said.  CFTC Commissioner  Bart Chilton , a Democrat, said in an e-
mail today that “the urgency Congress has already placed on
getting reforms implemented is just as important today as it was
when this good and needed legislation became law.”  The Financial Services panel is tentatively scheduled to
mark up the derivatives legislation on May 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington D.C. at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  