-- 
U.S. April Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-15T12:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/u-s-april-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
conditions for New York manufacturers improved at an accelerated
pace in April. The general business conditions index rose for a
fifth consecutive month, reaching 21.7, its highest level in a
year. The new orders index jumped 17 points, to 22.3, and the
shipments index shot up 27 points to 28.3. The indexes for both
prices paid and prices received rose to their highest levels in
more than a year, indicating that price increases continued to
accelerate. The index for number of employees climbed to 23.1,
while the average workweek index edged down to 10.3. Future
indexes continued to convey great optimism about the six-month
outlook, and the capital spending and technology spending
indexes were noticeably higher.  In a series of supplementary questions, manufacturers were
asked to assess the extent to which certain business issues
posed problems for their firms and to indicate whether each
issue was expected to become more or less of a problem over the
next year. As in last April’s survey, the issue cited most
frequently as a major problem was the cost of employee benefits,
followed by government regulation and taxes. Finding qualified
workers was also considered a fairly widespread problem,
substantially more so than a year ago. The issues in the current
survey seen as least problematic were depressed real estate
values, the cost and terms of credit, and credit availability
and access. In response to a topical question added to this
month’s survey, nearly 80 percent of respondents indicated that
the crisis in  Japan  was having little or no effect on their
business.  Manufacturing Activity Gains
Further Momentum  The general business conditions index advanced for a fifth
consecutive month in April, rising four points to 21.7. Thirty-
five percent of respondents reported that conditions had
improved over the month, while just 13 percent--the lowest share
in more than five years--reported that conditions had worsened.
The new orders index climbed 17 points to 22.3, its highest
level in a year. The shipments index surged 27 points to 28.3.
The unfilled orders index held steady at 2.6, and the delivery
time index was unchanged at -1.3. The inventories index fell for
a second consecutive month, dipping below zero for the first
time since December; at -1.3, it indicated that inventory levels
were slightly lower.  Price Increases Continue to Pick Up  Price increases continued to accelerate in April. The
prices paid index moved higher for a fifth month in a row,
increasing four points to 57.7, with 60 percent of respondents
reporting higher prices over the month. The prices received
index advanced 6 points, to 26.9, its highest level since mid-
2008. Employment indexes were positive, indicating that
employment levels and hours worked rose. The index for number of
employees climbed an impressive 14 points to 23.1, and the
average workweek index fell 5 points to 10.3.  Activity Expected to Expand Further in the Months Ahead  Respondents broadly expected conditions to continue
improving over the next six months. The future general business
conditions index was little changed from last month, remaining
at a relatively high level of 47.4. The future new orders index
held steady at 43.6, while the future shipments index dipped a
few points to 37.2. After rising sharply last month, the future
prices paid index fell back to 56.4, still an elevated level.
The future prices received index inched up to 38.5. The index
for expected number of employees climbed nine points to 32.1,
while the future average workweek index fell four points to 6.4.
The capital spending index rose seven points to 29.5, while the
technology spending index moved up 11 points to 18.0. 