-- 
Industrial Production in U.S. Increased 0.8% in March, More Than Estimated

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-15T15:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/u-s-industrial-production-increased-0-8-in-march-fed-says.html
Industrial production  increased
more than forecast in March, led by a rebound in consumer goods
manufacturing, a sign that factories will keep driving the  U.S.
economy .  Output rose 0.8 percent, the fifth straight gain, after a
revised 0.1 percent rise in February, the Federal Reserve said
today in Washington. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected a 0.6 percent gain, according to the median estimate.
Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of the total, climbed
0.7 percent following a 0.6 percent increase. Utility output and
mining also rose.  Factories in the U.S. are benefiting from gains in business
investment, expanding economies overseas and inventory
rebuilding. The pace of production may cool temporarily as some
factories scramble to replace supplies of parts interrupted
after last month’s earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  “The economy is really starting to take shape,” said
Bricklin Dwyer, an economist at BNP Paribas in  New York . While
“we expect a cool down” in the next couple of months because
of events in Japan, that will be “a short-lived phenomenon,”
he said. “We’ve seen global manufacturing increase since the
crisis.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 82 economists ranged
from 0.2 percent to 1 percent. February production was initially
reported as unchanged.  Stocks, Treasuries  Stocks increased after the report, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gaining 0.2 percent to 1,316.82 at 11:12 a.m.
in New York. Treasuries rose, pushing down the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note to 3.41 percent from 3.5 percent late
yesterday.  Other figures today showed manufacturing in the New York
region expanded this month by the most in a year. The  Federal
Reserve  Bank of New York’s so-called Empire State factory index
increased to 21.7 from 17.5 the prior month. Readings greater
than zero signal growth.  The cost of living increased in March for a ninth straight
month, led by increases in food and fuel, a Labor Department
report showed.  The consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent for a second
month. Excluding volatile food and energy, the so-called core
gauge rose 0.1 percent, less than forecast and restrained by
lower clothing expenses and smaller gains in medical care,
according to Labor Department figures.  Capacity Utilization  Capacity utilization, which measures the amount of a plant
that is in use, rose to 77.4 percent last month, the highest
since August 2008, from a revised 76.9 percent in February,
today’s Fed report showed. The gauge compares with the average
of 79.5 percent over the past 20 years.  Mining production, which includes oil drilling, increased
0.6 percent in March after a 0.3 percent gain. Utility output
climbed 1.7 percent last month, the first increase this year.  Output of motor vehicles and parts climbed 3 percent in
March after rising 4.6 percent a month earlier. Manufacturing
excluding automobiles and parts rose 0.6 percent after a 0.3
percent gain.  “Manufacturing activity remains very strong,” Jenny Lin,
senior U.S. economist for  Ford Motor Co. (F) , said on an April 1
conference call. “ Interest rates  remain very low. Consumer
conditions are improving.”  Crude oil for May delivery rose to $108.11 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  Consumer Goods Production  Consumer goods production rose 0.9 percent following no
change in the prior two months. Production of business equipment
climbed 0.4 percent after a 1 percent gain. Output of computers
and electronic products rose 0.5 percent after increasing 1.7
percent.  The economy expanded at a “moderate” pace across much of
the U.S. in February and March, led by manufacturing, with labor
markets showing improvements in most regions, the Fed said this
week in its Beige Book report.  All 12 districts reported a pickup in manufacturing since
the March report, with regional industries expanding including
auto and auto parts, commercial aircraft and fabricated metal
products, the Fed said.  The manufacturing industries that account for 11 percent of
the economy are likely to remain at the forefront of the
recovery as consumers step up spending and businesses replenish
inventories and buy new equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  