-- 
U.S. Treasury Asks Dealers to Comment About Bill Market as Debt Cap Nears

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-15T16:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/u-s-treasury-asks-dealers-to-comment-about-bill-market-as-debt-cap-nears.html
The U.S. Treasury Department today
asked bond dealers to comment on recent developments in short-
term financing conditions, as the looming federal debt limit
hampers the government’s ability to sell more bills.  Normally, when supply tightens, the Treasury might be able
to adjust its short-term debt sales, a Treasury official told
reporters on condition of anonymity. At the moment, the debt
limit -- which the Treasury has said could be reached as soon as
May 16 -- prevents it from expanding bill sales, the official
said.  The request for comment came ahead of the Treasury’s
quarterly dealer meetings, which are set for April 29 ahead of
the May 4 quarterly refunding announcements. The Treasury also
asked dealers for their economic and fiscal forecasts, and for
their assessment of liquidity in the so-called STRIPS market.  The Treasury has not yet had to make adjustments to its
borrowing plans because of the debt limit, the official said.
The Treasury remains confident that Congress will act to raise
the limit.  Bill supply has been shrinking because of the Treasury’s
seasonal decline in short-term debt sales and also because the
department has eliminated $195 billion in short-term debt in a
program that borrowed on behalf of the  Federal Reserve , the
official said.  The short-term financing market also has been affected by
changes to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s assessments on
banks, the official said. The FDIC change has led to lower
 interest rates  in the repurchase agreement and federal funds
markets, which led to increased Treasury-bill purchases and
pushed Treasury bill rates down as well.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  