-- 
Prosecutors Didn’t Want Ex-Galleon President Prepped by Defense

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/u-s-prosecutors-sought-to-prevent-defense-from-preparing-galleon-witness.html
Before asking ex-Galleon Group LLC
U.S. President Richard Schutte about $25 million in investments
he received from Raj Rajaratnam and his family, prosecutors
sought to make sure defense lawyers didn’t prepare Schutte for
the question.  “He is on cross-examination,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
 Reed Brodsky  told the judge in a sidebar conference in
Rajaratnam’s insider-trading trial before the court broke for
lunch on April 14. Defense lawyers “should not have the
opportunity to go talk to his lawyers who are here in the
courtroom and who are working closely with him and prepping for
this.”  When the trial resumed, Brodsky peppered Schutte with
questions about whether Rajaratnam, Galleon’s co-founder, had
invested in Schutte’s fund, SpotTail Capital Advisers LLC,
seeking to show that the key defense witness was biased. Schutte
confirmed that Rajaratnam had made the investments.  The confrontation may lead jurors to disregard much of
Schutte’s previous testimony if they conclude that defense
lawyers were “hiding something” by not earlier explaining
Rajaratnam’s investment in SpotTail, said Anthony Barkow, a
former prosecutor in  Manhattan  who runs a center on criminal law
at  New York University .  “It’s likely that the defense is going to attack the
credibility of the government’s witnesses and maybe even the
prosecutors,” Barkow said in a telephone interview. “But when
you squander your own credibility like this, it’s hard to attack
someone else.”  Cross-Examination  Rajaratnam, 53, has been on trial since March 8 in federal
court in Manhattan in the largest crackdown on hedge-fund
insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born money
manager and co-founder of Galleon is accused of gaining $63.8
million from tips leaked by corporate insiders and hedge-fund
traders.  He denies wrongdoing, saying he based his trades on
research.  Much of Rajaratnam’s defense, which began on April 11, has
centered around the testimony of Schutte, who worked at Galleon
from 2004 until last year and remains a consultant to the hedge
fund. Under friendly questioning by defense lawyers, Schutte
reviewed scores of analyst reports, news accounts and other
documents that the defense says are the basis of Rajaratnam’s
trades in  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
other companies.  Schutte’s testimony ended April 14.  Jury’s Response  On cross-examination of Schutte, Brodsky sought to
undermine his testimony by showing that Rajaratnam didn’t see
the research reports, that they contained contradictory
recommendations, and that Rajaratnam’s trades coincided with his
receipt of what the U.S. says is inside information.  Brodsky concluded his questioning by asking Schutte about
SpotTail, which Schutte formed last year and now manages $35
million. Schutte said Rajaratnam’s family invested $15 million
in SpotTail in January and Rajaratnam put in $10 million in
September.  The evidence about SpotTail may make it appear as if
Schutte’s testimony was “bought,” Stuart Slotnick, a criminal
defense lawyer with Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC in New York,
said in a phone interview. At the same time, he said, “the jury
may say that ‘this is the way the industry works, and I like
him.’ Many of the government’s witnesses were people who pled
guilty to crime.”  ‘Routine and Ordinary’  After court on April 14,  Jim McCarthy , a spokesman for
Rajaratnam, said the defense was “well aware” of Rajaratnam’s
investment in SpotTail, which it deemed “routine and
ordinary.” McCarthy yesterday reiterated that the defense was
“perfectly aware of these routine business arrangements.”  Defense lawyers had urged the judge not to allow jurors to
hear evidence of the investment, according to a transcript of a
“sidebar” conference outside of the jury’s presence.  “We object to this as being both irrelevant and far more
prejudicial than probative and being likely to confuse and
mislead the jury,” defense attorney Michael Starr told U.S.
District Judge Richard Holwell. Another defense lawyer, Terence
Lynam, asked whether the government may “introduce the actual
amounts” of Rajaratnam’s investment.  After Holwell said the evidence of Rajaratnam’s SpotTail
investment showed Schutte’s “potential bias” and allowed it to
come before jurors, prosecutors sought to ensure that the
defense didn’t “talk to Mr. Schutte about it” during the hour-
long lunch break.  No Coaching  “We didn’t talk to people’s lawyers and coach them through
their lawyers on cross-examination,” Brodsky said. “They
shouldn’t either.”  Lawyers are typically barred from talking with their
witnesses during the adversary’s cross-examination.  The transcript doesn’t make clear when prosecutors or the
defense learned of Rajaratnam’s investment in SpotTail. Alison
Preece, a spokeswoman for Schutte’s attorney, Alan Vickery,
didn’t have an immediate comment. Vickery said April 14
prosecutors “had to resort to innuendo to try to blunt the
effect” of Schutte’s testimony.  On April 12, the second day of Schutte’s direct testimony
for Rajaratnam, Starr asked the judge to order prosecutors to
provide a preview of their anticipated cross-examination.  “I don’t think that I should tell the defense so that,
then, they ask all the questions I’m going to ask,” Brodsky
replied, according to a transcript of a sidebar conference that
day. “I think I have some very important questions that go to
the issue of credibility of the witness.”  Confidential Showing  Brodsky offered to make a confidential showing to Holwell
of the facts he had gathered. The judge said the two sides would
discuss it later, which they did on April 14.  Brodsky told Holwell April 14 that prosecutors intend to
present a rebuttal case while not identifying who it will be.  On April 12, prosecutors told the judge they were prepared
to summon Goldman Sachs President  Gary Cohn  to rebut the defense
if Schutte was permitted to tell jurors about comments Cohn made
at a meeting with Rajaratnam on July 31, 2008.  “That’s hearsay” and shouldn’t be allowed as evidence,
Brodsky told the judge, according to a transcript of a sidebar
conference. If the defense witness testified about Cohn’s
comments, Brodsky said, “We are prepared to call Mr. Cohn, and
we would be allowed to do that as part of our rebuttal case.”  Schutte testified that on July 31, 2008, he and Rajaratnam
met with Goldman Sachs executives and discussed the
“potential” that the New York-based investment bank would
“combine with an entity that had a large deposit base,”
including a commercial bank or insurance company.  The defense offered Schutte’s testimony to respond to the
government’s claim that  Rajat Gupta , then a Goldman Sachs board
member, tipped Rajaratnam two days before that meeting that the
bank was considering buying  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  or
Wachovia Corp. Through Schutte’s testimony, the defense may have
been trying to show that the alleged tip from Gupta didn’t
involve confidential information.  In the end, Schutte didn’t testify about Cohn’s comments at
the July 2008 meeting. Under cross-examination by Brodsky,
Schutte said he didn’t ask Cohn at the meeting whether Goldman
Sachs was planning to buy a bank imminently and that Cohn didn’t
address the issue.  Lucas van Praag, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, also declined to comment.  Summations in the case may begin next week. Now testifying
as an expert witness for the defense is Gregg Jarrell, the top
economist for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from
1984 to 1987.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  