-- 
U.S. Said to Announce Strategy for Online Security, Commerce

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-04-15T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/u-s-said-to-announce-strategy-for-online-security-commerce.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration will unveil a plan today for helping Americans
protect themselves from identity theft and online fraud, a move
aimed at boosting Internet commerce, an official familiar with
the strategy said.  The goal of the National Strategy for Trusted Identities in
Cyberspace is to encourage companies to develop a variety of
security methods such as smart cards, thumb drives or smartphone
applications, said the official who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the announcement had yet to be made.  Consumers can choose to establish their identities using
one of these tools, allowing them to shop, conduct bank
transactions, and pay utility and credit card bills online
without having to create separate identities and passwords for
each website, the official said. The trusted identities program
will be voluntary for consumers and companies.  The push for improving security of online identities has
the support of companies including  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , PayPal Inc.,  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , and  AT&T Inc. (T)   In 2010, companies lost about $37 billion to online fraud
or theft, and 8.1 million U.S. adults had their identities
stolen, according to a February report prepared by Javelin
Strategy & Research, a Pleasanton, California-based research
group.  Small businesses may be able to conduct more business
online because they will be free from having to protect their
customers’ identities on their own, the official said.  The strategy will be unveiled at an event in Washington by
Commerce Secretary Gary Locke and the White House cybersecurity
coordinator Howard Schmidt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  