-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance as Manufacturing, Confidence Beat Estimates

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-15T20:34:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-before-inflation-report-google-retreats.html
U.S. stocks rose, trimming a second
straight weekly drop for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as
higher-than-estimated data on consumer confidence and
manufacturing bolstered optimism about the economy.  Merck & Co. and DuPont Co. led gains in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , rising more than 1.4 percent.  Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCHW) , the largest independent brokerage by client assets,
rallied 2.1 percent as earnings and sales exceeded analysts’
estimates.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  tumbled 8.3 percent, the most since 2008,
after earnings trailed projections following a jump in costs.
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  fell 2.4 percent as executives said
profitability from lending may come under pressure.  The  S&P 500  rose 0.4 percent to 1,319.68 at 4 p.m. in New
York, trimming its weekly loss to 0.6 percent. The Dow average
climbed 56.68 points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,341.83.  “The economy continues to expand and the recovery is
sustaining,” said  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based head
of investment strategy for scientific active equities at
BlackRock Inc., which oversees $3.56 trillion as the world’s
largest asset manager. “It’s not going to be a bad earnings
season. It’s just that a lot of the good news is already baked
in. It’s going to be a choppy market with an upward bias.”  Gauges of utilities and health-care companies led the gains
among 10 S&P 500 industries, climbing at least 0.9 percent. The
index had lost 1 percent this week through yesterday as sales at
 Alcoa Inc. (AA)  missed estimates and the  International Monetary Fund 
cut its growth forecast for the world’s largest economy. The
gauge has risen 4.9 percent in 2011 amid government stimulus
measures and higher-than-estimated corporate profits.  Consumer Confidence  Stocks turned higher after the Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment rose to
69.6, higher than forecast, from March’s 67.5 reading that was
the lowest since November 2009. The gauge was projected to rise
to 68.8, according to the median forecast of 66 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in April at
the fastest rate in a year. The Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s general economic index rose to 21.7 from 17.5 in March.
Economists projected 17, based on the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. A separate report showed industrial
production increased more than forecast in March, led by a
rebound in consumer goods manufacturing. Output rose 0.8
percent, the fifth straight gain, the  Federal Reserve  said.  Fed Speech  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans 
said low inflation and high unemployment both call for continued
easy U.S. monetary policy, and there’s little evidence of
emerging asset bubbles. The consumer-price index rose 0.5
percent last month, in line with the economist forecasts.  “At present, we’re underrunning both our inflation
objective and our employment objective,” Evans said in a speech
in New York. “Both call for monetary policy accommodation.”  Merck gained 1.9 percent to $34.51. The second-biggest U.S.
drugmaker will split sales for the arthritis drug Remicade with
Johnson & Johnson, ending an arbitration dispute that helped
drive Merck shares down over the past year.  Charles Schwab  advanced 2.1 percent to $18.61. The
brokerage beat estimates, helped by interest revenue and higher
fees for managing assets.  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  climbed 4.1 percent to $26.80. The maker of
Barbie dolls posted first-quarter earnings excluding some items
that exceeded analysts’ average estimate by 6.4 percent,
Bloomberg data show.  Google, BofA  Google slumped 8.3 percent to $530.70. A first-quarter
hiring binge and increased marketing led to the biggest jump in
operating expenses in three years at the operator of the world’s
biggest Interest search engine.  Bank of America fell 2.4 percent to $12.82. The largest
U.S. lender by assets reported first-quarter profit excluding
some items of 17 cents a share, missing the average analyst
estimate by 35 percent.  Higher oil prices and supply disruptions from Japan’s March
11 earthquake prompted  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s  Thomas Lee  to cut
his 2011 profit estimate for the S&P 500. Lee, the chief U.S.
equity strategist, reduced his projection to $96.50 a share from
$97.50, according to a report sent to clients yesterday. That
compares with the average strategist estimate of $94.34 in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The market is unforgiving,” said  Alan Gayle , senior
investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in
Richmond, Virginia, which oversees $45 billion. “Investors have
raised their expectations on what constitutes good corporate
performance. Yes, the economy is growing. The question is --what
is going to convince the market to break into new highs? So far
earnings have not been too inspiring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 