-- 
U.S. Senate Republicans Weigh Tying Spending Caps to Debt Ceiling Rise

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-04-15T17:45:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/u-s-senate-republicans-weigh-tying-spending-caps-to-debt-rise.html
Senate Republicans are considering
trying to attach a bill that would cap federal spending at 20.6
percent of gross domestic product within a decade to a measure
raising the nation’s legal borrowing limit, according to two
party congressional officials.  Republicans are looking seriously at the proposal -- a 10-
page bill known on  Capitol Hill  as the “CAP Act” that aims to
shave $7.6 trillion from federal spending over 10 years -- as a
way of pressing President  Barack Obama  and Democrats to accept
some debt-reduction measure as part of the debt-limit vote, the
officials said. They spoke on condition of anonymity because
they weren’t authorized to publicly disclose private
discussions.  A vote to raise the statutory limit on the national debt is
a must-do item in the coming months, with the Treasury
Department projecting the government could bump up against the
$14.3 trillion ceiling as soon as mid-May and run out of options
for avoiding default by early July.  While the White House says the vote should be “clean” --
free of other legislative provisions -- Obama acknowledged today
that the boost won’t get the needed support unless the two
parties reach a deal to trim the federal budget.  “It’s not going to happen without some spending cuts,”
the president said in an interview with the  Associated Press  in
 Chicago .  ‘Let’s Not Link Them’  Obama’s budget chief  Jacob Lew  said today that while a
deficit-reduction measure could run on a “parallel track” in
Congress with the debt-limit increase, it shouldn’t be a
precondition.  “Let’s not link them,” Lew said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend. “We have multiple things that are urgent.
We need to pass the debt limit.”  Many Republicans, Democratic Senator  Joe Manchin  of  West
Virginia  and independent Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of
 Connecticut  have said that they won’t consider an increase in
the debt ceiling unless Congress first acts to trim the annual
 budget deficit , estimated to top $1.6 trillion this year, and
begins to lower long-term debt.  Something About Debt  “Obviously, we’re going to require, as a condition for
raising the debt ceiling, something really important about the
debt,” Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said April 13. He said he believes that Congress
must do “something that the markets would view as significant,
something the American people would view as significant,
something foreign countries would view as significant.”  McConnell has been holding meetings for months to forge a
consensus among Republicans about the debt issue. All 47
Republican senators have signed onto the idea of adding a
balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution, though it has
little chance, given the requirement of a two-thirds majority
vote in both the Senate and the House and ratification by three-
fourths of the states.  For all the debate about the deficit in Washington, bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even though Treasury
Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is below the
average of 6.92 percent since 1980 and compares with the average
of 5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Fiscal Straitjacket  Ten-year yields fell 3 basis points, or .03 percentage
point, to 3.47 percent as of 9:55 a.m. in  London , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The legislation under discussion would set annual federal
spending caps and institute automatic across-the-board cuts if
Congress failed to stay within them. A two-thirds vote by the
House and the Senate would be required to override the caps.  “In essence, it’s a fiscal straitjacket, and I think the
American people have seen the tremendous lack of discipline that
we have here,” Senator  Bob Corker , the Tennessee Republican who
is co-sponsoring the measure, said at a news conference in
 Washington  yesterday.  Senator Claire McCaskill of  Missouri , the measure’s
Democratic co-sponsor and the only member of her party so far
backing the plan, said while she isn’t insisting on it as a
condition of raising the debt ceiling, “doing nothing is not an
option.”  ‘Playing Political Games’  “There are risks -- serious and substantial risks -- for
playing political games with the debt ceiling as it relates to
our economy and the world economy,” said McCaskill, who was one
of Obama’s first supporters in his 2008 presidential bid and who
is up for re-election next year. “This is about drawing the two
sides to the middle.”  The White House is resisting the plan. Lew called it “very
dangerous,” saying the measure doesn’t address the need to
raise additional revenue or account for the projected growth of
entitlement programs such as Medicare and Social Security.  “It’s, in effect, pretending you can repeal the retirement
of the  Baby Boomers  -- you can’t,” he said.  Lieberman, who endorsed the measure yesterday, said his
hopes for it were bolstered during a recent lunch among moderate
Democrats in which he said “everybody in the room said they
were not prepared to vote for a so-called clean debt-ceiling
extension.”  ‘Some Kind of Confidence’  “They wanted something to happen that would give them and
their constituents some kind of confidence that while we were
increasing the debt ceiling, we were actually doing something to
lower the debt,” said Lieberman, who caucuses with the
Democrats.  Corker said another Democrat, whom he wouldn’t name, is
planning to publicly endorse the plan in the coming days while
home for Congress’ two-week recess.  The bill also has at least some measure of bipartisan
backing in the House, where Corker said Democratic
Representative Jim Cooper and Republican Representative John J. Duncan Jr., both of  Tennessee , are supporting it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  