-- 
U.S. Unveils Plan to Shield $10 Trillion Online Marketplace

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-04-15T20:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/u-s-unveils-plan-to-shield-10-trillion-online-market-by-2021.html
The U.S. government plans to spend
$56.3 million on technology aimed at safeguarding the online
marketplace and those who operate in it, including consumers,
businesses and government agencies.  “The fact is that the old password and username
combination we often use to verify people is no longer good
enough,” and leaves  Internet users  “vulnerable to ID and  data
theft ,” Commerce Secretary Gary Locke said at a conference
today in Washington. “Nowadays, the world does an estimated $10
trillion of business online.”  The plan, called the National Strategy for Trusted
Identities in Cyberspace, “charts a course for the public and
private sectors to collaborate to raise the level of trust”
connected to online identities, according to the plan.  The administration will play a supporting role and let the
private sector take the lead in developing and operating the
network, Locke said.  A $24.5 million Commerce Department allocation in fiscal
2012 goes toward the development of a network of credentials
that would allow consumers to prove their identities while
conducting online transactions.  The network, called the “Identity Ecosystem” would let
consumers use devices such as “software on a smartphone, a
smart card, or a token that generates a one-time digital
password,” according to a White House statement.  The effort will include pilot programs to help facilitate
the development of security devices.  ‘Biggest Buyer’  The pilot projects are important to companies because the
government is showing a willingness “to come to the market as a
buyer,” said Mike Ozburn, a principal at  Booz Allen Hamilton
Holding Corp. (BAH)  who has been involved in the plans.  “What each company knows is that they on their own are not
big enough” to start this system, Ozburn said. The government
will create the marketplace with the pilot programs, to which it
has designated $25 million next year, and then will be the first
big buyer of the technology, he said.  “The biggest buyer now said that they’re ready,” he said
in a telephone interview.  Some secure identification mechanisms will be ready for
consumer use in the next three to five years, with the full
system available to “those who choose to adopt it” in 10
years, according to the plan.  “The government will neither mandate that individuals
obtain an Identity Ecosystem credential nor that companies
require Identity Ecosystem credentials from consumers,”
according to the plan.  In 2010, companies lost about $37 billion to online fraud
or theft, and 8.1 million U.S. adults had their identities
stolen, according to a February report prepared by Javelin
Strategy & Research, a Pleasanton, California-based research
group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in  Washington  at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  