-- 
U.S. March Consumer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-04-15T12:31:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/u-s-march-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
March consumer prices from the Labor Department.  Consumer Price Index - March 2011  The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) increased
0.5 percent in March on a seasonally adjusted basis, the  U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics  reported today. Over the last 12 months, the all
items index increased 2.7 percent before seasonal adjustment.  Gasoline and food prices continued to rise and together accounted for
almost three quarters of the seasonally adjusted all items increase
in March. The gasoline index posted its ninth consecutive increase
and has now risen 14.4 percent over the last three months. The
household energy index rose as well, with advances in the fuel oil
and electricity indexes more than offsetting a decline in the index
for natural gas. The food at home index continued to accelerate in
March, rising 1.1 percent as all six major grocery store food groups
increased.  The index for all items less food and energy rose 0.1 percent in
March, a smaller increase than in the previous two months. The index
for shelter rose slightly, as did the index for medical care. Several
transportation indexes posted significant increases, including new
vehicles, used cars and trucks, and airline fares. In contrast, the
indexes for apparel and for household furnishings and operations both
declined in March.  The all items index rose 2.7 percent in the last 12 months, the
largest increase since December 2009. The energy index has now risen
15.5 percent over the last 12 months, with the gasoline index up 27.5
percent. The food index has risen 2.9 percent with the food at home
index up 3.6 percent. The index for all items less food and energy
has increased 1.2 percent with the shelter index up 0.9 percent.  Food  The food index rose 0.8 percent in March after rising 0.6 percent in
February. The food at home index increased 1.1 percent in March and
has risen 2.7 percent over the past three months. All six major
grocery store food groups increased in March, with increases ranging
from 0.5 percent for cereals and bakery products to 1.9 percent for
fruits and vegetables. Within the fruits and vegetables component,
the fresh vegetables index rose 4.7 percent in March after a 6.7
percent increase in February, as indexes for potatoes, lettuce, and
tomatoes all posted significant increases. The index for dairy and
related products increased 1.3 percent, while the index for meats,
poultry, fish, and eggs rose 1.1 percent. The index for nonalcoholic
beverages increased 0.8 percent as the coffee index climbed 3.5
percent. Over the past 12 months, the index for food at home has
risen 3.6 percent with the index for meats, poultry, fish and eggs up
7.9 percent. The index for food away from home increased 0.3 percent
in March, its largest increase since September, and has risen 1.9
percent over the past 12 months.  Energy  The energy index rose 3.5 percent in March after increasing 3.4
percent in February. It has increased for nine months in a row,
rising 23.7 percent since June 2010. The gasoline index rose 5.6
percent in March after a 4.7 percent increase in February. (Before
seasonal adjustment, gasoline prices rose 11.7 percent in March.) The
index for household energy advanced 0.6 percent in March after a 1.3
percent increase in February. The fuel oil index rose 6.2 percent and
has increased 37.2 percent in the last six months. The index for
electricity increased 0.7 percent in March, while the index for
natural gas declined 1.4 percent. The household energy index has
risen 1.2 percent over the last 12 months, with the fuel oil index up
34.0 percent and the electricity index up 1.0 percent but the index
for natural gas down 5.5 percent.  All items less food and energy  The index for all items less food and energy rose 0.1 percent in
March after increasing 0.2 percent in each of the previous two
months. The shelter index increased 0.1 percent for the sixth month
in a row, with rent and owners' equivalent rent both increasing 0.1
percent in March, as they did in February.  Several transportation
indexes increased in March; the new vehicles index rose 0.7 percent
after a 1.0 percent increase in February, and the index for used cars
and trucks rose 0.8 percent. The airline fares index also continued
to rise, increasing 1.9 percent. The medical care index increased 0.2
percent in March after a 0.4 percent increase in February, with the
medical care commodities index rising 0.5 percent and the index for
medical care services advancing 0.1 percent. The recreation index was
unchanged in March after a 0.3 percent increase in February, while
several indexes posted declines in March. The apparel index fell 0.5
percent after a 0.9 percent decrease in February. The index for
household furnishings and operations turned down in March, falling
0.1 percent after rising by that amount in February. Similarly, the
index for personal care fell 0.2 percent in March after rising in
each of the previous two months.  The index for all items less food and energy increased 1.2 percent
over the last 12 months. This change is above the low of 0.6 percent
in October, but is still below the 1.9 percent average over the last
10 years. The indexes for shelter, new vehicles, used cars and
trucks, airline fares, and medical care are among those that have
increased over the past year; the indexes for apparel, household
furnishings and operations, and recreation have declined.  Not seasonally adjusted CPI measures  The  Consumer Price Index  for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) increased
2.7 percent over the last 12 months to an index level of 223.467
(1982-84=100). For the month, the index increased 1.0 percent prior
to seasonal adjustment.  The Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers
(CPI-W) increased 3.0 percent over the last 12 months to an index
level of 220.024 (1982-84=100). For the month, the index rose 1.1
percent prior to seasonal adjustment.  The Chained Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (C-CPI-U)
increased 2.5 percent over the last 12 months. For the month, the
index increased 0.9 percent on a not seasonally adjusted basis.
Please note that the indexes for the post-2009 period are subject to
revision.  The Consumer Price Index for April 2011 is scheduled to be released
on Friday, May 13, 2011, at 8:30 a.m. (EDT).  Corrections to CPI data for January and February 2011  Incorrect prices were used in the calculation of the intracity
transportation index, affecting the data for January and February
2011. The January and February news releases have been reissued with
corrected data. The corrections affect indexes in Table 7 of the
release and are noted in the footnotes of that table in this release.  Facilities for Sensory Impaired  Information from this release will be made available to sensory
impaired individuals upon request.  Voice phone:  202-691-5200,
Federal Relay Services:  1-800-877-8339.  Brief Explanation of the CPI  The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is a measure of the average change in
prices over time of goods and services purchased by households.  The
Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes CPIs for two population groups:
(1) the CPI for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W),
which covers households of wage earners and clerical workers that
comprise approximately 32 percent of the total population and (2) the
CPI for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) and the Chained CPI for All Urban
Consumers (C-CPI-U), which cover approximately 87 percent of the
total population and include in addition to wage earners and clerical
worker households, groups such as professional, managerial, and
technical workers, the self-employed, short-term workers, the
unemployed, and retirees and others not in the labor force.  The CPIs are based on prices of food, clothing, shelter, and fuels,
transportation fares, charges for doctors' and dentists' services,
drugs, and other goods and services that people buy for day-to-day
living.  Prices are collected each month in 87 urban areas across the
country from about 4,000 housing units and approximately 26,000
retail establishments-department stores, supermarkets, hospitals,
filling stations, and other types of stores and service
establishments.  All taxes directly associated with the purchase and
use of items are included in the index.  Prices of fuels and a few
other items are obtained every month in all 87 locations.  Prices of
most other commodities and services are collected every month in the
three largest geographic areas and every other month in other areas.
Prices of most goods and services are obtained by personal visits or
telephone calls of the Bureau's trained representatives.  In calculating the index, price changes for the various items in each
location are averaged together with weights, which represent their
importance in the spending of the appropriate population group.
Local data are then combined to obtain a U.S. city average.  For the
CPI-U and CPI-W separate indexes are also published by size of city,
by region of the country, for cross-classifications of regions and
population-size classes, and for 27 local areas.  Area indexes do not
measure differences in the level of prices among cities; they only
measure the average change in prices for each area since the base
period.  For the C-CPI-U data are issued only at the national level.
It is important to note that the CPI-U and CPI-W are considered final
when released, but the C-CPI-U is issued in preliminary form and
subject to two annual revisions.  The index measures price change from a designed reference date.  For
the CPI-U and the CPI-W the reference base is 1982-84 equals 100.
The reference base for the C-CPI-U is December 1999 equals 100.  An
increase of 16.5 percent from the reference base, for example, is
shown as 116.500.  This change can also be expressed in dollars as
follows:  the price of a base period market basket of goods and
services in the CPI has risen from $10 in 1982-84 to $11.65.  For further details visit the CPI home page on the Internet at
 http://www.bls.gov/cpi/  or contact our CPI Information and Analysis
Section on (202) 691-7000.  Note on Sampling Error in the Consumer Price Index  The CPI is a statistical estimate that is subject to sampling error
because it is based upon a sample of retail prices and not the
complete universe of all prices.  BLS calculates and publishes
estimates of the 1-month, 2-month, 6-month and 12-month percent
change standard errors annually, for the CPI-U.  These standard error
estimates can be used to construct confidence intervals for
hypothesis testing.  For example, the estimated standard error of the
1 month percent change is 0.03 percent for the U.S. All Items
Consumer Price Index.  This means that if we repeatedly sample from
the universe of all retail prices using the same methodology, and
estimate a percentage change for each sample, then 95% of these
estimates would be within 0.06 percent of the 1 month percentage
change based on all retail prices.  For example, for a 1-month change
of 0.2 percent in the All Items CPI for All Urban Consumers, we are
95 percent confident that the actual percent change based on all
retail prices would fall between 0.14 and 0.26 percent.  For the
latest data, including information on how to use the estimates of
standard error, see "Variance Estimates for Price Changes in the
Consumer Price Index, January-December 2010".  These data are
available on the CPI home page ( http://www.bls.gov/cpi ), or by using
the following link  http://www.bls.gov/cpi/cpivar2010.pdf   Calculating Index Changes  Movements of the indexes from one month to another are usually
expressed as percent changes rather than changes in index points,
because index point changes are affected by the level of the index in
relation to its base period while percent changes are not.  The
example below illustrates the computation of index point and percent
changes.  Percent changes for 3-month and 6-month periods are expressed as
annual rates and are computed according to the standard formula for
compound growth rates.  These data indicate what the percent change
would be if the current rate were maintained for a 12-month period.  Regions Defined  The states in the four regions shown in Tables 3 and 6 are listed
below.  The Northeast-- Connecticut , Maine,  Massachusetts , New Hampshire,  New
York ,  New Jersey ,  Pennsylvania , Rhode Island, and  Vermont .
The Midwest-- Illinois , Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,  Michigan , Minnesota,
Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota,  Ohio ,  South Dakota , and Wisconsin.
The South--Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware,  Florida , Georgia, Kentucky,
Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South
Carolina, Tennessee,  Texas ,  Virginia , West Virginia, and the  District
of Columbia .
The West--Alaska, Arizona,  California , Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho,
Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.  A Note on Seasonally Adjusted and Unadjusted Data  Because price data are used for different purposes by different
groups, the Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes seasonally adjusted
as well as unadjusted changes each month.  For analyzing general price trends in the economy, seasonally
adjusted changes are usually preferred since they eliminate the
effect of changes that normally occur at the same time and in about
the same magnitude every year--such as price movements resulting from
changing climatic conditions, production cycles, model changeovers,
holidays, and sales.  The unadjusted data are of primary interest to consumers concerned
about the prices they actually pay.  Unadjusted data also are used
extensively for escalation purposes.  Many collective bargaining
contract agreements and pension plans, for example, tie compensation
changes to the Consumer Price Index before adjustment for seasonal
variation.  Seasonal factors used in computing the seasonally adjusted indexes
are derived by the X-12-ARIMA Seasonal Adjustment Method.  Seasonally
adjusted indexes and seasonal factors are computed annually.  Each
year, the last 5 years of seasonally adjusted data are revised.  Data
from January 2006 through December 2010 were replaced in January
2011.  Exceptions to the usual revision schedule were: the updated
seasonal data at the end of 1977 replaced data from 1967 through
1977; and, in January 2002, dependently seasonally adjusted series
were revised for January 1987-December 2001 as a result of a change
in the aggregation weights for dependently adjusted series. For
further information, please see "Aggregation of Dependently Adjusted
Seasonally Adjusted Series," in the October 2001 issue of the CPI
Detailed Report.  Effective with the publication of data from January 2006 through
December 2010 in January 2011, the Video and audio series and the
 Information technology , hardware and services series were changed
from independently adjusted to dependently adjusted.  This resulted
in an increase in the number of seasonal components used in deriving
seasonal movement of the All items and 54 other lower level
aggregations, from 73 for the publication of January 1998 through
December 2005 data to 82 for the publication of seasonally adjusted
data for January 2006 and later.  Each year the seasonal status of
every series is reevaluated based upon certain statistical criteria.
If any of the 82 components change their seasonal adjustment status
from seasonally adjusted to not seasonally adjusted, not seasonally
adjusted data will be used in the aggregation of the dependent series
for the last 5 years, but the seasonally adjusted indexes before that
period will not be changed.  Note: 37 of the 82 components are not
seasonally adjusted for 2011.  Seasonally adjusted data, including the all items index levels, are
subject to revision for up to five years after their original
release.  For this reason, BLS advises against the use of these data
in escalation agreements.  Effective with the calculation of the seasonal factors for 1990, the
Bureau of Labor Statistics has used an enhanced seasonal adjustment
procedure called Intervention Analysis Seasonal Adjustment for some
CPI series.  Intervention Analysis Seasonal Adjustment allows for
better estimates of seasonally adjusted data.  Extreme values and/or
sharp movements which might distort the seasonal pattern are
estimated and removed from the data prior to calculation of seasonal
factors.  Beginning with the calculation of seasonal factors for
1996, X-12-ARIMA software was used for Intervention Analysis Seasonal
Adjustment.  For the seasonal factors introduced in January 2011, BLS adjusted 29
series using Intervention Analysis Seasonal Adjustment, including
selected food and beverage items, motor fuels, electricity and
vehicles.  For example, this procedure was used for the Motor fuel
series to offset the effects of events such as damage to oil
refineries from Hurricane Katrina.  For a complete list of Intervention Analysis Seasonal Adjustment
series and explanations, please refer to the article "Intervention
Analysis Seasonal Adjustment", located on our website at
 http://www.bls.gov/cpi/cpisapage.htm .  For additional information on seasonal adjustment in the CPI, please
write to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Division of Consumer Prices
and Price Indexes,  Washington , DC 20212 or contact David Levin at
(202) 691-6968, or by e-mail at  Levin.David@bls.gov .  If you have
general questions about the CPI, please call our information staff at
(202) 691-7000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington   tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  