-- 
Lukoil to Buy 25% of Bashneft Arctic Fields for $167 Million

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 
2011-04-15T14:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/lukoil-to-buy-25-of-bashneft-arctic-fields-for-167-million-1-.html
OAO Lukoil agreed to buy 25.1
percent of OAO Bashneft’s Trebs and Titov development, gaining
access to the Arctic resources after failing to win the fields
at auction last year.  Lukoil,  Russia ’s largest non-state oil producer, will pay
4.7 billion rubles ($167 million) for the stake and book its
share of reserves, Chief Executive Officer Vagit Alekperov, said
at a signing ceremony in Moscow today.  Bashneft, the Russian oil producer controlled by
billionaire  Vladimir Yevtushenkov ’s AFK Sistema, gained the
rights to the Arctic fields late last year for 18.5 billion
rubles in a tender from which all other companies, including
Lukoil, were disqualified. The deposits in the Timan Pechora
region near the Barents Sea coast may hold 1 billion barrels of
commercially recoverable oil, according to Bashneft.  “It is very profitable for Bashneft in that the use of
Lukoil infrastructure speeds up the pace for production,”
Alexander Korsik, head of Bashneft said.  Lukoil owns a pipeline passing near the deposits on the way
to the Varandei export terminal, which loads oil tankers bound
for western  Europe  and the U.S. The terminal and pipeline can
handle additional oil.  Developing Trebs and Titov will require $6 billion of
investment, Alekperov said. The field may start production at
the end of 2013 or start of 2014, he said.  Lukoil and Bashneft will be able to meet requirements under
the terms of the Trebs and Titov tender for domestic refining
through swaps, Korsik said.  “I am absolutely sure that this is not our last project
together,” Yevtushenkov said at the ceremony, without
elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 