-- 
Tunisian Financial Needs ‘In the Billions,’ Nabli Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-15T17:42:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/tunisian-financial-needs-in-the-billions-nabli-says-1-.html
Tunisia  has financial needs “in
the billions” for this year and next, said the country’s
central bank governor, Mustapha Kamel Nabli.  Nabli, speaking to reporters in  Washington  today, said
Tunisia is not in talks with the  International Monetary Fund  for
financing now. He said international financial institutions are
bringing “significant” support, citing the World Bank and the
African Development Bank.  “After this year as we move into a more stable political
situation, we expect our economy will get growth and exceed what
has been achieved before,” Nabli said. While Tunisia explores
funding from financial markets as well as from bilateral
contributors, “we need to see a better mix in terms of grants
and lending because this is a very costly transition,” he said.  Finance ministers from countries including  France  and the
U.S. met yesterday with international financial institutions in
Washington to see how they can work together on assisting Middle
Eastern and North African countries, “notably Egypt and
Tunisia, in their transitions toward more inclusive growth,”
the  U.S. Treasury  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Hardship, Corruption  The Arab world and North Africa have been shaken by anti-
government demonstrations in which protesters have complained
about economic hardship and corruption. Tunisian President Zine
el Abidine Ben Ali left office on Jan. 14, followed by Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak , in command for three decades, on Feb.
11.  The IMF estimates that financing needs from oil importers
in the region will reach $100 billion over the next two years,
Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn told a panel in
Washington today.  “Who’s going to provide the money?” he said. “Hopefully,
banks, markets, households in different countries.”  “But there will be a gap,” Strauss-Kahn said.  IMF had technical teams visit Egypt and Tunisia to assess
the economic prospects in recent weeks and Strauss-Kahn said
earlier this week the institution stands ready to help if
needed.  The  World Bank  is working with Tunisia on a $500 million
budget support, coming with measures including improvement in
access to information and transparency in public procurement,
President Robert Zoellick said earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  