-- 
Uranium Energy Says Quake Reaction Means World Shortfall

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-04-15T21:25:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/uranium-energy-says-quake-reaction-means-world-shortfall-1-.html
Uranium Energy Corp. (UEC) , a U.S. miner
and processor of the nuclear fuel, said global supplies will
fall short as exploration investment is curtailed following the
Japanese nuclear crisis.  The  Global X Uranium ETF (URA) , which tracks uranium-mining
companies, has fallen 21 percent since March 10, the day before
 Japan ’s strongest earthquake on record and a tsunami triggered
explosions and radiation leaks at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant. Australian uranium miner Mantra Resources Ltd. last month
agreed to a 12 percent cut in the takeover offer from Russia’s
state-owned Rosatom Corp. because of the crisis.  Annual uranium use exceeds production by 50 million pounds
following the damage done to Fukushima, said Amir Adnani, chief
executive officer of Corpus Cristi, Texas-based Uranium Energy.  “Because of Fukushima, because of the response, the knee-
jerk reaction, the expansion is not going to happen at an
adequate pace to fill the current deficit and meet growing
demand,” Adnani said in a April 13 phone interview from  London .  Uranium Energy rose 6 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $4.09 as of
4:15 p.m. in American Stock Exchange trading. The shares have
slumped 13 percent since the earthquake.  Still, Adnani said he doesn’t anticipate a negative impact
on Uranium Energy because its Palangana mine in  Texas  started
production in late November.  “Everything we had to do to start production was completed
before Fukushima and what seems now to be a tougher
environment,” he said.  The price of U3O8, the trade form of uranium, declined 14
percent since the earthquake to $57.50 a pound, according to
data from MF Global Holdings Ltd.  Nuclear power provides for about 20 percent of U.S.
electricity, according to the  U.S. Energy Information
Administration .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 