-- 
Venezuela Raises Some Food Costs 48% as Chavez Struggles to Slow Inflation

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-04-15T19:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/venezuela-raises-some-food-costs-48-amid-inflation-surge-1-.html
Venezuela  raised government-set
price caps on some food products by as much as 48 percent even
as President  Hugo Chavez ’s government struggles to contain one
of the highest inflation rates in the world.  The government raised the price on cans of powdered milk 48
percent to 23.7 bolivars ($5.50) and on corn oil by 36 percent,
according to a resolution published today in the Official
Gazette. The costs of sunflower oil and mixed vegetable oil were
also raised.  Venezuela, a net importer of food, avoided raising prices
caps following a devaluation of the bolivar earlier in the year
in a bid to stave off an inflationary spike. Food is the
principal driver of inflation in Venezuela, according to the
central bank, and consumer prices may climb more than 4 percent
in April with today’s decision, said  Boris Segura , a Latin
America economist at Nomura Securities International.  “That’s the problem with price controls - they are
unsustainable,” Segura said in a phone interview from  New York .
“The trigger is a devaluation but the reality is that Venezuela
has severe inflationary inertia.”  Consumer prices in Venezuela rose 27.4 percent in March
from a year earlier, the most among 78 economies tracked by
Bloomberg. Prices rose by 5.2 percent, the most in seven years,
in April 2010 from a month earlier after the government raised
price caps on dairy products and cheese.  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  forecast inflation in
Venezuela will accelerate 29.8 percent to 31.3 percent in 2011,
according to its  World Economic Outlook report  released this
month.  Chavez devalued the bolivar for the second time in less
than a year in January by weakening the  exchange rate  on so-
called essential goods such as food and medicine by 40 percent
to 4.3 bolivars per dollar and unifying the two fixed foreign-
exchange rates.  The government, which controls the price of more than 100
basic food goods, raised price caps on bread and pasta last
month by as much as 33 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  