-- 
VimpelCom Completes Wind Merger and Plans Spinoffs of Units

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-04-15T18:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/vimpelcom-completes-wind-merger-and-names-bichara-president.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , Russia’s third-
largest wireless carrier by subscribers, completed its merger
with Wind Telecom SpA to create the world’s sixth-largest phone
company by subscriber numbers.  Operations in  Egypt  and  North Korea  will be spun off to
shareholders in Wind’s  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  unit, North
Africa’s biggest mobile network operator, while the company will
work to keep Orascom Telecom’s Djezzy unit in Algeria,
Amsterdam-based VimpelCom said today in a statement. Wind Chief
Executive Officer Khaled Bichara will become president and
coordinate actions aimed at cost savings of $2.5 billion.  “If we show a semblance of success, which I’m sure we
will, that will probably motivate other companies to follow in
our path” of creating bigger phone operators, VimpelCom CEO
Alexander Izosimov said today in a telephone interview.  VimpelCom announced its plan to buy assets from Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  on Oct. 4. The deal, valued at about
$6.5 billion at the time, doubles VimpelCom’s mobile-customer
base to about 181 million in 20 countries, adding subscribers in
 Italy ,  Pakistan , Bangladesh and Zimbabwe, as well as a
shareholding in Globalive Wireless  Canada .  The company issued new stock representing 20 percent of
outstanding shares and 31 percent of the  voting rights  to
investors in Wind, in addition to $1.5 billion in cash.
VimpelCom now owns 51.7 percent of Sawiris’s Orascom Telecom and
all of the Italian division, Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA. Orascom
Telecom shareholders approved the merger yesterday.  Telenor Arbitration  An arbitration proceeding that began earlier this year with
VimpelCom shareholder  Telenor ASA (TEL) , which objected to the deal,
is continuing, the company said. Telenor, which held more than
39 percent of VimpelCom under a shareholder agreement that
formed the company, would own 25 percent of the combined phone
operator, according to the  plan  published in January.  “At the moment, we don’t have any changes in the
shareholder agreement,” Izosimov said. Any board changes, which
are “entirely in the hands of” the nominating committee, would
be proposed for the next shareholder meeting in June, he said.  Dag Melgaard, a spokesman at Telenor, declined to comment.  VimpelCom targets cost savings in equipment procurement,
financial operations and agreements that enable customers to use
other operators’ services during travel, as well as in
relationships with global Internet companies, Isozimov said.  Algerian Dispute  Algeria ’s government has sought control of Djezzy, Orascom
Telecom’s biggest revenue contributor, and asked the unit to pay
backdated taxes. VimpelCom, which is contesting the tax bill, is
asking the government to let it keep Djezzy.  “We signaled our interest to the Algerian government a
long time ago so they know exactly where we stand, but we
couldn’t formally approach them because we hadn’t closed the
transaction,” Izosimov said. “Next week we’ll initiate the
process.”  The company said today that it has a backup plan under
which Weather II, a holding company controlled by Sawiris, would
pay VimpelCom “the lion’s share of the shortfall” should it
have to sell the division for less than a pre-agreed price.  VimpelCom was formed after Fornebu, Norway-based Telenor,
the biggest Nordic phone company, and  Russia ’s  Alfa Group  agreed
in October 2009 to merge their stakes in Russia’s OAO VimpelCom
and Ukraine’s ZAT Kyivstar. The company, which also has assets
in Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Georgia and sub-Saharan Africa,
established trading in American depositary receipts and a
headquarters in Amsterdam.  Altimo Agreement  Altimo, the telecommunications arm of Alfa Group that holds
the shares in VimpelCom, said it plans to initiate the
termination of its  shareholders agreement  with Telenor and
VimpelCom by selling some of its own preferred shares to bring
its voting rights in VimpelCom to less than 25 percent.  “After the merger with Wind, VimpelCom becomes a global
leading telecommunications company and its corporate governance
rules now need to adequately protect its diverse shareholder
base,” Evgeny Dumalkin, an Altimo spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  VimpelCom also plans to spin off the Wind International
Services SpA unit of the Italian operations as well as “certain
other less significant assets,” the company said. It didn’t
specify a time frame for those plans.  “I am confident that our minority shareholders in Orascom
Telecom will benefit from the synergies created from the
combination of the two entities and by the overall strengthening
of the Orascom Telecom balance sheet,” Sawiris said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  