-- 
Vornado Chairman Steven Roth Sees Lack of Supply Boosting Property Prices

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-04-15T23:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/vornado-chairman-steven-roth-sees-lack-of-supply-boosting-property-prices.html
Higher U.S. real estate prices are
inevitable because of a shortage of buildings after the
financial crisis stalled construction,  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) 
Chairman Steven Roth said in his annual letter to investors.  “By and large, building (i.e. new supply) stopped
nationwide in 2008,” he wrote in the letter, filed today with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. “Lack of supply
begets, over time, higher real estate prices. Always. This is a
prediction of the future.”  In the letter, Roth, 69, gives his observations on the
state of his company, the real estate market and the economy. In
New York, where Vornado is based and where its office buildings
produce 31 percent of the company’s earnings before taxes and
other items, values of offices are “within hailing distance of
peak pricing,” he said.  “This cycle has surely been confusing,” Roth wrote.
“Everyone expected the chaos and distress of the residential
real estate markets (the eye of the storm) to carry over and
infect the commercial markets. This did not happen -- sellers
have held on, financing has come back (albeit at lower amounts)
and prices have rebounded. As prices rise, a fire hose of assets
will come to market.”  Roth said New York office rents declined by 23 percent and
25 percent in the 1990 and 2001 recessions, respectively, citing
data from  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG) , the biggest commercial
property brokerage. Those were followed by rent gains of 118
percent over seven years in the 1990s, and 76 percent over three
years in the 2000s, he said.  Wayne Gretzky   Citing hockey legend Wayne Gretzky’s observation that good
players skate to the puck, and great players skate to where the
puck will be, Roth said that “office building prices in New
York and  Washington  are skating to where rents will be.”  He also said Vornado is “working hard to put the pieces in
place” to build a 1.5 million-square-foot (139,000-square
meter) tower over the Port Authority Bus Terminal at Eighth
Avenue and West 42nd Street. Vornado’s plan for a 2.8 million
square-foot tower on the site of the Hotel Pennsylvania, across
from Pennsylvania Station, won’t proceed “without a major
tenant in place,” Roth said.  He also said that  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
government-sponsored lenders that  House Republicans  want to
shrink, underwrote homeownership “swimmingly well for decade
after decade. In fact, the financing available to the American
homebuyer supported our economy and differentiated our country
from the rest of the world.”  The two companies “fell victim to human error” by too
closely emulating private lenders that took too many risks, Roth
said. “Properly managed, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have an
important role in our economy.”  The letter was released after the close of regular U.S.
trading. Vornado shares rose $1.16, or 1.3 percent, to $90.77
today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They have
gained 8.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  