-- 
Wall Street Women of Golden Seeds Give Cash to Female CEOs

-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-04-15T14:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/wall-street-women-of-golden-seeds-use-angel-cash-to-cultivate-female-ceos.html
Sarah Endline asked Golden Seeds, a
group of mostly women angel investors, to help contribute $1.5
million to expand her candy company. She sweetened her pitch
with samples of dark cacao pieces, about 1 calorie each.  Endline, who got her MBA from  Harvard Business School  and
worked at Yahoo! Inc. in marketing before launching  sweetriot  in
2005, already received about $1.5 million from the group, and
other investors, in 2007. Turning to Golden Seeds again
yesterday was a natural choice, said Endline, 39, because
“we’re a women-powered, women-certified company whose core
consumer is women.”  Golden Seeds , based in  New York , is one of the largest
angel groups in the country and is focused on supporting
companies led by women. The group is helping to add more women
to the ranks of investors in startups. That’s key to helping
female entrepreneurs since six years of  survey data  on angel
investing found that women entrepreneurs were more likely to
seek funding from groups with a higher number of female
investors, said Jeffrey Sohl, professor of entrepreneurship and
director of the Center for Venture Research at the University of
 New Hampshire  in Durham.  Thirteen percent of women entrepreneurs who asked for money
from angel investors received it in 2010 compared with an
overall rate of 18.4 percent, based on  data  from the Center for
Venture Research.  Women Angels  “Many women entrepreneurs trying to get financing from a
small number of women angels results in a lower success rate,”
said Sohl, referring to funding. “One of the goals is to get
more women angels.”  There are nine U.S. women-focused groups of angel
investors, who generally invest their own money in early stage
companies, said Marianne Hudson, executive director of the
 Overland Park , Kansas-based  Angel Capital Association , an
industry trade organization with 162 member groups. Angels are
different from venture capitalists, who tend to manage a pool of
investors’ money and give larger amounts to more established
companies, Hudson said.  There were 265,400 angel investors in 2010 and they put
$20.1 billion in 61,900 entrepreneurial ventures in the U.S.,
the Center for Venture Research said. Women represented about 13
percent of angel investors and female entrepreneurs accounted
for 21 percent of those seeking angel capital.  Some of the companies that Golden Seeds backs offer
products that target and understand women, which is a prudent
investment strategy, said Deborah Jackson, who worked at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  from 1980 to 1990 as a vice president and
joined Golden Seeds in 2009. Sweetriot, Endline’s company,
creates fair trade, organic chocolates in bite-sized portions.  Lack of Access  Another company seeking funding at yesterday’s forum, held
in midtown  Manhattan , is a platform for personal clothing
stylists, fronted by Stacy  London , who co-hosts the television
show, “What Not to Wear” on the TLC network.  Women control 73 percent of household spending, according
to a Joint Economic Committee  report  released in December by
Representative Carolyn Maloney, a New York Democrat. Women’s
earnings will recover faster than men’s as the economy rebounds,
which means companies that market to females may perform well,
said a  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  December research note to clients.  One of the major barriers for women CEOs of startups is a
lack of access to the networks that lead to funding, said Amy
Millman, cofounder and president of Washington-based Springboard
Enterprises, which has helped 445 female-led companies connect
with angel, venture and corporate investors to raise about $5.5
billion in equity financing over the last 11 years.  Finding Capital  “It’s very difficult for any entrepreneur to get capital
and it’s even harder for women,” said Stephanie Hanbury-Brown,
54, who worked at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for 15 years most
recently as head of e-commerce before starting Golden Seeds in
2004. Serving on JPMorgan’s diversity steering committee made
Hanbury-Brown realize that the culture of large companies wasn’t
going to change and having more companies run by women is what
would help lead to more  gender equality  in the workplace, she
said.  Golden Seeds has about 180 active members who invest
directly in startups that have at least one woman in a top
executive-level position with equity in the company. Active
members may also assist the startup company by mentoring the CEO
or serving on the company’s board. Since 2005, the group has
invested more than $22 million in 36 different firms. There were
also about 50 passive investors who put money in a fund created
in 2008 that invested in 16 companies.  Second Fund Starting  A second fund is currently raising up to $25 million and is
open to accredited investors through the end of the year.
Investors must be accredited to participate in Golden Seeds,
which means they must have a net worth of at least $1 million
excluding primary residence or $200,000 in annual income.
Members are required to invest at least $25,000 in one deal a
year. Passive investors must put at least $250,000 in the fund
and active investors must invest at least $100,000, Hanbury-
Brown said.  The lack of well-known, successful women investors coupled
with the fact that she had never been approached to be an angel
investor helped prompt Peggy Wallace, 54, to join the group in
2005 after more than 20 years on  Wall Street  with jobs in
structured finance at JPMorgan and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “Where’s the female  Warren Buffett ?” said Wallace, a
managing director of Golden Seeds.  TV Appearance  Endline, whose candy company is based in New York, said her
connections with Golden Seeds led her to a spot on television’s
HSN. Other companies pitching at yesterday’s two-hour-long
event, such as a website for custom-made home furnishings and a
developer of medical retraction devices, are hoping they’ll be
able to tap those same connections.  “The top three things we look for are a great
entrepreneur, a great entrepreneur and a great entrepreneur,”
said Hanbury-Brown. “We back the jockey over the horse, unlike
some venture capitalists who are OK backing the idea or the
technology.”  Golden Seeds makes investments in multiple industries
rather than just focusing on technology. About 30 percent has
gone to startups in  consumer goods , 30 percent to life sciences,
30 percent to technology and the remainder to media and
hardware. The group has locations in New York,  Boston ,
Philadelphia and  San Francisco , unlike many angel groups, which
tend to be more regionally focused.  ‘Gold Star’  Jim Estill, who started a technology distribution business
from the trunk of his car that had sales of $350 million before
he sold it, has been a Golden Seeds member for 18 months and is
part of the group’s 15 percent male contingent. Estill, who’s
made more than 100 angel investments, said he was attracted to
the group because it allowed him to diversify beyond technology
investments since he felt comfortable with the group’s due
diligence process.  “Golden Seeds is a filter, I know if they make it through
the process, they have a gold star,” said Jacki Zehner, a
former partner and managing director of Goldman Sachs and co-
chair of Women Moving Millions, a group of women who have made
$1 million gifts to nongovernmental organizations. Zehner has
invested in both Golden Seeds funds.  Potential investors in startups should be aware that it’s
risky and early-stage companies can fail, said Estill, who was
on the board of  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of the BlackBerry
smartphone, from 1998 to 2011. Bankruptcies accounted for 27
percent of the exits from the angel investment market in 2010,
according to the Center for Venture Research.  ‘People Risk’  Hanbury-Brown said her personal return on investing in
women-led companies since 2005 is 28 percent a year in realized
and unrealized gains. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
returned 24 percent from 2005 through the end of March. Annual
returns for angel investors whose companies were either part of
a merger, acquisition or IPO range from 24 percent to 36
percent, the Center for Venture Research said.  Another reason for joining an angel group like Golden Seeds
is because of the ability to better control risk, said Jo Ann
Corkran, 56, a managing director of the organization. “The
ability to manage my risk in the public equity market is harder
and harder, so I want to put more of that risk into people risk,
where I feel like I have more control.”  Leveling the Field  Cognition Therapeutics Inc., a Pittsburgh-based Alzheimer’s
disease research company that began in 2007, received part of
its $2.5 million in the second round of funding from Golden
Seeds, said Susan Catalano, chief science officer and founder.
In addition to the money, Golden Seeds connected Catalano to
other angel investor groups as well as a Golden Seeds member,
Nada Jain, who’s on the board and whose background as a
scientist and patent attorney helped the firm.  “We’re trying to support women entrepreneurs by expanding
the pool of resources,” said Zehner of Women Moving Millions.
“We’re trying to level the playing field, and one playing field
is access to capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 