-- 
Wells Fargo Can’t Claim $115 Million in Tax Deductions, Appeals Court Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-04-15T20:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/wells-fargo-can-t-claim-115-million-tax-deductions-court-rules.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  won’t be able to
claim $115 million in tax deductions from 2002 based on an
appellate court’s ruling that its leases with public transit
agencies and technology companies amount to “abusive tax
shelters.”  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  Federal Circuit  today
 upheld  a lower court decision that found the bank’s leases with
26 entities, including  New Jersey Transit  and the  Washington
Metropolitan Area Transit Authority , “lack economic
substance.” The leases were structured as so-called sale-in,
lease-out -- or SILO -- deals that allow tax-exempt entities to
bestow their tax benefits to a taxpayer for a fee.  The tax benefits include deductions for depreciation of
assets. The appeals court rejected the Wells Fargo leases as
little more than a money-making strategy for all the entities
involved.  “These transactions were win-win situations for all the
parties involved because free money -- in the form of previously
unavailable tax benefits utilized by Wells Fargo -- was divided
among all parties,” Judge William C. Bryson wrote in the
opinion. “The money was not entirely ‘free,’ of course, because
it was in effect transferred to Wells Fargo from the public.”  ‘Disappointed’  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, said the bank was “disappointed” by the decision.  “Wells Fargo continues to believe in the merits of the
litigated transactions,” she said in an e-mailed statement
today. “Wells Fargo will abide by the court’s decision.”  Wells Fargo fell 26 cents to $29.89 at the 4 p.m. close of
New York trading.  The  U.S. Court of Federal Claims  in  Washington  rejected the
deductions in January 2010.  The court focused on a sample of five SILO deals between
Wells Fargo and tax-exempt entities. In addition to the New
Jersey and Washington transit systems, the samples included the
 California Department of Transportation , the  Metropolitan
Transit Authority  of Harris County,  Texas , and Brussels-based
Belgacom Mobile.  New Jersey Transit  agreed in 2001 to lease 20 light-rail
cars to Wells Fargo for 50 years. The bank at the same time
leased the vehicles back to the agency for about 25 years.  Transit Leases  The California transportation department leased six
locomotives and 12 passenger rail cars to Wells Fargo for 70
years. The bank leased the vehicles back to the state for just
over 27 years, according to court records.  In its ruling against Wells Fargo, the lower court said the
bank never took ownership of the assets it leased. The court
said the “circular flow of funds” did nothing other than
“produce more claimed  tax deductions .”  Bryson agreed with that finding and said the transactions
“elevate form over substance.”  “From the tax-exempt entity’s point of view, the
transaction effectively ended as soon as it began,” Bryson
wrote. “The benefits to Wells Fargo continued to flow
throughout the term of the sublease, however, in the form of
deferred tax payments.”  Tax Law Change  Wells Fargo may have sought to limit the taxes it paid in
other instances as well. In 2008, the bank revised a bid for
Wachovia Corp. in part to take advantage of a change in tax law
that occurred two days earlier and allowed tax breaks for banks
acquiring other lenders, the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission 
said.  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  told
the panel that Richard Kovacevich, who at the time was Wells
Fargo’s chairman, informed her that IRS Notice 2008-83 -- which
gave tax breaks to acquirers of struggling banks -- “had been a
factor leading to Wells’s revised bid,” according to the
report, released in January.  The bank has said the rule change didn’t alter the amount,
though it may have accelerated deductions associated with loan
losses.  The case is Wells Fargo & Co. v. U.S., 2010-5108.  To contact the reporter on this story: 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  