-- 
WestLB Owners Propose Turning Lender Into Regionally-Focused Verbundbank

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-04-15T17:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/westlb-owners-propose-turning-lender-into-regionally-focused-verbundbank.html
WestLB AG’s owners proposed turning
the state-owned company into a regionally focused lender that
serves savings banks after the European Commission requested
more details on restructuring plans by today.  The bank’s balance sheet would be cut to 45 billion euros
($65 billion) under the plan, said Ingrid Herden, a spokeswoman
for the state of North-Rhine Westphalia, one of WestLB’s  owners 
and its home state. A decision to propose the creation of a so-
called Verbundbank was taken by the owners yesterday, Herden
said today by phone from Dusseldorf,  Germany .  WestLB needed financial aid from its owners and Germany’s
Soffin bank-rescue fund after running up losses during the
global financial crisis. Two proposals were submitted to the
European Commission in February to win approval for state aid as
WestLB presses ahead with restructuring plans. The models
included breaking up the bank or reducing assets by about one-
third by 2015. Parallel to those efforts, the owners were trying
to find a buyer for the bank as a whole.  “We present the Verbundbank as an option, and made the
final decision yesterday,” Herden said. It’s up to European
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  to decide whether to
accept the plan or to continue with the sales process, she said.  “This solution would make sense and is what we think the
Commission would favor, but the devil will be in the detail on
questions such as how and where assets and liabilities are wound
down or divested,” said  Simon Adamson , an analyst at
CreditSights in  London . “If accepted, it’s the end of the road
for WestLB as we have known it.”  ‘Series of Documents’  “Almunia received a series of documents” on WestLB ahead
of a midnight deadline in Brussels for Germany to submit new
restructuring plans for the lender, Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman
for the commission, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The documents in German are “being translated and
analyzed,” she said, declining to comment further.  Almunia said yesterday that he wants a “clear” plan from
the German government on the way forward for WestLB and that he
expects to examine the proposal on April 18. That followed
comments on April 13, when Almunia said WestLB faced an EU order
to repay billions of euros of government aid unless regulators
receive a detailed restructuring plan by April 15.  While the creation of a Verbundbank would mean the sale of
the bank as a whole will be canceled, there is likely to be a
sale of assets, according to Herden. A spokesman for  Friedrich Merz , the lawyer overseeing the sale of WestLB as a whole, said
April 7 that two non-binding offers had been received.  Walter Hillebrand-Droste, a spokesman for Dusseldorf-based
WestLB, declined to comment, as did Andreas Loebbe, a spokesman
for Sparkassenverband Westfalen-Lippe, one of WestLB’s owners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Frankfurt at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Oliver Suess in Frankfurt at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  