-- 
Yemen Protesters Reject Plan, Demand Saleh Departure

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-04-15T17:34:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/yemen-protesters-reject-plan-demand-saleh-departure-correct-.html
(Corrects death toll in seventh paragraph. See EXTRA and
MET for more on the regional turmoil.)  Yemenis demonstrated in most parts
of the country to reject a Gulf Cooperation Council plan to
resolve political turmoil because it doesn’t insist on President
Ali Abdullah Saleh’s immediate departure.  The biggest rally was in the southwestern city of Taiz,
where al-Sahwa, an opposition website, put the turnout at 1.5
million people. Eight protesters were hurt when government
supporters shot at them, a demonstration organizer, Busha al-
Maktari, said by phone. In the capital, Sana’a, leaders of a
rally used loudspeakers to convey their insistence that the GCC
amend its proposal and include a speedy exit for Saleh.  “Leave, go, out!” protesters shouted at the Sana’a
demonstration. “The people want to topple the regime.” Pro-
Saleh demonstrators also marched, calling for him to stay in
power.  The GCC proposal follows almost three months of protests in
Yemen, the poorest Arab country, that have led elements of
Saleh’s army, government and tribal base to abandon him. Saleh,
who has said that his immediate departure could lead to chaos,
on April 11 said the plan was “a basis for dialogue.”  The GCC called for the transfer of power to Vice President
Abduraboo Mansur Hadi without saying when it should happen. Some
protesters say the wording of the GCC document suggests Saleh
could stay on during a transition to a new government.  Tribal leaders and clerics late yesterday said they reject
any proposal that doesn’t require the immediate resignation of
Saleh and the ouster of his relatives from military and security
posts. The Joint Meetings Party, an opposition coalition of six
parties, said yesterday that it was sending a letter to GCC
ambassadors seeking clarification on some details of the plan.  Hundreds Killed  At least 37 Yemenis, including 24 children, have been
killed in unrest since Feb. 18, the  United Nations Children’s
Fund  said on April 12.  The tribes and clerics threatened to lead street protests
across the country if Saleh doesn’t respond to their demands and
said “the constitutional legitimacy claimed by the regime” has
been lost. They rejected granting immunity to regime officials.  The tribal and religious leaders also condemned the misuse
of public money on pro-Saleh protests, the distribution of
weapons to government allies, the formation of militias and the
incitement of violence against the Yemeni people. They called
for an oath among all tribes that they won’t be dragged into
fighting each other.  Yemen lies on the southern border of  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s biggest oil producer. Crude prices are up 27 percent
from a year ago as protests in the region gather pace. Crude for
May delivery was $108.01 a barrel, down 10 cents, at 12:11 p.m.
London time in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  The six members of the GCC are Saudi Arabia, the  United
Arab Emirates , Bahrain,  Kuwait , Qatar and Oman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 