-- 
YPF Shares May Advance 8% on Falklands Crude Search With Petrobras, Cnooc

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-04-15T15:09:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/ypf-may-gain-8-on-falklands-crude-search-with-petrobras-cnooc.html
YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s largest oil
company, may climb about 8 percent if it discovers crude in
offshore drilling slated to begin later this year near the
disputed Falkland Islands, an analyst said.  YPF, controlled by Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , may gain “$3.50
per share in a success scenario,” said Anish Kapadia, an
analyst with Houston-based Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. LLC, who
rates YPF a “buy.” “We assign a 10 percent success rate” the
company will find oil in the Falklands, Kapadia said in an
interview. The stock closed at $44.93 in  New York  yesterday.  Argentina and the U.K., which went to war over the islands
in 1982, had a diplomatic dispute last year after four British
companies announced plans to drill in U.K.-controlled waters.
Argentina claims sovereignty over the islands, which have been
occupied by Britain since the beginning of the 19th century.  A  U.S. Geological Survey  has said there’s a 50 percent
chance the Falklands contain 4 billion barrels of crude.  YPF rose 22 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $45.15 at 11:01 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Buenos Aires-based YPF heads a joint venture with Petrobras
Energia SA, the Argentine unit of Brazil’s largest oil company,
and Pan American Energy LLC, which is 50 percent owned by
 China ’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore energy producer.
The companies haven’t specified a date to start drilling for oil
in Argentine-controlled waters.  Commercial Discovery  The three companies will use a ship called Stena Drillmax,
owned by Aberdeen, U.K.-based Stena Drilling Ltd. The drillship
has a water depth capacity of 10,000 feet (3,048 meters),
according to  Stena’s website .  The ship is now drilling for Madrid-based Repsol in the
Campos basin, offshore Brazil, according to the Brazilian oil
regulatory  agency’s website .  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH) , based in Salisbury,  England ,
has been the only company so far to make a potential commercial
discovery in U.K.-controlled waters. The company said April 4
that the Sea Lion prospect may contain at least 516 million
barrels of oil.  Desire Petroleum Plc (DES)  and  Falkland Oil & Gas Ltd. (FOGL) , both of
the U.K., are also exploring for crude in the Falklands.  A group including The Hague’s Royal Dutch Shell Plc drilled
six wells in 1998 without making a commercial discovery in
British waters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 