-- 
Hyundai, Kia’s U.S. Car Factories Run Overtime as Toyota Pares Production

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-04-15T07:23:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-15/hyundai-kia-s-u-s-car-factories-run-overtime-as-toyota-pares-production.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270) , South Korea’s biggest carmakers, are running full shifts
at their U.S. plants with overtime, unscathed by parts shortages
that are curbing local output for Japan-based competitors.  Hyundai’s plant in Montgomery, Alabama, aims to squeeze out
10 percent more Sonata and Elantra sedans this year than its
300,000-unit capacity, said Robert Burns, a spokesman for the
factory. About 80 miles east, Kia’s plant in West Point, Georgia,
has run extended weekday shifts and Saturday work since last
year and expects that to continue for the foreseeable future,
said Corinne Hodges, a spokeswoman for Kia.  “We’ve been fortunate,” Burns said. “Our parts
development team is closely monitoring all our suppliers, but at
this point there’s been no disruption.”  Expanded U.S. output at Seoul-based Hyundai and affiliate
Kia contrasts with assembly reductions at the North American
plants of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor
Co., implemented after Japan’s record earthquake on March 11.
U.S.-based  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  also cut some
assembly and Chrysler Group LLC canceled overtime shifts to
conserve supplies of parts that may grow scarcer.  Globally, some 1.5 million units of auto production may be
temporarily lost because of damaged operations at Japan-based
parts and materials suppliers, said  Michael Robinet , vice
president of Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS Automotive. The
full extent of the disruption isn’t clear yet, he said.  Lower Exposure  Hyundai fell 0.2 percent to 221,500 won at 3:29 p.m. in
Korea Stock Exchange trading in Seoul. Kia gained 0.4 percent to
75,600 won.  “The Koreans’ exposure to Japanese suppliers is obviously
much lower, but it’s too early to say they won’t feel some
impact,” Robinet said. “The industry is still working off
inventory of parts made before the earthquake. We haven’t seen
the full impact.”  Toyota this week told U.S. dealers reduced output in  Japan 
and  North America  may thin supplies of cars and trucks into the
third quarter. The company, the world’s largest automaker, has
canceled five days of work at plants in North America this month
and expects to lose 35,000 units of production as a result.  Honda began curbing daily output at U.S. and Canadian
factories by 2,000 vehicles on March 30, said  Ron Lietzke , a
spokesman for the Tokyo-based company.  Sonata, Elantra  Nissan canceled six days of production at its plants in
Tennessee and Mississippi, and for five days at each of its two
auto-assembly factories in Mexico.  The Sonata, Hyundai’s top-selling U.S. model, had a 63
percent increase in deliveries this year through March, while
Elantra sales grew 73 percent. Kia sold 9.3 percent more of its
Georgia-built Sorento sport-utility vehicle in 2011’s first
quarter.  Hyundai opened its  Alabama  plant in 2004 and employs about
2,500 workers at the site. Kia’s factory opened in late 2009 and
boosted output after adding production of Hyundai’s Santa Fe SUV
to the Sorento in 2010. The plant has about 2,400 workers and
plans to add 600 by the end of this year, Hodges said.  “To the extent others have to pull back on production, if
Hyundai and Kia still have inventory, they’ll be able to take
advantage of the situation,” Robinet said. “That may be short-
lived, as competitors really start ramping production up later
in the year.”  Hyundai’s U.S. sales unit is based in Fountain Valley,
California. Kia’s U.S. sales unit is in Irvine, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  