-- 
‘Reverse-Merger’ Stocks May Be Prone to Fraud, Abuse, SEC Says in Warning

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-06-09T18:26:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/-reverse-merger-stocks-may-be-prone-to-fraud-abuse-sec-says-in-warning.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission cautioned investors about buying stakes in companies
that gain listings on U.S. exchanges through so-called reverse
mergers,  saying  they may be prone to “fraud and other abuses.”  Many of the companies, often overseas operations that
access U.S. markets by acquiring publicly traded firms with few
or no operations, “either fail or struggle to remain viable”
and may use small audit firms that don’t verify financial
statements, the SEC said today in an  investor bulletin .  “Given the potential risks, investors should be especially
careful when considering investing in the stock of reverse-
merger companies,” Lori Schock, head of the SEC’s investor
education office, said in a statement.  Today’s warning comes more than a year after the SEC formed
a  task force  to examine China-based reverse-merger companies and
their auditors. The SEC and exchanges have halted trading in
more than a dozen such firms in recent months, citing missing
financial information, according to the release. Several such
companies have seen their share prices plummet amid allegations
that their financial statements were inaccurate.  In a reverse merger, a closely held firm buys a so-called
shell company and becomes able to sell shares without the
scrutiny that would surround an initial public offering. More
than 150 Chinese firms with a market value of $12.8 billion have
entered U.S. markets through reverse mergers since 2007,
according to the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ,
which oversees auditors of public companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  