-- 
‘Sexiest Bachelor,’ Hindi Shows Fuel Reliance’s TV Push

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-06-09T11:33:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/-sexiest-bachelor-hindi-shows-fuel-reliance-s-television-push-in-india.html
Billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance
Broadcast Network Ltd. (RBN)  is targeting fourfold revenue growth in
the next three years, driven by reality television shows and the
proliferation of TV sets in rural  India .  The Indian broadcaster aims to boost revenue to 10 billion
rupees ($224 million) in the year ending March 2014 from 2.5
billion rupees in the year ended March 31, Chief Executive
Officer Tarun Katial said in an interview yesterday. Growth will
be fueled by demand for local-language programs in India’s
“Hindi heartland,” reality shows, and extreme sports, he said.  Rising disposable incomes and low penetration of cable TV
are stoking growth in India’s satellite TV business, where
Ambani faces competition from  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and the  Tata
Group . Television industry revenue in  Asia ’s third-biggest
economy may more than  double  to 630 billion rupees in 2015 from
297 billion rupees last year, KPMG said in a March 19 report.  “Competition is intense now in every element of the
broadcasting market here,” said Rajesh Jain, executive director
at KPMG India Pvt. in Mumbai. “Unless you’re able to build
uniqueness and consumer loyalty, you won’t be able to garner
advertising revenue.”  Reliance is getting ready to premiere “India’s Sexiest
Bachelor” this month through a joint venture with CBS Corp. and
plans to start a male-oriented extreme-sports channel and a
reality TV channel through a separate venture with RTL Group SA.  “Reality shows like ‘ Big Brother ,’ they are now going to
find their way into India more and more,” Katial said at the
company’s headquarters in  Mumbai . “Voyeuristic content wasn’t
really seen in India too much, until now.”  Bharti, Tata  Reliance Broadcast fell 1.5 percent to 69.60 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close of trading in Mumbai. India’s benchmark Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, slipped 0.1 percent.
The stock has declined 17 percent this year, compared with the
Sensex’s 10 percent drop.  The company’s television revenue may rise to 40 percent of
total sales in 2014 from less than 3 percent last year, when the
business began, Katial said.  Radio  will account for 40 percent
of revenue, down from 70 percent now, he said.  Dish, Sun TV  Reliance’s digital TV business had 2.75 million subscribers
at the end of May, said Cheryl Waldiya, a spokeswoman for
Reliance Broadcast in Mumbai. By comparison, Bharti, which leads
Ambani’s  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  in mobile-phone
subscriptions, had  more than 5.6 million customers  for its
direct-to-home TV service at the end of March.  Competitors also include  Dish TV India Ltd. (DITV) , billionaire
Kalanithi Maran’s  Sun TV Network Ltd. (SUNTV)  and Tata Sky Ltd., a
venture between the Tata Group and  Rupert Murdoch ’s Star Group.  Satellite TV subscriptions in India rose to 32.1 million at
the end of December from 19.1 million a year  earlier , according
to  data  from the nation’s telecommunications regulator.  To tap rising ownership of TVs in rural northern India,
Reliance started a Hindi-language analog and digital television
channel in April that caters to local tastes with programming
focused on humor, music and Bollywood films.  “The Hindi heartland is really the most media-dark area,
and advertisers are looking to reach more and more audiences
there,” Katial said.  The region encompasses the states of  Uttar Pradesh ,  Madhya
Pradesh , Bihar and Jharkhand, home to about 410 million people.
The channel, Big Magic, has 8 million subscribers, he said.  ‘Emotional Torture’  UTV Software Communications Ltd. (UTV) ’s Bindass channel is also
targeting the Hindi-language market with a reality show called
“ Emotional Atyachaar ,” which roughly translates to “Emotional
Torture.” The show tests people’s fidelity to their partners by
placing them in tempting situations.  Bloomberg TV, owned by Bloomberg LP, is in a strategic
partnership with UTV Software, which owns and operates Bloomberg
UTV, a 24-hour English language business and financial news
outlet in India.  Even in urban India, where western lifestyles are popular,
viewers demand TV shows with an Indian bent, Katial said.  “It must adapt, or relate to our own life,” he said.
“Unless you do that, you can’t really survive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  