-- 
‘Wiseguy’ Owners Avoid U.S. Prison in Music, Sports Ticket-Scalping Case

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-06-09T20:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/-wiseguy-owners-avoid-u-s-prison-in-music-sports-tickets-scalping-case.html
Two men avoided prison after pleading
guilty earlier to conspiring to evade computer security by
buying and reselling more than 1 million seats for events such
as Bruce Springsteen concerts and the  Rose Bowl  football game.  Kenneth Lowson, 41, and Kristofer Kirsch, 38, were
sentenced today in federal court in  Newark , New Jersey, to two
years of probation and 300 hours of community service. They
admitted making more than $25 million by illegally cutting ahead
of the public to buy premium seats through vendors including
 Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) ’s Ticketmaster Entertainment Inc.  Lowson and Kirsch, two Los Angeles men who co-owned Wiseguy
Tickets Inc., pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit  wire fraud 
and gain unauthorized access to protected computers.  A Wiseguy computer programmer, Joel Stevenson, 38, of
Alameda,  California , pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor computer
crime. U.S. District Judge Katharine Hayden sentenced him to one
year of probation.  “I’m pleased,” said Lowson’s attorney Mark Rush after the
hearing. “The facts here straddled criminal and civil law.
There was no amount of loss here. The secondary ticket market is
legal and thriving in this country.”  Hayden also ordered Lowson to forfeit $1.225 million.  Under a plea deal last November, Lowson and Kirsch faced as
long as two years in prison. Stevenson faced as long as one
year. Hayden said prison was too severe a punishment, and the
law was too unsettled.  One Fugitive  The three men were initially charged in February 2010 with
a fourth man, Faisal Nahdi, who remains a fugitive.  They pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge in a 43-count
indictment, admitting that they fraudulently bought prime seats
to concerts by Springsteen,  Miley Cyrus , Bon Jovi,  Barbra Streisand , Billy Joel and Kenny Chesney.  They admitted fraudulently buying tickets to the 2006 Rose
Bowl and the 2007 Major League Baseball playoffs at Yankee
Stadium. They admitted buying almost half of the 440 best
general admission floor seats to a July 2008 concert by
Springsteen at  Giants Stadium  in  East Rutherford , New Jersey.  Lowson and Kirsch admitted they defeated computer systems
that barred automated programs from buying tickets sold on a
first-come, first-served basis.  By working with programmers in  Bulgaria , California-based
Wiseguy Tickets sidestepped technology known as CAPTCHA, which
required users to read, then retype, distorted images of letters
and numbers to buy tickets, Lowson and Kirsch admitted. They
also evaded audio CAPTCHA challenges for the visually impaired.  Tenths of Seconds  By getting around CAPTCHA challenges in tenths of a second,
the defendants sped up the purchasing process when other
consumers were locked out of the primary ticket market,
according to prosecutors.  Rush said that Lowson recently completed a four-month
residential alcohol treatment program. He works now for a
manager of employee benefits for small and midsize companies,
Rush said.  Ticketmaster issued a statement thanking the authorities
“for bringing these criminals to justice.”  “Ticket-scalping has moved from back-alley transactions
into a multibillion-dollar industry,” a company spokesman,
Trevor Francis, said by e-mail. “Prosecuting the Wiseguys
represents a victory for fans, especially those fans that have
paid the astronomical price every time scalpers have used their
sophisticated tools or bots to game the system.”  The case is U.S. v. Lowson, 10-cr-114, U.S. District Court,
District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 