-- 
3Legs Sees Polish Shale Gas Commercial Promise in Two Years

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-06-10T11:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/3legs-ceo-sees-polish-shale-gas-commercial-promise-in-2-years.html
3Legs Resources Plc, the shale-gas
explorer that began selling shares yesterday, will be able to
show that its wells in  Poland  are commercially viable in 1 1/2
to 2 years, Chief Executive Officer Peter Clutterbuck said.  3Legs’s six shale-gas exploration licenses in the Baltic
basin in northern Poland cover as much as 4.8 trillion cubic
meters of gas, Clutterbuck said by telephone. The company has
three more licenses for smaller reserves in the south of Poland
near the city of Krakow, he said.  3Legs expects to raise about 62 million pounds ($101
million) through the initial public offering on  London ’s AIM
market, he said. The company announced its offer of 190 pence a
share yesterday. It has expected capitalization of 161 million
pounds and the free float will be about 50 percent, he said.  “What we’re doing now is using the funds raised from the
IPO to further explore this region,” Clutterbuck said. “ So
far nobody has proved a commercial discovery, but there is an
expectation in the industry that this is likely to happen.”  Poland may hold as much as 5.2 trillion cubic meters of
shale gas, according to the Energy Information Administration.
If extracted, it would cover more than 300 years of domestic
consumption.  3Legs has a joint venture with  ConocoPhillips (COP)  for the 6
licenses in the Baltic basin. Conoco invested $45 million in the
project and in 2 months will have the option to acquire 70
percent of the joint venture’s assets, according to Clutterbuck.
The company is looking for opportunities in other former
communist countries in the European Union, he said.  The IPO was brokered by  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  Conditional
dealings began on the London Stock Exchange yesterday, and
regular trading is due to start June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  