-- 
A Plate That Doesn’t Fit the American Table: Alice Twemlow

-- B y   A l i c e   T w e m l o w
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/a-plate-that-doesn-t-fit-the-american-table-alice-twemlow.html
The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  just unveiled a new graphic icon to encourage
healthier eating: a  dinner plate  of brightly colored pie
slices labeled vegetables, fruits, grains and protein, with
a circular portion of dairy to the side. It’s meant to be a
visual template for constructing the ideal 21st -century
meal.  This supplants the pyramid that had been used to guide
public nutrition since 1992. The pyramid spoke the
scientific language of proportion, but the dinner plate
domesticates the data, bringing it to the kitchen table. In
a country increasingly plagued by obesity and fatal
diseases related to unhealthy eating habits, a change of
tactics for federal nutrition education was clearly needed.
Many found the pyramid to be unnecessarily abstract.  But is a toy town plate, no matter how approachable, a
sufficient strategy to address such a complicated and
deeply ingrained set of problems as a nation’s nutritional
health? Or is it just too simple?  Icons are used in public education campaigns of all
kinds as visual mnemonics to help people keep important
principles in mind. A picture of a  baby  asleep on its back
with sheep jumping above it, for example, is a visual
reminder to prevent Sudden Infant Death Syndrome by putting
babies to bed facing up.  Didactic Graphics  The first graphics produced for the government
nutrition education program -- at the beginning of the 20th
century, when its aim was to help a malnourished population
make the best of limited food resources -- were didactic
and hectoring. A typical  National Dairy Council  poster from
the period depicts smiling rosy-cheeked children and plates
heaped high with cream, butter and cheese, accompanied by
the caption “The Greatest Nation Must Be Built on These.”  Later designs, like the food pyramid, were
characterized by their organization and clarity. But times
have changed, and so has our approach to influencing public
behavior through design. Today, graphic identity and public
messaging have become more subtle and more fragmented,
reflecting a niche-oriented consumer society in which a
top-down flow of communication no longer makes sense.  A campaign in New York City to promote environmental
sustainability, for example, has re-invented graphic public
messages to encourage the city’s multiple constituencies to
ride bikes, use less energy and recycle more.  Dinner Plate Design  Various designers, photographers and illustrators have
been commissioned to work on different parts of the
campaign. A wide-eyed cartoon bird, by the design group
 HunterGatherer , for example, strikes various poses to urge
consumers to pay bills online and use compact florescent
 light bulbs .  Logos and symbols no longer need to be static and
simplistic; they can be digitally tailored for different
audiences and contexts.  In introducing the dinner-plate icon, first lady
 Michelle Obama  said feeding our children should be easy --
as long as their plates are “half full of fruits and
vegetables, and paired with lean proteins, whole grains and
low-fat dairy.” In real life, though, our foods are messier
than that. In which category, for example, would a burrito
fit? Or a breakfast shake?  Even the plate itself is something a portion of 
Americans might not recognize. Many people now eat directly
from a chicken bucket or pizza box.  Obesity Concern  The icon’s simplicity makes it equally ill-suited to
address obesity. Weight control is a complex challenge
involving everything from the prevalence of cheap, high-
calorie meals to a lack of basic knowledge of how to shop
for and cook healthy foods. It’s not clear how the
cheerfully colorful plate can remind us to watch our daily
calories.  Considering President Barack Obama’s commitment to
sophisticated design, as evidenced by his 2008 campaign
graphics -- including a bold website design and Sol
Sender’s Obama-horizon icon -- his administration might
have aimed higher for its nutrition campaign. It would have
been more useful to create a flexible system of information
graphics, educational videos and social media applications
tailored for different target audiences. Some could have
addressed how to cook with nutrition in mind, others how to
shop for the most nutritious food and still others how to
gauge how much we eat.  A flexible system could also do more than a single
icon to take into account the wide range of eating habits
that exist in this country. In an era of XXL,  one-size-
fits-all  design can no longer cut it.  (Alice Twemlow is the chairwoman of the design
criticism MFA program at the School of Visual Arts in  New
York City . The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Alice Twemlow at  atwemlow@sva.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  