-- 
Madoff Trustee Seeks $975 Million From Kingate ‘Feeder’ Funds in Complaint

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-09T18:55:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/madoff-trustee-seeks-975-million-from-kingate-feeder-funds-in-complaint.html
Kingate Global Fund Ltd., Kingate
Euro Fund Ltd. and other defendants must return $975 million in
funds they took out of Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, said
the trustee liquidating the jailed con man’s investment firm.  The trustee, Irving H. Picard, filed a new complaint
against the two so-called feeder funds that invested with
Madoff, adding defendants and boosting his demand from $255
million in a 2009 suit. The amended complaint was filed
yesterday after U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland gave
Picard permission to do so. The funds are being liquidated in
the British Virgin Islands.  The new complaint names Federico Ceretti and Carlo Grosso,
“Italian nationals operating from  England ” who funneled about
$1.7 billion of investors’ money to Madoff from 1994 through the
Kingate funds, which they set up and ran, Picard said.  Ceretti, Grosso and the funds should have known of Madoff’s
fraud and must return $975 million they redeemed before his 2008
bankruptcy, Picard said in the suit.  “These avoidable transfers to the Kingate funds are
customer property that must be returned to the estate,” he
said. He also is seeking any tax refunds the defendants may get
on their fictitious profits from the Ponzi scheme.  William Tacon of Zolfo Cooper, the liquidator for the
funds, has declined to comment on Picard’s suit.  $7.6 Billion Recovered  Picard has recovered about $7.6 billion for investors who
lost more than $17 billion in the  Ponzi scheme , with most of it
so far unavailable for distribution, he has said. He and his  law
firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, charged more than $175 million for
their work, according to court filings.  The complaint names the investment firm FIM Advisers LLP,
run by Ceretti and Grosso, along with trusts and HSBC Bank
Bermuda Ltd.  “HSBC is defending itself vigorously against Madoff-
related claims,” J.D. Massa, associate general counsel at the
bank, said in an e-mail. Antony Zacaroli, a lawyer for London-
based FIM Advisers, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The case is Picard v. Ceretti, 09-1161,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York 
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 