-- 
African Development Bank to Lend Egypt Up to $1.5 Billion to Fund Recovery

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-09T07:58:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/african-development-bank-to-lend-egypt-up-to-1-5-billion-for-recovery.html
The  African Development Bank  may lend
 Egypt  as much as $1.5 billion to help the economy recover from
the revolution that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  in February,
a bank official said.  “We will be able to commit between $1 billion and $1.5
billion” in funding to Egypt over the next 12 to 18 months,
Jacob Kolster, the AfDB’s director for Tunisia, Libya and Egypt,
said in an interview in Lisbon yesterday. “The Egyptians, from
a financial point of view, will weather this crisis. The issue
is really that they get going with some important economic and
social reforms. We are there to support them.”  Mubarak resigned on Feb. 11 after three decades in power,
ceding authority to a military council that dissolved parliament
and promised elections later this year. The turmoil has damaged
the country’s tourism industry and curbed industrial output.  AfDB President  Donald Kaberuka  and Kolster met Egyptian
government officials in Lisbon yesterday before the lender’s
annual general meeting to discuss what it could do to assist the
North African nation.  On May 27, Group of Eight leaders said institutions
including the  World Bank  and the AfDB could provide more than
$20 billion for Egypt and Tunisia through 2013. French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said G-8 countries will provide another $10
billion in direct aid, while oil-exporting countries in the Gulf
such as  Kuwait  and  Saudi Arabia  will contribute $10 billion.  IMF Loan  Next month, the International Monetary Fund’s executive
board will consider approving a $3 billion loan to help Egypt
fund its widening budget deficit. The shortfall may reach 11
percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year through
June 2012, compared with an expected 8.6 percent this year,
Finance Minister Samir Radwan said on June 1.  The Egyptian revolt followed an uprising in  Tunisia  that
toppled President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January. Protests
subsequently spread to Yemen, Syria, Bahrain and Libya.  On May 30, the AfDB’s board approved a $500 million loan
for Tunisia. The loan agreement will be signed with Tunisia’s
government tomorrow and the money is likely to be disbursed
within days, Kolster said.  The Tunis-based lender is set to approve a further $500
million in funding for Tunisia by year-end. Kolster expects the
first tranche of $50 million will be made available next month
and used to provide a line of credit for commercial banks that
lend to small and medium-sized businesses.  The money will “give a boost to an economy that’s clearly
heading for zero growth this year,” he said.  Libyan Turmoil  In  Libya , rebels are fighting to end Muammar Qaddafi’s 42-
year rule, with aerial backing from the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization. The North African country has the continent’s
largest oil reserves.  The AfDB is willing to aid Libya’s reconstruction once the
fighting stops, Kolster said.  “The longer war drags on, the more the fundamental damage
to the economic and social infrastructure,” he said. “We have
intelligence that there is no more oil coming out of the ground.
Pumps have been destroyed. The upside is here’s a country that
has $250 billion in the bank and once you get the pumps running
again they can easily pump out between 1.5 and 2 million barrels
of oil per day.”  The AfDB, one of five major multilateral development
lenders in the world, has 53 member countries from  Africa  and 24
from outside the continent, including the U.S., the European
Union and  Japan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Lisbon at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 