-- 
African Development Bank Expects Further Bond Sale Before End of the Year

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-09T15:17:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/african-development-bank-expects-further-bond-sale-before-end-of-the-year.html
The  African Development Bank  said it
has raised about $1.9 billion in bond sales since January and
expects to tap the market again before year-end.  “We are willing to issue in any currency in which there is
investor demand as long as we can convert into our currencies of
disbursement,” Pierre van Peteghem, the AfDB’s treasurer, said
in an interview today in Lisbon, where the lender is holding its
annual general meeting. The timing of the next bond sale has yet
to be determined, he said.  The Tunis-based lender was authorized by its board to
borrow $5.5 billion last year and only raised $2.8 billion. This
year, it is permitted to borrow $6.4 billion, though the full
allocation is unlikely to be needed, Van Peteghem said.  AfDB shareholders approved the tripling of the lender’s
capital base to almost $100 billion in May last year. The move
enables the bank to lend about $5.4 billion a year and its
associated development funds to disburse more than $2 billion,
Charles Boamah, the bank’s vice president of finance, said in an
interview.  The bank and its funds approved loans totaling $6.2 billion
last year, with 71 percent going toward transport and energy
projects. Lending spiked to $12.6 billion in 2009 due to the
global financial crisis.  “Lending is trending back to normal now,” Boamah said.  The AfDB, one of five major multilateral development
lenders in the world, has 53 member countries from  Africa  and 24
from outside the continent, including the U.S., the European
Union and  Japan .  The bank is reassessing its lending practices in the wake
of a series of revolts in North Africa and the  Middle East , with
the aim of ensuring more people benefit, its president,  Donald Kaberuka , told the annual general meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Lisbon at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 