-- 
Lagarde Says Greek Debt Resolution Must Avoid Restructuring, Credit Event

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-09T06:04:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/lagarde-opposes-involuntary-restructuring-as-part-of-greek-debt-solution.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said any resolution to the Greek debt issue can’t
trigger what she called a “ credit event ” and must avoid
involuntary debt restructuring.  “Within those parameters then there is a lot of working
and thinking and exploring at the moment but nothing that could
be done involuntarily,” Lagarde said in a brief interview today
in Beijing, where she is seeking to bolster her candidacy for
the post of  International Monetary Fund  managing director. “So
in any event it will have to be voluntary and well announced.”  Lagarde’s remarks come after German counterpart Wolfgang Schaeuble earlier this week said that bondholders must
contribute a “substantial” share of a second aid package to
 Greece .  Schaeuble told European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet and fellow euro finance ministers in a June 6 letter
that any agreement on aid at a ministers’ meeting on June 20
“has to include a clear mandate -- given to Greece possibly
together with the IMF -- to initiate the process of involving
holders of Greek bonds.”  Schaeuble also said in the letter that maturities on Greek
bonds should be extended seven years to give the nation time to
overhaul its economy.  The German position clashes with the stance of European
Commission officials and the ECB, which oppose anything beyond a
voluntary rollover of debt as they struggle to avert the euro
area’s first sovereign default. A swap offering investors terms
that are “worse” than those of existing securities would
constitute a coercive or distressed exchange, and be considered
a default,  Fitch Ratings  said this week.  Lagarde, 55, told reporters in Beijing today that finding a
solution to  Europe ’s sovereign debt problems is “the immediate
focus of the fund’s operations at the moment.” She urged Greece
to follow the example of  Portugal  and form an “alliance”
between rival political parties.  Portugal’s actions were “critical to building and
restoring confidence, and it shows in the numbers,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  