-- 
Lagarde, China Agree Selection of IMF Chief Must Be Open, Based on Merit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-09T04:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/lagarde-china-agree-imf-selection-must-be-open.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said she agrees with leading developing countries that
the selection of the next managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund  should be transparent and based on merit.  Speaking after meetings with Chinese leaders in Beijing to
press her candidacy for the post, Lagarde said selecting the
first woman to head the Washington-based agency would help
improve the institution’s commitment to diversity. China, India
and  Brazil  are among emerging economies that have demanded an
end to the six-decade-old custom where the top job at the IMF
goes to a European, with an American taking the deputy position.  “The IMF does not belong to anybody, it  belongs  to the 187
members of the fund,” Lagarde told reporters today in Beijing.
“Management of the fund does not belong to any particular”
nation or region. The process should be open and “only based on
the merits of the candidate.”  Lagarde is trying to turn attention away from her
nationality by focusing on her track record as finance minister
and running  law firm  Baker & McKenzie LLP, as well as her being
a woman. The IMF post fell vacant when fellow French national
Dominique Strauss-Kahn resigned last month after being charged
with sexually assaulting a chamber maid in a New York hotel.  “If I was elected managing director it would also be a
signal of diversity,” Lagarde said. “My professional
experience in the private sector, and as chairman of the largest
international law firm” as well as “dealing with very sizable
egos, was good training for the job.”  Greater Inclusiveness  While agreeing that Europeans should no longer have a right
to the top IMF job, Lagarde said that “equally you cannot be
banished or punished because of your nationality.”  She said she also agreed with  China ’s leaders on the need
to reform IMF “governance, management and doctrine,” and
emphasize “the principle of inclusiveness.”  Lagarde met yesterday with People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan, Vice Premier Wang Qishan, Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi , and Finance Minister Xie Xuren. Before China, she
visited Brazil and India and will next travel to  Portugal , Saudi
Arabia and  Egypt .  Next week Agustin Carstens,  Mexico ’s central bank governor,
plans to travel to Beijing to advance his candidacy for the
IMF’s top job, according to Banco de Mexico.  The No. 2 slot at the Washington-based agency is also up
for grabs, with first deputy managing director  John Lipsky  due
to retire in August. There are also two deputy managing
directors,  Japan ’s Naoyuki Shinohara and Nemat Shafik, who holds
U.S., U.K. and Egyptian nationality, according to her profile on
the IMF’s website.  Bigger Role  In response to a question on whether China’s Zhu Min, a
special adviser to the IMF managing director, would play a
bigger role, Lagarde said it is “fully appropriate if he played
a key role in the management of the fund.”  Continued growth in  China’s economy  would see the country’s
share of voting power continue to rise, she said.  Under Strauss-Kahn , the voting power of  developing
countries  was increased to reflect their bigger share of the
world economy. When the new structure comes into place, China
will hold 6.07 percent of the votes, behind Japan’s 6.14 percent
and the U.S.’s 16.5 percent, according to the IMF’s  website . The
U.S. and European Union will both see their voting power
diminish.  “I am very positive about my trip to China, but the
decision does not belong to me, it belongs to the Chinese
authorities,” Lagarde said. “It is too early to count the
chicken, if I may say,” she said, adding that she aims to
“under-promise and over-deliver.”  Carstens Backing  Carstens is backed by 12 Latin American nations, Mexico’s
 Finance Ministry  said yesterday. He will meet Indian Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee in New Delhi on June 10, according to
ministry officials.  “We want the selection of the managing director of the IMF
or that of the  World Bank  to be done on the basis of merit,”
 India ’s Mukherjee told reporters in New Delhi after Lagarde’s
visit. He said Carstens is “a competent person,” adding that
“we’ll also talk to them. Let’s see how it emerges.”  Carstens served as IMF deputy managing director from 2003
to 2006. He has a doctorate in economics from the University of
Chicago and took the reins of Mexico’s central bank in January
2010 after serving as the country’s finance minister.  Lagarde left India without winning a public endorsement
from the government, though she said that had not been her aim.
“It would be premature and it would be arrogant on my part to
expect assurance or reassurance,” she said June 7 in  New Delhi .  Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin on May 27 voiced his
support for Lagarde, joining the U.K., Germany and Sweden. U.S.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has praised Lagarde’s
qualifications while refraining from endorsing her candidacy.  Countries from the European Union currently hold about 31
percent of the votes at the agency and the U.S. almost 17
percent. Emerging-market and developing countries have 42
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  