-- 
AIG May Acquire RMBS From European Banks, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-06-09T20:04:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/aig-may-buy-rmbs-from-european-banks-to-boost-returns-deutsche-bank-says.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG)  may
buy mortgage-backed securities from European banks seeking to
bolster their balance sheets as the insurer works to boost
investment results,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is hunting for
assets to add to the investment portfolio after the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  rejected his $15.7 billion offer to buy
back a pool of mortgage bonds turned over as part of the
company’s bailout. AIG had about $21 billion in investible cash
as of Dec. 31.  “There may be bargains available from buying RMBS
securities from European banks seeking better positioning under
Basel III” accounting requirements, said Deutsche Bank analysts
led by Joshua Shanker said in a note to investors yesterday.
“We note that increased yield, in this regard, also carries
with it increased risk.”  AIG plans to increase annual investment income by $500
million to $700 million, the New York-based insurer said in a
regulatory filing last month, without specifying what types of
securities it would buy. Mark Herr, a spokesman for the company,
declined to comment.  “Management may be underestimating the potential upside”
from investing the insurer’s cash, Shanker said. He initiated
coverage of AIG with a “buy” rating and said the share price
may rise to $34 in early 2012.  Shares Gain  AIG gained 78 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $28.10 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer had
declined 42 percent this year, the second-worst performance on
the Standard & Poor’s Index. The U.S. Treasury Department
lowered its stake to 77 percent last month in a share sale.  More Wall Street analysts are beginning to cover AIG after
investment banks helped the Treasury, led by Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , cut its stake from 92 percent.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  today
initiated coverage of AIG with an “equal weight” rating.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. yesterday issued a “neutral” rating
on the insurer.  AIG is benefiting from increased stability among its top
managers, said Barclays analysts led by  Jay Gelb . Benmosche, 67,
became the insurer’s fifth CEO since 2005 when he joined the
company about two years ago.  Peter Hancock, who was named in March to turn around the
unprofitable property-casualty division, may be “next in line”
for AIG’s CEO post, Gelb said today. Hancock, who spent 20 years
at a predecessor to JPMorgan Chase & Co., joined AIG in 2010 to
help repay the government and unwind the derivatives business
that brought the company to the brink of collapse.  AIG has said that Benmosche, who has been diagnosed with
cancer, should be able to stay on the job through the middle of
next year. Benmosche would consider extending his tenure into
2013, heath permitting, he told Risk & Insurance, an industry
publication, in an article published yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  