-- 
Akamai President Calls for Boost in Security After Attacks

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-06-10T21:02:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/akamai-president-urges-companies-to-boost-security-after-attacks.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  President
David Kenny urged U.S. corporations to be more vigilant about
network security, following a wave of cyber-security attacks on
companies such as  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   Businesses should be investing more time and money in
security measures to keep pace with the growth of the Internet
and the explosion of cloud technology, he said in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  “It’s not sexy,” Kenny said. “It’s like buying
insurance. Really smart hackers have had a decade to figure out
how to hack firewalls.”  Security is a “very fast-growing” part of Akamai, which
runs a server network that helps customers deliver information
more quickly, he said. Companies need to be shielding themselves
from cyber attacks, which are increasingly coming from outside
the U.S., Kenny said. During the fourth quarter of 2010, attacks
originated from 207 countries, with Russia at the top,
accounting for 10 percent, Akamai found.  The company, which Kenny says is striving to reach annual
sales of $10 billion, has a network of more than 90,000 servers.
That lets corporate customers, e-commerce sites and media
companies securely distribute content and applications across
the Internet. Akamai delivers data for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes and
streams video for  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Low Forecast  The company posted revenue of $1.02 billion last year.
Sales for the second quarter will be $270 million to $280
million, Akamai said in April. That fell short of the $280.7
million predicted by analysts in a Bloomberg survey, weighing on
the stock.  Akamai fell 59 cents to $29.45 today on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. Shares of the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company
have lost 37 percent this year.  The company is focusing on cloud security, or monitoring
data delivered over the Internet, Kenny said. The shift to cloud
computing makes it harder for companies to rely on traditional
network firewalls, he said.  “A lot of security today was built in the days of the
mainframe,” Kenny said. “More and more folks have come to us
to find cloud-based security as opposed to firewall-based
security.”  Technology companies such as Sony have fallen victim to
security breaches in recent months. Hackers compromised more
than 100 million accounts of Sony customers, which included bank
details and passwords.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said on June 1 that an
attempted attack originating in  China  targeted Gmail accounts of
U.S. government officials, military personnel and journalists.  New Legislation  The attacks are getting the attention of lawmakers. A bill
introduced this week by Senator Patrick Leahy, a Democrat from
 Vermont , aims to enhance privacy protections. It would require
companies to disclose cyber attacks that jeopardize consumers’
personal information and make concealing a data breach a crime.  “Companies should share more,” Kenny said. “I admire
people who admit they’ve been hacked, because then they also
share how that happened, and the rest of us can figure out how
to prevent that.”  Cyber assaults also can cost money. Akamai said in December
that it shielded five retailers from attacks, which caused some
of the stores’ websites to experience 10,000 times normal daily
traffic. If the onslaught had caused sales operations to shut
down, the retailers would have lost a total of more than $15
million in revenue during the three-day period, the company
said.  RSA Breach  A breach at EMC Corp.’s RSA unit may cost the banking
industry as much as $100 million to distribute new RSA SecurID
devices, which employees use to securely log onto corporate
networks, according to research firm Gartner Inc. RSA clients
include  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Northwest Bancshares Inc., as well
as defense contractor Lockheed Martin.  A lax attitude toward security will slow companies’ online
expansion, as customers begin to question whether moving
information to websites is worth the risk, Kenny said.  “It will inhibit growth,” he said. “Companies have an
obligation to protect their information.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  