-- 
Takeda’s Actos Drug Suspended in France on Cancer Risk Study

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-06-09T17:05:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/takeda-s-actos-drug-suspended-in-france-on-cancer-risk-study-3-.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.’s best-
selling drug, Actos for diabetes, will be pulled from the French
market after a study showed it carried a slightly increased risk
of bladder cancer, the country’s drug regulator said.  Patients taking the treatment shouldn’t stop without
consulting their physician, the regulator, known as Afssaps,
said in a  statement  on its website. Doctors should no longer
prescribe the drug, the agency said after holding a meeting
today to consider the medicine’s risks and benefits.  Actos, also known as pioglitazone, had sales of 387.9
billion yen ($4.8 billion) in the last fiscal year, accounting
for 27 percent of  Osaka , Japan-based  Takeda’s revenue . The drug
was approved in  Europe  in 2000 as an option for patients who
didn’t benefit from metformin, a standard treatment, or for
those also taking metformin or insulin. About 230,000 patients
in France use Actos, Afssaps said.  A study the regulator commissioned “confirms a slight
increase in the risk of bladder cancer in patients treated with
pioglitazone,” the agency said in today’s statement.  The  European Medicines Agency , which started a review of
Actos’s potential cancer risk in March, said today that it will
examine the results of the French study. The agency’s Committee
for Medicinal Products for Human Use will discuss Actos at its
next meeting the week of June 20. The agency didn’t recommend
any changes in the use of Actos while the review is pending.  Tougher Surveillance  French authorities have become tougher on drug surveillance
since Mediator, a diabetes medicine sold in the country for 33
years, was blamed earlier this year for the deaths of as many as
2,000 patients. French Health Minister Xavier Bertrand has
pledged to overhaul the country’s drug approval and monitoring
system.  Elissa Johnsen, a spokeswoman for Takeda in Deerfield,
 Illinois , didn’t immediately return a telephone call seeking a
comment on the decision by Afssaps.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  has been monitoring
Actos amid concern the drug may increase the risk of bladder
cancer. An analysis of preliminary data from a 10-year study
submitted by Takeda hasn’t been shown to increase such a risk,
the FDA said in a September safety announcement. Takeda won U.S.
regulatory approval for the treatment in 1999.  Actos become the market leader after a 2007 study showed a
43 percent higher chance of heart attacks from GlaxoSmithKline
Plc’s Avandia. A study published last year in the American Heart
Association journal, Circulation, found that Actos causes as
many heart problems as Avandia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  