-- 
Al Khaliji, Drake & Scull, Qtel: Persian Gulf Equity Preview

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-06-09T05:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/al-khaliji-drake-scull-taqa-gulf-equity-market-preview.html
The following stocks may rise or fall
in Persian Gulf markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are from the last close.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  dropped 0.8 percent while  Abu
Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  rose 0.2 percent. Saudi Arabia’s
market is closed for the weekend.        Al Khaliji (KCBK)  : The Qatari lender that abandoned a
merger with International Bank of Qatar will seek a  credit
rating  this year and may issue bonds by the first quarter of
2012, acting Chief Executive Officer Robin McCall said. The
shares fell 2 percent to 16.6 riyals.  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT UH): The United
Arab Emirates’ biggest telephone company said it has no current
plan to utilize a bond program it set up in November. The shares
gained 0.5 percent to 10.6 dirhams.  Drake & Scull International (DSI)  PJSC: The United Arab
Emirates construction company said it won a hospitality project
in Sharm El Sheikh,  Egypt  valued at 80 million dirhams ($22
million). The shares retreated 0.4 percent to 99.6 fils.  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA)  : The state-run
utility known as Taqa awarded MAN Diesel & Turbo Schweiz AG a
multitmillion euro contract for delivery of compression
technology for Bergermeer Gas Storage in Alkmaar, the
Netherlands. The shares were unchanged at 1.27 dirhams.  Qatar Telecom QSC (QTEL QD): The emirate’s biggest company
by revenue appointed Nasser Marafih as group chief executive
officer. Sheikh Saud Bin Nasser Al Thani will replace Marafih as
the CEO in Qatar. Waleed Al-Sayed was appointed chief operating
officer, replacing Nick Dent. The shares fell 0.2 percent to
150.4 riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net 
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  