-- 
Hamburg Diner Sales Slump as Salads Shunned in Center of E. Coli Outbreak

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T22:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/hamburg-diner-sales-slump-as-salads-shunned-in-center-of-e-coli-outbreak.html
Volkan Demiryürek’s Knusper Bistro
in Hamburg, the hardest-hit area in the world’s deadliest
outbreak of E. coli, has lost 50 percent of its trade since
diners started shunning vegetables linked to the bacteria.  “We’re losing 250 euros ($363) a day and we’re really
scared of the situation,” said Demiryürek, who opened for
business in the German port city 18 months ago. Customers have
stopped ordering salad at the lunch diner located near the
city’s Binnenalster lake after the bug started infecting Hamburg
citizens on May 2, he said.  The E. coli strain, which the European Centre for Disease
Prevention and Control says has killed 27 people and sickened at
least 2,899, is hurting business in  Germany ’s wealthiest city.
Visitors have begun to cancel or delay trips there as officials,
who first blamed Spanish cucumbers and then local sprouts,
struggle to pinpoint the source.  “If this goes on for days or weeks, we’ll soon have a
problem with Hamburg’s image,” said Sascha Albertsen, a
spokesman for  Hamburg Tourismus GmbH , which promotes the city as
a tourism destination, in an interview.  The fallout has sparked a drop of 30 percent to 40 percent
in sales of fresh vegetables in Hamburg’s food shops, said
Marianne Temming, head of the  association  of Hamburg food
retailers. Officials still advise people not to eat raw
tomatoes, sprouts, lettuce and cucumbers.  Off the Menu  “There is hysteria among consumers -- some people I have
spoken to don’t even buy Chinese food in the restaurant anymore
because they often use sprouts,” she said.  Hasan Ougun, who works in a fruit and vegetable shop in
Gaensemarkt in central Hamburg, said sales have declined as much
as 60 percent in the past two weeks.  The picture is similar at Hamburg’s Grossmarkt, a wholesale
market for fruit, vegetables and flowers with annual revenue of
2 billion euros.  There sales have dropped as much as 19 percent, said Hans
Joachim Conrad, chairman of Die Grossmarkt Hamburg Verwaltungs-
Genossenschaft e.G., which represents 97 percent of the traders
at the market. Merchants specializing in vegetables have seen a
slump of 30 to 50 percent, he said.  While 17 cases of the disease were tied to a restaurant in
Luebeck, about 65 kilometers (40 miles) from Hamburg,
investigators identified sprouts from an organic farm in the
nearby town of Bienenbuettel as a possible source.  Sprout Farm  While the tests on samples from the farm have proven
negative, “the epidemiological chain between the sites of the
outbreak and the Bienenbuettel site yesterday became stronger
rather than weaker,”  Lower Saxony ’s agriculture minister Gert
Lindemann said on June 8.  The strain of E. coli involved in the outbreak produces a
toxin that attacks the kidneys and blood vessels. Most cases
have occurred in adult women, and among people from northern
Germany or who have recently traveled there, the ECDC said.  Hundreds of people have developed a potentially fatal
kidney complication known as hemolytic uremic syndrome after
being infected with E. coli.  “While I’m not really scared, I have stopped eating any
uncooked vegetables, just in case,” said Rulo Quintanilla, an
engineer originally from  Mexico  now living in Hamburg.  The food scare is also hurting the German farming industry,
which is experiencing its biggest crisis since the nuclear
disaster in Chernobyl because of the E. coli outbreak, Gerd Sonnleitner, head of the German DBV farming association, said in
a  statement  on June 6. German farmers are losing 5 million euros
in sales every day as a result, the DBV estimated yesterday.  Russian Ban  Russia banned the importation of German and Spanish
tomatoes, lettuce and cucumbers on May 30 because of the E. coli
outbreak. Qatar imposed a temporary ban on the importation of
the same vegetables from Germany and  Spain , the Qatar News
Agency reported June 5, citing the Supreme Council of Health.  The European Union on June 8 expanded an aid package for
vegetable growers faced with a demand slump caused by the E.
coli outbreak to 210 million euros. Vegetable growers in the 27-
nation bloc are losing as much as 400 million euros a week from
a drop in demand related to the outbreak, Brussels-based farm
lobby Copa-Cogeca said on June 7.  As much as 80 percent of vegetables are being destroyed in
some areas because there is no market, it said.  The scare is tarnishing the image of Hamburg, which is
situated on the River Elbe and is home to Germany’s largest port
and  Europe ’s largest red-light district, the Reeperbahn. The
city ranks as Europe’s 11th most popular tourist destination
based on the number of hotel nights spent, ahead of capitals
such as Stockholm and Brussels, according to Hamburg Tourismus.  In 2010, 9 million hotel nights were spent in Hamburg,
compared with 73.1 million in  London , 36.1 million in Paris and
20.8 million in Berlin, according to the agency’s  website . The
city has seen an increase in hotel nights spent of 88 percent
between 2001 and 2010.  The epidemic is also a blow to the city’s status as this
year’s European Green Capital, with politicians, local
businesses, industries and people strive to find ways to make
the city more environmentally friendly.  As German authorities search for the cause of the disease,
entrepreneurs in Hamburg are continuing to lose money.  “We used to work like bees between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., and
now it’s enough with one person during lunch,” Demiryürek said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  