-- 
AmEx Names Ex-Skype CEO Silverman to Head Consumer Services

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-06-09T17:52:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/amex-names-ex-skype-ceo-silverman-to-head-u-s-consumer-services.html
     June 9 (Bloomberg) --  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, hired former Skype Chief
Executive Officer Josh Silverman to lead its U.S. consumer card
and travel division.  Silverman, who previously was an executive at technology
venture capital firm Greylock Ventures, replaces Judson Linville, who left New York-based AmEx to run  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s
credit-card division in September.  AmEx has been hiring executives with backgrounds in
technology as the firm girds to compete for online and mobile
payments with rivals including  Visa Inc. (V)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal.
Last year, American Express brought in former  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  executive Daniel Schulman as head of a new enterprise
growth group.  “In Josh we have found an executive with a track record as
both a visionary entrepreneur and an effective leader for
amazing growth companies,” Ed Gilligan, vice chairman of
American Express, said today in a statement. Silverman’s digital
marketing experience helps make him an “ideal fit” for the
company’s future direction, Gilligan said.  As CEO of Skype through mid-2010, Silverman helped prepare
the online video-calling company for its spinoff from EBay,
where he was a senior executive from 2003 to 2008, according to
the statement.  Silverman was CEO and co-founder of Evite, the leading
social event planning site, which helps send more than 16
million invitations to more than 450,000 events each month,
according to the statement. He ran the company until it was sold
in 2001.  American Express rose 56 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $48.66
as of 1:49 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 