-- 
Apple Reverses App Store Subscription Policy for Publishers

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-06-09T21:46:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/apple-reverses-course-on-app-store-subscriptions-for-publishers.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  reversed a policy that
forced publishers to use its App Store to sell subscriptions,
removing an obstacle that rankled companies aiming to put
newspapers, music and movies on the iPhone and iPad.  The developer guidelines no longer say that publishers
offering their own subscriptions must also sell them through
Apple’s iTunes-based applications store, where Apple collects 30
percent of the sales, according to a copy of the policy. Apple
also had required publishers to offer their lowest subscription
rates through the App Store.  Companies that didn’t comply with the rules risked having
their applications removed from the App Store. The policy has
been criticized by publishers including the Financial Times and
music service Rhapsody for making them share revenue with Apple.
The U.S.  Justice Department  and the Federal Trade Commission had
begun examining whether the plan violated antitrust laws, people
familiar with the inquiry said in February.  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Apple, confirmed the policy
change. The company’s new guidelines were reported earlier by
the website  MacRumors.com .  The rule had implications for companies that already offer
their own subscriptions, such as magazine publishers and movie-
rental service  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , because it meant they would have
had to offer a similar deal through Apple.  Financial Times App  The Financial Times released a Web-based application on
June 7, flouting Apple’s earlier guidelines, to let users of the
iPhone and iPad access its content without using the App Store.  The new rules, set to take effect by the end of the month,
still bar publishers from putting a link in an iPhone or iPad
application that sends users to another website where they could
buy a subscription. For subscriptions that are purchased through
the App Store, instead of through a media company or publisher’s
own website, Apple will still collect 30 percent.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , fell 75 cents to
$331.49 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained
2.8 percent this year.  The App Store guidelines were also amended to prohibit
applications that alert users to the location of police drunk-
driving checkpoints. U.S. lawmakers had criticized Apple for
approving the programs, saying they help intoxicated drivers
evade police enforcement.  Senators including Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat
of  Nevada , commended Apple for making the changes regarding
checkpoint-notification apps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  