-- 
Home Retail Shares Plunge After Company Cuts Argos Forecast

-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 
2011-06-09T09:15:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/argos-sales-slump-on-weak-electronics-market.html
Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  fell the most
ever in  London  trading after a slump in first-quarter sales of
televisions and video games led the company to cut the annual
revenue forecast for its U.K. Argos chain.  The shares declined as much as 15 percent to 172.7 pence,
the lowest intraday price since Nov. 24, 2008.  Same-store sales at the 750-store Argos chain will show a
“mid-single digit” drop for the year, Chief Financial Officer
Richard Ashton said on a conference call today, down from a
previous indication of a “low- to mid- single-digit” decline.  Revenue at Argos stores open at least a year fell 9.6
percent in the 13 weeks ended May 28 as consumers reined in
spending amid higher fuel prices and government cutbacks, the
 Milton Keynes , England-based retailer said. Shore Capital
analyst Ramona Tipnis had estimated a 4 percent drop.  “Argos remains under pressure from a weak consumer
environment while the food retailers continue to grab share in
its core markets,” Freddie George, an analyst at Seymour Pierce
in London, wrote in a note to clients. Grocers are increasingly
selling non-food items such as TVs. He has a “hold” rating on
the shares, which traded at 179.1 pence as of 10:14 a.m.  Televisions  “Consumers are continuing to tighten their belts for big-
ticket purchases,” Chief Executive Officer Terry Duddy said on
the call. Duddy is refurbishing 200 Argos outlets in an effort
to stem two years of declining profit at the Argos chain.  About three-quarters of the decline in Argos’s sales was
caused by the consumer electronics category, Ashton said. Sales
of televisions were down 20 percent in the period and video-
games dropped 25 percent, he said.  The decline in television sales at Argos was in line with
the overall market, Ashton said. Argos is the biggest retailer
of televisions in the U.K., selling 1.5 million units last year,
or about one out of every five sold, he said.  “What has changed significantly over this period is that
TV has got significantly worse,” Duddy said.  The CEO said the consensus analyst estimate for full-year
earnings is likely to fall. Estimates of pretax profit for the
year range from 170 million pounds ($280 million) to 230 million
pounds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and an outcome
at the lower end “is entirely likely,” Duddy said.  Argos’s gross margin narrowed by 0.75 percentage point in
the quarter, Ashton said, hurt mostly by unfavorable shifts in
currency rates. Discounting to clear excess inventory hurt
profitability to a lesser extent, the executive said.  Home Retail also owns the Homebase home-improvement chain,
where same-store sales rose 1.6 percent in the quarter. Gross
margins at Homebase narrowed by 0.5 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Jarvis at   pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 