-- 
Asian Stocks Drop on Signs Global Economic Recovery Is Slowing

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-06-09T10:17:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/asian-stocks-fall-on-u-s-economic-slowdown-canon-toyota-newcrest-drop.html
Asian stocks fell, dragging the
regional benchmark index to its lowest level in two weeks, after
the  Federal Reserve  said the U.S. economy is slowing in some
regions, adding to signs the global recovery is weakening.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s biggest supplier of toys to
retailers, fell 1.8 percent in  Hong Kong . Samsung Electronics
Co., the world’s largest maker of televisions and flat-screens
by sales, slid 1.4 percent in Seoul. Tokyo Electric Power Co.
sank 4 percent after power outages at its crippled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant hampered efforts to stop radiation leaks.
Nintendo Co., the maker of Wii video-game consoles, slumped 4.6
percent after UBS AG lowered its rating to “neutral.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent to 132.59 as
of 7:16 p.m. in Tokyo, heading for its lowest close since May 25.
More than five stocks dropped for every four that rose in the
gauge. Some $364 billion has been erased from the market value
of the measure since this year’s peak on May 2, amid
disappointing economic data, capped by a jobs report last week
that showed U.S. companies hired fewer workers than estimated.  “The  U.S. economy  has so far been bolstered by
manufacturers, as consumption, employment and housing were not
good. But people have begun to see a dark cloud over the
manufacturing industry,” said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees
the equivalent of $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co.  Monetary Tightening  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 0.2 percent. The
nation’s economy shrank at an annualized 3.5 percent rate last
quarter after a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11
disrupted factory production, the Cabinet Office said today in
Tokyo. The decline was less than a preliminary estimate that
gross domestic product shrank 3.7 percent in the period.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expected 3 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi Index slid 0.6 percent. Hong Kong’s
 Hang Seng Index (HSI)  dropped 0.2 percent and  China ’s  Shanghai 
Composite Index dropped 1.7 percent amid concern China’s central
bank will continue tightening monetary policy even as the global
recovery falters. A government report due next week is expected
to show the country’s inflation accelerated in May.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent
today. In  New York  yesterday, the index fell 0.4 percent,
sending the gauge to its longest losing streak since February
2009, as raw-material and financial shares slumped amid growing
concern the economy is slowing.  Losing Streak  The Federal Reserve yesterday said the economy expanded at
a “steady pace” in most of the U.S., while it weakened in four
of 12 regions where consumers are contending with higher food
and fuel prices and shortages of auto parts after Japan’s March
disaster disrupted factory output.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index last week capped its longest
streak of weekly losses since the aftermath of the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, as reports showed
manufacturing growth from China, the U.S. and  Europe  slowed in
May, adding to signs the global economy is faltering.  Li & Fung declined 1.8 percent to HK$16.52 in Hong Kong.
Japanese carmaker  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  dropped 2.1 percent to 190
yen.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s biggest automaker by
market value, sank 2.2 percent to 226,500 won in Seoul. Samsung
Electronics, which gets about 22 percent of sales from America,
slid 1.4 percent to 865,000 won.  Nintendo Doubts  Tokyo Electric sank 4 percent to 192 yen, its lowest close
since at least 1974. The No. 1 and No. 2 reactors at the
utility’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant suffered electricity outages
yesterday, hindering work to bring radiation leaks under control.
Power was partly restored today, according to the company. The
said power was restored.  Nintendo slumped 4.6 percent to 16,160 yen, extending
yesterday’s decline. UBS AG cut its rating on the stock to
“neutral” from “buy,” saying it will be difficult to lure
customers to its new Wii model amid competition from smartphones
and other gadgets.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,  Australia ’s No. gold producer,
declined 0.7 percent to A$37.40 in Sydney. The company cut its
full-year gold output forecast for the third time this year
after a power failure interrupted production at its Lihir Island
mine in Papua New Guinea.  Chinese Developers  The Asia-Pacific gauge slid 3.3 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a gain of 1.7 percent by the  S&P 500 
and a drop of 2.5 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark were valued at 13.4 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.9 times for the S&P 500
and 10.9 times for the Stoxx 600.  Chinese real estate companies dropped after the nation’s
money-market rate rose to the highest level this month on
speculation the central bank will lift  interest rates  to help
tame inflation. China’s consumer prices are forecast to rise 5.5
percent in May from a year earlier, the fastest pace since July
2008, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest developer by market
value, sank 2.5 percent to 7.90 yuan in Shenzhen. Smaller rival
Poly Real Estate Group retreated 2.5 percent to 9.30 yuan in
Shanghai.  “The government is likely to increase interest rates again
this year to cool inflation despite economic growth concerns,”
said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China Securities Co. in
Shanghai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .
Toshiro Hasegawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 