-- 
Australia Employers Added Fewer Jobs Than Forecast in May; Currency Drops

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-09T03:32:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/australia-employers-added-fewer-jobs-than-forecast-in-may-currency-drops.html
Australian employers added fewer
workers than economists forecast in May and full-time jobs
declined for a second month, sending the nation’s currency lower
as investors reduced bets on interest-rate increases.  The number of people employed rose by 7,800, the statistics
bureau said in Sydney today. That was lower than the median
estimate for a 25,000 increase in a Bloomberg News survey of 25
economists. The jobless rate held at 4.9 percent.  The local dollar touched the lowest level in two weeks as
traders bet there is a less-than-50-percent chance  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens will increase the developed
world’s highest borrowing costs this year. Stevens kept rates
unchanged at 4.75 percent for a seventh month this week, the
longest pause since 2007, saying households are increasing
savings as consumers show caution in spending and borrowing.  “It is clear that the economy has lost momentum,” said
 Craig James , a senior economist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , the nation’s biggest lender. “For the Reserve Bank,
the safest place is on the interest-rate sidelines.”  The number of full-time jobs fell by 22,000 in May after
dropping 57,200 in April, today’s report showed, the biggest
two-month decline in more than two years. Part-time employment
rose 29,800 last month and  Australia ’s participation rate, which
measures the  labor force  as a percentage of the population over
15 years old, held at 65.6 percent, it showed.  Currency Falls  The Australian dollar fell to $1.0578 as of 12:45 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0623 yesterday in  New York . Investors see a 4
percent chance Stevens will raise rates by a quarter percentage
point next month and gauge there is about a 32 percent chance of
an increase by the end of the year, interest-rate swaps show.  The data “reinforced the downward pressure on the currency
brought about by a less hawkish than hoped for RBA statement
earlier in the week,”  Mitul Kotecha , head of global foreign-
exchange strategy in  Hong Kong  at Credit Agricole SA, wrote in a
report after the release. “The combination of the RBA statement
and weak jobs data has resulted in a major headwind against
further near-term Australian dollar appreciation.”  Stevens said in a June 7 statement after holding rates that
the decision reflects “softened” prices for raw materials and
an  unemployment rate  that’s been little changed near 5 percent.
Consumer prices that were boosted by natural disasters earlier
this year aren’t expected to accelerate much above the RBA’s
inflation target range of 2 percent to 3 percent, he said.  ‘Shocks Dissipate’  “The weather-affected prices should fall back later in the
year, though substantial rises in utilities prices are still
occurring,” Stevens said. “The bank expects that, as the
temporary price shocks dissipate over the coming quarters, CPI
inflation will be close to target over the next 12 months.”  Loans provided by Australian banks and finance companies
were flat in April from the previous month, the RBA said in a
May 31 report. Australia’s household savings rate climbed to
11.5 percent from 9.7 percent in the previous quarter, the
highest level since 2009, a government report showed June 1.  Qantas Airways Ltd., Australia’s biggest carrier, said last
week it expects to cut about 5 percent of cabin crew in its
first buyout program in three years.  About 350 of the carrier’s 7,000 flight attendants will
likely accept a package, the airline said in a June 3 statement.  Government Spending  Further weighing on consumers, the government said last
month it will end 23 years of spending growth to help ease
inflation pressure and support the return to a  budget surplus .  The government said in its budget last month that economic
growth will accelerate to 4 percent in the year to June 30,
2012, from 2.25 percent in the current fiscal year. The
government also predicted unemployment will fall to 4.5 percent
by mid-2013.  The RBA increased rates by 175 basis points from October
2009 through November. In contrast, the U.S. Federal Reserve has
held its benchmark rate near zero since December 2008. That
divergence contributed to a 28 percent increase in the local
dollar versus the U.S. currency in the past 12 months.  The Australian dollar reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest
since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  Australia added 30,900 new positions in the first five
months of this year, the weakest job growth since 2009 and the
second-weakest in a more than a decade, as manufacturing,
services and construction lag behind a  mining industry  that is
expanding to meet Chinese demand for raw materials.  ‘Revised Lower’  “Private investment is picking up, led by very large
capital spending programs in the resources sector, in response
to high levels of commodity prices,” Stevens said in the June 7
statement. “Outside the resources sector, investment intentions
have been revised lower recently.”  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion, are proceeding near the Queensland port of Gladstone.
 Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-largest oil producer, and BG
Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas producer, will start
hiring the first of more than 10,000 construction workers needed
for the two projects later this year.  Australian job advertisements dropped in May by the most in
two years, declining 6.5 percent from April, according to an
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. report this week. The
country recorded its biggest annual job gain on record last
year.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  