-- 
Bair Says U.S. Must Avoid Amnesia in Response to Crisis

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-06-09T15:52:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/bair-defends-capital-buffers-for-banks-saying-u-s-must-avoid-amnesia-.html
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  strongly defended higher capital buffers
for the biggest banks and said U.S. regulators must guard
against pressure to be less vigilant in financial-industry
oversight as the nation recovers from the 2008 credit crisis.  “I see a lot of amnesia setting in now,” Bair said today
during a question-and-answer session at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in New York, where she discussed her tenure at the
FDIC and the government’s response to the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  Bair was asked to respond after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , head of the most profitable  U.S.
bank , pressed Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in a
public forum on June 7 on whether regulators have risked slowing
growth by going too far in reining in the U.S. banking system.  Regulators must look at the relationships among different
rules and may have to phase in regulations on derivatives, Bair
said in an acknowledgement of some agreement with Dimon. In
other areas, such as a 3 percent equity capital buffer for
systemically important firms, the new rules will help protect
the financial system while allowing large banks to earn a
reasonable return, she said.  “On obvious things like higher capital standards, I say
full speed ahead and the higher the better,” Bair said. “Banks
are not doing a lot of lending now, and the ones that are doing
the better job of lending are the smaller institutions that have
the higher capital levels.”  Dodd-Frank Pushback  Financial companies and their lobbyists have pushed back
against restrictions being crafted under the Dodd-Frank Act, the
regulatory overhaul enacted last year in response to the 2008
credit crisis. The U.S. Senate yesterday rejected a bank-backed
effort to delay caps on debit-card swipe fees that could cost
banks including JPMorgan $12 billion in annual revenue.  Dimon asked Bernanke during a question-and-answer session
at a bankers’ conference in Atlanta whether he’s concerned that
overzealous regulation will stymie an economic rebound.  “I have a great fear someone’s going to try to write a
book in 20 years, and the book is going to talk about all the
things that we did in the middle of the crisis to actually slow
down recovery,” Dimon said to the Fed chairman.  Regulators faced political pressure not to be vigilant in
oversight before the financial crisis because banks were so
profitable, and they failed to withstand that pressure, Bair
said. Agencies now have to stand strong against accusations that
the new rules will crimp lending, said Bair, who is leaving the
FDIC next month after her five-year term ends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 