-- 
Baritone Wobbles; Tennant Jests in ‘Much Ado’: London Stage

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/baritone-wobbles-tennant-jests-in-much-ado-london-stage.html
The love-struck heroine of “Simon
Boccanegra” is 25, according to Verdi. If I am doing the math
right, in  English National Opera ’s new production she’s a
pensioner of at least 68.  The director-designer Dmitri Tcherniakov places the
prologue in a set based on Edward Hopper’s 1942 painting
“Nighthawks.” This is where the patrician Fiesco swears
vengeance on the plebeian Boccanegra for seducing his daughter,
and where the public acclaims Boccanegra as mayor.  Boccanegra is usually a charismatic figure. He’s a lover, a
leader. Not here. When roly-poly baritone Bruno Caproni staggers
on in unflattering tight jeans, doing toe-curlingly bad drunk
acting, it’s hard to believe the crowd would welcome him as
their new garbage man, let alone as their new doge.  The next set pushes us forward to a stark contemporary
municipal chamber all in gray. The chorus wears modern clothes
in black and gray colors. Boccanegra’s daughter Amelia (the
youthful soprano Rena Harms) appears, looking oddly like a
disheveled Morticia Addams.  Hold on. Since her birth was mentioned in the previous
scene in 1942, doesn’t that now put Amelia in her late sixties
or even older? Has she discovered the secret of eternal youth?  She twitches. She rocks back and forth in a chair. She
fiddles with her long black hair. She’s neurotic, you see.  Later on she forgets about the rocking. I guess she got
better. Or maybe her memory is going to pot with old age.  Invisible Sword  It’s as consistent and meaningful as everything else in the
production.  “Here is my sword,” sings the tenor, holding out an empty
hand. “Your weapon you may keep,” replies Boccanegra,
presumably referring to some invisible James Bond-type gadget
only he can see.  Come on, guys. Give the poor chump a prop.  On the plus side, things are as good musically as they are
bad visually. Edward Gardner conducts with warmth, clarity and
passion. Tenor Peter Auty (looking distinctly uncomfortable in
tight motorcycle leathers) sings up a Verdian storm as the
firebrand Adorno. Brindley Sherratt and Roland Wood are in top
form as Boccanegra’s enemies, and Caproni brings style and
variety to the demanding title role.  Close your eyes, and you might enjoy it. You’ll avoid
seeing the silly toy paper hat Boccanegra has to put on in his
death scene too.  Rating: **.  Raucous Ado  There are more silly hats, better used, in a new production
of Shakespeare’s “Much Ado About Nothing” starring David
Tennant (“Doctor Who”) as Benedick.  Director Josie Rourke (set to take over as artistic
director of the  Donmar Theatre ) places the action in Gibraltar
in the 1980s amid raucous celebrations after the Falkland
Islands conflict. The setting works well for the most part,
presenting a military society divided along strict class lines.
The usually lumbering comic scenes are spiced up with amusing
Spanish-English misunderstandings.  The transposition fails when it comes to the central crux
of the plot. It hardly seems likely that everyone would get hot
and bothered about a girl’s lack of chastity on a party island
in the 1980s.  Tennant proves once again what a brilliant comic actor he
is, with a unique ability to create intimacy with the audience
during his soliloquies. Catherine Tate is his sparring partner
Beatrice, and if she’s not as rounded or as touching a performer
as Tennant, she still generates laughs with her gaucheness.
They’re supported by a fine ensemble.  Rating: ***.  Donizetti’s Don  One of the great treats of the summer is the opening of the
 Opera Holland Park  season. It kicks off this year with a
charming staging of Donizetti’s “Don Pasquale,” superbly
conducted by maestro Richard Bonynge.  Director Stephen Barlow relocates the action to Margate, a
down-and-out seaside town on the east coast of  England . This is
where Don Pasquale, owner of a fish-and-chip shop, wants to
prevent his nephew Ernesto marrying the vivacious Norina.  It’s all slickly done with plenty of laughs. Even a
misjudged bleak note at the end (a lonely Pasquale appears to
suffer a heart attack on the beach) doesn’t detract from the
many pleasures on offer.  Bel canto star Colin Lee makes a seductive Ernesto, and
Donald Maxwell (Pasquale), Majella Cullagh (Norina) and Richard
Burkhard (Dr. Malatesta) round out a top-notch cast.  Rating: ***.  Gray’s Butley  David Tennant isn’t the only television star to tread the
West End’s boards. Dominic West (from “The Wire”) takes on the
title role in Simon Gray’s 1971 comedy “Butley.”  The antihero is a self-destructive English teacher at a
London university, who drunkenly torments his colleagues and
friends with jealous tirades.  As a piece of drama it’s slight and shapeless, with several
underwritten female roles. As an excuse for a central role full
of brilliant, sharp-tongued asides and waspish wit, it’s a hoot,
and West holds it all together with inventiveness and energy.
It’s a tour de force for him, and I’ll eat my hat if he’s not up
for an award later.  Rating: ***.  “Simon Boccanegra” is in repertoire at ENO. Information:
 http://www.eno.org  or +44-871-911-0200; “Much Ado About
Nothing” is at Wyndham’s Theatre  http://www.muchadoonstage.com 
or +44-844-482-5120. “Don Pasquale” is in repertoire at Opera
Holland Park, sponsored by Investec Wealth & Investment,
 http://www.operahollandpark.com  or +44-300-999-1000. “Butley”
is at the Duchess Theatre  http://www.butleylondon.com  or
+44-844-412-4659.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 