-- 
Barker Disappointed More Women Didn’t Apply for BOE MPC Job

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-06-10T08:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/barker-says-broadbent-is-best-boe-candidate-as-she-laments-dearth-of-women.html
Kate Barker , who helped select Ben Broadbent for the Bank of England’s rate-setting committee, said
she’s “disappointed” more women didn’t apply for the post.  “I really wish we’d had more women, and I can think of
women who I think would be good,” Barker, who served three
terms on the Monetary Policy Committee before leaving last year,
said in an interview. She said some of her time there was “just
odd,” as she was often the only woman at meetings.  Broadbent, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist,
voted in his first decision yesterday, when the bank left its
benchmark interest rate at a record low. While lawmakers in
February called on Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to
appoint a woman to avoid having an all-male panel, only one
applied out of 27 candidates, leaving British monetary policy
decided entirely by men.  Broadbent was the “best candidate,” said Barker, who was
on the interview panel that recommended him. “His background
and his integrity, his approach and strength of analysis are all
the kinds of things that make a really good MPC member.”  Broadbent replaced  Andrew Sentance , who led a yearlong
campaign to raise the interest rate from the current 0.5
percent. Investors today pushed back bets for an increase to May
from April, according to forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average in data from Tullett Prebon Plc.  Strong Arguments  Barker said a successful policy maker must be able to argue
“very, very strongly for their ideas.”  “At the moment you want someone who’s going to make a
really fast start,” whereas “in the mid 2000s there were
periods where life on the committee really wasn’t that
exciting,” she said.  The MPC should have members with experience in financial
services, industry and academia, said Barker, 53, a former chief
European economist at automaker Ford Motor Co. and chief
economic adviser at the  Confederation of British Industry , the
U.K.’s biggest business lobby. Sentance, whom Broadbent
replaced, was previously chief economist at British Airways Plc.  “With Andrew and I both off the committee, you haven’t got
an external member who’s got much of a background in industry,”
Barker said. “But you can’t always get exactly what you want
out of a particular member. We considered all these factors.”  The nine-member committee led by  Mervyn King  conducts its
policy decisions over two days every month, and the meetings
include central bank economists, a Treasury official and others
to record the minutes. For three of her nine years on the panel,
Barker had no female colleagues, and on occasion, all of the
note-takers were male.  ‘Just Odd’  “For quite a lot of the time, when I was the only woman on
the committee, I was the only woman in the room,” she said.
“It’s just odd to spend the whole day in a room with 13 blokes.
It’s not the way the world is. Perhaps it was odd to them too.”  While Barker said she never detected prejudice, felt
“belittled” or that she wasn’t being taken seriously, she
said, “You’ve always got to be on the alert that you’re getting
equal weight and equal treatment.”  Barker was one of four external members of the MPC from
June 2001 to May 2010. Three other women have served on the
panel since the bank got independence in 1997 -- DeAnne Julius,
 Rachel Lomax  and Marian Bell.  During her nine years, Barker grappled with the run at
lender Northern Rock Plc, the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and the onset of the recession.  ‘Slightly Stressful’  Being the only woman “was slightly stressful, but actually
the real stress of that last period was the crisis, so being the
only woman in the room hardly mattered very much and it didn’t
really bother me,” she said.  She attributes the paucity of women at the bank to a lag
because at the time when she studied economics, few of her
female contemporaries took an interest in the subject. “That’s
not true anymore,” she said. Improving the balance is “a
question of time.”  Barker rejected an argument by  Willem Buiter , chief
economist at Citigroup Inc. and a former MPC member, who said
last month the panel should have a majority of external members
to counter “groupthink.”  “The point of the external members is that they shake up
your thinking,” Barker said. “To say that you have to have
five is to suggest that somehow the internals are incapable of
having their thinking shaken up by a good reasoned challenge.
That’s not the case.”  U.K. lawmakers have raised  similar questions  about the
Financial Policy Committee, the new panel for banking stability
chaired by King. Barker said she has “some sympathy” on the
struggle for a balance between internal and external members.  FPC Challenges  “It’s really important, particularly since they’re going
to be covering a wide range of issues where they’ll have to have
a lot of technical knowledge,” she said. “Another obvious
difficulty” will be “getting people on who aren’t perceived to
have a conflict of interest.”  At the MPC, internal members tend to be interested in new
ideas, according to Barker, including King and Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean .  “Charlie is always intellectually curious, the governor is
intellectually curious, most of them are,” she said. “A new
idea comes along, you think it has merit, people look at it,
they take it on board and they incorporate it into their
thinking. I’m not convinced you need five external members.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  