-- 
Fairholme’s Berkowitz Says U.S. Banks Are Stronger, BofA ‘Doing Good Job’

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 
2011-06-09T20:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/berkowitz-says-banks-are-stronger-moynihan-doing-a-good-job-.html
Bruce Berkowitz , chief investment
officer at Fairholme Capital Management LLC, said financial
services companies are “stronger and better than they have been
in a very long time.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Executive Officer Brian T. Moynihan is “doing a good job,” Berkowitz said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television from the  Morningstar Inc. 
investor conference in Chicago. Bank of America, which is among
Fairholme’s biggest holdings, is “making all the right moves.”  Fairholme’s largest stakes include  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  The portfolio, 30 percent of which is bank
securities, has fallen 13 percent so far this year. Berkowitz
was named Morningstar’s domestic stock-fund manager of the
decade last year.  “The trends are getting better,” Berkowitz said of the
financial-services industry. “The problem from 2007 still has a
ways to burn through, but I would say we are more than half way
through the problem now. Now we just have to get rid of the
uncertainty in the environment and get people confidence to move
forward.”  Bank of America’s stock price reflects an “extreme
pessimism” that New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s shares
don’t have, Berkowitz said. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based
bank’s balance sheet and acquisitions of Merrill Lynch & Co. and
Countrywide Financial Corp. are why the lender will continue to
perform, he said.  “They are being killed, being patriotic taking over
Countrywide,” Berkowitz said. “One day it will serve the
purpose of making loans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in New York at
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 