-- 
Bill Miller Loses Market Share as ETF Allocators Reroute Clients

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/bill-miller-loses-market-share-as-etf-allocators-reroute-clients.html
Stephen Cucchiaro is the type of
 money manager  who makes life difficult for  Bill Miller .  The founder and chief investment officer of Windhaven
Investment Management doesn’t dig through balance sheets to pick
stocks, like  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) ’s Miller. He studies markets and
industries, then chooses cheap exchange-traded funds to allocate
client money across asset classes and investment styles,
avoiding mutual funds and their fees.  Cucchiaro, 58, who sold Boston-based Windhaven to San
Francisco’s  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  last year, is part of a growing
field of managers who use ETFs to build stand-alone portfolios
that are grabbing market share from actively managed mutual
funds such as Miller’s  Legg Mason Capital Management Value
Trust. (LMVTX)  Their models helped ETFs attract two-thirds more net cash
than traditional mutual funds in the three years ended Dec. 31.  “ETF asset-allocation products are a permanent share taker
from traditional asset managers like ourselves,” Miller, 61,
wrote in an e-mail response to questions.  Cucchiaro’s firm took in $1.3 billion in net new
investments this year through April 30, bringing the total to
more than $6 billion. Value Trust lost an estimated $218 million
to client withdrawals in the period, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Research firms are starting to monitor asset allocators,
which are hard to track because most don’t offer their products
as funds registered under the 1940 Investment Company Act, the
format mutual-fund companies use to attract clients.  ‘Not a Fad’  Morningstar Inc., the Chicago-based research firm that has
rated mutual funds for more than 20 years, rolled out a database
this month tracking managers offering  asset-allocation  models
with more than 50 percent of their money in ETFs. The list
includes 49 companies overseeing $7.7 billion in 179 products.  Informa Investment Solutions Inc., in  White Plains ,  New
York , which rates the performance of institutional investment
strategies, tracks 269 ETF-based asset-allocation products from
88 firms managing $17.6 billion. New York’s BlackRock Inc., the
largest ETF provider, publishes an annual guide to the field,
the latest edition covering 83 firms and $18 billion.  “The growth in this area is undeniable, and it’s not a
fad,”  Scott Burns , head of ETF research for Morningstar, said
in a telephone interview. “There’s a shift going on from
seeking outperformance on an individual-company basis to seeking
it on a macro basis.”  Most firms oversee less than $1 billion, typically pooling
money into asset-allocation strategies from separately managed
accounts held by high-end clients or financial advisers.  No Mutual Funds  Howard Present, chief executive officer of F-Squared
Investments Inc., in Wellesley,  Massachusetts , divides his U.S.-
focused asset-allocation products into nine ETFs that track the
primary industry segments of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
plus a short-term Treasury ETF.  About 40 percent of F-Squared’s $3 billion in assets come
from financial-advisory firms, such as Birmingham, Michigan-
based Strategic Asset Advisors and CoreStates Capital Advisors
LLC in Newtown,  Pennsylvania .  “We never use mutual funds,” CoreStates CEO William
Spiropoulos said in a telephone interview.  His clients can invest with F-Squared for a fee of 1.25
percent annually, including CoreStates’ cut. He said clients get
better protection against market declines than simply placing
money in an index fund tracking the whole  S&P 500 , and at a
price that’s competitive with actively run funds. The average
expense ratio on U.S.-registered active mutual funds was 1.22
percent at the end of 2010, according to Morningstar, and
advisers typically charge 0.5 percent to 1.5 percent to manage
client assets.  Wealthy Clients  F-Squared teamed with Hartford, Connecticut-based Virtus
Investment Partners Inc. in 2009 to introduce versions of F-
Squared’s products that are packaged as mutual funds. The
newest, the Virtus Premium AlphaSector Fund, opened in July and
gathered $1.69 billion from investors through May 31.  Other managers, including London-based Iveagh Ltd., have
long provided an asset-allocation strategy for a small number of
institutional or high-net-worth clients and recently moved to
widen their customer base with a product geared toward less-
affluent individuals.  The firm was founded in 2006, when the family office that
managed the fortunes of Ireland’s Guinness family took on
partners to offer asset management services to outside
investors. Arthur Edward Guinness, the 41-year-old great-great-
great-great-great-grandson to Arthur Guinness, who founded the
eponymous Dublin brewery in 1759, is the 4th Earl of Iveagh.  Family Office Portfolio  The 229 million-pound ($376 million) Iveagh Wealth Fund,
which can be sold to investors across  Europe , has 50 percent to
60 percent of its assets in ETFs, said Chris Wyllie, the fund’s
co-manager. Opened Sept. 1, 2008, the fund returned 4.1 percent
in the year ended June 3.  “ETFs allow us to replicate a core family office
portfolio,” Wyllie said in an interview. “I’m not sure you
could have done that five years ago.”  State Street Corp. (STT) , the second-biggest provider of ETFs, is
planning new products for the U.S. market using a mutual-fund
structure. The Boston-based firm asked the Securities and
Exchange Commission for permission in an April 1 filing to open
five asset-allocation funds whose managers would make
investments through the company’s SPDR ETF family.  Broker-Dealers  The asset-allocator databases run by Morningstar, Informa
and BlackRock don’t include registered funds like State Street’s
or broker-dealers, which have rolled out their own versions of
the products. San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the third-
largest U.S. broker-dealer by client assets, manages about $7
billion in three ETF-based asset-allocation strategies, Ian
MacEachern, the firm’s head of advisory products, said in an
interview.  Selena Morris, a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit, and James Wiggins, a spokesman for New York’s  Morgan Stanley (MS) , declined to
provide figures for similar products offered by the two firms.  Windhaven’s Cucchiaro said he’s as much an active investor
as Miller, tinkering regularly with the lineup of ETFs in his
portfolios and their weightings. He said his approach makes more
sense than picking individual stocks and bonds.  “Our research shows there’s a lot more inefficiency
between asset classes than within markets, so why not spend your
energy there?” said Cucchiaro, who founded Windhaven,
previously known as Windward Investment Management, in 1994.  Levels of Risk  Active investors typically look for securities whose real
value hasn’t been recognized by other investors for lack of
information. They refer to any deviation between a security’s
price and its intrinsic value as an inefficiency in the market.  Windhaven’s three products aim to capture differing levels
of risk. The largest has $2.9 billion in about 18 ETFs that
include those holding domestic and non-U.S. stocks, corporate
bonds, gold, real estate and Treasuries. It returned an average
of 5.7 percent annually, after fees, over the five years ended
Dec. 31, compared with 2.3 percent for the  S&P 500 Index .  Miller, who beat the S&P for a record 15 straight years
through 2005, topped the index in just one calendar year since:
2009. Value Trust lost an annual 8.1 percent in the last five
years. Assets fell to $3.65 billion as of June 6 from a peak of
$21 billion in April 2007.  Indexing Trend  ETFs have helped fuel the larger trend toward index-based
investments in the past decade. Together, index mutual funds and
ETFs attracted $559 billion in the U.S. in the three years ended
Dec. 31, compared with $244 billion for actively run funds,
according to the ICI. ETFs accounted for $412 billion of the net
deposits.  The new products demonstrate that using ETFs doesn’t mean
an investor’s approach is wholly passive, Martin L. Flanagan,
chief executive officer of Atlanta-based  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , said in a
telephone interview.  “When people think of ETFs, they really start by thinking
of them as modern-day  index funds ,” Flanagan said. “But what
ETFs are and what they can do is really not yet fully
understood.”  Under Flanagan, Invesco purchased PowerShares, the fourth-
biggest U.S. ETF provider, in 2006. The parent company manages
$9 billion in asset-allocation strategies, mainly for
institutional investors, that use ETFs as part of the mix.  Edward C. Bernard , vice chairman of Baltimore-based T.
Rowe Price Group Inc., said he doesn’t believe asset-allocation
products built with ETFs will succeed in the long term.  ‘Market Timing’  “To the extent that some managers are trying to replace
active security selection with active allocation across sectors,
that is another name for market timing,” Bernard said in a
phone interview. “History suggests that is rarely a durable
strategy.”  T. Rowe Price, which doesn’t offer ETFs, limits asset
allocation to its target-date mutual funds. The products shift
to a more conservative mix of investments based on how far a
client is from retirement, and without regard to any short-term
outlook.  Cucchiaro agreed that investors can get hurt if they are
chasing returns based on what’s been hot or cold, especially if
they’re doing it day to day.  “We take a much longer-term view,” Cucchiaro said. “But
an asset allocation that might be perfect today may not be
several months down the road. It’s important for the manager to
respond to a changing world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  