-- 
Biofuels From Algae, Wood Chips Are Approved for Use by Passenger Airlines

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-09T15:58:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/biofuel-from-algae-wood-chips-approved-for-airlines-ata-says.html
Airlines won the backing of a U.S.-
based technical-standards group to power their planes with a
blend of traditional fuel and biofuel from inedible plants, the
 Air Transport Association  said today.  Fuel processed from organic waste or non-food materials,
such as algae or wood chips, may comprise as much as 50 percent
of the total fuel burned to power passenger flights, ATA
spokesman  Steve Lott  and a  Boeing Co. (BA)  official told Bloomberg.  “The real winners of this type of regulatory breakthrough
will be technology companies involved in the production of
aviation biofuels,” said Harry Boyle, an analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance in London. “The biotech-biofuels business
models of  Amyris Inc. (AMRS) ,  Codexis Inc. (CDXS) , Gevo Inc. and Solazyme Inc.
are all making claims to these types of new markets.”  Other biofuels companies that may benefit from opening up
the $139 billion-a-year aviation fuel market are  Neste Oil Oyj (NES1V) 
of  Finland ,  Spain ’s  Abengoa SA  and  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON) ’s UOP unit, which is developing a fuel-making technology.  Officials from Neste, Abengoa weren’t available for
comment.  The decision to amend  jet fuel  specifications to include
fuels from bio-derived sources “is a tremendous accomplishment
for aviation and the result of tremendous collaboration across
the entire industry,” Boeing Vice President of Environment and
Aviation Policy Billy Glover told Bloomberg News in an e-mail.  Carbon-Neutral  “Developing a renewable fuel supply is a critical part of
our industry’s strategy for achieving carbon-neutral growth
beyond 2020 and creating a sustainable future for aviation and
the global community it serves,” Glover said.  The preliminary approval was granted this week by the West
Conshohocken, Pennsylvania-based ASTM International, and it may
allow Airbus SAS and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  to undertake a six-
month trial they plan to start in the coming weeks using one
engine powered 50 percent by biofuel from jatropha, camelina and
animal waste.  Final approval will happen on July 1 at the earliest,
Barbara Schindler, communications director at ASTM, said today
by phone. Airlines will then be able to begin using bio-derived
fuel a week or so thereafter, she said.  Under their Burnfair project, Airbus and Lufthansa plan to
fly using so-called hydrotreated renewable jet fuel every day,
four times a day, from Hamburg to  Frankfurt . Lufthansa is aiming
to blend clean fuel with kerosene at up to 10 percent of the
total by 2020. Airbus estimates airlines may consume 30 percent
of their fuel from plant-derived sources by 2030.  General Electric  The 27-nation European Union is prodding airlines toward
cleaner fuels by forcing them to cap emissions or buy permits
for the excess beginning next year. Aviation accounts for about
2 percent of global carbon-dioxide emissions.  General Electric Co., the world’s biggest jet engine maker
by sales last year, said at a 50 percent blend level it doesn’t
expect to see any impact on engines or operability.  Airbus and Boeing, which together manufacture about 80
percent of the world’s passenger planes, are planning to set up
biofuel production chains across the world. Airbus is working on
a supply hub in  India  where it’s talking with government and
airline officials. Its aim is to form joint ventures and
partnerships with growers, transporters and refiners. Boeing is
negotiating with companies across the supply chain in  South
America . Fuel from inedible plants or waste doesn´t put price
pressure on crops as can fuel from corn, sugar cane or soy.  Honeywell, Indian Oil  Honeywell and Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest
refiner, are planning to establish a pilot biofuel production
plant in India next year, James Rekoske, vice president of
renewable energy at Honeywell’s UOP, said. It would be
Honeywell’s first pilot facility in  Asia  and the companies will
examine the feasibility of using plants such as jatropha and
pongamia to make renewable jet fuel.  “This will be a tens of millions of dollars investment
made by the time we’re done,” Rekoske said. It’s more expensive
to produce diesel from biomass than from crude oil, he said,
estimating the difference at less than $2 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  