-- 
Black Power Wanes Amid Rising Hispanic Economic Clout in U.S.

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-06-09T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/black-power-wanes-amid-rising-hispanic-economic-clout-in-u-s-.html
U.S. Representative Danny Davis sits
in his west side congressional office, long ago the headquarters
of  Sears Roebuck & Co. , and watches black  Chicago  slip away.  The third-largest U.S. city lost 17 percent of its black
population -- 181,000 people -- in the past decade, according to
the Census Bureau. In their place, Hispanics gained 25,000, or
3.3 percent. To explain the seismic shift those numbers
represent in economic and political power, Davis drew on the
words of Chicago blues legend Buddy Guy.  “While you’re steppin’ out, somebody else is steppin’
in,” said Davis, 69, an eight-term congressman and pillar of
Chicago’s black political establishment.  In the city that drew waves of blacks during the Great
Migration of the early 20th century, their descendants barely
remain the largest racial or ethnic group, at 32.4 percent.
Blacks earn less and are more likely to live in poverty than
Hispanics, who make up almost 30 percent of Chicago, a city of
2.7 million that lost 6.9 percent of its population since 2000.  The reversal of fortunes for the two groups is echoed
nationwide, where blacks have fallen to 12.6 percent of the
total  U.S. population  of 308.7 million, and Hispanics have risen
to 16.3 percent. Hispanics are also outpacing blacks
economically: Their median  household income  rose 21.6 percent in
the decade to $40,946, compared with $34,445 for blacks.  Supermajority Lost  Black lawmakers in Illinois and other states have managed
to hold onto most legislative and congressional districts by
giving up their supermajority numbers. The proportion of blacks
in Davis’s district will drop to just more than 50 percent from
65 percent, according to a map approved by the Illinois General
Assembly on May 31.  The mapmakers didn’t eliminate the growing tension between
blacks and Hispanics, who are pushing for boundaries they say
would better reflect their population gains.  “There’s no place to divide us up anymore,” said U.S.
Representative Luis Gutierrez, whose Hispanic-dominant,
horseshoe-shaped district wraps around Davis’s in the center of
Chicago.  The Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund
criticized state legislative boundaries for failing to “create
a sufficient number of districts for Latino electoral
opportunities.” Nina Perales, the group’s vice president for
litigation, stopped short of saying it would challenge the map
in court as it has successfully in the past.  Reversing Great Migration  The population shift in Chicago is part of a nationwide
phenomenon of blacks moving out of cities and into suburbs or
reversing the Great Migration and returning to Southern U.S.
states,  William Frey , a demographer and senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution , wrote in a May 4  report .  “There’s a national trend of black suburbanization, a new
generation of African-Americans who both have more opportunity
and don’t see their future living in cities, like their parents
and grandparents,” Frey said in a telephone interview from
Washington.  The dispersal of the black population may dilute
traditional voting clusters, Frey said.  “As blacks become more a part of the mainstream of
American voters, not only geographically but economically, those
kinds of older blocs will be melted down,” he said.  For the first time, Hispanics now outnumber blacks and
represent the largest minority group in major American cities,
26 percent to 22 percent, according to census data.  No ‘Bloodbath’  Demographers and political analysts expected the past two
rounds of redistricting to produce a “bloodbath” between
blacks and Hispanics, said Arturo Vargas, executive director of
the Los Angeles-based National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials. That didn’t happen in part because the
Hispanic population still has a higher percentage both of non-
citizens and young people who aren’t old enough to vote, Vargas
said.  “Our potential electorate is much smaller right now,” he
said. “We don’t yet have the potential electorate to draw these
lines.”  Gutierrez’s district, which connects Chicago’s Puerto Rican
community on the northwest side and Mexican-American
neighborhoods on the southwest side, offers a glimpse of the
future. The district was 65 percent Latino when he was first
elected in 1992, with 40 percent of those people registered
voters. Today, it’s 75 percent Hispanic, with 60 percent
registered, Gutierrez said.  Fatter Wallets  Hispanics also are strengthening their financial position
at a faster pace than blacks. In Chicago, the median household
income of Hispanics in 2009 was $41,802, up 14 percent over
2000, compared with $30,769 for blacks, up 6 percent over the
same period, according to the Census Bureau’s American Community
Survey. The  poverty rate  for Hispanics in 2009 was 21.6 percent,
compared with 31.7 percent for blacks.  Almost three decades after Chicagoans elected Harold Washington as their first black mayor, the city’s political
landscape has been transformed. In the February mayoral
election, voters elected  Rahm Emanuel , former White House chief
of staff to President  Barack Obama , with 55 percent of the vote.
The next two finishers were Hispanics,  Gery Chico , with 24
percent, and Miguel Del Valle, with 9 percent. Former U.S.
Senator Carol Moseley Braun, the only major black candidate,
received 9 percent of the vote.  ‘Stopped Organizing’  To Davis, a former Chicago alderman who campaigned for
mayor before dropping out and endorsing Braun, the election
results reflected the rising power of the city’s Hispanic
population. Their unity and “sense of nationalism” reminded
him of Chicago’s black community a generation ago before it got
complacent, Davis said.  “African-Americans stopped organizing,” he said in a
telephone interview from his office in Chicago, a city whose
community-organizing culture birthed Obama’s political career.  The importance of organizing waned, Davis said, first when
 Washington  was elected in 1983 and again after Obama won the
White House in 2008. Davis said he heard black constituents say:
“I ain’t going to no meeting. I’m going to watch the Bulls,”
the city’s NBA basketball team.  Davis’s 7th congressional district runs east-to-west from
some of the priciest real estate along the downtown lakefront to
the public housing ghettos described in journalist Alex
Kotlowitz’s book “ There Are No Children Here .” The Chicago
Housing Authority has demolished most of those high-rises,
contributing to the exodus of blacks from the city in what Davis
called “population annihilation.”  Business Graveyard  People aren’t the only ones who have departed from Davis’s
neighborhood, which was devastated by the riots following the
assassination of  Martin Luther King Jr . in 1968. His district
also was once home to Sears, Western Electric, International
Harvester and Allied Radio -- “all of them gone,” Davis said.  In  Illinois , blacks now make up 14.3 percent of the
population, compared with 15.8 percent for Hispanics and 63.7
percent for non-Hispanic whites. Blacks saw their first decline
in total numbers in Illinois in the state’s history, according
to an analysis of the new data by Frey.  Davis sees a similar decline in the political influence of
blacks in his hometown. He delivers his assessment in song,
quoting The Righteous Brothers classic “You’ve Lost That Lovin’
Feeling.”  “Gone, gone, gone,” he sang in his baritone voice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 