-- 
BMW’s $47,000 Jacked-Up Coupe Has Swagger, Muscleman Delts, Abs

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/bmw-s-47-000-jacked-up-coupe-has-swagger-muscleman-delts-abs.html
Put the BMW 1 Series M in a lineup of
small sporty cars, and you’d choose it as the vehicle most
likely to have taken performance-enhancing drugs.  The regular 1 Series is the smallest vehicle in BMW’s
portfolio. A two-door coupe with awkward dimensions, it has a
short body, high roof and wheels pushed out to the extreme
edges. Pricing starts above $31,000.  For the 2011 model year, a special $47,000 performance
model is offered. Dubbed the 1M, it gets a series of steroid
injections from  BMW’s M division , resulting in a mightier
engine, sharper suspension and aerodynamic accents.  The performance-tuning division, M, has a long history of
modifying already-fast Bimmers. No wonder the 1 Series is
suddenly jacked up with Schwarzenegger swagger.  The arches around the wheels bulge, like Arnold-worthy
deltoids, to better accommodate the 19-inch wheels and wider
stance. The front has sprouted a low-hanging fascia with three
air intakes, located below the double grill, evoking a set of
six-pack abs.  The rear gets a similar treatment, with four tailpipes, an
integrated spoiler in the trunk lid, and an air diffuser low
enough to brush the tarmac. The entire car is so anchored to the
ground that it seems to be built from the asphalt up.  The 3.0-liter, six-cylinder motor has twin turbochargers,
which force extra air into the system. It makes 335 horsepower,
35 more than the engine in the already fast 135i. An unfair
advantage over the other M cars which have naturally breathing
engines? You bet. There’s a reason oxygen doping is illegal in
sports.  M3 Wannabe  The most famous M vehicle is the M3, the amplified
variation of the 3 Series coupe and sedan. The original M3 was a
1988 model with 192 horsepower and a curb weight of less than
2,900 pounds. Only 4,000 were made. Talk about a sought-after
car. But like most modern vehicles, the M3 has become larger and
heavier over the generations.  BMW calls the 1M the “spiritual successor” to that
sprightly, first-generation M3. Though longer, taller and wider,
the 1M looks roughly the same size if you tilt your head and
squint. It weighs around 3,300 pounds, ensuring a nimble
attitude around corners, and 60 mph arrives in 4.7 seconds.
That’s the same time as the current V-8-powered M3, which has
414 hp.  This may be the only year that the 1M is made -- BMW says
it has no plans for another model year. If that’s the case,
consider snapping one up, immediately. Fewer than 1,000 will
come to the U.S. I fully expect it to be a sleeper model that
will be coveted in the future.  Few Features  BMW has chosen not to add too many features: It comes in
three colors (white, black and a pleasing orange); the sole
interior is black with contrast stitching; and only two option
packages are available (technology and convenience). With an eye
to saving weight, you can’t get a sunroof either.  Pricing tops out at a not inconsiderable $54,000, and more
than a few potential buyers will think the interior looks
spartan (or cheap) for that sticker. They have a point.  It’s a good thing the driving dynamics are as concentrated
as the looks. It only comes with a six-speed manual, a
terrifically fluid transmission with gears that flow like water.
The clutch is easy too.  I was lucky to have a full day with the car at my favorite
proving ground, the  Monticello Motor Club  in upstate New York. I
know this track almost better than any other, having tested
everything from Ferraris to an F1 racecar here.  Gentle Slides  While the 1M won’t compare to them, it still proved a perky
player. The track has a couple of slow, tight corners which
catch me out every time. Come in too fast and most cars push
wide, taking you off the desired driving line.  The 1M is light enough to maintain a quick pace into these
tough spots. Trust in the superb grip of the tires, the agility
of the aluminum suspension and the ease at which you can both
induce and correct gentle slides.  Rocket in, sling out. Suddenly those corners seem easy.  There’s enough mid-range power that I generally left the 1M
in third gear around the entire South course. That’s the kind of
sweet-spot torque which guarantees a good time on curvy mountain
roads.  After several very hard laps, the brakes were smoking. I
jumped into an M3 for comparison’s sake. That car feels more
serious, it’s true, and there’s no question it has more power.  But it doesn’t allow the same level of latitude as the 1M,
which is light enough that you can attack a corner many
different ways, correcting big mistakes on the fly. Come in hard
in the M3 and make the same error and you’ll likely find
yourself in the dirt.  Who says that the little guy never wins?  The 2011 BMW 1 Series M Coupe at a Glance  Engine: 3.0-liter, twin-turbo, inline 6-cylinder, with 335  horsepower and 332 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.7 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 19 city; 26 highway.  Price as tested: $54,085.  Best feature: All that muscle in a constrained frame.  Worst feature: Spare interior.  Target buyer: The Bimmer lover who can’t find an original  1988 M3.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 