-- 
BMW Plans to Invest 500 Million Pounds for Mini Assembly

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-06-09T07:26:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/bmw-plans-to-invest-500-million-pounds-for-mini-assembly-1-.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , plans to invest 500
million pounds ($821 million) in the next three years, as it
prepares U.K. factories for new Mini models.  Most of the spending will be at the Mini plant in Oxford,
and the plans will take the automaker’s total investment in U.K.
operations to more than 1.5 billion pounds since 2000, the
Munich-based company said today in a statement.  “The Mini brand has made a significant contribution to BMW
Group’s success in markets around the world,” Chief Executive
Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said. “We anticipate that this will
grow further in the future.”  BMW aims to expand the Mini lineup to seven models, with a
coupe version planned for this year. A roadster is due to follow
in 2012, and the company is developing a production version of
the Paceman concept that was shown at the Detroit auto show this
year. Both the Mini roadster and coupe will be manufactured in
Oxford, the company has said.  European auto executives are in  London  today for a meeting
of the European Auto Manufacturers’ Association. Nissan Motor
Co. said yesterday that it will build the next generation of the
Qashqai crossover vehicle at its Sunderland, England, plant,
investing 192 million pounds.  The Yokohama, Japan-based automaker will also spend 420
million pounds to prepare the factory to build its Leaf electric
car beginning in 2013 and to set up a separate facility to make
batteries.  Nissan said its investment will help secure about 6,000
jobs. BMW said its plans will safeguard about 5,000 jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  