-- 
Bankrupt Borders Group Chain Looking to Liquidate Assets at 51 Stores

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-06-09T16:55:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/borders-group-seeks-to-liquidate-assets-at-51-stores-amid-sale-negotiation.html
Borders Group Inc. (BGP) , the bankrupt
bookstore chain, seeks court permission to liquidate assets at
another 51 stores, even as it negotiates with landlords and
lenders to avoid doing so.  Closing the stores, including those at New York’s JFK
International Airport and  Penn Station , will result in a
“significant loss of jobs” and may not give the best returns
to creditors, Borders said. It plans to try to shorten the list
of stores if it can bargain more concessions from landlords.
Meanwhile, its bankruptcy loan requires it to prepare for
closing all 51 stores under certain deadlines or risk a default,
Borders said in court papers filed today.  “This leaves the debtors with a Hobson’s choice: the
debtors can proceed with store-closing sales at these stores
under these unfortunate circumstances or, if they refuse to do
so, risk being placed into default,” lawyers for Borders wrote
in the papers in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  Mary Davis , a spokeswoman for  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based
Borders, said the company expects far fewer stores to close.  “We are actively working with our landlords to obtain the
required stipulations,” including an extension of the 210-day
window given to bankrupt companies to assume or reject leases,
she said.  Potential Bids  Borders said closing the stores means it won’t be able to
sell them. Najafi Cos., a private-equity firm, is considering
buying many Borders stores, a person familiar with the matter
said yesterday. Gores Group LLC, a Los Angeles-based private-
equity firm, is bidding for at least half of Borders’s stores,
another person familiar with the matter said June 1.  “If they close all 50 stores, and say that includes some
of their best, Najafi or Gores may say, ‘why would I want the
remaining stuff?’” said Schuyler Carroll, a partner at law firm
Perkins Coie LLP in New York who specializes in bankruptcy. That
could increase the risk for liquidation of the entire chain, he
said.  Borders, though, should be able to get more time from
lenders if it can show Najafi and Gores would want some of those
stores, said Carroll, who isn’t involved in the case.  Borders was founded 40 years ago as a single used-book
store. The company, the second-largest book chain after  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS) , had 642 stores in February when it filed for court
protection. It closed 237 of them, leaving 405 still operating.  $505 Million Loan  When Borders filed for bankruptcy, it took out a $505
million loan from a group of lenders led by General Electric
Co.’s GE Capital unit, saying it needed the money to cover
immediate expenses if it was to keep operating and reorganize.  Borders will pursue two paths as it seeks to avoid
liquidating the stores. While seeking bankruptcy court
permission to sell furniture, fixtures and equipment through a
liquidator, the company asked lenders for a grace period until a
court hearing around July 21 that could allow a sale of the
entire business.  The lenders are still considering the proposal, Borders
said. The company plans to choose a liquidator for the stores by
June 16, after selecting a starting bid by June 15, according to
court papers. Store-closing sales would have to begin by June 22
to avoid a default on the bankruptcy loan.  At the 51 sites, which include some of Borders’s most-
profitable stores, the company hasn’t been able to get landlords
to extend a deadline to assume or reject leases. Borders can’t
assume the property leases itself because creditors said they
would object, company lawyers wrote.  “A combination of Amazon.com Inc., other Borders shops,
Barnes & Noble, independents, digital and mass merchants will
absorb the majority of ‘lost’ sales from closed Borders
locations,” Peter Wahlstrom, an analyst at Morningstar
Investment Services, said in an e-mail.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  