-- 
Brazil Concerned UN Action on Syria May Inflame Middle East

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-09T18:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/brazil-concerned-un-action-on-syria-may-inflame-middle-east.html
Security Council  member Brazil is
concerned that  United Nations  intervention in Syria might
aggravate tensions in the Middle East and lead to a repetition
of the type of stalemated conflict raging in Libya, Foreign
Minister Antonio Patriota said today.  Brazil, Latin America’s biggest economy, gave its first
response to a draft resolution introduced yesterday in the 15-
member UN  Security Council  that would condemn repression of
anti-government protesters and demand an end to the violence in
Syria.  “Syria is a very pivotal country when you look at Middle
East stability,” Patriota told reporters at the UN in New York.
“The last thing we want to do is to contribute to exacerbating
tensions in what could be considered one of the most tense
regions in the world.”  Brazil , which abstained from the council vote authorizing
use of military force against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s
regime, hasn’t decided whether to support the text on Syria
drafted by Britain, France,  Germany  and Portugal, he said.  South Africa  is the only other Security Council member
whose position on the draft resolution is unclear. The four
European sponsors are confident they have the backing of the
U.S., Colombia, Bosnia, Gabon and Nigeria. Council members
 China , Russia, Lebanon and  India  have signaled they are unlikely
to support the text.  The influx of Syrians into neighboring Turkey surged
overnight as 1,050 people crossed the border to escape an
escalation of President Bashar al-Assad’s crackdown on
protesters. Security forces have killed more than 1,100 people
since mid-March, according to human rights groups.  Arab League Position  Patriota said that while Brazil is concerned with the
violence in Syria, his government is influenced by the lack of
Arab League support for UN involvement and the implementation of
the resolution that authorized the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s air attacks on the Qaddafi regime.  “Action on  Libya  was driven to a great extent by the Arab
League position and calls for action by the Security Council,”
Patriota said. “In this case the message coming from the region
is less clear. It is not clear at all that Lebanon, the one Arab
member of the Security Council, would be supportive of this
initiative.”  He called the Arab League perspective “fundamental” to
Brazil’s evaluation of the situation, and noted the Assad
regime’s “readiness to undertake political reforms.”  The situation in Syria is “very different” from Libya,
Patriota said. Suggesting that Brazil believes NATO has exceeded
the UN mandate to protect civilians in Libya, he said Brazil
thinks NATO should “strictly observe the language and spirit”
of the resolution to authorize military action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  New York  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  