-- 
Brazil May Miss Carbon Emission Targets With Forestry Bill

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-06-09T21:28:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/brazil-may-miss-carbon-emission-targets-with-forestry-bill.html
A bill that changes the way Brazilian
forests are managed will prevent the nation from meeting its
target to cut  carbon emissions , said  Marina Silva , a former
presidential candidate and environment minister.  If passed in its current form, the legislation would
forgive farmers for illegally clearing as much as 30 million
hectares (74 million acres) of protected rain forest, Silva, 53,
said in an interview yesterday, citing data from a recent  study 
by government research agency  Instituto de Pesquisa Economica
Aplicada , known as IPEA. That’s about the size of the
 Philippines .  Brazil, which will host the United Nations Earth Summit in
 Rio de Janeiro  next year, plans to cut deforestation in its
Amazon by 80 percent and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by as
much as 39 percent by 2020. The voluntary target was announced
in 2009 during climate talks in Copenhagen by  Dilma Rousseff ,
Brazil’s president who was then cabinet chief.  “It’s a very bad signal,” Silva said in the interview at
the Bloomberg office in  Sao Paulo . “Brazil committed to
reducing carbon-dioxide emissions in Copenhagen and to meet this
target, deforestation must keep on falling.”  Illegal logging has more than quadrupled in center-west
state Mato Grosso, and is “out of control” in Rondonia and the
southern Amazon region, as farmers and ranchers anticipate the
law will pass and illegal logging will be pardoned, she said.  Pardoning Farmers  The mentality amongst farmers is that “If I’m pardoned now
I can carry on deforesting because I’ll be pardoned again in the
future,” Silva said.  The bill, which was approved by the house in a 410-63 vote
on May 24, alters parts of Brazil’s 1965 forestry code. It’s now
being discussed in the Senate.  Silva, who won 19.6 million votes in last year’s
presidential election as Brazil’s Green Party candidate, spent
her childhood tapping rubber trees in the Amazon  rain forest  and
worked as a maid before entering politics. She was a senator
from 1994 to early 2011 and served as environmental minister
from 2003 and 2008, according to her official  website .  Tons of Emissions  Brazilian ranchers have have cut down trees on 159 million
hectares of land that should have left untouched, Fabio Alves, a
specialist for Brasilia-based IPEA, said in a phone interview.
If it were all to be replanted, Brazil would sequester 18.6
billion tons of carbon dioxide, enough to fulfill its Copenhagen
obligations for the next 18 years.  The percentage of rural land that farmers needs to keep
pristine under Brazil’s existing forestry code varies from 80
percent in parts of the Amazon to 20 percent in the swampy
Pantanal region, he said.  If the bill is amended in the Senate to include an amnesty
for larger farms, “which is likely,” Alves said, the pardon
would extend to 48 million hectares, about the size of  Cameroon ,
according to the report. “Those farmers wouldn’t be required to
pay fines or replant what’s been cut,” he said.  Brazil’s emissions target calls for an annual cut of about
1 billion tons of carbon dioxide equivalent a year, with two
thirds coming from reduced deforestation, according to IPEA.  Renewables an ‘Opportunity’  Brazil has the land and water resources to increase its
production of biofuels and hydroelectricity sustainably, if the
projects comply with environmental regulations, Silva said.  About 63 percent of planned dams in the country are in the
Amazon, she said. They don’t need to threaten biodiversity as
long as they’re “environmentally viable,” which can’t be said
of  Brazil ’s Belo Monte dam project that may lead to the flooding
of 516 square kilometers (199 square miles) of Amazon forest,
she said.  Brazil has more than 22 million hectares of “abandoned,”
land in the Amazon, that could be used to produce power and
crops, she said. “If Brazil uses all of this,” the nation
could be “a big producer without having to rob forests,” she
said.  Between 2000 and 2010, about 183,000 square kilometers of
Amazonian rainforest were cleared, 35 percent of which was in
the Mato Grosso, Brazil’s biggest soy-producing state and a
popular destination for new ethanol projects, the National
Institute for Space Research said on its  website .  Soybean oil  is
a raw material for biodiesel, which is used by Brazil’s heavy
vehicles.  “Renewable energy comprises a big opportunity in Brazil
with its flex-fuel cars, with ethanol, with biofuels,” as long
as you “respect the legislation,” Silva said.  Mato Grosso planted 6.4 million hectares of soybeans during
the 2010 to 2011 season, up 2.8 percent from the previous
harvest, according to Associacao Brasileira das Industrias de
Oleos Vegetais, Brazil’s oilseed processors association.  Brazil has 118 gigawatts of power capacity in operation,
and 67 percent of that comes from large hydroelectric dams,
according to electricity regulator Agencia Nacional de Energia
Eletrica.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Charles Siler at 
 csiler@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  