-- 
Pound Rises on Narrower Trade Deficit; BOE Keeps Interest-Rate Unchanged

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T11:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/british-pound-weakens-versus-euro-before-bank-of-england-ecb-decisions.html
The pound rose against the yen as a
report showed the U.K. trade deficit narrowed more than forecast
in April and the Bank of England kept its benchmark interest
rate on hold.  Sterling strengthened against 11 of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg. The U.K. currency was within a penny of a
one-month low versus the euro amid speculation the  European
Central Bank  will signal it may increase rates as soon as next
month. The Bank of England kept interest rates at a record low,
as predicted by all 55 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The sharp improvement in the U.K. balance of late is
potentially significant for sterling,” Adrian Schmidt, a
currency strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in  London ,
wrote in an investor report today. “An improvement in the trade
picture may mean sterling outperforms.”  The pound climbed 0.3 percent to 131.40 yen and was little
changed at $1.6403 as of 12:02 p.m. in London. The U.K. currency
traded at 88.95 pence per euro from 88.90 pence yesterday in  New
York . It rebounded yesterday after touching 89.76 pence, the
weakest level since May 5.  U.K. 10-year government bonds rose, with the 10-year yield
two basis points lower at 3.27 percent. The two-year yield was
little changed at 0.85 percent.  The goods-trade gap was 7.4 billion pounds compared with
7.7 billion pounds in March, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today.  Before today, sterling fell against the euro on all but one
day this month as investors added to bets that the central bank
will keep interest rates on hold while the government reduces
spending to trim Britain’s deficit.  BOE Rates Hold  Sterling has weakened 3.6 percent against the euro this
year amid signs that the government’s austerity drive is damping
growth and will compel the  Bank of England  to keep interest
rates on hold. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
two days ago he rejected calls for a “Plan B” to scale back
his deficit-reduction plan. The  International Monetary Fund  said
it endorsed the government’s strategy, while cautioning that the
U.K. faces risks to growth and employment.  The Bank of England has kept its main interest rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent since March 2009, and bought 200 billion
pounds of bonds under a so-called quantitative-easing program
that ended in January 2010. Traders are speculating that policy
makers will hold interest rates until April, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc data showing forward contracts on the
sterling overnight interbank average. As recently as February,
investors bet the rate would be lifted last month.  Short-Sterling Futures  “Markets have started to price in a more reasonable
expectation of Bank of England policy and that’s tended to weigh
on sterling,” said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  The yield on short-sterling futures for June 2010 fell
three basis points to 1.22 percent, signaling investors were
curbing bets for higher borrowing costs.  The pound strengthened against the euro after the last Bank
of England decision on May 5, when policy makers kept the
benchmark rate unchanged, as ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled euro-area interest-rate increases may be later than
expected.  The ECB is likely to “press on” with raising rates today,
said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-region economist at BNP Paribas SA
in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  