-- 
California Budget Dispute Heads for Showdown

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/brown-s-tax-program-heads-for-showdown-as-california-budget-deadline-looms.html
Committees in  California ’s Democrat-
controlled Legislature passed spending plans including $8.1
billion of higher taxes opposed by Republicans, setting up a
budget showdown as a constitutional deadline approaches.  Budget panels in the  Senate  and  Assembly  approved Governor
 Jerry Brown ’s proposal along party lines. The votes late
yesterday sent the plans to the floor of each chamber for a
decision. Brown, a Democrat, wants lawmakers to temporarily
extend expiring taxes and fees pending a statewide vote.  California, the world’s eighth-largest economy, may run out
of cash if there’s no  budget  by July 1, forcing it to issue IOUs
as it did in 2009. Under the constitution, tax increases require
approval by two-thirds of lawmakers. Democrats are four votes
short of that. Republicans have vowed to block passage.  The action “was a complete facade,” said Jim Nielsen, the
ranking Republican on the Assembly Budget Committee. “There is
nothing in this budget ‘framework’ that is worthy of support.”  Brown, 73, took office in January on a pledge to fix the
fiscal malfunctions that have left California with the lowest
credit rating of any state from  Standard & Poor’s . He began the
year with a $26 billion deficit. Since then, spending cuts
approved in March and better-than-projected revenue shrank the
gap to $10 billion.  Brown’s plan relies on keeping a 1 percentage-point boost
in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25 percent, and a 0.5 percentage
point increase in auto registration fees to 1.15 percent of a
vehicle’s value. It also seeks to extend a reduction of the
annual  child tax credit  to $99 from $309.  Temporary Taxes  All were put in place temporarily in 2009 and are to expire
by July 1. Brown wants the Legislature to approve the tax
extension now and ask voters later, possibly in September, to
extend the levies for five years.  Republicans would let the taxes expire and ask voters later
if they should be reinstated. Under that scenario, the $10
billion deficit would be erased with spending cuts. If voters
decide to restore the taxes, the cuts would be reversed. Voters
in May 2009 refused to extend the same tax and fee increases.  “This document assumes we will get at least four
Republican votes,” said Assembly Budget Committee Chairman Bob Blumenfield, a Democrat from  Van Nuys . “A vote for this package
is a vote for economic stability. It’s also a hard vote, but a
necessary vote.”  California’s constitution requires lawmakers to send a
budget to the governor by June 15. The Legislature has met that
deadline five times in the last 30 years.  Withholding Lawmakers’ Pay  There are differences this year. In November, voters
lowered the threshold to pass a budget to a simple majority from
two-thirds. The same measure also stripped lawmakers of salary
and per-diem pay for every day they’re late with the spending
plan.  Brown has been meeting behind closed doors since March with
Republican lawmakers to craft a compromise. The governor’s tax
extension, a so-called bridge tax, is the major sticking point,
said his spokesman,  Gil Duran .  “The governor’s focus has been on a temporary tax
extension to bridge the time gap between a vote on the budget
and a vote of the people,” Duran said in an e-mail.  A poll released June 2 found that more than two-thirds of
Californians want a chance to vote on Brown’s plan, though most
would reject the taxes. The  Public Policy Institute of
California  said only 46 percent of likely voters support the
specific taxes and fees. The poll had a margin of error of plus
or minus 3.6 percentage points for all adults and 4.3 percentage
points for likely voters.  “There are Republican votes to put this up for a vote,”
said Bob Huff, a Republican from Walnut who is vice chairman of
the Senate budget committee. “There are no votes for a bridge
tax. We would call that a bridge too far.”  Concessions for Republicans  Republicans have jockeyed for concessions on spending
levels, pensions and business and environmental regulations.  They want a permanent spending cap that would limit future
budgets, through a formula tied to inflation and  population
growth , with excess revenue in growth years used for a so-called
rainy day fund and to pay down debt.  Republicans also want to dismantle the state’s public
pension system, which guarantees benefit levels regardless of
investment returns. They would replace it with a hybrid that
includes elements of a traditional plan and a 401(k) account,
where beneficiaries bear more of the  investment risk .  The Republicans also want to reduce environmental
regulations they say hamper business growth.  If California lawmakers can’t agree on eliminating what’s
left of the deficit, Controller John Chiang has said the state
may be forced to pay bills with IOUs for the second time in
three years, potentially driving down the state’s credit rating
and pushing borrowing costs higher.  The state issued $2.6 billion in IOUs in 2009 while waiting
for lawmakers to pass a spending plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  