-- 
Camel Cull Plan May Help Australia Generate Carbon Credits

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-06-09T07:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/camel-cull-plan-may-help-australia-generate-carbon-credits-1-.html
Killing wild camels in  Australia  may
help the nation generate carbon credits under a plan proposed by
Northwest Carbon, a land and animal management consultant, with
climate legislation to be debated next week.  The culling of wild animals is “a critically important
part of the solution to climate change and bringing Australia
along with the rest of the global community in reducing
emissions,” Northwest Managing Director Tim Moore said in an
interview with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s “On
the Move Asia.”  Australia is considering three submissions as part of its
Carbon Farming Initiative legislation to generate credits for
sale to companies wanting to offset their pollution. The bill
will be debated in parliament next week, Climate Change Minister
 Greg Combet  said June 7. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  wants to
set a price on emissions starting July 2012 before a trading
system that could begin as early as 2015.  “It sounds like a high-cost way” of curbing emissions,
Tony Owen, academic director of University College London’s
School of Energy and Resources in  Adelaide , Australia, said in a
telephone interview today. “We’ve really got to move into the
big league where we look at life changing technology.”  Flatulence from wild camels in Australia may exceed 1.9
million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent by 2020 as the
population swells beyond 2 million, according to a submission
from Northwest posted on the Department of  Climate Change  and
Energy Efficiency  website .  ‘Significant Contributor’  Camels were  introduced  to the country in the 1800s to
provide transport through inland Australia and the supply of
goods to remote mines and settlements, according to the
Department of Sustainability, Environment, Water, Population and
Communities. The population is estimated at about 1 million and
forecast to double in nine years, the department said.  “By 2020, that’s 2 million tons of greenhouse gas
emissions going into the atmosphere every year,” Northwest’s
Moore said from Adelaide. “We’re talking about a significant
contributor to global climate change.”  Northwest proposes culling the camels by shooting them, or
mustering the animals and sending them to an abattoir, according
to its submission. The meat will then be processed for animal or
human consumption.  In 2009, CNBC newsreader Erin Burnett called former
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  a “serial killer” after
the government announced a plan to cull tens of thousands of
wild camels each year. They are estimated to cause more than A$5
million ($5 million) in damage to pastoral lands, fences and
buildings annually, the government department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  