-- 
Can Congress Learn to Love a 3:1:1 Deal for Growth?: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-06-09T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/can-congress-learn-to-love-a-3-1-1-deal-for-growth-ezra-klein.html
Economist David Autor recently
introduced me to a delightfully depressing concept: “now-more-
than-everism.” Credit for the coinage goes to  Larry Summers ,
the former U.S. Treasury secretary who is also former director
of the National Economic Council, but anyone who follows
politics will recognize the premise.  “Here’s how it works,” Autor wrote in an e-mail. “1. You
have a set of policies that you favor at all times and under all
circumstances, e.g., cut taxes, remove regulations, drill-baby-
drill, etc. 2. You see a problem that needs fixing (e.g., the
economy stinks). 3. You say, ‘We need to enact my favored
policies now more than ever.’”  There’s a lot of now-more-than-everism in Washington these
days, at a time when we can afford it even less than usual. The
recovery is sputtering. Unemployment is back above 9 percent.
Economic growth projections are being revised downward. Yet
neither political party is promoting policies crafted to address
the crisis. Instead, each party calls for the same prescriptions
they would offer in an economy with 6 percent unemployment and 3
percent gross domestic product growth.  Consider the big economic speech that  Tim Pawlenty , a
Republican presidential candidate, delivered this week. Tax
cuts? Check. Declaration of war on regulations? Check. Balanced
budget amendment? Uh-huh. Anything that the GOP wouldn’t have
championed in 2006? Not a thing. Back in 1996? Nope.  Stimulus Plans  The same goes for the “jobs plan” that  House Republicans 
introduced a few weeks ago. The menu included tax cuts, trade
agreements, regulatory reform, domestic energy production, more
visas for highly skilled immigrants and vague spending cuts. It
omitted anything designed to address a specific economic crisis
in the specific country that Republicans happen to be trying to
govern right now.  The Democrats are little better. They believe the economy
needs more stimulus -- the  Congressional Budget Office  estimates
that the 2009 stimulus increased employment by more than 1.2
million jobs -- but they’ve stopped pushing for it.  They know the housing market remains in crisis, but they’re
not doing much about it. The smartest among them know that the
 Federal Reserve  needs to lean harder into the recovery, but,
unlike the Republicans who loudly oppose the Fed’s
interventions, they’re not making a big deal out of it. In other
words, we’ve got one party without solutions and another party
that’s given up promoting them.  Both sides have their excuses, of course. Republicans say
that deficit reduction is all that matters now. When they’re
being more honest, they say that spending restraint is all that
matters, and  deficit reduction  is a desirable secondary effect.  Job Creation   Democrats say that stimulus spending might be good for job
creation and the economy, but that actually proposing
legislation would accomplish nothing, because such proposals
would be rejected by House Republicans or filibustered by Senate
Republicans.  The two parties protest too much. In reality, they could
help each other achieve their goals -- and help the economy in
the process.  The Democrats’ desire for stimulus, for instance, gives the
GOP leverage to extract concessions. In return for stimulus now,
Democrats would probably agree to the kind of deep spending cuts
and long-term deficit reduction that they normally oppose. For
Republicans, more stimulus now could mean much more deficit
reduction later.  Calming Fears  For the Democrats, agreeing to deficit reduction later
would also help make a stimulus more effective now. It would
calm fears about federal spending, demonstrate that the
government can overcome political paralysis and encourage
businesses to take advantage of short-term tax incentives by
confirming that  Washington  won’t be handing out more goodies
once recovery takes hold.  Imagine a 3:1:1 compromise. For every three dollars in
spending cuts between 2013 and 2022, there would be one dollar
in tax increases, along with one dollar in stimulus prior to
2013. If  Republicans  were willing to be flexible on the precise
nature of the spending cuts, I bet they could get Democrats to
accept a 4:1:1 ratio of even deeper cuts. A commitment to
stimulus would lure liberals to support the spending cuts in the
deal, helping a bill pass Congress while neutering the 2012
campaign attacks that Democrats will otherwise wage against the
cuts in the House Republican budget.  This sort of policy deal wouldn’t make sense in ordinary
times.  Why should Democrats give up three or four dollars in
spending later for one dollar in spending now? Why should
Republicans accept further stimulus now when deficits and
federal spending are already sky high? In ordinary times, a
policy deal like this would never happen. But with 15 million
unemployed Americans and with extremely low  interest rates  on
federal debt, these times are far from ordinary, making this the
kind of compromise that we need now more than ever.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  