-- 
Canadian Dollar Advances as U.S. Trade Gap Narrows, Crude Oil Prices Rise

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-09T21:11:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/canadian-dollar-rises-on-oil-s-gain-as-ecb-keeps-its-policy-rate-unchanged.html
The Canadian dollar gained against
the greenback as a narrowing April trade deficit in the U.S.,
the nation’s largest trading partner, overshadowed  Canada ’s
unexpected trade gap.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, gained against 15
of its 16 most-traded counterparts as crude oil, Canada’s
biggest export, and stocks rose. The Canadian currency
strengthened versus the euro after the  European Central Bank 
signaled a July rate increase while damping investor
expectations for further moves by reiterating a forecast that
inflation will fall below its 2 percent limit next year.  “The merchandise trade number was overshadowed by the U.S.
as well as comments by Trichet,” said  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada in
Toronto. “As always, as the adage goes, good U.S. economic data
has a positive influence for Canada on the crosses.”  The Canadian currency gained 0.6 percent to 97.30 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.93 yesterday. It
earlier touched 98.13 cents. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0278.  Crude oil for July delivery climbed 1.1 percent to $101.87
a barrel in New York after touching $102.44, its highest price
since June 1. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.7
percent, ending six consecutive days of losses.  Trade Impact  The loonie rose after  U.S. trade deficit  unexpectedly
narrowed in April, reflecting a plunge in auto and oil imports
combined with record exports. The gap shrank 6.7 percent to
$43.7 billion, the lowest since December, according to Commerce
Department figures today in  Washington . Economists forecast a
$48.8 billion gap, the median from a Bloomberg News survey.  Canada’s trade deficit was C$924 million ($945 million) in
April, the widest in six months, Ottawa-based Statistics Canada
said today. Economists forecast a C$600 million surplus, the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 24 economists. The
March trade balance was revised to show a C$417 million deficit
instead of an earlier estimated C$627 million surplus.  “Overall, it does not change much to the U.S.-dollar-
Canada-dollar picture and is just another negative surprise that
we have had recently,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London . “The
impact of such surprises is decreasingly important as the impact
of the Japanese catastrophe is priced in as is increasingly the
potential for the current economic slowdown.”  Bonds Fall  Government bonds  dropped, pushing the yield for the 10-year
benchmark note up three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 3.03 percent. The 3.25 percent security that expires in June
2021 fell 27 cents to C$101.85.  The Canadian new home price index rose 0.3 percent in
April, Statistics Canada said today in a separate report. That
compared with an estimated increase of 0.1 percent, according to
the median economists’ forecast from a Bloomberg News survey.
The index was unchanged in March. From a year earlier, new  home
prices  gained 1.9 percent, the report showed.  The loonie strengthened 1.2 percent to C$1.4118 per euro
from C$1.4284 yesterday, as the ECB left its main refinancing
rate at 1.25 percent, matching expectations from all 52
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The ECB raised borrowing costs in April for the first time
in almost three years, and economists surveyed before today
expected it to take the benchmark rate to 1.75 percent, the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey, in October. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the central bank hadn’t
raised next year’s inflation forecast from 1.7 percent, fueling
speculation it won’t increase rates as quickly as previously
expected.  Classic Pattern  “When it comes to euro-Canadian dollar, the market is in a
classic buy the rumor sell the news price action after Trichet’s
comments,” said  Kathy Lien , director of foreign-exchange
research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “The
ECB is the only central bank raising  interest rates  right now,
and that should keep euro-Canadian dollar supported. It
shouldn’t see any deeper losses beyond 1.41.”  A  Statistics Canada  report tomorrow may show Canadian
employers added 20,000 jobs to payrolls in May, the median
forecast from a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
 unemployment rate  in Canada may have stayed at 7.6 percent.
Employers added 58,300 jobs in April.  “That’s going to be a very important piece of data to
watch,” Lien said. Based on the more-than-projected increase in
the Ivey purchasing managers index on June 6, “the labor market
has improved, manufacturers added jobs at a faster pace. There
could be some position adjustments in the Canadian dollar ahead
of the employment report with some traders buying the CAD
anticipating a stronger number tomorrow,” she said.  The Ivey purchasing managers index in May increased to 65.5
on a seasonally adjusted basis, a statement on the University of
Western Ontario business school’s website showed on June 6.
Readings of more than 50 signal purchasing by governments and
companies advanced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  