-- 
Canada Reports Unexpected C$924 Million April Trade Gap, Revises Exports

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-06-09T13:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/canada-reports-unexpected-c-924-million-april-trade-gap-revises-exports.html
Canada  had an unexpected trade
deficit in April on a drop in foreign sales of transportation
equipment such as aircraft. Statistics Canada also revised data
for the prior two months, turning surpluses into deficits.  The trade gap was C$924 million ($945 million) in April,
the widest in six months, the Ottawa-based agency said today.
Economists forecast a C$600 million surplus according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 24 economists.  The March  trade balance  was revised to show a C$417 million
deficit instead of an earlier estimated C$627 million surplus,
and the February figure was changed to a C$216 million deficit
from a C$356 million surplus. The January surplus estimate was
increased to C$2 billion from C$1.4 billion.  Statistics Canada 
said most of the changes were due to delayed reporting of oil
and gas shipments.  “To slice a billion off the  trade surplus , that’s a pretty
hefty revision,”  Robert Kavcic , a Bank of Montreal economist in
Toronto, said of the net change over the last few months. “The
second quarter is definitely going to be quite a bit slower than
the first.”  Canada’s economic growth rate will slow to 2 percent this
quarter from 3.9 percent between January and March in part
because of auto production disruptions linked to natural
disasters in Japan, the Bank of Canada  predicts . The trade
balance has recovered from a record deficit of C$2.3 billion set
in September.  Exports Drop  The Canadian dollar rose 0.1 percent to 97.81 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 9:42 a.m. in Toronto from 97.93 yesterday. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0224.  Exports fell 1.9 percent to C$36.3 billion in April, led by
machinery and equipment such as aircraft, Statistics Canada said
today.  Imports fell 0.6 percent to C$37.2 billion in April, as the
disruptions in Japan triggered a 21.9 percent drop in
automobiles and car frames to C$1.6 billion.  The volume of imports, which excludes the impact of price
changes, rose 1 percent. Export volumes fell 1.1 percent. The
trade deficit was a record after adjusting for inflation, Kavcic
said.  Japan’s output interruptions will “restrain growth
sharply” in Canada this quarter while  Europe ’s expansion is
“maintaining momentum” even as risks in some peripheral
economies have “increased,” the  Bank of Canada  said in an
interest rate announcement last month.  The trade surplus with the U.S., Canada’s largest trading
partner, narrowed to C$3.9 billion in April from C$4.2 billion
in March. Canada sends about 75 percent of its exports to the
U.S.  In a separate report, Canada’s statistics agency said its
index of new  home prices  rose 0.3 percent during the month of
April. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had estimated a 0.1
percent increase, the median of 12 forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 