-- 
Canada April New House Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-06-09T12:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/canada-april-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house price index report for April released by
 Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.3% in April,
following no change in March.  Between March and April, Toronto and Oshawa (+0.6%) as
well as Ottawa-Gatineau (+1.3%) were the top contributors
to the NHPI's upward movement. Both metropolitan regions
registered the largest increases of the 21 metropolitan
regions surveyed.  In Ottawa-Gatineau, the rise in prices was primarily
attributable to higher material and labour costs, while in
Toronto and Oshawa, the price increases were mainly a
result of competitive market conditions.  In April, prices remained unchanged in 7 of the 21
metropolitan regions surveyed.  The most significant monthly price declines were in
Victoria (-0.8%) and the metropolitan regions aggregation
of Saint John, Fredericton and Moncton (-0.5%).  In Victoria, the decline was a result of builders
lowering their prices to encourage sales. In Saint John,
Fredericton and Moncton, slower market conditions in April
led builders to reduce their prices.  Year over year, the NHPI was up 1.9% in April following
an identical increase in March. The main contributors to
the increase in April were the metropolitan regions of
Toronto and Oshawa as well as  Montreal .  The largest year-over-year price increase was in Regina
(+5.2%), followed closely by  St. John's  (+5.0%).  Compared with April 2010, contractors' selling prices
were also higher in Winnipeg (+4.2%) as well as in Toronto
and Oshawa (+4.0%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 7 posted 12-
month price declines in April, led by Windsor (-4.6%) and
Victoria (-2.2%).  Note: The New Housing Price Index measures changes over
time in the selling prices of new residential houses
agreed upon between the contractor and the buyer at the
time of the signing of the contract. It is designed to
measure the changes in the selling prices of new houses
where detailed specifications pertaining to each house
remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index
are market selling prices less value added taxes, such as
the Federal Goods and Services Tax or the Harmonized Sales
Tax.  This release presents data that are not seasonally
adjusted and the indexes published are final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  