-- 
Canada Won’t Decide on TMX Before Investor Vote, LSE Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-09T20:55:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/canada-won-t-decide-on-tmx-merger-before-investor-vote-lse-s-lester-says.html
David Lester , a  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc (LSE)  executive who met with Canadian government officials
yesterday, said he doesn’t expect Industry Minister Christian Paradis to endorse or reject his company’s deal to buy  TMX Group
Inc. (X)  until after shareholders vote on June 30.  “They don’t want to politicize this process,” Lester,
director of information services at LSE, said in an interview
today at Bloomberg’s Toronto office. “They’re looking at the
shareholder vote first and foremost.”  Canada’s federal government is required to review the
C$3.36 billion ($3.45 billion) takeover under the Investment
Canada Act to determine if the deal is a “net benefit” to the
country. Lester said he met in Ottawa with staff of Industry
 Canada , as well as the Finance Department, and they indicated a
decision will follow the shareholder vote, as well as reviews
from provincial regulators including those in Ontario and
Quebec.  “I feel confident that we’ve designed the right sets of
incentives and packages and regulatory sovereignty framework
that will get us through,” Lester said.  TMX backed the C$45.16-a-share all-stock purchase by LSE,
while dismissing a C$48 a share cash-and-stock offer by a group
of Canadian banks and pension funds. Maple Group Acquisition
Corp., whose investors include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board, proposed a C$3.58 billion
takeover on May 13 to keep ownership of the Toronto Stock
Exchange in Canadian hands.  ‘Undeliverable’  “We’re selling the bid that we’ve got, and we think Maple
is undeliverable,” Lester said. “I think shareholders need to
recognize the certainty in our transaction is very high, and the
certainty in the Maple transaction is practically next to zero,
from a competition point of view.”  The Maple Group’s proposal doesn’t require  Industry Canada 
approval because it’s not a foreign transaction, though it’ll
face reviews by regulators and Canada’s competition bureau, the
group said in a May 16 presentation.  “Maple extinguishes competition at every single layer of
the value chain in an exchange, whether it be listings, whether
it be trading, whether it be data, whether it be derivatives,”
Lester said. “This will eradicate competition.”  Maple Group interim Chief Executive Officer Luc Bertrand
called Lester’s comments “absurd” and said he’s confident that
the Maple transaction can obtain all necessary approvals.  ‘Absurd Statement’  “It’s an absurd statement, especially when the LSE is
asking provincial securities regulators to abandon Canada’s
public interest protection against any shareholder owning more
than 10 percent of the exchange,” Bertrand said today in an e-
mailed statement. “It’s also more than a bit presumptuous for
the LSE to say what the Government of Canada will do.”  LSE and TMX submitted an Industry Canada application on
April 29. The Industry Minister has 45 days to review the deal,
which would have put timing of a decision into next week, though
the process can be extended another 30 days. Richard Walker,
director of communications for Paradis, said in an e-mail he is
looking into the matter.  Ontario and  Quebec ’s regulators are reviewing requests by
TMX and LSE to relax rules that prevent an investor from owning
more than 10 percent of the company.  “I get the feeling if Ontario and Quebec are happy, I
think the federal will look at the net benefit and then we
should have our transaction,” Lester said.  Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan said today in an e-
mailed statement that regulators need time to review both
transactions.  “There are important regulatory considerations with each
deal and regulators need time to look at them carefully,”
Duncan said in the e-mailed statement. “The 10 percent
ownership rule for the TMX is critically important, as is the
need for fair, efficient and cost-effective markets.”  Duncan also urged Industry Canada and the Competition
Bureau to take the decisions of the provincial securities
commissions into account.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  