-- 
Canada April International Merchandise Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-06-09T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/canada-april-international-merchandise-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's international merchandise trade report for April
from  Statistics Canada .  Canada's merchandise exports decreased 1.9% in April,
following a 4.8% gain in March. Imports also declined,
falling 0.6%. As a result, Canada's trade deficit with the
world widened from $417 million in March to $924 million
in April.  Exports decreased to $36.3 billion in April, as volumes
declined 1.1% and prices fell 0.9%. The decrease in volume
was led by the machinery and equipment sector. The
industrial goods and materials, and the automotive sectors
contributed the most to the decline in prices.  Imports fell to $37.2 billion, as prices declined 1.5%
and volumes rose 1.0%. Imports of automotive products
registered the largest decline. The automotive sector,
which reported strong gains in March, has been adversely
affected by the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March.  Exports to the  United States  increased for the second
month in a row, edging up 0.3% to $26.9 billion. Imports
increased 1.7% to $23.1 billion in April, reaching their
highest level since November 2008. Consequently, Canada's
trade surplus with the United States narrowed from $4.2
billion in March to $3.9 billion in April.  Exports to countries other than the United States fell
7.9% in April to $9.3 billion, as exports to all principal
trading areas declined. Imports decreased 4.1% to $14.1
billion. As a result, Canada's trade deficit with
countries other than the United States widened from $4.6
billion in March to $4.8 billion in April.  Exports: Decline in aircraft and other transportation
equipment  Exports of machinery and equipment decreased 7.8% to
$6.0 billion in April, almost entirely as a result of a
decline in aircraft and other transportation equipment.
Volume was the main factor behind the 38.5% decline in
aircraft, engines and parts.  Industrial goods and materials fell 3.8% to $9.1
billion in April. Precious metals and alloys exports
reached their lowest value since September 2010, primarily
as a result of lower exports of gold and silver. Smelter
shutdowns in Japan and a decrease in demand from  China 
lowered exports of copper in ores. Moderating this decline
was an increase in exports of nickel in ores.  Exports of agricultural and fishing products increased
9.9% to $3.4 billion in April, mainly as a result of
rising volumes. The increase was led by canola and other
crude vegetable products.  Energy products rose 0.6% to $9.3 billion, as a result
of offsetting movements in petroleum and coal products,
and crude petroleum. Higher volumes led the increase in
petroleum and coal products, primarily gasoline, in
advance of the summer driving season. Retooling of
refineries in the United States contributed to the
decrease in exports of crude petroleum.  Automotive products: Major contributor to decrease in
imports  Automotive products were the major contributor to the
decrease in imports, falling 8.6% to $5.6 billion in
April. This decline occurred as a result of production and
supply chain problems stemming from the earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan .  Imports of passenger autos and chassis fell 21.9% to
$1.6 billion. Motor vehicle parts also contributed to the
decline in the sector, falling 7.3% to $2.4 billion.
Production of motor vehicle parts in Japan decreased in
April, as manufacturing facilities were adversely affected
by the natural disaster. This resulted in lower imports of
automotive parts and contributed to lower imports of
passenger autos and chassis from Japan. Moderating these
two declines were imports of trucks and other motor
vehicles, which increased 7.2% to $1.6 billion.  Energy products declined 3.1% to $4.4 billion, mainly
as a result of lower imports of crude petroleum. Imports
of petroleum and coal products, mainly light oils and fuel
blends, increased 14.4% to a record high of $1.6 billion.
This rise was attributed to refinery shutdowns and
pipeline closures.  Imports of industrial goods and materials reached their
highest value since July 2008, rising 3.4% to $8.1 billion
in April. The bulk of this increase came from higher
imports of chemicals and plastics, in particular, other
chemicals and related products and organic chemicals.
Lower imports of metals and metal ores moderated the gains
in this sector, as both metals in ores, concentrates and
scrap, and precious metals and alloys fell in April.  Imports of machinery and equipment rose 0.2% to $10.2
billion in April. Both industrial and agricultural
machinery, and office machines and equipment, increased
for a third consecutive month. Higher imports of engines,
turbines and motors led to a 7.2% increase in industrial
and agricultural machinery, while office machines and
equipment advanced 5.2%. These two gains were almost
offset by lower imports of aircraft and other
transportation equipment.  Note to readers  Merchandise trade is one component of Canada's
international balance of payments, which also includes
trade in services, investment income, current transfers as
well as capital and financial flows.  International merchandise trade data by country are
available on both a balance of payments (BOP) and a
customs basis for the United States, Japan and the  United
Kingdom . Trade data for all other individual countries are
available on a customs basis only. Balance of payments
data are derived from customs data by making adjustments
for characteristics such as valuation, coverage, timing
and residency. These adjustments are made to conform to
the concepts and definitions of the Canadian System of
National Accounts.  Data in this release are on a balance of payments
basis, seasonally adjusted in current dollars. Constant
dollars are calculated using the Laspeyres volume formula.  Revisions  In general, merchandise trade data are revised on an
ongoing basis for each month of the current year. Current
year revisions are reflected in both the customs and BOP
based data. The previous year's customs data are revised
with the release of the January and February reference
months as well as on a quarterly basis. The previous two
years of customs based data are revised annually and are
released in February with the December reference month.
The previous year's BOP based data are revised with the
release of the January, February and March reference
months. Revisions to BOP based data for the previous three
years are released annually in June with the April
reference month.  Factors influencing revisions include late receipt of
import and export documentation, incorrect information on
customs forms, replacement of estimates produced for the
energy sector with actual figures, changes in
classification of merchandise based on more current
information, and changes to seasonal adjustment factors.  Revised data are available in the appropriate CANSIM
tables.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  