-- 
Caparo May Need $510 Million to Fund Wind Turbines Orders

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T11:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/caparo-may-need-510-million-in-finance-to-fund-wind-turbines.html
Caparo Energy Ltd. (CEL) , the Indian wind
farm developer backed by  Blackrock Inc. (BLK) , may need $510 million
in financing to begin paying for the $3 billion in  wind turbines 
it has ordered, according to Religare Enterprises Ltd.  Mark Thompson , a clean-technology equity analyst at the
Delhi-based financial services company, said Caparo must raise
the money to meet its commitments to buy the windmills for
clean-energy projects it’s planning.  The Hyderabad-based company, which has no operating
projects, lost about 13 percent since money managers including
 New York ’s Blackrock and  Henderson Group Plc (HGG)  of the U.K. bought
stock in October in its 50 million-pound ($80 million)  initial
public offer  in  London .  Since then, the company has unveiled the most ambitious
plans among Indian wind-park developers, including orders from
 Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  and Spain’s Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA for
3,000 megawatts of windmills. That power capacity exceeds the
combined installations by all other wind-energy developers in
2010 in India, the world’s third-largest market for wind parks
behind China and the U.S.  The company is “on track” to raise what it needs and meet
its targets for starting up wind farms, Caparo Chief Executive
Officer Ravi Kailas said in an e-mail on June 6. He declined to
elaborate, saying another announcement would be made soon.  Caparo shares fell 1.7 percent to 98.8 pence in London as
of 12:40 p.m. local time, according to Bloomberg data.  Morgan Stanley (MS)   Morgan Stanley is helping Caparo to raise mezzanine finance
from Indian lenders to support 600 megawatts of power capacity,
Kailas said on May 17. Mezzanine financing is a type of loan
that gives the lender the right to convert into ownership of the
company if unpaid.  Caparo expects its first 100 megawatts of wind power to
start operating by the end of this month, Kailas said on May 17.
At most, Caparo may have enough funds to build as much as 340
megawatts, said Adam Forsyth, head of electricity and utilities
research at London-based investment bank Matrix Group Ltd., by
phone from Edinburgh.  The company, with a 164 million-pound market value, needs
to raise $510 million -- about $380 million in bank loans and
$130 million in equity -- to place orders due between July and
September with Suzlon, Thompson said.  It needs to pay its next advance of 1.2 billion rupees ($27
million) to Suzlon next month and has agreed to “certain
commitment advances” over a period of three years with Gamesa,
according to Caparo company filings in January and May.  The London-traded developer said at the time of its IPO
that it would build 5,000 megawatts of wind capacity by 2017,
equal to a third of what  India  has completed to date.  Caparo expects to complete mezzanine funding by the end of
the third quarter, according to a company filing in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  