-- 
Chelsea Must Pay $67 Million for Santos’ Neymar, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-06-09T09:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/chelsea-must-pay-67-million-for-santos-neymar-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  High Price  Chelsea will have to pay 41 million pounds ($67 million) to
sign Neymar from Santos, the  Sun said .  Wagner Ribeiro, Neymar’s agent, told the Sun all the
world’s top clubs are after the 19-year-old striker, whom he
compared with FIFA World Player of the Year Lionel Messi.  “Last year Santos received an offer of 32 million pounds
from Chelsea and it was rejected,” Ribeiro was quoted as
saying. “Now he would not leave for less than 41 million
pounds. Neyman is like Messi. Soon he will be the best in the
world because he is a player unlike any other.”  Chelsea has also made a 12 million-pound bid for Atletico
Madrid defender Diego Godin, the  Sun said . Atletico turned down
a 54 million-pound offer for Godin and striker  Sergio Aguero  in
January, the newspaper said.  Villa Manager  Wigan has given Roberto Martinez permission to speak to
Aston Villa about its vacant manager’s job, the  Guardian said .  Martinez is the frontrunner to replace  Gerard Houllier  at
Villa, with Bolton’s Owen Coyle also in contention, the Guardian
said. Wigan chairman Dave Whelan said he’s confident Martinez
will reject a move, the newspaper said.  Fabregas Fears  Arsenal captain Cesc Fabregas fears his hopes of a move
back to Barcelona may be ruined by Arsenal’s 50 million-pound
asking price, the  Daily Express  said.  Fabregas, 24, is waiting to hear if the European champion
will make another bid after having offers of 30 million pounds
and 35 million pounds rejected last summer.  Arsenal may be willing to do business this time and will
demand Barcelona significantly increase its previous offers,
though the Spanish club is determined not to dramatically up its
bid, the Express said.  Martin and Robbie  New Fulham manager  Martin Jol  wants to sign  Robbie Keane 
from Tottenham, the  Sun said .  Keane was a favorite of Jol when the Dutchman was Spurs
boss, the Sun said. Tottenham will probably accept 4 million
pounds for Keane, but the striker’s 70,000 pound weekly salary
could be a stumbling block, the newspaper said.  Rejected Bid  Newcastle has rejected West Ham’s 3 million-pound offer for
midfielder  Kevin Nolan , the  Daily Mail said .  Newcastle wants 6 million pounds for Nolan, who turned down
a new contract offer, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 