-- 
Chicago Man Found Guilty of Aiding Planners of 2008 Mumbai Terror Attacks

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-10T16:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/chicago-man-found-guilty-of-aiding-mumbai-terrorist-attacks-killing-160.html
A man convicted on two terrorism
counts by a  Chicago  jury was acquitted of a third charge that he
helped plotters of the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks that killed
about 160 people over three days, including six Americans.  Tahawwur Rana, 50, a Canadian citizen and Pakistan native
tried in federal court in Chicago, was found guilty yesterday of
helping plan a never-executed attack on a Danish newspaper that
in 2005 published inflammatory cartoons of the Islamic prophet
Muhammad. The jury of eight women and four men also convicted
him of providing support to a Pakistani group the U.S. labeled a
terrorist organization in 2001.  “We think it’s important that people around the world know
that we do have to go after people who plan and carry out
attacks,” Chicago U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald told
reporters in a press conference after the verdict.  “It’s also important that people never think that it’s
safe to provide cover to people to allow people to travel and
carry out the surveillance for terrorist attacks.”  Fitzgerald, who was present when the verdict was read, said
he was disappointed only by the single finding of not guilty.  Patrick Blegen, one of Rana’s two defense attorneys, said
at a press conference that they will appeal the conviction.  “We respect their decision,” Blegen said of the jurors.
“We believe they got it wrong.”  Muhammad Caricatures  Jurors found Rana knowingly allowed his immigration
services business to be used by co-conspirator David Coleman
Headley as a cover for a mission to surveil Morgenavisen
 Jyllands-Posten , the Copenhagen newspaper that published
cartoons in 2005 of Muhammad. One illustration showed the
prophet with a bomb in his turban.  Depictions of Muhammad are forbidden in the Islamic faith.
The caricatures, drawn by artist Kurt Westergaard, touched off
protests in Muslim communities around the world.  Headley was arrested by federal agents at Chicago’s O’Hare
International Airport in October 2009.  Last year he pleaded guilty to 12 criminal counts. He
admitted to his role in the Denmark plot and confessed that he
performed similar reconnaissance in advance of the Mumbai
attacks blamed on the Pakistani group Lashkar e Taiba. The
militant group agitates for separation of the predominantly
Muslim state of  Jammu and Kashmir  from  India .  Headley also agreed to cooperate with investigators and was
their lead witness against Rana.  From Nov. 26 to Nov. 28 of 2008, a squad of 10 attackers
assaulted two Mumbai hotels, a cafe, a train station and a
Jewish hostel. Nine of the assailants were killed.  Landing Site  Headley told the court that he helped identify targets and
a water-landing site for the attackers.  Rana was accused of helping Headley travel to India, where
he opened an office for Rana’s business. Jurors rejected
prosecutors’ claims that Rana knowingly supported Headley’s
efforts there.  The panel rejected the allegation Rana’s aid to Lashkar
resulted in deaths, which would have made him eligible for a
life sentence. He faces a maximum sentence of 15 years in prison
for each of the two counts on which he was convicted. He may be
sentenced to serve those sentences consecutively or
concurrently.  No sentencing date has been set. Blegen told reporters he
would file post-trial motions challenging the verdict.  The jury reached its decision after two days of
deliberations in a trial that began with their empanelling on
May 16. Closing arguments were made on June 7.  Jurors Anonymous  The jurors declined to meet with reporters after the
verdict. U.S. District Court Judge Harry D. Leinenweber, who
presided over the trial, said their names won’t be released.  Headley, 50, was born in  Washington  as Daood Gilani, the
son of a Pakistani father and an American mother. During the
trial he testified that he had known Rana since the two attended
a Pakistani military academy as teenagers. He said the defendant
was his “best friend in the world.”  Headley also told of his two narcotics trafficking
convictions, his subsequent work for the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Agency and his later training with Lashkar.  He also said that he had carried out assignments for an
agent of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence Agency
identified only as “Major Iqbal” and another man, al-Qaeda
ally Ilyas Kashmiri, who was reported killed in a U.S. missile
attack on June 3.  Planned Beheadings  The attack on the newspaper, he testified, called for staff
members to be shot and beheaded, with attackers then throwing
their heads from office windows.  The Viby, Denmark-based newspaper today declined to comment
on the verdict, Editor-in-Chief Joern Mikkelsen said by phone.
The newspaper prefers to focus on reporting the news rather than
commenting, he said.  Rana’s lawyers portrayed their client as an honest
businessman who had been continually deceived by his friend,
Headley.  In his closing argument, Blegen portrayed Headley as a
lifelong manipulator and confidence man who trained to be a spy
in  Pakistan .  “Nothing is simple when it comes to David Headley,”
Blegen told the jury. “He thinks he can fool everyone. He can’t
fool you.”  “He’s not some fool,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Victoria
Peters said of Rana in her closing statement. “He knows exactly
who David Headley is and what David Headley is about, and he
fully approves.”  S.M. Imran Gardezi, a spokesman for the Pakistan embassy in
Washington and Torsten Jansen, a spokesman for the Danish
embassy in Washington, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message to each seeking comment after regular business hours
yesterday. Virander Paul, spokesman for the Indian Embassy in
Washington, had no immediate comment yesterday.  The case is U.S. v. Kashmiri, 09-cr-00830, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  