-- 
Retailer La Polar Posts Record Drop After Surprise $427 Million Charge

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-06-09T21:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/chilean-retailer-la-polar-may-make-427-million-new-loan-loss-provisions.html
Empresas La Polar SA (LAPOLAR)  plunged a record
42 percent in Santiago trading after the department-store
operator said it may lift loan-loss provisions by $427 million.  The stock retreated to 1,352.2 pesos from 2,336.2 pesos
yesterday, wiping out $524 million in market value. It was the
steepest fall since La Polar began trading in September 2003.  The start of trading was delayed until 11 a.m. New York
time after the company announced it may have to set aside
additional provisions of 150 billion pesos to 200 billion pesos.
Executives carried out lending practices that didn’t comply with
company standards and weren’t approved by the board, according
to a  statement  on the securities regulator’s website.  “This is completely crazy,” said Gavin Templeton, chief
investment officer at Santiago-based brokerage Vantrust Capital.
“It creates doubts about the company and the role of securities
regulators in Chile.”  La Polar is restructuring its loans department, fired its
lending manager and hired Eduardo Bizama as chief executive
officer to replace interim CEO  Martin Gonzalez , who returns to
his prior position of commercial manager, the Santiago-based
company said.  Dropped from List  Grupo Security SA’s brokerage unit dropped La Polar from
its list of favorite Chilean stocks after the announcement,
replacing it with larger rival  SACI Falabella (FALAB) , according to an
e-mailed note to clients.  The retailer, which targets middle-income earners, adopted
more conservative lending practices in the second half of last
year to reduce non-performing loans. Based in Santiago, the
company said May 27 that it may sell as much as $400 million of
new shares for expansions and to “strengthen capital.”  La Polar increased provisions by 29 billion pesos and wrote
off a total of 43.2 billion pesos in loans, it said March 17
when it reported a 78 percent drop in fourth-quarter profit. The
stock was the Ipsa index’s worst-performing retail stock this
year even before today’s tumble.  Feller Rate, an affiliate of  Standard & Poor’s , cut the
company’s credit rating to BB+ from BBB+ and placed the rating
on “creditwatch” with negative implications, according to an
e-mailed statement. Feller cut the rating from A- on May 20.  The lending practices that led to La Polar’s additional
charges probably aren’t being used by other Chilean retailers,
said Barbara Angerstein, an analyst at Celfin Capital SA.  “We had noticed before inconsistencies on La Polar’s
credit cards numbers, which we haven’t noticed in other
retailers,” she said by telephone from Santiago today.  Class-Action Lawsuit  The government’s consumer watchdog, known as Sernac, filed
a class-action lawsuit against La Polar for allegedly changing
terms of consumer loans without seeking consent from customers,
Sernac said in a June 2 statement on its website.  “Lending practices came to light that might have been
carried out without authorization from the board and in
violation of company criteria and parameters,” La Polar said in
today’s statement. “Those practices could have an impact in the
levels of additional provisions required by the company.”  La Polar said it plans to disclose a more precise provision
estimate within three weeks.  ‘Potential Upside’  Today’s share price fall could create an acquisition
opportunity, Santiago-based brokerage Euroamerica Corredores de
Bolsa SA wrote in a note to clients.  “We recommend holding on to the stock considering the
potential upside in the case there’s a takeover,” Euroamerica
analysts including Ximena Garcia and Marcelo Barrero wrote.  La Polar plans to spend about $250 million from 2012 to
2015 to open 10 stores in  Colombia  and eight in  Chile , Chairman
Pablo Alcalde said May 3 at a conference in Santiago. That’s in
addition to the three stores it will open this year in Colombia
and three in Chile.  The new provisions probably will force La Polar to review
its expansion plans, the brokerage unit of Banco de Credito e
Inversiones said.  “Considering that the company posted earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of 69 billion pesos
in 2010, the increase in provisions will affect the company’s
cash-flow generation,” analysts including Veronica Perez and
Marcelo Catalan, wrote in an e-mailed note today.  La Polar’s first-quarter profit rose to 6.21 billion pesos
from 3.92 billion pesos a year earlier, it reported April 29.
Net income fell 38 percent in 2010 from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  