-- 
China’s Sina Extends Stock Losses

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-06-09T22:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/china-s-sina-plunges-for-fifth-day-in-sell-off-that-s-cut-share-price-27-.html
Sina Corp., the owner of  China ’s
third-most visited website and the Twitter-like Weibo service,
fell for a fifth day in New York, extending losses after the
biggest decline since 2008 yesterday.  Sina slid 6.1 percent to $90.92 at 4 p.m., the lowest
closing price since March 18. It plunged 11 percent yesterday.
The MSCI China/Information Technology Index has fallen 6.3
percent this month, compared to a 2.2 percent decline on the
benchmark emerging markets index.  Allegations of accounting irregularities at some smaller
Chinese companies have eroded demand for larger peers including
Sina, Baidu Inc. and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , which have lost at least 17
percent of their value since the end of April, after reaching
record highs that month, according to  Aaron Kessler , an analyst
at ThinkEquity LLC in  San Francisco .  Longtop Financial
Technologies Ltd. (LFT) , a Hong Kong-based software provider, was sued
by an investor alleging the company overstated profit margins
and concealed adverse facts last month.  “There’ve been some accounting concerns in the sector,
also concerns of a global economic slowdown that have impacted
these names,” Kessler said. “Short selling can be part of it
as well.”  The SEC has revoked the registrations of eight China-based
companies since December, and more than 24 firms have disclosed
auditor resignations or accounting problems to the agency since
March, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  wrote in an April 27 letter.  Margin Requirements  Interactive Brokers Group Inc., the electronic market maker
and securities firm, raised margin requirements to 100 percent
for some Chinese stocks, because of “elevated risk concerns,”
according to a  statement  on its website. Sina and Sohu were
among more than 100 Chinese companies on the list. The increase
went into effect June 6 in stages and will be completed by the
end of this week, the brokerage said.  The increased margin means that “people can’t use borrowed
money to buy or hold these stocks,” said  Scott Kessler , head of
technology equity research at  Standard & Poor’s  in New York. The
requirement “clearly is going to have an adverse impact when it
comes to the momentum and speculative element as it pertains to
a lot of these names.”  New-Wave Investment Holding Co., a shareholder of Sina in
which Chief Executive Officer Charles Chao is a partner, signed
an agreement with a unit of Goldman Sachs Group on June 3 for a
“prepaid variable share forward sale,” according to Sina’s
regulatory filing yesterday. The transaction allows Goldman to
sell up to 1.25 million of Sina’s shares, the filing said.  ‘Tracking to Plan’  “Sina’s core business is tracking to plan,” said Eugene Munster, an analyst at Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray Cos., in
a research note yesterday following the filing. He said he
expects the company to add updates and advanced features for
Sina’s Weibo, or microblogging service, in the next few months.  Munster maintains an “overweight” rating on Sina and a
price target of $139, according to his report.  Investors’ short-sale interest in Sina retreated to 8.1
percent of its total outstanding shares as of June 7, from a 13-
week high of 9.9 percent the previous day, according to Data
Explorers, a New York-based research firm.  Short selling, or selling borrowed shares with the goal of
profiting when they fall, surged to a two-year high of 10.6
percent of Sina’s total outstanding shares March 16, according
to Data Explorers.  Longtop said in a May 23 statement that its Chief Financial
Officer Derek Palaschuk and Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.
resigned because of “falsity of the company’s financial records
in relation to cash at bank and loan balances (and possibly in
sales revenue).”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  