-- 
Citic to Buy 19.9% of Credit Agricole’s Brokerage Units for $374 Million

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-06-10T02:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/citic-to-acquire-19-9-of-credit-agricole-s-brokerage-units.html
Citic Securities Co., China’s
largest brokerage by market value, plans to acquire 19.9 percent
of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s brokerage units, CLSA and  Credit
Agricole  Cheuvreux, for $374 million.  Citic and the investment-banking unit of Credit Agricole,
France’s third-largest lender by market value, plan to create a
brokerage partnership and may seek to cooperate in other areas,
the companies said in an e-mailed statement today.  The accord with Beijing-based Citic, which is preparing for
a $2.2 billion sale of shares in  Hong Kong , stops short of their
original plan to create an investment-banking joint venture in
Asia. Credit Agricole, based in Paris, and Citic began talks in
May 2010, and in December agreed to extend the talks by six
months to June 30.  “It’s a minimum agreement,” said  Pierre Flabbee , a Paris-
based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who has a “buy” rating
on Credit Agricole’s shares. “At least this is going to allow
developing the businesses, but it isn’t as ambitious as what was
envisioned.”  Citic shares rose 0.5 percent to 12.54 yuan at 10:28 a.m.
in Shanghai. They have declined 5.6 percent in the past year.  Credit Agricole and Citic had aimed to create “an equal
partnership in global institutional brokerage, and Asia Pacific
equity capital markets and investment banking,” the French bank
said in a Dec. 20 statement. Credit Agricole had also planned
that its corporate- and investment-banking activities would
benefit globally from Citic’s leadership in  China , the statement
said.  CA Cheuvreux, based in Paris, has a staff of 740 people at
15 offices from San Francisco to  Tokyo , according to its
website. CLSA, based in Hong Kong, was founded in 1986 and has
more than 1,500 employees at 20 locations in 13 countries,
according to information on its website.  Credit Agricole welcomes Citic “as an investor and partner
of our project to create an integrated global equity brokerage
platform spanning  Europe , Asia and the U.S.,” Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  