-- 
Climate Change Will Spur Droughts, Cut Food Output, FAO Says in Report

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-09T09:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/climate-change-will-spur-droughts-cut-food-output-fao-says-in-report.html
Climate change  will cause more
droughts and reduce food production, the  United Nations ’ Food
and Agriculture Organization said.  Water levels in rivers and aquifers will decline in semi-
arid regions of the Americas,  Australia  and southern  Africa ,
which are already dry, the Rome-based FAO said in a report
today. In  Asia , crop-growing areas that rely on snowmelt and
mountain glaciers for water will also be affected, it said.  Drought already threatens crops in China and France,
helping to push up wheat prices in Paris by 85 percent in the
past year. Costlier food has contributed to riots across
northern Africa and to inflation, leading central banks in at
least two dozen countries to raise  interest rates  this year.  “Climate change will have major impacts on the
availability of water for growing food and on crop productivity
in the decades to come,” the FAO said. “A greater frequency in
droughts and floods will need to be planned for but already,
water-scarce areas of the world are expected to become drier and
hotter.”  Increased global temperatures will lengthen the growing
season in northern growing areas and reduce it for the rest of
the world, according to the report. Water evaporation caused by
rising temperatures will lead to lower crop yields and reduced
production, the UN said.  River Deltas  The “loss of glaciers” that support 40 percent of the
world’s irrigation will affect the amount of surface water
available for agriculture, the FAO said. Heavily populated river
deltas are at risk of reduced water flows, increased salinity
and rising sea levels, according to the FAO.  To reduce the damage of climate change, countries can
account for their water by measuring supplies and growers can
conserve soil moisture through better farming practices,
according to the report.  “At the farm level, growers can change their cropping
patterns to allow earlier or later planting, reducing their
water use and optimizing irrigation,” the FAO said. “Yields
and productivity can be improved by shifting to soil moisture
conservation practices.”  World  food production  will have to rise 70 percent by 2050
to feed a population forecast to grow to 9 billion people, the
FAO has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Dreibus at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  