-- 
Clinton Aide Denies Secretary of State Seeks World Bank Post

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-09T23:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/clinton-aide-denies-u-s-secretary-of-state-seeking-world-bank-presidency.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
isn’t seeking the presidency of the  World Bank , according to one
of her top aides.  “It’s completely untrue. Reuters is 100 percent wrong,”
Philippe Reines, Clinton’s chief of strategic communications and
a deputy assistant secretary of state, said in an e-mail.  The report by Reuters today said the top U.S. diplomat has
been in discussions with the White House about moving to head
the World Bank next year. World Bank President Robert Zoellick’s
term ends in the middle of 2012.  President Barack Obama would have to nominate Clinton for
the position, which requires approval by the bank’s 187 member
countries.  The  World Bank  finances projects in developing nations,
including $1.5 billion in loans to help improve  India ’s rural
roads last year. The Washington-based bank aims to reduce global
poverty.  The Reuters report cited two anonymous sources as saying
that Clinton had expressed interest in the job. A third unnamed
source was cited as saying Obama supported a change in her role.  The White House refused to comment on the reports. Reines
said in a second e-mail that Clinton “has not had any
conversations with the president, the White House or anyone
about moving to the World Bank.”  ‘Absolutely No Interest’  He added that Clinton has “expressed absolutely no
interest in the job” and “would not take it if offered.”  Maneuvering to replace Zoellick, who served U.S. trade
representative under President  George W. Bush , is tied up with
the current contest to replace the disgraced head of the
 International Monetary Fund , Dominique Strauss-Kahn.  France ’s finance minister  Christine Lagarde  and  Mexico ’s
central bank governor Agustin Carstens are vying to succeed
Strauss-Kahn, who resigned after his arrest in New York last
month on charges of attempted rape and sexual assault.  Under an unwritten agreement that dates to the end of World
War II, the IMF has always been led by a European while the
World Bank has been headed by an American.  The U.S. has yet to formally endorse a candidate for the
IMF post. Backing a non-European for the IMF could mean
relinquishing U.S. control of the World Bank, an outcome that
lawmakers who decide the U.S. funding for development banks are
not ready to contemplate.  IMF Leadership  “For the sake of influencing policy and lending, as well
as maintaining congressional support, it is very important that
the World Bank continue to be led by an American,” U.S.
Representative Nita Lowey of  New York , the top Democrat on the
House Appropriations Committee panel that oversees foreign-aid
spending, said in an e-mail.  The IMF provides emergency loans to countries in financial
distress, committing about $105 billion in aid to Portugal,
Greece and Ireland. The U.S. also controls the No. 2 job at the
IMF, now held by  John Lipsky , a former JPMorgan Chase & Co.
executive.  Clinton, who sought the Democratic nomination for president
in 2008, has said repeatedly that she isn’t interested in
running again for the White House. She has told audiences that
she would like to pursue a job that allows her to help women and
girls, a core interest.  In January, her husband,  Bill Clinton , said she was more
interested in being a grandmother than being president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  