-- 
Club Med Up Most in Seven Weeks as Earnings Beat Estimates

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-06-09T11:22:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/club-med-up-most-in-seven-weeks-as-earnings-beat-estimates-1-.html
Club Mediterranee (CU)  SA, the French
operator of 75 holiday resorts worldwide, rose the most in seven
weeks in Paris trading after first-half earnings beat analyst
estimates and summer bookings rose.  Club Med shares climbed as much as 5.4 percent. Summer-
period bookings advanced 5.4 percent, led by a 17 percent rise
in the Americas and a 5.2 percent increase in  Europe , Paris-
based Club Med said in a statement today. First-half operating
income rose 67 percent to 47 million euros ($68.8 million),
beating consensus estimates of 35 million euros to 40 million
euros, according to analysts at Oddo & Cie.  Club Med, which is aiming to increase capacity at its two
most expensive resort categories, said customers visiting those
resorts increased 22 percent in the first half, while total
customers rose 7 percent. The company, which last year formed a
joint venture with Fosun International Holdings Ltd. to develop
resorts in  China , said the number of new customers in that
country rose 56 percent.  Club Med “retained pricing power in a very difficult
environment, notably given higher oil and transport costs,” the
Oddo analysts said. They raised their recommendation on the
shares to “neutral” from “reduce.”  All-Inclusive  Club Med shares advanced as much as 83 cents to 16.18
euros, the biggest intraday jump since April 20, and traded 2.2
percent higher at 15.69 euros as of 12:42 p.m.  Upscale, all-inclusive holidays for affluent families and
couples are the fastest growing segment of the leisure industry,
Chief Executive Officer Henri Giscard d’Estaing said by phone.  Bookings in the past four weeks fell 6.8 percent because of
political unrest in North Africa and natural disasters in  Japan ,
Club Med said.  “The overperformance delivered over the winter” may help
offset “the unfavorable impact over the summer of currently
known events,” the CEO said in the statement.  Club Med may form partnerships in other parts of the world
to develop projects, Giscard d’Estaing said, citing  Brazil  as
one possibility. The company’s main shareholders, who include
Moroccan and Middle Eastern investors, have a “major role” in
Club Med’s destination markets, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  