-- 
CME Triggered Trading Pause After Natural Gas Futures Slide

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-06-09T21:14:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/cme-triggered-trading-pause-after-natural-gas-futures-slide-2-.html
A natural-gas price slide in
overnight electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
triggered a 20-second automatic trading pause for the August
Henry Hub natural gas futures contract, according to a
spokeswoman for  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which owns the Nymex.  No trading orders were canceled during the pause, the
Chicago-based spokeswoman, Laurie Bischel, said in a phone
interview.  The August contract dropped as much as 5.6 percent,
reaching an intraday low of $4.601 per million British thermal
units at 7:42 p.m. yesterday in  New York  before reversing
losses. The July and September contracts fell as much as 7
percent.  August gas fell almost 15 cents within one second,
according to Bloomberg data. Volume in the August gas contract
jumped above 200 at about 7:42 p.m. before tumbling, Bloomberg
data show. Volume also rose in the July and September contracts.  Natural gas for July delivery fell 17.3 cents, or 3.6
percent, to settle at $4.674 per million Btu after dropping as
low as $4.51. Gas for August delivery slipped 17 cents, or 3.5
percent, to $4.704.  Computer Programs  The overnight decline may have been caused by algorithmic
trading, said  Mike Fitzpatrick , a partner with the Kilduff
Group, a New York-based energy advisory company, in an interview
today. In algorithmic trading, computer programs are used to
enter orders and determine the timing, price or other aspects of
the trade.  “The natural gas market saw sharp price swings in
overnight trade that the exchange is standing by as valid trades
as of this writing, although we can expect a further review
about the highly unusual ‘flash crash’ and reversal to new
highs,”  Tim Evans , an energy analyst with Citi Futures
Perspective in New York, said in a note to clients today.  “It’s ugly price action that does not reflect well on the
market’s reputation for fair trade,” Evans said.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler 
has said the commission will miss a mid-July deadline to impose
limits on speculation in raw materials including oil, gas, gold
and wheat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma, in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  