-- 
Comcast CEO’s Bet on Profitable Olympics Met With Skepticism

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-09T20:27:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/comcast-s-bet-on-a-profitable-olympics-greeted-with-skepticism-by-analysts.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  Chief Executive Officer
Brian Roberts says  NBC Universal ’s $4.38 billion deal for the
television rights for the next four Olympics will be profitable.
Some analysts disagree.  Comcast’s NBC Universal, which outbid  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and
News Corp. for the U.S. rights this week, will make money by
charging higher distribution fees for the broadcast station and
its cable networks as well as increasing ad rates. Comcast will
also charge for the right to stream events on mobile devices and
tablet computers, said a person familiar with the plan, who
declined to be identified because the strategy isn’t public.  General Electric Co. (GE) , which sold control of NBC Universal
to Philadelphia-based Comcast in January, said in April 2010 the
network lost about $223 million on the Vancouver Games. Given
NBC Universal’s history of losing money on the Olympics, it’s
difficult to be confident in Comcast’s chances of turning a
profit,  Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore, said in an interview.  “They have their work cut out for them,” said King, who
has a “hold” rating on Comcast shares. “The fact they outbid
everyone else by about $1 billion, I think it would be a
challenge to argue they’re clearly going to make money on
this.”  ‘Disciplined and Responsible’  Comcast, which owns 51 percent of NBC, spent about $2
billion for the rights to air the 2014 winter Olympics in Sochi,
 Russia , and the 2016 summer games in Rio de Janeiro, little
changed from what Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE paid for the
2010 and 2012 games. Disney’s ESPN offered $1.4 billion for the
2014 and 2016 rights, and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox bid $3.4 billion for
all four Olympics, $900,000 less than Comcast, said two people
with knowledge of the bids.  “We’ve been very clear from the beginning that we want to
be disciplined and responsible and try to find a way to have
profitability,” Roberts said this week. “We’ll have an
opportunity to build up a lot of the assets at NBC Universal. We
are confident that we will build value for our shareholders and
have a profitable relationship.”  Comcast plans to air Olympic events on its cable stations
including Golf Channel and Versus, a sports-oriented cable
channel that broadcasts games from the  National Hockey League 
and the National Lacrosse League. Comcast collects affiliate
fees from pay-TV operators, including  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Cablevision
Systems Corp. (CVC) , to broadcast NBC Universal content.  Ancillary Benefits  NBC has broadcast every summer Olympics since 1988 and the
winter games since 2002. The locations of the 2018 and 2020
haven’t been decided.  Comcast will not get the same type of ancillary benefits
that GE could leverage,  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak
& Co. in New York, said in an interview. GE said it generated
$800 million in revenue from the 2010 Games.  “GE didn’t mind bidding up to win the Olympics in  China  if
it meant the company could sell turbines and water solutions and
all the other GE products,” said Joyce, who recommends
investors buy Comcast shares. “You don’t have that with
Comcast.”  Comcast rose 19 cents to $24.31 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 11 percent
this year.  While the Olympics are “almost certainly a loss leader”
for the company, there are many “halo effects” that may make a
deal worthwhile,  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in an interview.  ‘Lose-Lose Situation’  Cross-promotional opportunities between the NBC broadcast
channel and Comcast’s cable systems, which include Bravo, USA,
and E!, are essential to gaining value from the merger, which
cost the cable provider $13.8 billion in cash and assets,
Moffett said.  Other strategic benefits that go beyond the bottom line
include advancing the visibility of Versus with consumers and
showcasing Comcast’s  Xfinity service , including its  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
iPad application and video on demand, analysts said.  “The NBC brand is tightly intertwined with the Olympics,”
said Moffett. “Some shareholders will realize that restoring
NBC will require spending some money.”  NBC Universal’s agreement with the  International Olympic
Committee  allows it to create an Olympics channel. The network
also plans to air all the games live in addition to delaying
certain events to air during prime-time.  The split between being more financially disciplined and
losing the association of owning the Olympics makes winning the
bid a “lose-lose situation” for Comcast, said Amy Yong, an
analyst at Macquarie Securities in New York.  “They haven’t been able to make money off it, but if they
don’t win it, they lose the brand and the franchise value,”
Yong said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  