-- 
Consumer Confidence in U.S. Improves on Fuel Prices, Bloomberg Index Shows

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-09T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-improves-as-gasoline-prices-decrease.html
Consumer confidence  rose last week
for the third consecutive time as lower gasoline prices lifted
Americans’ outlook on their finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to minus 45.9
in the period to June 5, the best showing since the end of
April, from the prior week’s minus 47.1. Across income groups,
sentiment improved the most among those making less than $50,000
a year.  A 26-cent drop in the average cost of a gallon of gasoline
at the pump, from the almost three-year high of $3.99 reached on
May 4, is giving consumers a little extra cash to spend on other
goods and services. At the same time, unemployment at 9.1
percent and slowing job growth will weigh on households,
threatening to block any additional improvement in sentiment.  Cheaper gasoline “has lifted sentiment temporarily off the
mat,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP
in  New York . Even so, “confidence, like the  U.S. economy ,
remains stuck in second gear. The slowdown in private-sector
hiring and increase in the unemployment rate poses a potent risk
to consumer confidence heading into the second half of 2011.”  Other reports today showed the trade deficit unexpectedly
narrowed in April and claims for  unemployment benefits  increased
last week.  The  trade gap  shrank 6.7 percent to $43.7 billion, the
lowest since December, according to Commerce Department figures.
Purchases of goods from  Japan  dropped by a record $3 billion in
the aftermath of the earthquake and tsunami.  Jobless claims increased by 1,000 to 427,000, a Labor
Department report showed. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected a drop in claims to 419,000, according to the median
forecast.  Personal Finances  The comfort report’s gauge of personal finances rose to
minus 8.5 last week, the best reading in a month, from minus
13.4 the prior week. The 4.9-point gain was the biggest since
February.  The measure of Americans’ views of the economy was minus
75.5 last week, compared with minus 74.6 the previous week.
Another component of the comfort index, the buying climate, was
little changed at minus 53.8 after minus 53.1.  Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months in May,
and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly climbed from 9 percent in
April, Labor Department figures showed on June 3. The 54,000
increase in employment was smaller than the lowest estimate of
89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a 232,000
gain in April.  ‘Moderate Pace’  “The economic recovery appears to be continuing at a
moderate pace, albeit at a rate that is both uneven across
sectors and frustratingly slow from the perspective of millions
of unemployed and underemployed workers,” Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a June 7 speech in Atlanta.  Sentiment among households earning more than $100,000 a
year fell to a two-month low of minus 9.6, negative for a fourth
straight week and below its 2010 and 2011 averages, today’s
report showed. The 6.2 percent drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index since the end of April may be unnerving higher-income
consumers.  For less well-off Americans, cheaper fuel bills may have
been more of an influence on comfort. Confidence rose for all
four income brackets of households making less than $50,000 a
year, led by a 6-point gain among those earning $40,000 to
$49,900.  The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline dropped
to $3.73 yesterday, down from the May 4 price that was the
highest since July 2008, according to AAA, the nation’s largest
auto club.  Part-Time Workers  The report showed sentiment among part-time workers dropped
to a four-month low of minus 59.2 from minus 51.9 as 66 percent
rated their finances negatively. Such ratings put part-time
workers more in synch with unemployed Americans than with those
who have full-time work, the report said.  The pessimism among part-timers is “underscoring
Bernanke’s comment on the pain not only of unemployment, but of
underemployment, in today’s still-struggling economy,”  Gary
Langer , president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York,
which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement.  Hooker Furniture Corp. (HOFT) , a Martinsville, Virginia-based
furniture maker, is among companies concerned that the spate of
weak economic data may trim spending.  “Recent negative news on housing, employment and consumer
confidence gives us reason for concern as we enter a
traditionally weak season for furniture purchases,” Paul Toms,
Hooker’s chairman and chief executive officer, said on a
conference call with investors yesterday. “While business isn’t
robust, we are holding our own and faring better than retail in
general.”  Telephone Interviews  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  