-- 
Copper May Drop in London on Concern Slowing World Economy Will Cut Demand

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-06-09T07:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/copper-rebounds-in-london-as-u-s-economic-outlook-concerns-hurt-dollar.html
Copper may decline as concern that a
slowing global economy will reduce demand offset expectations
that supplies will trail demand this year.  Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange was little
changed at $9,028 a metric ton by 2:50 p.m. in  Singapore  after
gaining as much as 0.6 percent. Zinc and lead declined before a
report that economists said will show the  U.S. trade deficit 
widened to the most in 10 months on rising oil prices.  “There has been a lot of bearish economic data and that
has scared many investors away,” said Tao Jinfeng, an analyst
at Jiangsu Donghua Futures Co. “While economic uncertainties
will keep the market volatile, there are still many who believe
the fundamentals are strong, especially for copper.”  July-delivery copper in  New York  fell 0.5 percent to $4.09
a pound, while August-delivery metal was little changed on the
Shanghai Futures Exchange at 67,450 yuan ($10,412) a ton.  Australian employers added fewer workers than economists
forecast in May and  Japan ’s economy contracted more than
estimated in the first quarter, separate reports showed today,
adding to signs economic growth may be weakening and sending
Asian stocks to their lowest level in two weeks.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell after the  Federal Reserve 
said yesterday the economy expanded at a “steady pace” in most
of the U.S. while slowing in four of 12 regions. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  gave no hint of a new round of economic stimulus
even as he called the recovery “uneven” and “frustratingly
slow” in a June 8 speech.  Supply Issues  Codelco, the world’s largest copper producer, boosted
output at its El Teniente mine in  Chile  to 60 percent to 70
percent of normal capacity after sending in extra workers, said
a company official yesterday. The  copper mine  had been operating
at about 40 percent capacity after employees stayed at home to
avoid clashes with striking contract workers.  The output disruptions may hinder Codelco’s aim to increase
production among its six mines this year and potentially worsen
a shortage this year, forecast to be 377,000 tons by the
International Copper Study Group.  “Reports suggest that negotiations are progressing,”
Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Stefan Graber, said in a note
today. “However, copper-mine supply remains an upside risk
factor as global expansion is struggling to keep pace with
demand and ore grades at major existing mines are falling.”  Aluminum and nickel in  London  were little changed at $2,665
a ton and $22,730 a ton. Zinc fell 1.1 percent to $2,268 a ton
and lead dropped 0.4 percent $2,566 a ton. Tin declined 0.2
percent to $25,650 a ton.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  