-- 
Copper Falls to One-Week Low as Rising Global Interest Rates May Curb Use

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-06-09T18:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/copper-drops-for-second-day-as-central-bank-rate-increases-may-sap-demand.html
Copper fell to a one-week low on
speculation that demand will wane as central banks worldwide
raise borrowing costs to curb inflation.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled an interest-rate increase next month, saying “strong
vigilance” is warranted to contain consumer prices. Last month,
nations from Norway to India boosted borrowing costs. Inflation
risks in the U.S. are “clearly to the upside,” Philadelphia
Federal Reserve Bank President Charles Plosser said today.  “There is certainly a lot of reaction to any noise from
the macro side for the metals,” said  Charles Cooper , an analyst
at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London. “Any sort of negative news
on interest rates rising could potentially impact manufacturing
demand.”  Copper futures for July delivery declined 0.1 cent to close
at $4.1075 a pound at 1:16 p.m. on the Comex in New York, after
touching $4.045, the lowest for a most-active contract since
June 2.  The metal has dropped 12 percent from a record $4.6575 on
Feb. 15 as manufacturing slowed in  China  and the U.S., the
largest consumers.  “Macro concerns continue to weigh on the various
markets,” particularly base metals,  Edward Meir , a senior
analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien, Connecticut, said
in a report. Chinese copper imports might be “somewhat on the
softer side of estimates” for May, he said.  China will release import data tomorrow.  “We will see a significant acceleration in Chinese scrap
supply,”  Michael Jansen , the head of metals research at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said yesterday at a conference in New
York. “Nothing is tight.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months added $24, or 0.3 percent, to $9,055 a metric ton ($4.11
a pound).  Aluminum and zinc dropped in  London , while nickel, lead and
tin rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  