-- 
Coupons.com Investment Pegs Value at $1 Billion

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-06-09T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/coupons-com-investment-is-said-to-value-company-at-1-billion.html
Coupons.com Inc. , a 13-year-old
company that’s benefiting from surging interest in online
discount sites, attracted $200 million from institutional
investors, helping it expand services and boost hiring.  Coupons.com, which didn’t name the investors, aims to boost
its staff of 300 by 100, adding engineering, sales and marketing
positions, the  Mountain View , California-based company said
today in a statement. The deal values the business at $1 billion
and helps set the stage for a potential initial public offering
in 2012, according to a person with knowledge of the investment.  Coupons.com, which promotes discounts for companies such as
 General Mills Inc. (GIS)  and  L’Oreal SA (OR) , is benefitting from a shift
of coupons to the Internet. The number of digital coupon offers
in the U.S. rose 37 percent in 2010, while the overall coupon
market rose 6.8 percent, according to Deerfield, Illinois-based
NCH Marketing Services Inc., a coupon processor.  “We have increasing demand from manufactures and retailers
and consumers,” said Steven Boal, chief executive officer of
Coupons.com. “We’ve got significant client pressure to drive
more and more of their promotions in digital, and out of the
Sunday newspaper.”  The company expects to roughly double revenue to more than
$100 million this year, according to the person, who asked to
remain anonymous because the finances aren’t public. Denise
Welch, a spokeswoman for Coupons.com, declined to comment.  Global Expansion  The funding came from “tier-one mutual funds,” rather than
venture capitalists, Boal said. As much as $100 million of the
funding will go to employees and early investors. The money also
will help the company roll out new services, expand
internationally and make acquisitions. Allen & Co. acted as a
financial adviser for the investment.  The company doesn’t see itself as a direct competitor to
Groupon Inc. because Coupons.com focuses on supermarket fare and
consumer products -- say, $1 off Kraft cheese slices.  Groupon ,
which is planning its own IPO, pioneered the market of daily
deals -- discounts that require buy-in from users. For instance,
a customer will pay $10 for $20 worth of clothes at  Old Navy .  Coupons.com is targeting new areas of growth, including
mobile-phone coupons and social media. In 2009, it acquired Free
State Labs LLC, the developer of  Grocery iQ , a mobile
application that lets users create and share shopping lists and
get discounts.  Coupons.com makes money when a customer downloads a coupon
for redemption. It offers discounts on its own website and also
provides digital-coupon services for business clients, including
helping companies manage discounts on Facebook Inc.’s site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  