-- 
Croatia Poised to Conclude European Union Entry Talks as Monitoring Begins

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-06-09T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/croatia-poised-to-conclude-european-union-entry-talks-as-monitoring-begins.html
Croatia ’s path to the  European Union 
has already been longer than that of other eastern European
countries. It’s about to get longer.  The European Commission  will probably recommend today
completing Croatia’s entry talks, almost six years after they
started. It will take at least two more years of monitoring and
ratification by all 27 EU states for the Balkan nation to become
the second former Yugoslav republic to join the world’s largest
trading bloc.  The Balkan nation aims to wrap up talks in the final four
of 35 EU policy areas by the end of the month and sign its entry
treaty by December. Croatian Premier Jadranka Kosor needs to
persuade voters that entry is worth the cuts in  government
spending . She also needs to overcome scepticism among EU
citizens that she is stemming crime and corruption after the
2007 accession of Bulgaria and Romania raised concern they
weren’t ready to join, analysts said.  “There’s a widespread feeling that the accession of
Romania and Bulgaria took place too quickly,” said Rosa
Balfour, an analyst at the Brussels-based  European Policy
Centre . “Anything related to judiciary, corruption and
organized crime is going to be monitored quite closely.” The EU
is “trying to raise the standards.”  Croatia’s 6 3/8 percent dollar bond yielded 5.808
yesterday, compared with 6.529 on March 17, when it was offered.
The benchmark Crobex stock index gained 7.5 percent this year,
led by companies such as  Koncar-Elektroindustrija d.d. (KOEIRA) ,  Ericsson
Nikola Tesla (ERNTRA)  d.d. and INA Industrija Nafte d.d.  Continuing Recession  Unlike its Balkan neighbors Slovenia and  Serbia , Croatia is
struggling to emerge from recession and reduce its budget gap,
forecast for this year at 4.2 percent of gross domestic product.
The economy contracted 1.2 percent last year and an annual 0.9
percent in the first quarter. The government forecast 1.5
percent the growth for 2011.  Still, Croatians are richer and the country ranks higher in
stock-market capitalization and the perception of corruption
than Romania and Bulgaria.  The European Commission is expected to make its
announcement at noon today as Kosor travels to  London  to meet
her British counterpart,  David Cameron , seeking his support
before the open-ended state-by-state ratification process
begins.  U.K. Support  “I am sure that David Cameron on” June 10 “will endorse
the U.K.’s strong support for Croatia’s EU accession,” David
Blunt, the British ambassador to Croatia, said in a June 8
interview in Zagreb. “This support for Croatia’s entry has been
very strong, very clear and very consistent.”  Kosor will have to lobby all 27 governments. Any one of the
member states can veto the bid because of expansion weariness
and concerns about the consequences of the European debt crisis.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso , EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  and Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who
holds the bloc’s rotating presidency until the end of June, have
supported the Croatian bid.  France  and the Netherlands last month proposed monitoring
for the Balkan to ensure it stays committed to working toward
complying with EU standards before the final approval, the DPA
news service reported on June 6.  Croatia “shouldn’t worry” about complying with the
monitoring, said Vesna Pusic, head of the country’s committee
for overseeing the talks, after meeting Dutch lawmakers on June
8. “These obligations cover the minimum, not the maximum of our
efforts. Our ambitions should really be greater.”  EU Funds  Croatia would gain access to at least half the 1.5 billion
euros ($2.2 billion) allotted to it in the EU’s 2013 budget by
joining the bloc on July 1, 2013, Pusic said.  The country has completed talks in policy areas including
agriculture, environmental protection, fisheries and trade. It
improved competition by selling its state-subsidized,
unprofitable shipyards and started reforms in education,
government administration and health care.  Unlike  Bulgaria  and Romania, Croatia also had to overcome
the effects of the Balkan wars during the breakup of  Yugoslavia 
that devastated the region’s economy and led to the creation of
the United Nations  war crimes  Tribunal for former Yugoslavia in
 The Hague .  Risking backlash from its constituents, the government
extradited to the court three generals that most Croats regard
as heroes. Two of them, Ante Gotovina and Mladen Markac, have
been convicted of war crimes against Serbs. The third, Ivan Cermak, was acquitted.  Corruption Fight  Croatian authorities investigated hundreds of corruption
cases, targeting government officials and ruling-party members,
including former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who is awaiting
extradition from  Austria  on suspicion of abuse of power and
corruption.  “One of the reasons why the talks have lasted so long was
that Croatia was the first modern postwar candidate, unlike
 Romania  or Bulgaria, and that brought along a whole bag of
issues,” Pusic said by phone on June 8.  Croatians will vote in a referendum on EU membership within
30 days of signing the accession treaty. About 62 percent of
citizens support entry, according to a Nov. 6 poll by IPSOS Puls
d.d., commissioned by the  Foreign Ministry . The independent
polling company surveyed 1,000 Croatian citizens.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net 
James Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 