-- 
Crop Weather Mayhem Delays U.S. Corn, Rice Planting as Prices Extend Gains

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-06-09T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/crop-weather-mayhem-delays-u-s-corn-rice-planting-as-prices-extend-gains.html
When the overflowing  Mississippi
River  breached Arkansas’s levees and flooded Michael Oxner’s
farm in May, the waters didn’t just wipe out his hopes of
planting 1,400 acres of rice. It destroyed last year’s crop,
too. Water inundated the bins that held the rice he’d harvested
in 2010, ruining 25,000 bushels and leaving a fermented smell
that turned his remaining grain into pet food.  Oxner lost $375,000 in 2010 rice alone. His rice land,
along with 300 acres planted with corn, won’t be usable this
season, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its June 13 issue.
Since it’s too late to plant more corn, the 2,000 acres he has
left will go into soybeans, which grow faster than other crops
but fetch less on the market. Even with soybeans, Oxner is
cutting it close: Soybeans usually go into the fields in May.
This year’s planting started on June 4.  “I won’t know how bad it will be until fall,” he said.  Oxner’s ordeal is being repeated all across  Arkansas , the
prime U.S. rice-growing state, where 600,000 acres remain under
water one month after flooding began. Nationwide, a spring of
weather extremes means that summer has to be almost perfect if
the U.S. is to meet global demand for its grain.  More bad weather could push corn, the most-valuable U.S.
crop in monetary terms, to $9 a bushel, according to  Hussein Allidina , the head of commodity research at Morgan Stanley. That
would beat the record set in 2008 of almost $8. Corn futures for
July delivery closed yesterday at $7.855 on the Chicago Board of
Trade, up 7.3 percent in three days.  Rice futures for July delivery advanced to $14.94 per 100
pound on the CBOT, capping a four-day rally to the highest price
this month.  Damaged Crops  The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers estimates floods have
damaged as much as 6.8 million acres across the South and
Midwest, an area the size of  Massachusetts . Farmland in other
areas is parched, with drought withering wheat and cotton in the
southern Great Plains.  Much of  Texas , western  Oklahoma , southern  Kansas  and
eastern  Colorado  have received less than half the normal amount
of rainfall in the past 60 days, according to the  National
Weather Service . About 44 percent of winter-wheat fields, which
are planted in fall and harvested in June, were in poor
condition or worse as of June 5. Ohio’s corn crop as of that day
was 58 percent planted, the least for the week since 1989. North
Dakota’s spring-wheat crop was 69 percent planted, the slowest
pace since 1981.  Fewer Acres Planted  The price of corn on the CBOT has more than doubled in the
past 12 months because of record purchases by ethanol producers
and rising demand from livestock farmers. Only 87.2 million
acres may be planted with corn this summer, rather than the 92.2
million the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  forecast before the
flooding, according to the Linn Group, an agricultural
researcher in  Chicago .  A 5.4 percent drop may not seem like much. With supplies
short, though, “we just can’t afford to have weather issues,
and we’ve already had quite a few,” says Dave Smoldt, a vice-
president in  West Des Moines  for INTL FCStone, a New York-based
commodity-trading and advisory firm.  U.S. farmers are working to salvage what land they can
before it becomes impossible to plant early enough to ensure a
fall harvest.  “As soon as that ground comes out of water, they’re
getting to it as soon as equipment can get on it,” says Lee
Maddox, spokesman for  Tennessee ’s Farm Bureau Federation. In
general, if planting hasn’t been done by late June, there’s no
fall crop.  Many farmers are still waiting to plant. Oxner’s land was
submerged for three weeks in May, and it’s still more than half-
covered. The near-perfect summer he will need for a good harvest
seems a long way off.  “We’re just trying to get started,” Oxner says. “Every
day you can’t, that’s less you’re going to grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  