-- 
Oil Futures Rise to One-Week High as OPEC Fails to Agree on Output Quotas

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-06-09T19:56:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/crude-oil-futures-rise-a-third-day-as-opec-fails-to-agree-on-output-quotas.html
Crude oil increased to a one-week
high after OPEC’s failure to reach an accord on output targets
for the first time in at least 20 years.  Futures gained 1.2 percent following what Saudi Oil
Minister Ali al-Naimi said “was one of the worst meetings we’ve
ever had.” Ministers from the 12-nation Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries were unable to come to an accord
in five hours of talks in Vienna yesterday. Prices also rose as
the  U.S. trade deficit  narrowed in April.  “OPEC’s failure to come to an agreement is still hanging
over the market,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas
Commodity Futures Inc. in New York. “There was a short pullback
upon release of the jobs numbers, but that was quickly
overshadowed by the falling trade deficit.”  Crude oil for July delivery rose $1.19 to $101.93 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
since May 31. Prices are up 37 percent in the past year.  Brent crude oil for July delivery increased $1.72, or 1.5
percent, to end the session at $119.57 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest settlement
since May 4. Brent, the European benchmark, traded at a record
premium of $17.64 a barrel to U.S. futures.  U.S. jobless claims climbed by 1,000 to 427,000 last week,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The number
of people on unemployment benefit rolls and those receiving
extended payments decreased. The trade deficit shrank 6.7
percent to $43.7 billion, the lowest level since December,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington.  Stock Market  U.S. equities rose for the first time in seven days on the
trade deficit data. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.1
percent to 1,293.80, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
climbed 125.18 points to 12,174.12 at 3:09 p.m.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer,  Kuwait , Qatar and
the United Arab Emirates were ready to supply more oil to the
market, al-Naimi said yesterday in Vienna. The four nations
proposed a 1.5 million-barrel-a-day increase.  Libya , Angola, Ecuador, Algeria,  Iran  and Venezuela were
opposed to higher limits, according to al-Naimi.  Iraq  is exempt
from the targets. The 11 members subject to quotas produced
26.22 million barrels a day last month, 1.375 million more than
pledged, according to Bloomberg News estimates.  “The people asking for an increase in production targets
were the only ones capable of increasing output,” said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester,  Massachusetts . “Rumors that there would be a
substantial increase in quotas are the primary reason the market
reacted the way it did. This will have no impact on actual
supply.”  Quota System  OPEC’s quota system has been weakened by the need to
replace Libya’s lost oil, the group’s secretary-general said
after yesterday’s divided meeting. A rebellion against Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has cut production in the North African
country by almost 90 percent, according to Bloomberg estimates.  “I don’t want to say it is dead,” Abdalla el-Badri said
today in Vienna, referring to the group’s production target.
“It is there, but we have to see how to replace Libya.”  The  International Energy Agency  said it was disappointed
that OPEC failed to agree on an increase in output, according to
a statement e-mailed yesterday. “Ongoing supply disruptions, as
well as the fragile state of the global economy, call for a
prompt increase in supply,” the Paris-based group said. The
agency advises 28 of the wealthiest nations on energy policy.  Bullish Sentiment  “The sentiment turned bullish on OPEC’s non-decision
yesterday,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and
research with Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in  New York . “Once we
get to the $104-$105 area, you’ll probably see a selloff. We’re
still stuck in a range, and when we hit the higher end of it
concerns are raised about demand destruction.”  Crude oil in New York has traded between $95.02 and $104.60
since May 9.  U.S. gasoline demand fell 2.8 percent to 9.16 million
barrels a day last week, leaving consumption 0.3 percent lower
than a year earlier, according to an Energy Department report
yesterday. Total fuel use climbed 0.5 percent to 19.2 million
barrels a day, down 1.4 percent from the same week last year.  “We’re still getting a bit of follow-through from
yesterday’s OPEC meeting and the U.S. inventory draw of nearly 5
million barrels,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “This has raised
concerns about tightness later this year.”  U.S. crude-oil stockpiles decreased 4.85 million barrels to
369 million last week, the biggest decline this year, according
to yesterday’s Energy Department report.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 726,989
contracts as of 3:08 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 1.05
million contracts yesterday, the most since May 6 and 58 percent
above the average of the past three months. Open interest was
1.53 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  