-- 
Czech GDP, Inflation May Bolster Central Bank’s Rate-Increase Advocates

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-09T11:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/czech-economic-growth-accelerates-on-exports-and-investments.html
The Czech Republic’s accelerating
economic growth and inflation may support the  central bank 
policy makers who advocate raising interest rates from record
low before the fourth quarter.  Gross domestic product rose an annual 2.8 percent in the
first quarter, compared with 2.7 percent in the final three
months of 2010, the Prague-based Czech Statistics Office said
today. The reading exceeded a 2.5 percent flash estimate on May
13. Inflation accelerated to 2 percent in May, matching the
central bank’s target, from 1.6 percent in the previous month.  “Inflation is returning to the central bank’s target
sooner than what was expected, which, combined with stronger GDP
in the first quarter, indicates a chance for a quicker increase
in interest rates,”  Michal Brozka , an analyst at Raiffeisenbank
AS in Prague said by phone. “The data still don’t signal rising
demand pressures, so the central bank doesn’t need to rush with
raising rates at the next meeting.”  The Ceska Narodni Banka kept the benchmark rate at 0.75
percent since May 2010 as central banks across  Europe  lifted
 interest rates  to curb inflation. Policy makers moved forward
the timing of a rate increase to the fourth quarter from the
first quarter in 2012, reflecting expectations of more monetary
tightening in the euro area, the central bank said on May 5.  The koruna gained as much as 0.4 percent today to 24.089
per euro, its strongest intraday level since then, and traded
0.1 percent stronger as of 1:15 p.m. in Prague. The yield on 2-
year government bonds rose 6 basis points to 1.770 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Divided Central Bank  May inflation exceeded the central bank’s forecast because
of a faster-than-expected increase in food prices, the bank said
in a statement posted on its website.  “Despite the deviations, the published inflation data for
May are in line with the overall spirit” of the current central
bank forecast, which says the domestic economy isn’t generating
demand pressures on consumer prices and that inflation is driven
mainly by commodity costs, the bank said.  Policy makers have shown differing views on inflation
risks, with some central bank board members advocating higher
borrowing costs.  Eva Zamrazilova  and Kamil Janacek voted for higher
borrowing costs at last meeting on May 5, while the remaining 5
policy makers voted for stable rates. The next three policy
meetings are scheduled for June 23, Aug. 4 and Sept. 21.  The Czech economy, is driven by foreign demand for its
goods, including Skoda Auto AS cars, as exports account for
about 70 percent of GDP. Companies also supply parts to German
manufacturers, which then sell their products outside the
European Union.  Inflation was driven mainly by higher food prices, the
statistics office said. Higher housing and energy costs as well
as more expensive oil also helped push inflation above the
central bank’s forecast of 1.7 percent.  ‘Cost Factors’  “It was mainly a consequence of cost factors, while
demand-driven inflation is virtually non-existent,”  Jan Vejmelek , chief economist at  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB)  in Prague, wrote
in a report. Komercni, a unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, forecasts
the benchmark two-week repurchase rate at 1.25 percent by year-
end.  Exports and a revival in investments contributed the most
to economic growth in the first quarter, the statistics office
said. Household and government consumption declined as the
Cabinet of Prime Minister Petr Necas curbs state spending.  The central bank forecasts GDP growth of 1.5 percent in
2011, and it sees the inflation rate at 2.2 percent in the
second quarter of next year.  “Compared with the current central bank forecast, we
expect higher GDP growth and a weaker koruna, which are factors
supporting faster price increases,” Patrik Rozumbersky, an
economist at UniCredit Bank Czech Republic AS wrote in a note.
“Because of this, we expect that the central bank will start
the rate increase cycle a little earlier.”  UniCredit forecasts the first quarter-point rate increase
will be in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  