-- 
German Stocks Tumble; DAX Index Set for Sixth Straight Week of Declines

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-10T15:59:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/daimler-siemens-tognum-volkswagen-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks fell, with the  DAX
Index (DAX)  posting the longest streak of weekly losses in almost
three years, as concern grew the economy is weakening and policy
makers clashed over how to solve  Europe ’s debt crisis.  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  declined with European utilities.
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  climbed 2.5 percent after Citigroup Inc. said
that Germany’s largest steelmaker remains one of its “top picks
in steel.”  The benchmark DAX Index slumped 1.3 percent to 7,069.9 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt , posting a weekly drop of 0.6
percent. The gauge has declined for six straight weeks as
reports on U.S. employment and factory orders added to concern
that the economy is faltering. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  slid 1.2
percent today.  “The U.S. market continues to price in a slower growing
economy,” said Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at
ETX Capital in  London . “For economies that are already
struggling, like Greece or  Portugal , it’s absolute poison.”  Greek, Irish and Spanish benchmark bonds slumped after
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  intensified his calls
for bondholders to assume a “fair” share of further Greek aid,
pitting him against the  European Central Bank , whose President
Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday rejected any direct participation
in a second bailout of the debt-stricken nation.  EON and RWE, Germany’s biggest utilities, lost 2.1 percent
to 19.09 euros and 2.3 percent to 38.14 euros, respectively. A
gauge of utilities in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell
1.8 percent.  Beiersdorf, Infineon  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the maker of Nivea skin creams, lost 2
percent to 44.89 euros, while  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s
second-biggest chipmaker, sank 2.4 percent to 7.46 euros.  ThyssenKrupp advanced 2.5 percent to 35.29 euros, the
highest price in almost three years, after Citigroup said that
the company’s American assets may generate high margins.  German stocks fell even as the Bundesbank raised its
forecasts for German growth today, saying Europe’s largest
economy has entered a broad and prolonged upswing.  Gross domestic product will expand 3.1 percent this year
and 1.8 percent in 2012, the Frankfurt-based central bank said
in its bi-annual economic outlook today. That compares with a
February prediction by then Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  of
2.5 percent growth for this year and a December forecast of 1.5
percent for 2012.  A separate report showed inflation in  Germany  slowed in May
as energy costs retreated. The inflation rate, calculated using
a harmonized European Union method, dropped to 2.4 percent from
2.7 percent in April, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said today, confirming its first estimate published on May 27.
From April, consumer prices declined 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  