-- 
Daiwa House Forecast Record Profit on Rebuilding After Japan Earthquake

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 
2011-06-10T06:22:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/daiwa-house-to-forecast-record-profit-after-japan-earthquake-analysts-say.html
Daiwa House Industry Co.,  Japan ’s
biggest home builder, expects profit to rise to a record for the
current year on higher sales following the nation’s biggest
earthquake.  Operating profit, deducting the cost of goods sold from
sales, will rise 8.3 percent to 95 billion yen ($1.19 billion)
for the year ending March 2012, according to a statement
distributed through the Tokyo Stock Exchange. That would exceed
the previous high of 89.1 billion yen in the year ended March
2008. The forecast matched the median estimate of five analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Osaka-based builder, which earlier had postponed the
profit forecast announcement because of the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami, may benefit from rebuilding demand following the
temblor, analysts said. Its  China  operations may also gain as
sales climb in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  “Profit generated from the China market is likely to
offset short-term deterioration of sales for Daiwa House,” said
 Masahiro Mochizuki , an analyst at Credit Suisse Securities
(Japan) Ltd. “Potential home buyers in Japan are likely to
choose larger home builders they have confidence in.”  Mochizuki had an operating profit forecast of 95.4 billion
yen for the year. The estimates ranged from Barclays Capital
Japan Ltd.’s 85 billion yen to the high of 96 billion yen by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Daiwa House’s shares climbed 1.5 percent to 1,006 yen at
the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo, a two-month high. The
 Topix Construction Index (TPCONT)  advanced 0.6 percent.  The company expects sales to rise 3.5 percent to 1.75
trillion yen for the year ending March 2012.  Housing Boom  Daiwa House’s orders gained 7 percent in April from a year
earlier, outpacing the 0.3 percent increase in Japan’s housing
starts for the same period, according to the company’s data and
the land ministry.  Sekisui House Ltd. (1928) , Japan’s second-largest home builder,
said last month it expects the biggest housing boom in the
country in at least 15 years as homeowners seek to rebuild after
the magnitude-9 temblor.  “Daiwa House relies more heavily on non-housing businesses
than peer Sekisui House and should be capable of offsetting some
of the setback in domestic profits associated with a quake-
related economic dip by booking condominium sales in Suzhou
China,” Takashi Hashimoto, an analyst at Barclays, said in a
report.  Daiwa House’s profit from China may reach 7 billion yen
this year after it first started apartment projects in 2006,
Mochizuki estimates. Daiwa, which focused on rental apartments
in China since 1985, started to build and sell homes in the
nation five years ago to diversify as its home market shrank.  Rebuilding Demand  The March earthquake and tsunami destroyed or damaged more
than 503,000 homes and 93,270 people are still staying in
shelters, according to the  National Police Agency .  Temporary homes completed 74 days after the quake totaled
15,572 units, only about half of those finished during the same
period after the great Hanshin Earthquake that hit Kobe,
according to data compiled by Credit Suisse.  “The construction of temporary housing is very slow and
that means rebuilding demand will be delayed,” Mochizuki said.
“The company can probably profit from rebuilding demand in
northeastern region for the next two to three years.”  Construction companies broke ground on 0.3 percent more
homes last month from a year earlier, according to a report
released on May 31 by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure,
Transport and Tourism in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  