-- 
Biden, Geithner Said to Push Republicans on Higher-Revenue Issue

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-06-10T04:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/debt-ceiling-talks-pace-to-increase-in-congress-as-august-deadline-looms.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  and
Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  pressed Republicans to accept
higher revenue to help curb deficits in talks aimed at achieving
a plan to raise the U.S. debt limit before Aug. 2, two
congressional aides said.  Republicans countered during the private meeting yesterday
that any tax increase would hurt the economy and couldn’t pass
the Republican-led House, said the aides, who spoke on condition
of anonymity as lawmakers stepped up attempts to reach an
agreement. The two aides weren’t authorized to discuss the talks
publicly.  “We set up three meetings next week, so we’re making
progress,” Biden told reporters on his way out of the Capitol
in Washington after he and Geithner met with six Senate and
House members from both parties.  Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, said a
separate effort by a bipartisan group of senators seeking a
longer-term debt-reduction compromise was expanded from five to
18 members for a briefing.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, who took part in the
Biden-led meeting, said a new urgency is evident in the talks
after signs that the U.S. job market is slowing. The group is
prepared for a “robust series of meetings” to try to get
results, he said.  No ‘Credible Plan’  “The news economically on the jobs front over the last
couple of days, I think, underscored the importance of this
meeting,” Cantor, a Virginia Republican, told reporters. “Much
of the problem surrounding the lack of  job creation  and growth
in this country has to do with the fact that there isn’t a
credible plan to manage down the debt and deficit.”  Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months in May,
Labor Department figures released June 3 showed. Moody’s
Investors Service last week said if there’s no progress on
increasing the debt limit in coming weeks, it expects to place
the government’s rating under review for a possible downgrade.  Lawmakers are under pressure to find agreement on raising
the $14.3 trillion debt limit before a Treasury Department
deadline of Aug. 2. Republicans insist that a major deficit-
cutting plan must be part of any legislation to raise the debt
ceiling. Yesterday’s meeting was the sixth of the Biden-led
group.  ‘No Alternative’  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said the president
is “quite confident” Congress will vote to raise ceiling.
“There really is no alternative,” Carney said.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , one of the
Democrats in the Biden group, said the discussions involved
Democratic proposals to eliminate tax loopholes and other ways
to raise revenue. He declined to give specifics about the
proposals except to say they covered “the whole range of things
that you might expect.”  Asked about Republican reaction, Van Hollen said “people
wanted to get a good understanding of the proposals, the revenue
impact, that sort of thing.”  The next meeting, tentatively scheduled for June 14, will
address discretionary spending, budget caps to control spending
and other mechanisms like enforceable spending targets to
control deficits and the long-term debt, said one of the
congressional aides who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Even with a stepped-up pace in talks on a deal to reduce
deficits and debt, the same economic news that is putting
pressure on negotiators is also sparking discussion about new
moves to boost the economy that would add to deficits.  Payroll Tax Cut  Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah , the top Republican on the tax-
writing Senate Finance Committee, said he would consider
supporting an employer payroll tax cut being considered at the
White House, even as he says President  Barack Obama  could create
jobs more efficiently.  Conrad said he would instead support about $100 billion in
infrastructure spending to help create jobs. Senator Ron Wyden
of  Oregon , a senior Democrat on the Finance panel, said he would
like to see a combination of more infrastructure spending and
tax-code changes both parties can support.  Negotiators “did not get into detail” on the payroll tax
proposal, which White House aides are discussing as a method of
encouraging more hiring by employers,  Van Hollen  told reporters.  Senate Group  Conrad is a member of the so-called Gang of Six bipartisan
senators who had been working on a debt-reduction plan since the
beginning of the year. That group has been in limbo since one
member, Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma , dropped out
over disagreements on overhauling entitlement programs.  Conrad and other members of the original group, including
 Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the second-ranking Senate Democrat,
briefed 13 other senators in hopes of keeping their effort
alive.  “We never ended, despite what is reported some places,”
he said. “We’ve kept adding people,” he said, “for the
purposes of giving others a briefing.”  It’s unclear whether those senators will become permanent
members of the effort, he said. Senator  Saxby Chambliss , a
Georgia Republican and co-chairman of the group, said he was
“hopeful” Coburn will return to the negotiating group.  Chambliss and another member of the group, Republican
Senator  Mike Crapo  of  Idaho , have said the Biden talks are aimed
at reaching a short-term deal on spending cuts to attach to a
vote to increase the debt ceiling. They say their effort seeks
to include entitlement and tax overhauls to cut the debt by at
least $4.5 trillion over 10 years.  Longer-Term Solution  Senator  Mark Warner , a Virginia Democrat and co-chairman of
the Senate group with Chambliss, said yesterday their effort is
the best hope for a longer-term debt solution.  “If we kind of limp through the lowest common denominator
debt-ceiling extension,” Warner told the Economic Club of
 Washington  D.C., “we may have the time, bond markets may react
OK, but I don’t know how big this window is.”  “The sooner we can finish our work,” said Warner, “the
better this moves along.”  Conrad said he had put together a 10-year, $5.64 trillion
“illustrative” plan for balancing the budget.  “This is not a plan in the sense of a proposal to be
advanced,” he said. He said it was meant to “show what it
takes to balance the budget” over 10 years. Republicans have
criticized Democrats for failing to come up with a budget
proposal of their own.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laurie Asseo at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net  