-- 
Biden Donor Tigani Pleads Guilty to Violating Campaign Laws

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h ,   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-11T00:53:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/delaware-businessman-tigani-pleads-guilty-to-political-donation-violations.html
Delaware businessman  Christopher
Tigani , who donated money in 2007 to Vice President  Joe Biden ’s
presidential race, pleaded guilty to violating campaign-
contribution laws.  Tigani, former president of NKS Distributors Inc.,
yesterday admitted in U.S. District Court in Wilmington,
Delaware, that he broke federal election laws by reimbursing his
employees for contributions he ordered them to make in 2007.
Those contributions included $70,400 made to a presidential
campaign committee, according to court filings.  Tigani made two contributions on Aug. 30, 2007, one in his
name and another using a family member’s name, according to
prosecutors, who didn’t identify the recipient in court papers.
The  Federal Election Commission , on its website, said Tigani and
his ex-wife, Candice Tigani, donated $4,600 to Biden for
President Inc. that same day.  U.S. prosecutors said outside of court that Tigani’s plea
is part of a wider criminal probe in cooperation with state
officials. They wouldn’t identify the focus of the probe.  “The investigation is broad in scope and extends beyond
campaign contributions,” Assistant U.S. Attorney David Weiss
said in an interview.  Weiss said potential violations of state laws would be
referred to the  Delaware  Department of Justice, headed by
Delaware Attorney General Beau Biden, the vice president’s son.
In anticipation of a possible state investigation, Beau Biden
today recused himself from any local probe and said he would
appoint an independent counsel, according to his spokesman,
Jason Miller, in Wilmington.  ‘Sham’ Campaign Drive  Federal prosecutors contend Tigani created a “sham”
campaign drive for the unidentified presidential candidate in
2007 by soliciting checks from his beer distributorship’s
employees and then reimbursing them with company funds,
according to charging papers made public yesterday.  U.S. District Judge Gregory Sleet in Wilmington set
sentencing for Sept. 20. Tigani faces a maximum prison term of
16 years, prosecutors said in a statement.  Outside the courtroom, Tigani declined to comment on his
plea. Candice Tigani didn’t return a call for comment on her
2007 contribution to Biden’s campaign.  The Aug. 30, 2007, donations were made to “Campaign
Committee A,” records filed by federal prosecutors showed.
“The total amount of illegal conduit contributions to Campaign
Committee A in calendar year 2007 was $70,400,” according to a
plea agreement signed by Tigani yesterday.  Weiss declined to identify Campaign Committee A. He
referred reporters to FEC documents, saying they would show the
identity.  Anheuser Busch  Tigani, 40, lost control of  New Castle , Delaware-based NKS,
which has the exclusive right to distribute Anheuser-Busch
InBev’s beers in Delaware, in a 2009 dispute with his father.
Tigani made more than $47,000 in campaign contributions during
the past decade, FEC records show.  Those donations included $7,500 to Biden during a six-year
period starting in 2001, according to FEC records. Biden,
formerly a Democratic U.S. Senator from Delaware in 2008, ran
for president before accepting President  Barack Obama ’s offer to
become vice president.  Tigani and his family members gave Biden another $12,300
during the period, according to the records. A $1,200 donation
made Tigani one of the top 20 individual contributors to Biden’s
2008 presidential campaign, according to Follow the Money, a
 website  that tracks political donations.  ‘No Knowledge’  “We had absolutely no knowledge of these activities,” Amy
Dudley, a spokeswoman for Biden, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Tigani also contributed $2,300 to Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign in 2007, FEC records
show. In addition, he gave $2,000 to former President  George W. Bush ’s 2004 re-election campaign.  Tigani “illegally bundled campaign contributions”
totaling at least $219,800, prosecutors said in a statement
yesterday. He was charged over contributions he made to
candidates for president, the senate, governor, lieutenant
governor, state treasurer and other offices, prosecutors said,
without identifying the candidates.  Tigani also pleaded guilty to making false statements on
his 2005 and 2006 tax returns, according to the statement.  Bankruptcy Protection  Tigani sought bankruptcy protection last year to stop a
foreclosure sale of his 23,937-square-foot mansion northwest of
Wilmington. The home had been owned by Charles Cawley, founder
of credit-card issuer MBNA, which  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  acquired
for $34.2 billion in 2006.  Wilmington Trust Co., a unit of  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) , began
foreclosure proceedings after Tigani failed to make payments on
his $4.1 million mortgage on the home, according to court
records.  The bank was the only bidder for the 1929 stone mansion at
a January auction and bought it for $2.1 million, according to
court records. The property includes a carriage house, formal
garden and 18-vehicle garage.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Tigani, 11-cr-42, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington). Tigani’s
bankruptcy case is In re Christopher J. Tigani, 10-11855,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  