-- 
Deutsche Bank Says South Korean Court Ordered Freeze on Some of Its Assets

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 
2011-06-09T05:06:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/deutsche-bank-says-it-s-aware-of-korean-court-order-to-freeze-some-assets.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
lender, said a South Korean court ordered a freeze on some of 
its assets in the Asian nation.  “We understand that a preservation order was granted by a
court at the prosecutors’ request and without Deutsche Bank’s
arguments being heard,”  Michael West , Deutsche Bank’s Hong
Kong-based spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to a query.
“The order does not reflect the merits of any case that may be
heard in the future.”  Deutsche Bank hasn’t received the court order yet and no
one at the lender had been charged, West wrote.  The  Seoul Central District Court  accepted South Korean
prosecutors’ requests to temporarily seize assets worth 44.8
billion won ($41 million) from Deutsche Bank’s Seoul branch and
its South Korean securities unit, Yonhap News reported earlier,
citing legal officials it didn’t identify. Officials at the
court’s public relations team declined to comment.  South Korean prosecutors are investigating allegations that
Deutsche Bank staff made unfair profit from a plunge in  South
Korea ’s benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  on Nov. 11. The country’s
financial regulators banned Deutsche Bank from trading shares
and derivatives for its own account for six months starting from
April after saying that the lender’s employees had conspired to
manipulate the market. The case was subsequently referred to
prosecutors.  ‘No Charges’  “The bank continues to cooperate with the prosecutors’
ongoing investigation,” Deutsche Bank’s West said in today’s e-
mail. “No charges have been laid against Deutsche Bank, its
Korean subsidiaries or staff.”  Scrutiny of equity-market swings has increased globally
since a 20-minute drop in U.S. equities on May 6 last year
briefly erased $862 billion of market value. South Korea’s
 Financial Services Commission  is drafting revisions to capital-
markets laws to increase penalties on stock market manipulation
and trading on undisclosed information, Ernst Lee, a spokesman
at the regulator, said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
Shinhye Kang at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ; 