-- 
Dimon Challenges Bernanke in Wall Street Bid to Tame Regulators

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-06-09T18:12:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/dimon-challenging-bernanke-channels-wall-street-s-bid-to-break-regulators.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon’s public questioning of Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke on bank regulatory costs has “thrown
down the gauntlet” in the industry’s increasingly aggressive
fight to curb higher  capital requirements  and other rules.  “They threw out the first ball, now can they play the
game?” said William Poole, former president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of  St. Louis , in an interview yesterday. “How
persuasively can Dimon and others make their case?”  Dimon, head of the most profitable U.S. bank, took an
unusual step in pressing Bernanke in a public forum on June 7 on
whether regulators have gone too far in reining in the U.S.
banking system and are slowing economic growth. The U.S.
unemployment rate rose to 9.1 percent in May as the S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 cities showed that U.S.
home prices slumped in March to their lowest since 2003.  Poole, who warned of  Fannie Mae ’s and  Freddie Mac ’s risks
years before the mortgage giants collapsed and who also supports
higher capital requirements for banks, said Dimon had a valid
point. Excessive regulation in the U.S. is slowing the economic
recovery, Poole said.  “The issue is whether intellectual leaders across a wide
variety of industries, think tanks can be persuaded,” Poole
said. “He’s thrown down the gauntlet. Now what is needed are
detailed studies of the costs of regulations.”  Dodd-Frank Act  An unprecedented bailout of the financial system in 2008
spurred Congress to pass hundreds of rules last year as part of
the Dodd-Frank Act. Bank regulators worldwide also are devising
new capital requirements. After Republicans won control of the
U.S. House of Representatives last year, banks have stepped up
their fight to blunt or head off the rules.  Dimon, 55, asked Bernanke if he’s concerned that
overzealous regulation will stymie an economic rebound.  “I have a great fear someone’s going to try to write a
book in 20 years, and the book is going to talk about all the
things that we did in the middle of the crisis to actually slow
down recovery,” Dimon told the Fed chairman during a conference
of bankers in Atlanta.  Bernanke, 57, said Dimon’s points are valid and that the
Fed lacks the quantitative tools to study the net impact of all
the regulatory and market changes over the past three years.  “It’s too complicated,” Bernanke said, adding that he
thinks there’s a way to safely regulate banks while preserving
their ability to deliver “basic financial services.”  ‘Favorite Banker’  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair , when
asked about Dimon’s comments in  New York  today, defended higher
capital buffers for the biggest banks and said U.S. regulators
must guard against pressure to ease up on oversight as the
nation recovers from the 2008 credit crisis.  “I see a lot of amnesia setting in now,” Bair said today
during a question-and-answer session at the  Council on Foreign
Relations . “Banks are not doing a lot of lending now, and the
ones that are doing the better job of lending are the smaller
institutions that have the higher capital levels.”  Dimon once labeled as President  Barack Obama ’s “favorite
banker” by the New York Times. The CEO's public challenge to 
Bernanke was privately cheered by  Wall Street  peers, with 
senior executives at four rival firms saying they agreed with 
his point about the dangers of over-regulation. One of the 
four, who spoke anonymously because they weren’t authorized to
comment, said Dimon’s complaint may become counterproductive by
leading to a backlash against bankers.  A fifth executive, who said government regulatory efforts
aren’t excessive, said Dimon’s stature in the industry grants
him the confidence and clout to challenge Bernanke.  ‘Poisoned’ Environment  “Wall Street has no friends, and the banks have no
friends, and  Jamie Dimon  is out there as kind of a lightning rod
when he says things like this,” said Michael Holland, who
oversees more than $4 billion in assets at New York-based
Holland & Co.  JPMorgan, which has fallen 4.8 percent this year on the New
York Stock Exchange, is Holland’s only bank holding.  “Jamie Dimon has raised the issue in a very public forum
that people in  Washington  are part of the problem, not part of
the solution,” Holland said in a phone interview. “It’s
unfortunate that the environment is so poisoned that people
can’t even raise the question.”  Howard Opinsky, a JPMorgan spokesman, and the Fed’s  David Skidmore  declined to comment.  Dimon, who often says JPMorgan maintains a “fortress”
balance sheet, is one of a few bank CEOs with the moxie and
standing to openly criticize the Fed, according industry
analysts including FBR Capital Markets’  Paul Miller , a former
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.  $20 Billion Profit  JPMorgan was the only major U.S. financial firm to remain
profitable throughout the recession and was among the first to
repay the U.S. Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset Relief
Program. Dimon, who’s also JPMorgan’s chairman, said he took the
$25 billion to set an example, not because the bank needed it.  Profit at the New York-based company will top $20 billion
in 2011, according to the average estimate of 22 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That would make JPMorgan the first U.S.
bank to do so since 2006, when  Citigroup Inc. (C)  earned $21.5
billion under then-CEO Charles O. “Chuck” Prince.  “What else does he have to lose?” Miller said of Dimon.
“He played nice as much as he could and got nothing out of it.
They are coming out with more and more rules every day that are
just going to affect him negatively.”  Public War  Miller cited a U.S. Senate vote yesterday as an example of
the industry’s waning influence in Washington. The Senate
rejected a proposal to delay rules set to take effect July 21
that limit the so-called swipe fees banks collect on debit-card
transactions. The Fed’s proposed caps would reduce annual
revenue at the biggest U.S. lenders by about $12 billion.  Bank lobbyists have fought other parts of Dodd-Frank to
blunt its impact on business. They argue that a new Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, being set up by Obama adviser
 Elizabeth Warren , may make demands that threaten firms’
soundness, if separate from prudential regulators. Last month,
44 Republicans wrote to Obama saying they wouldn’t vote to
confirm anyone as director without changes to its structure.
Wall Street lobbyists have also sought to shape sweeping rules
for over-the-counter derivatives.  The exchange with Bernanke gave other bankers, hesitant to
wage a public war with their main regulators, cover to criticize
proposed international capital standards that would impose a 3
percent surcharge on top of a 7 percent minimum requirement on
the largest global systemically important financial
institutions, or SIFIs. The rules are being drafted by a group
of bank regulators who are scheduled to decide on a preliminary
plan later this month and present their final proposal to the G-
20 group of nations in July.  ‘Unbelievable Hypocrisy’  “It feels like we’re going a little bit too far,”  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Chief Financial Officer Timothy Sloan said at an
investor conference yesterday, referring to the proposal.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  CEO Robert Diamond told lawmakers in  London 
yesterday that 10 percent may be too much.  “I do worry that we’re making some of the capital levels
too high,” said Diamond, 59.  Dimon may face a backlash from the public, which views
bankers as overpaid, under-regulated and responsible for the
worst economic slump since the Depression. Only 1.8 million of
the more than 8.7 million U.S. jobs lost since January 2008 have
been regained. Dimon was awarded $23 million for his performance
last year. Bernanke’s salary was $199,700.  “How can he ask this with a straight face?” Grahame
Freeland, 62, an accountant in Toronto, said in an e-mail.
“Unbelievable hypocrisy, nothing has really changed. This man,
who went to the trough on taxpayers’ money, has the nerve to
question the minimal controls Bernanke is pushing for!”  ‘Negative Perceptions’  While JPMorgan may be popular on Wall Street, the
institution isn’t as well regarded as Bernanke, according to a
Bloomberg poll of 1,263 traders, investors and analysts surveyed
last month. JPMorgan was viewed favorably by 57 percent of
respondents, compared with 64 percent for Bernanke. The public’s
estimation of the industry is less favorable.  “Across the board, there’s still high negative perceptions
of big banks and Wall Street among voters,” said Corry
Schiermeyer, spokeswoman for pollster IBOPE Zogby International
in Utica, New York. “The majorities of voters polled have said
they would like to see stronger regulation of the banks.”  Dimon’s confrontation with Bernanke may foreshadow a House
Financial Services Committee hearing next week on international
financial regulatory coordination. Federal Reserve Board
Governor Daniel Tarullo and a senior JPMorgan executive are
among those tentatively scheduled to testify, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  Dimon’s position on the board of the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York , as well as at the helm of the nation’s second-
largest bank by assets, should give him access to Fed officials
without airing his complaints in public.  “Most bankers operate behind the scenes,” said FBR’s
Miller. “Why did Jamie feel he had to come out public with
this? Is he not getting any satisfaction behind the scenes,
because you would think he has access.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  