-- 
Dirty Secrets Fester in 50-Year Relationships: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/dirty-secrets-fester-in-50-year-relationships-jonathan-weil.html
Another financial scandal. Another
cover-up by regulators. Four years ago, inspectors for the  
auditing industry's chief watchdog discovered that KPMG LLP had
let Motorola Inc. record revenue during the third quarter of 2006 
from a transaction with  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , even though the final 
contract wasn’t signed until the early hours of the fourth
quarter. That’s no small technicality. Without the deal, Motorola
would have missed its third-quarter earnings target.  The regulator, the  Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board , later criticized KPMG for letting Motorola book the
revenue when it did. Although KPMG had discussed the
transaction’s timing with both Motorola and Qualcomm, the board
said the firm “failed to obtain persuasive evidence of an
arrangement for revenue-recognition purposes in the third
quarter.” In other words, KPMG had no good reason to believe the
deal shouldn’t have been recorded in the fourth quarter.  The oversight board didn’t tell the public that this
happened at Motorola, though. The maker of wireless-
communications equipment, now known as Motorola Solutions Inc.,
didn’t restate its earnings for the period in question. And
there’s no sign the Securities and Exchange Commission ever
followed up with an investigation of Motorola’s accounting, even
though it oversees the board and had access to its findings.  All of this is business as usual for America’s numbers
cops. Since the board’s creation by the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  in
2002, its inspectors have found audit failures by large
accounting firms at hundreds of U.S.-listed companies. Yet its
policy is to keep the identities of those clients secret.  ‘Issuer C’  Likewise, in August 2008 when the board released its annual
inspection  report  on KPMG, it referred to Motorola as “Issuer C”
in the section on the auditor’s work for the company. For what
it’s worth, Motorola paid the firm $244.2 million from 2000 to
2010.  This is the third column I’ve written revealing the name of
a client whose accounting practices were a subject of a major
auditing firm’s inspection report. Motorola is the biggest yet.
I hope a whistleblower comes forward someday to leak many more.
This is information investors need to know.  The  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  authorizes the oversight board to
disclose “such confidential and proprietary information as the
board may determine to be appropriate” in the public portions of
its inspection reports. So it’s the board’s call whether to
disclose clients’ names, although the SEC could overrule it. The
board never does, bowing to the wishes of the accounting firms.  Identity Revealed  Motorola’s identity was disclosed in public records last
month as part of a class-action shareholder lawsuit against the
company in a federal district court in  Chicago . The plaintiffs
in the case, led by the Macomb County Employees’ Retirement
System in  Michigan , filed a transcript of a September 2010
deposition of a KPMG auditor, David Pratt, who testified that
Issuer C was Motorola.  KPMG  isn’t a defendant in the lawsuit.  Pratt also identified the Motorola customers cited in the
board’s inspection report. It’s his deposition that allows me to
describe the report’s findings using real names.  The oversight board said a significant portion of the
company’s earnings for the 2006 third quarter came from two
licensing agreements that were recorded during the last three
days of the quarter. One was the Qualcomm deal that wasn’t
signed until the fourth quarter. The board also cited other
deficiencies in KPMG’s review of Motorola’s accounting for the
transactions.  Making the Numbers  Motorola booked $275 million of earnings during the 2006
third quarter as a result of the Qualcomm deal, according to
estimates by the plaintiffs in the shareholder suit. The
plaintiffs allege that all of it was recorded in violation of
generally accepted accounting principles. That’s 28 percent of
the net income Motorola reported for the quarter.  A Motorola spokesman, Nicholas Sweers, said the company’s
accounting complied with GAAP, and that the financial statements
for the periods covered in the inspection report have never been
the subject of an SEC investigation. He declined to discuss
details of Motorola’s accounting, citing the litigation. A KPMG
spokesman, George Ledwith, declined to comment. So did an
oversight board spokeswoman, Colleen Brennan, and an SEC
spokesman,  John Nester .  The story doesn’t end there. Last week the board’s new
chairman, James Doty, gave a  speech  in which he said the board
should consider setting mandatory  term limits  for auditors at
public companies. To prove his point, he cited two instances
that were “galling in their simplicity” where auditors “have
failed to exercise the required skepticism and have accepted
evidence that is less than persuasive.”  Making a Match  One of his examples matched the fact pattern of KPMG’s 2006
review at Motorola exactly. “PCAOB inspectors found at one large
firm that an engagement team was aware that a significant
contract was not signed until the early hours of the fourth
quarter,” Doty said. “Nevertheless, the audit partner allowed
the company to book the transaction in the third quarter, which
allowed the company to meet its earnings target.”  Doty finished the anecdote by saying: “The company had been
an audit client of the firm for close to 50 years.” KPMG has
been Motorola’s auditor since  1959 ; it had been Motorola’s
auditor for 47 years at the time of the Qualcomm deal.  If Doty and his colleagues are genuinely interested in
protecting investors, they should stop being so timid and start
naming names.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  For more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  