-- 
Insurance Rates Climb on Disaster Costs

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/disasters-costing-100-billion-begin-to-lift-insurance-rates.html
Natural disasters costing insurers
almost $100 billion are beginning to lift some commercial
insurance rates after a seven-year decline.  The reversal may benefit underwriters such as  Chubb Corp. (CB) 
and brokers like  Aon Corp. (AON)   Insurers hurt in the past 16 months by earthquakes in
 Japan ,  New Zealand  and  Chile  and tornadoes in the U.S. are
charging more for property coverage. Companies are seeking to
strengthen finances after the recession drained value from
investment portfolios and limited demand from business clients.  “The market is turning,” said  Chris Johnson , senior vice
president of commercial insurer FM Global. “If you look at
reserves, if you look at every indicator for the industry, we
have no slack left,” he said in an interview. “The only way to
start turning the corner is for rates to rise.”  Travelers Cos. and Warren, New Jersey-based Chubb, which
repurchased shares in the past three years rather than writing
more coverage, are among insurers that may benefit from higher
prices, said  Cliff Gallant , an analyst at KBW Inc. Brokers like
Chicago-based Aon and Marsh & McLennan Cos., which collect
commissions on policies sold, may also gain.  Among the signs of sporadic rate increases: Prices for
property coverage for businesses rose 0.2 percent in
catastrophe-prone areas since mid-April, according to a report
from Marsh’s flagship unit last week. The cost for general
liability fell at a slower rate so far this quarter than a year
earlier.  Renewal Rates  Insurers have increasingly been able to charge more to
existing clients, even if they’ve had to cut rates to win new
customers. Renewal rates for New York-based Travelers’s business
customers, excluding the largest accounts,  rose  for the first
time since 2007 in the three months ended March 31.  CNA
Financial Corp. (CNA) , a subsidiary of Loews Corp., increased
commercial rates the last six quarters for renewals.  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, may benefit from
higher prices for insurance renewals, Oliver Baete, chief
financial officer of the Munich-based firm, said in a statement
last month.  Investors have anticipated a rise in rates. Travelers
climbed 8.9 percent this year through yesterday, beating the 1.7
percent gain of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Chubb advanced
7.8 percent and Chicago-based CNA jumped 8.1 percent. Aon surged
9.9 percent and New York-based Marsh & McLennan increased 9.4
percent. Allianz gained about 3.3 percent.  Reinsurance Rates  Some U.S. property-catastrophe reinsurance rates rose 5
percent to 10 percent on June 1, partly spurred by almost $100
billion in  global losses  since February 2010, according to a
report from Marsh & McLennan’s reinsurance brokerage on markets
including  Florida . Reinsurers like No. 1  Munich Re  and Swiss
Reinsurance Co. provide coverage to primary carriers, protecting
against the largest risks including natural disasters.  Rising rates from reinsurers often lead to higher insurance
prices. Reinsurance rates for Japan earthquake protection
climbed 20 percent to 60 percent after the March 11 disaster,
Matthias Weber, Swiss Re’s head of property and specialty, said
at a June 7 Bloomberg Link conference in New York. The cost of
reinsurance for flooding and wind damage climbed as much as 10
percent in Japan, he said.  Swiss Re climbed 2.9 percent this year through yesterday.
Munich Re fell about 9.3 percent.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the largest U.S.
commercial insurer, is becoming more selective about risks it
will take, said Peter Hancock, who was picked in March to run
the property-casualty business. AIG said in February it would
take a charge of more than $4 billion to build reserves after
underestimating the cost of claims. AIG dropped 43 percent this
year in New York trading.  AIG  “We’re coming out of this phase of insureds going into the
market thinking they’re going to get a rate decrease,” said Lou
Iglesias, head of commercial casualty at Chartis, in a
conference last week sponsored by Advisen Ltd.  U.S. commercial rates have dropped 23 percent since the
peak in late 2003, according to Advisen’s ADVx index. The last
sustained climb in rates was in a period through the end of 2003
as insurers paid more than $22 billion related to the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks. Prices often climb after extraordinary
claims.  Some of the increases in 2005 after  Hurricane Katrina , the
costliest U.S. natural disaster, reversed the next year as new
private-equity-backed firms competed for business.  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  added sales after Katrina then “sharply reduced”
its appetite for covering storm damage, Chairman  Warren Buffett 
said in 2007. The firm instead invested in takeovers, striking
deals to buy a railroad and lubricants maker.  Berkshire Hathaway  “Premium rates have not been attractive enough to warrant
increasing volume,” Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire said in a
quarterly filing with regulators in May.  Kevin Whitehead, a New York-based senior vice president of
excess casualty for Zurich Financial Services AG, said that a
broader rebound in prices for primary coverage is likely, even
if it’s difficult to predict when rates will rise industrywide.  “We’ve seen seven years of declining rate, and at some
point the pendulum is going to have to start swinging the other
way,” Whitehead said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  