-- 
Diverse Supply of Rare Earths Needed by U.S., Sandalow Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-09T21:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/diverse-supply-of-rare-earths-needed-by-u-s-sandalow-says-1-.html
The U.S. must diversify sources of
rare earths, needed for electric cars and  wind turbines , to cut
dependence on a few overseas producers, said David Sandalow,
assistant Energy secretary for policy and international affairs.  “It is essential that we find a way to globalize the
supply chain,” Sandalow said today in testimony to a Senate
committee in Washington.  The Senate is considering legislation that would encourage
research and development of rare-earth elements and “critical”
minerals, which are often used in clean-energy technologies.  Rare earths include neodymium, used in wind turbines and
electric vehicles, and lanthanum, used in lighting.  China 
produces about 95 percent of all rare earths and holds 37
percent of known reserves, according to the Energy Department.
The U.S. holds 13 percent of known global reserves.  The agency also wants to develop substitutes for rare
earths and other materials, and encourage recycling to reduce
global demand, according to a “ Critical Materials Strategy ”
released in December.  Lawmakers are concerned that U.S. mining of rare earths is
slowed by the permit process in the Interior Department, which
oversees minerals development. It’s “an issue of contention in
my state,” said Senator Dean Heller, a Nevada Republican. The
entire process may take 7 to 10 years, he said.  A company’s permit application takes about four years to
win approval, Marcilynn Burke, deputy director of Interior’s
Bureau of Land Management, told the panel. A 10-year review
includes the time from discovery of the minerals to production,
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  