-- 
Dodd-Frank Swaps Rules to Create ‘Black Hole’ Because of Unresolved Issues

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-06-09T16:44:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/dodd-frank-swaps-rules-to-create-black-hole-because-of-unresolved-issues.html
Swaps users may face a “black hole”
when Dodd-Frank Act rules take effect next month because too
much remains unresolved for markets to operate properly, the
Senate Agriculture Committee’s top Republican said.  “We don’t even know what a swap is” under the financial
overhaul, Senator Pat Roberts said in an interview today at
Bloomberg’s office in  Washington . The Kansas Republican said the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission needs to outline what
provisions will apply when Dodd-Frank takes effect, and which
will require rule-making that will delay implementation.  The CFTC and the Securities and Exchange Commission are
writing new regulations required by the legislation enacted last
July, after largely unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. Dodd-Frank seeks to reduce risk and boost
transparency in the  $601 trillion global swaps market  by having
most swaps guaranteed by central clearinghouses and traded on
exchanges or other venues.  A swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange the
difference between two price payments, one fixed and one
floating, for a specific commodity over a period of time. The
instruments, a form of derivative, are used to hedge against
swings in prices for commodities such as energy and crops.  Roberts joined Republican Senators  Saxby Chambliss  of
 Georgia  and  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana  in a letter to CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  on May 27 asking for a list of Dodd-Frank
provisions that would become effective on July 16. They also
asked the CFTC’s view of how swaps transitions would be governed
while new regulations are put in place and how the commission
would provide greater legal certainty for the transactions
during the transition.  ‘Swaps Purgatory’  “We’re getting into swaps purgatory,” Roberts said today.
“You have Dodd-Frank going into effect, and you say, ‘What are
the regulations?’ And the CFTC says, ‘We don’t know.’”  Gensler was traveling in  New York , and CFTC spokesman
 Steven Adamske  didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and phone
call seeking comment.  The CFTC is holding a meeting on June 14 to discuss
effective dates for Dodd-Frank provisions. Gensler said in an
interview June 2 that “we have ample latitude in the statute to
address anything on the 16th,” and that congressional action
wouldn’t be needed to deal with any gaps in rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  