-- 
Dozens in Yemen Hurt as Saleh Supporters Celebrate Leader

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-06-09T13:14:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/dozens-in-yemen-hurt-as-saleh-supporters-celebrate-leader-2-.html
Dozens of Yemenis were injured after
supporters of President Ali Abdullah Saleh fired bullets into
the air in celebration after the army reported that the
president was returning to the country soon.  Saleh is recuperating in  Saudi Arabia  after surgery for
injuries sustained during a June 3 bombing of a mosque in his
presidential compound in Sana’a, the capital. Mohammed al-Kamal,
a doctor, said 70 wounded people were admitted to al-Thawrah
public hospital in Sana’a last night. Bushra al-Maktari, a
protest activist, said by telephone that another 12 people were
wounded by celebratory gunfire in the southern city of Taiz.  The Defense Ministry said today that Saleh was in “stable
condition.” Two U.S. officials in  Washington  said on June 7
that the Yemeni leader has bad burns on his face and 40 percent
of his body. Sultan al-Burkani, a senior member of Yemen’s
ruling party, denied those reports, the  Defense Ministry  said on
its website.  Yemen’s opposition is urging Vice President Abduraboo
Mansur Hadi to formally declare he has assumed Saleh’s duties.
Saleh’s supporters say he is still head of state and will return
soon in that capacity.  After months of anti-government protests, fighting in the
Arabian Peninsula country escalated when Saleh refused to sign a
Gulf Cooperation Council plan calling for him to step down
within 30 days and turn leadership over to Hadi in exchange for
immunity from prosecution. It was the third time GCC-led talks
had failed.  The ministry said Saleh “has overcome health problems
after the success of surgery to remove shrapnel embedded in his
body.”  It said he will return to Yemen after “a period of
recuperation and treatment for simple burns.”  Soldiers today killed two armed protesters and injured two
others in a market in the southern Taiz city, Aziz Mahmud, a
witness, said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 