-- 
Dubai Said to Hire UBS, RBS, Emirates NBD for Benchmark Dollar Bond Sale

-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-06-09T12:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/dubai-said-to-hire-ubs-rbs-emirates-nbd-for-benchmark-dollar-bond-sale.html
Dubai hired  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) , UBS AG and  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  for a benchmark dollar
bond sale, three people familiar with the transaction said, as
the emirate seeks to bridge its  budget deficit .  Conference calls with investors will begin tomorrow, with
one meeting scheduled in  London  next week, one of the bankers
said, declining to be identified because the information is
private. A benchmark bond is at least $500 million.  This “is positive news for the market,” Adnan Haider,
head of fixed-income and equities at Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank
PJSC, said in a phone interview. “I think they are taking
advantage of market liquidity and the positive response to
recent sales, such as the Emirates bond, and the Dubai World
restructuring.”  Dubai government-owned Emirates, the world’s biggest
airline by international traffic, on June 1 raised $1 billion
from the sale of five-year bonds at a spread of 330 basis points
over the benchmark mid-swap rate. The government in January
forecast a deficit of 3.78 billion dirhams ($1 billion) for the
year compared with 5.99 billion dirhams in 2010.  The cost of insuring Dubai’s debt rose 2.5 basis points
today to 321, according to CMA prices for credit-default swaps.
The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10
million of debt.  Bonds  Dubai’s Department of Finance last sold bonds in September,
when it raised $1.25 billion in a two-part bond sale in its
first sovereign debt issue since the Dubai World debt
restructuring. The five-year, $500 million note was priced to
yield 6.7 percent, while the $750 million 10-year bond was
priced to yield 7.75 percent. The bonds generated more than 370
orders valued at about $5 billion, it said then.  “It is certainly an issuer’s market and there is room for
Dubai bonds to rally further given the richness of other bonds”
from the  Middle East  and North Africa region, according to Tarek Elalaily, the London-based director of MENA fixed-income sales
at New York-based Cantor Fitzgerald LP.  The yield on Dubai government’s 6.7 percent dollar bond
maturing October 2015 climbed 8 basis points, the most since May
23, to 5.26 percent at 4:02 p.m. in Dubai, according composite
prices on the Bloomberg.  Dubai, the second-biggest of the seven sheikhdoms that make
up the  United Arab Emirates , had to seek help from neighboring
Abu Dhabi after the global credit crisis pushed property prices
down by more than half from their peak in 2008, and frozen
credit markets forced some state-owned companies to delay loan
payments. State-owned Dubai World signed a final agreement with
its creditors in March to restructure about $25 billion of debt.  Dubai has received at least $1 billion in bids for a
program to raise financing backed by future road-toll receipts,
more than the government’s target of raising $800 million, two
bankers familiar with the plan said May 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  