-- 
Dubai Property Market Fails to Gain From Middle East Unrest, Deutsche Says

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-06-09T09:34:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/dubai-s-real-estate-prices-continue-falling-deutsche-bank-says.html
Residential property prices in Dubai,
the worst-performing market in the  Middle East  for the past
three years, haven’t yet benefited from political turmoil in
other parts of the region, Deutsche Bank AG said.  Home values declined 1.2 percent in May from the previous
month and rents fell by 1 percent, according to Nabil Ahmed and
Athmane Benzerroug, two analysts at the bank. Apartment prices
dropped 1.3 percent and villas lost 1 percent.  “Despite talks of renewed interest in real estate
following regional unrest, there is no visible sign of an
improvement,” the analysts said in a note to investors. “Even
if we believe the worst of the downtrend is now behind us, new
supply, lack of homebuyers’ appetite and anemic transaction
activity point to further weakness.”  Property prices in Dubai, the second largest of the  United
Arab Emirates ’s seven sheikhdoms, have dropped 64 percent from
their peak in mid-2008, while rents have fallen 55 percent,
according to Deutsche Bank. Revolutions that swept the Middle
East and led to the overthrow of regimes in Egypt and  Tunisia 
prompted speculation that investors would look at markets such
as Dubai instead.  Asking prices dropped all over Dubai with the exception of
apartments in Palm Jumeirah, Jumeirah Beach Residence and Sports
City and villas in Emirates Living, Palm Jumeirah.  Arabian Ranches  Prices fell 2 percent in Jumeirah Lake Towers, The Greens
and Arabian Ranches. Rental yields were 7.6 percent in May,
unchanged from a month earlier and up from 7 percent a year ago,
according to the report.  The Dubai Financial Market Real Estate Index, a measure of
five developers’ stocks, has slumped 73 percent since mid-2008.
The index was up 0.7 percent at 12:54 p.m. today and is still
down 9.3 percent this year.  “Although the pace of decline has slowed of late, prices
have continuously declined for 18 months in a row,” the
analysts said. “The supply overhang looms large, homebuyers
lack appetite, transaction volumes remain anemic, banks are
cautious lenders and international investors are still wary of
U.A.E. real estate.”  Deutsche Bank maintained its “buy” recommendation on
 Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the U.A.E.’s biggest developer, saying it
has “superior asset quality, strong recurring income,
reasonable leverage and cheap valuation.”  Emaar gained 1.3 percent to 3.13 dirhams in Dubai trading,
ending three days of declines. The stock is down 12 percent this
year. Deutsche Bank has a 12-month price estimate on the shares
of 4.50 dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 