-- 
Jamie Dimon's Faulty Capital Requirement Math: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T16:39:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/the-missing-math-in-dimon-s-economic-argument-simon-johnson.html
When  Jamie Dimon  confronted Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at a conference earlier this
week, he spoke for dozens of bank executives who privately
believe regulators have gone overboard in seeking to prevent
another financial crisis. “Has anyone bothered to study the
cumulative effect of all these things?” he asked. “Is this
holding us back at this point?”  Dimon, the chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
was pressing Bernanke to admit that the total cost of new
financial regulations had not been fully calculated, and could
well be holding back job growth.  What evidence does Dimon have? He is a very smart executive
with an impressive track record, but his  account  of regulatory
changes is incomplete, to say the least. Most of what he lists
are the direct effect of a credit boom that ended in a severe
crisis. Some badly run firms, including thrifts and mortgage
brokers, failed; structured investment vehicles, which were used
to hold mortgage securities off-balance-sheet, are gone; there
are no more subprime or Alt-A mortgages; markets have become
more transparent; and financial institutions have reduced their
leverage and increased their liquidity.  As Dimon conceded in his  question , risk needed to be
brought under control and managed better by the private sector.
There is nothing about this part of the post-2008 process that
should be laid at the door of the government. If any financial
sector blows itself up, firms fail, products disappear and
everyone becomes more careful -- at least for a while.  Capital Surcharge  The substantive issue that seems to be bothering Dimon is
capital requirements, and particularly the news that the Fed is
leaning toward making large banks, such as JPMorgan, hold a 3
percent capital “surcharge” (a complete misnomer; the
requirement for more equity financing relative to debt would be
a buffer against losses, and not a tax.)  To adopt Dimon’s proposed methodology, what was the
cumulative effect of the previous lower  capital requirements  in
the U.S. and globally? This part is easy -- it was the reckless
risk-taking and mismanagement that led us to 2008. If you pay
executives and traders on the basis of return-on-equity,
unadjusted for risk, they will want to take a lot of risk,
boosting payouts in the good times and handing the downside risk
to someone else (ideally, from their point of view, the
taxpayer).  According to  Sanjai Bhagat and Brian Bolton , executives at
the top 14 U.S. financial companies pocketed about $2.6 billion
in cash (salary, bonus and the value of  stock options  sold)
during 2000-2008. Much of that compensation would not have been
paid if there were proper adjustment for risk.  Total Crisis Costs  The realized downside risks, as handed to the taxpayer,
should be measured not merely as the cost of the Troubled Asset
Relief Program (TARP) or  Federal Reserve  rescue plans, but in
terms of the increase in federal-government debt the financial
crisis caused. According to the  Congressional Budget Office , the
financial crisis will end up increasing government debt by at
least 40 percent of gross domestic product. (I’ve covered the
details of this calculation  elsewhere ; this point is not
controversial among fiscal experts.)  So, to turn Dimon’s question around, we know that
previously low capital requirements led to social losses (those
borne by taxpayers) in the trillions of dollars, as well as
millions of jobs and homes lost, while the private gains were in
the low billions.  Lower Growth  What about the cost of raising capital requirements? On
this the Federal Reserve tends to hem and haw -- as did Bernanke
when questioned by Dimon on June 7. The  Institute of
International Finance  has published estimates that suggest
higher capital requirements will directly lower growth.
But the institute represents global banks. And the people on its
board of directors -- top management from the largest financial
firms in the  world  -- are paid primarily for return-on-equity,
unadjusted for risk. They have every incentive to lobby for
lower capital requirements.  And the  research  that says increasing capital requirements
will slow growth has no merit -- a point made at length by Anat
Admati, Peter DeMarzo, Martin Hellwig and Paul Pfleiderer.
Increasing capital requirements means more equity financing for
banks, relative to their debt. Admati and her colleagues show
this makes both their equity and debt safer, and shouldn’t
significantly affect the cost of credit.  Higher capital requirements will naturally change the way
banks such as JPMorgan do business. That’s a plus, not a minus.
Big banks today benefit from implicit subsidies because the
market expects the government to step in and save them whenever
necessary.  Mispricing Risk  If you scale back the likely subsidies by requiring much
more capital, perhaps the megabanks will get smaller -- but the
market can sort that out for itself. The important thing is to
withdraw the implicit government support that makes JPMorgan and
other large banks today’s government sponsored enterprises and
contributes to the mispricing of risk throughout the world.  Dimon is right to ask for the math; this is finance, after
all. But he and Bernanke should be aware that the right math is
staring them in the face.  Calculate the true social costs of the existing system and
weigh that against the nonexistent social costs of significantly
increasing capital requirements. We should be going far beyond
the higher capital requirements that the Fed wants to impose on
JPMorgan Chase.  ( Simon Johnson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  