-- 
ECB’s Trichet Says ‘Strong Vigilance’ Warranted on Inflation

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-09T13:51:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ecb-s-trichet-says-strong-vigilance-warranted-on-inflation.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet comments on monetary policy, inflation and the
region’s fiscal crisis.  He made the remarks in Frankfurt today after the ECB kept
its benchmark interest rate at 1.25 percent.  On monetary policy:  “Strong vigilance is warranted.”  “On today’s decision, we were unanimous.”  “It means that we are in a mode where there might be in
the next meeting an increase of rates, but we are never pre-
committed.”  “ We are not signaling any particular pace for the next
decisions on our interest rates.”  “ If we had decided to raise rates in the next meeting I
would say it.”  “We decide on interest rates when we judge it is necessary
to deliver  price stability .”  “Overall our monetary policy stance remains
accommodative.”  “The provision of liquidity and allotment modes for
refinancing operations will be adjusted when appropriate, taking
into account the fact that all the non-standard measures taken
during the period of acute financial-market tensions are, by
construction, temporary in nature.”  On Greece:  “We are not in favor of restructuring, haircuts and so
forth. We exclude all elements which are not voluntary.”  “We call for avoiding all credit events and selective
defaults.”  “We should not forget that private capital is also
mobilized when you” privatize.  It would be “an enormous mistake to embark on a decision
that would trigger a credit event.”  It’s “certainly not our intention” to roll over Greek
debt held by the ECB.  On inflation:  “The information that has become available since our
meeting on May 5, 2011, confirms continued upward pressure on
overall inflation, mainly owing to energy and commodity
prices.”  “In the Governing Council’s assessment, the risks to this
economic outlook remain broadly balanced in an environment of
elevated uncertainty.”  “Inflation rates are likely to stay clearly above 2
percent over the coming months.”  “Inflation expectations must remain firmly anchored in
line with the Governing Council aim of maintaining inflation
rates below, but close to, 2 percent over the medium term.”  “It remains of paramount importance that the rise in HICP
inflation does not translate into second-round effects in price
and wage-setting behavior and lead to broad-based inflationary
pressures.”  “Upside risks may come from stronger-than-expected
domestic price pressures.”  “We trust that when we contribute to solidly anchor
inflation expectations, we contribute to confidence and a
financial environment that’s favorable to medium-term growth and
job creation.”  On Ireland:  “All that goes in the direction of more flexibility and
structural reforms that permit to have a more vibrant economy is
good. Ireland has the benefit to have an economy that is more
flexible than others.”  On Draghi:  “ Mario Draghi  is a person of recognized standing and
professional experience in monetary or banking matters.”  The ECB has “no objections” to the appointment of Draghi
as its next president.  On the dollar:  “In the constellation of major floating currencies it is
very important that the U.S. authorities say -- and they say
that with some force -- they trust that a strong dollar is in
the interest of the  United States of America  and also in the
interest of the global economy. And I trust that.”  On banks:  “Banks that currently have limited access to market
financing urgently need to increase their capital and their
efficiency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in Frankfurt at  gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  