-- 
Trichet Signals Rate Increase in July With ‘Strong Vigilance’ on Inflation

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-06-09T15:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ecb-s-trichet-signals-july-interest-rate-increase.html
The  European Central Bank  signaled a
July rate increase while damping investor expectations for
further moves by reiterating a forecast that inflation will fall
below its 2 percent limit next year.  The euro dropped more than a cent and German government
bonds fell after ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the
central bank hadn’t raised next year’s inflation forecast from
1.7 percent, fueling speculation it won’t increase rates as
quickly as previously expected. At the same time, Trichet
signaled the bank intends to lift its benchmark in July after
keeping it at 1.25 percent today.  Latest data confirm “continued upward pressure on
inflation” and “strong vigilance is warranted,” Trichet said.
“It means that we are in a mode where there might be in the
next meeting an increase of rates, but we are never pre-
committed. We are not signaling any particular pace for the next
decisions on our interest rates.”  While policy makers are concerned about oil-driven
inflation feeding into wage demands, the danger is that higher
borrowing costs may exacerbate the sovereign debt crisis that’s
threatening to push Greece toward a default.  “We have little doubt that the ECB will deliver on its
suggested rate hike in July,” said  Howard Archer , chief
European economist at IHS Global Insight in London. Still,
policy makers “will be wary about raising interest rates
aggressively, given the growth headwinds and euro-zone sovereign
debt crisis,” he said.  Euro, Yields Drop  The euro fell to as low as $1.4478 and traded at $1.4519 at
5:37 p.m. in  Frankfurt . German two-year note yields declined
seven basis points to 1.61 percent and ten-year yields were down
four basis points at 3.02 percent.  While the ECB today raised its growth and inflation
forecasts for this year, it predicted both will slow in 2012.  The central bank increased its 2011 inflation forecast to
2.6 percent from the 2.3 percent, and left the forecast for next
year at 1.7 percent. The 17-nation euro-area economy will grow
1.9 percent in 2011, up from the previous 1.7 percent
projection. Growth will slow to 1.7 percent in 2012, the ECB
said, reducing its forecast from 1.8 percent.  ‘Further Hikes’  The 2012 inflation projection “is lower than we
expected,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at
Citigroup Global Markets in London. “But that does not mean
that ECB will stop hiking  interest rates  after the most likely
move in July. We continue to expect further hikes in coming
quarters unless there is a substantial economic slowdown or
signs that upside inflation risks are falling sharply.”  Euro-area inflation, currently at 2.7 percent, has been
above 2 percent since December. The ECB tightened borrowing
costs in April for the first time in almost three years and
economists surveyed before today expected it to take the
benchmark rate to 1.75 percent in October.  “Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments
remain on the upside,” Trichet said. “It is of paramount
importance that the rise in inflation does not translate into
second-round effects in price and wage-setting behavior and lead
to broad-based inflationary pressures.”  While  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, is driving the
region’s recovery, countries from Ireland to  Portugal  are
struggling to grow after increasing spending cuts to rein in
deficits. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  opened a
rift with the ECB this week over how to respond to  Greece ’s debt
crisis, advocating that private investors also share the burden.  Lehman Catastrophe  The ECB has opposed anything beyond a voluntary rollover of
debt to avoid what European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  has called a “Lehman Brothers
catastrophe.”  “We are not in favor of restructuring, haircuts and so
forth,” Trichet said. “We call for avoiding all credit events
and selective defaults. We exclude all elements which are not
voluntary.”  Asked if the ECB would roll over its own holdings of Greek
government bonds if private investors agree to such a move,
Trichet said: “It is certainly not our intention.”  The ECB may have purchased about 40 billion euros of Greek
 government bonds  under its Securities Market Program, while
other euro-area banks may own around 10 billion euros,  Barclays
Capital  estimates.  With banks in Greece, Ireland and Portugal reliant on
central bank funding after lending dried up, Trichet said the
ECB will keep its emergency liquidity measures in place for as
long as necessary and at least through the third quarter. The
central bank is lending banks as much money as they want at its
benchmark rate for periods of up to three months.  “For the periphery, access to emergency liquidity
facilities is more important than the precise level of rates,”
said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh. Berenberg,
Gossler & Co. in  London . “By prolonging its special liquidity
facilities for three further months, the ECB thus continues to
support the banking systems in the periphery where it matters
most.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  