-- 
Egyptian Stocks Rise as Inflation Slows, Government Cancels Tax

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-09T14:33:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/egyptian-stocks-rise-as-inflation-slows-government-cancels-tax.html
Egyptian stocks advanced to the
highest in more than a week as inflation slowed and the North
African country’s cabinet canceled a planned capital-gains tax.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , the country’s biggest
publicly traded company and builder, surged the most since March
after announcing a share buyback.  Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH)  Holding
SAE rose for the third day. The benchmark EGX 30 Index increased
1.3 percent to 5,504.6 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, bringing
the gain for the week to 2.7 percent.  “The Cabinet’s decision to cancel the dividend tax had a
positive effect on the market,” said Teymour El-Derini, head of
Middle East sales at Cairo-based Naeem Brokerage. “Also,
Orascom’s decision to buy back shares shows the management
thinks the stock is cheap even though the stock has bounced back
to pre-revolution levels.”  The cabinet approved yesterday the draft budget for the
fiscal year that starts next month, while canceling a proposed
10 percent tax on dividend payments, mergers and acquisitions
and asset revaluations. The tax had been pitched to help fund
the country’s budget deficit, which the  Finance Ministry  expects
to widen to 11 percent in the fiscal year that starts next
month, after a revolution ended President  Hosni Mubarak ’s three
decades of rule in February.  Egypt ’s urban inflation rate declined in May as food
prices, one of the causes of the unrest that toppled Mubarak,
rose at a slower pace.  Orascom Construction  jumped 4.1 percent to 283.3 Egyptian
pounds. The company said it will buy back 440,000 shares from
June 14 to July 13. The stock has gained 25 percent since
trading resumed March 23, after a near two-month market closure
amid the demonstrations.  Talaat Moustafa, Egypt’s biggest publicly traded real-
estate developer, climbed 1.7 percent to 4.7 pounds, the highest
level since June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  