-- 
Telefonica Says U.K. Spectrum Proposals May Delay Sale

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-09T16:39:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/telefonica-says-spectrum-auction-favors-3-everything-everywhere.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  said the design of the
upcoming U.K. mobile-phone frequency auction favors rivals
Everything Everywhere and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd (13) , which may delay
the sale of the spectrum next year on regulatory concerns.  The current plans will guarantee Everything Everywhere and
Hutchison gain frequencies and therefore may be considered to be
state aid, Telefonica, Spain’s biggest phone company, said in a
 response  to regulator Ofcom’s consultation today. There is a
“substantial risk” the auction may be delayed pending European
Commission approval, the operator said.  The spectrum proposals “are a state aid and are therefore
illegal under  European Union law ,” Telefonica spokesman David
Nicholas said in an e-mailed statement today. He said the
proposals would distort the auction process, allowing some
bidders to potentially acquire spectrum at discounted prices.  Ofcom said in March it wanted to maintain at least four
national operators in the market and will impose maximum and
minimum amounts of spectrum that  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and other
operators can bid for. The regulator said today it is “fully
aware of state aid rules and would not have made proposals that
we considered illegal.”  The auction, scheduled for the first quarter of 2012, will
sell frequencies equivalent to three-quarters of the spectrum
currently used by operators. Carriers need the bandwidth to cope
with surging data demand as users watch films and surf the Web
on smartphones including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets using
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system.  ‘Guaranteed Winners’  By creating maximum and minimum amounts, Ofcom is creating
“ guaranteed winners,” Telefonica said. The Spanish operator
estimates that the spectrum proposal represents state aid of as
much as 900 million pounds ($1.5 billion).  The auction, which analysts said may raise as much as 2.6
billion pounds, has been delayed for more than two years amid
legal challenges. Vodafone, the world’s largest wireless
carrier, and Telefonica’s O2 previously opposed restrictions on
the amount of low-frequency spectrum they could bid for.  Everything Everywhere, a venture of  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , said Ofcom’s proposals haven’t gone far
enough and are “undermining the long-term prospects” of
operators who don’t hold low-frequency airwaves.  Google, whose YouTube service is the most popular video-
streaming site, said today in a separate  submission  that
operators must compete “rather than constrain supply of
content.” Telecom operators are seeking a new deal with
Internet companies including Google and Apple Inc., who they say
are overloading networks without contributing enough to their
upkeep.  YouTube yesterday said it is in talks with all major mobile
operators on an agreement to pool efforts to reduce the impact
of video content on telecommunications networks. The carriers
need to be transparent if they prioritize or charge for
different content, Google said today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  