-- 
Temasek Chief Executive Officer Ho Ching May Step Down in August, FT Says

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   S t a n l e y   J a m e s
-- 
2011-06-09T01:59:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/temasek-chief-executive-officer-ho-ching-may-step-down-in-august-ft-says.html
Ho Ching, chief investment officer of
Temasek Holdings Pte, the  Singapore  state-owned investment
company, will likely step down in August, the Financial Times
said, citing people familiar with the matter.  Ho’s departure is expected a month after Temasek releases
its annual review for the year ended March, when it’s expected
to post investment gains, the newspaper said today. That would
allow Ho to leave on a “high note” after eight years, it
reported.  Jeffrey Fang , a spokesman for Temasek, declined to
comment on the report.  “If there’s any leadership transition, they will know how
to manage it in a way that there will not be too much
disruption,” said Ng Soo Nam, the Singapore-based chief
investment officer at Nikko Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $126 billion. “Temasek is more than just Ho Ching. In the
past, where they had leadership transition, they had always
executed smoothly.”  Ho, 58, led Temasek in its record gain in the value of its
holdings in the year ended March 2010 following bets on Asian
investments. Temasek’s assets climbed 43 percent to S$186
billion ($151 billion) in that year, surpassing the previous
peak of S$185 billion reached two years earlier, the company
said in its annual report in July last year. That offset the
previous year’s S$55 billion plunge, when it posted losses on
bank stakes during the financial crisis.  Ho’s possible departure in August will come about two years
after she had first planned to step down. Ho is the wife of
Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong.  Chip Goodyear  In July 2009, Temasek reversed its appointment to replace
Ho with Charles “Chip” Goodyear, the former head of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , citing “differences regarding certain strategic
issues.” BHP Billiton is the world’s largest mining company.  “When they had Goodyear in, and it didn’t work out, they
smoothed it out as well,” Ng said. “They will manage things
very carefully. I am quite confident; that has been the track
record.”  Temasek has had an annual return of 17 percent since its
inception in 1974, according to the report last year.  In the year ended March 2010, Temasek made S$10 billion in
investments. It spent more than S$3 billion in the financial
year buying additional shares of companies such as Jakarta-based
PT Bank Danamon  Indonesia  and Singapore’s Neptune Orient Lines
Ltd. Temasek’s participation in rights offerings by companies in
its portfolio bolstered its assets as the shares advanced.  Past Losses  The company sold its stakes in  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America Corp. and London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  at
losses in the previous year.  Prime Minister Lee was named in May chairman of Government
of Singapore Investment Corp., the city’s sovereign wealth fund
that manages more than $100 billion of the island’s assets,
succeeding his father  Lee Kuan Yew . The elder Lee remains as
senior adviser, the fund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  