-- 
EMC May Spend $3 Billion on Acquisitions to Help Companies Sort ‘Big Data’

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-06-10T13:46:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/emc-s-gelsinger-sees-3-billion-in-deals-to-help-companies-sort-big-data-.html
EMC Corp. may spend about $3 billion
on acquisitions this year, keeping pace with last year’s tally,
to add businesses that can help corporate customers analyze
reams of data, Chief Operating Officer Pat Gelsinger said.  Hopkinton, Mass.-based EMC will use deals to diversify
beyond the storage business that generates 75 percent of sales,
Gelsinger said in an interview yesterday. Purchases will home
EMC’s focus on tools and services for so-called “big-data,”
reams of information from multiple sources, including the Web,
e-mail and computer systems, he said  “We have to double down,” Gelsinger said in an interview
June 8. “We’re not done with our acquisitions in this space--I
expect we’ll do more. The number one storage infrastructure
application for us is big data.”  EMC says it spent $3.2 billion last year on acquisitions
including Isilon Systems Inc. and Greenplum Inc. to gain
products that let its customers store and analyze a vast and
rapid onslaught of data from business applications and the Web.
EMC may spend about that much again in 2011 as it races  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) , International Business Machines Corp.,  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  and  SAP AG (SAP)  to offer more robust data-analysis products.  “Big data is of course big business all of a sudden,”
said Joshua Greenbaum, an analyst at Enterprise Applications
Consulting in Berkeley,  California . “Everyone is after this
market. It’s a huge opportunity.”  Gelsinger, who joined EMC almost two years ago from  Intel
Corp. (INTC) , where he was chief technology officer and headed the
company’s business computer chip division, has helped EMC take
advantage of the latest products from Intel and positioned the
company to complement its  storage devices  with applications that
analyze data for  stock trading  and Web commerce.  ‘Hat in Ring’  Gelsinger said he is one of a handful of executives being
considered to succeed Chief Executive Officer Joseph Tucci, who
in June reiterated plans to step down after next year. “I’ve
stated clearly, ‘Hey, my hat’s in the ring,” said Gelsinger.  Security will be another priority in acquisitions,
Gelsinger said. Market researcher Gartner Inc. said this week
that a security breach of EMC unit RSA’s SecurID database in
March may cost the banking industry as much as $100 million to
distribute new network log-in devices to employees. RSA said
June 7 it would replace customers SecurIDs. There are about 40
million in use.  EMC has the financial firepower to execute deals, Gelsinger
said. It had $5.69 billion in cash at the end of the first
quarter and generated $4.55 billion in cash from operations last
year. First-quarter sales rose 18 percent to $4.61 billion.  Shares Outpace S&P  EMC’s shares slipped 10 cents to $26.81 at 9:39 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock had climbed 18
percent this year before today, compared with a 2.5 percent gain
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a decline of 1.1 percent
for the S&P 500 Information Technology Index.  “ Wall Street  now credits us with the ability to monetize
these acquisitions,” Gelsinger said.  EMC is also using partnerships to bolster its product
lineup. The company introduced computer systems on April 5 that
include statistical analysis software from SAS Institute Inc.,
and said on May 9 that its products would work in conjunction
with the open-source Hadoop software to help companies analyze
large amounts of data.  Gelsinger is one of a group of high-profile executives who
have joined EMC in recent years as the company seeks to
reinvigorate itself. EMC shares and growth surged during the
Internet expansion of the 1990s. Its stock and profit declined
after the dot-com bust. The company purchased virtualization
software company  VMware Inc. (VMW)  for $635 million in 2004 and sold a
stake in the company in an initial share sale in 2007. The
market capitalization of VMware is now $39.7 billion.  Besides Gelsinger, EMC has also hired Jeremy Burton, who
has worked at Oracle Corp. and  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , as chief
marketing officer, and Michael Capellas, who was CEO of Compaq,
to head a joint venture with  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  