-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Decline to Two-Week Low on Economy, Rates Concerns

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T22:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/emerging-market-stocks-decline-to-two-week-low-on-economy-rates-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, sending
the benchmark index to a two-week low, on growing concern that
central banks will increase  interest rates  even as the global
economic expansion slows.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.3 percent to
1,142.24 at 4:30 p.m. New York time, the lowest since May 26.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 1.7 percent, while South
 Korea ’s Kospi declined 0.6 percent.  Poland ’s WIG20 Index dropped
0.4 percent and the zloty fell 0.3 percent versus the dollar.
Brazil’s Bovespa stock index gained the most in a week on lower-
than-forecast inflation and rising commodities prices.  The Shanghai Composite closed at the lowest level since
January on speculation the central bank will keep tightening
monetary policy. Central banks in Brazil and Poland lifted
interest rates yesterday, and the  Bank of Korea  will weigh a
rate increase tomorrow. European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet signaled today that policy makers will raise
borrowing costs next month.  “Central banks face a dilemma in striking a balance
between growth and inflation,” said Lye Thim Loong, who helps
manage about $770 million at Avenue Invest Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .
“The good times have passed for companies, business costs
remain high on energy prices, consumers are feeling the heat and
demand will taper off, translating to lower earnings.”  The MSCI index has lost 0.8 percent this year as investors
speculated reduced economic stimulus efforts by governments
worldwide will threaten earnings growth. The 21-country gauge is
valued at 10.4 times analysts’ estimates for profits during the
next 12 months, down from 11.6 at the start of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 307 today, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Consumer prices in  Brazil  declined 0.1 percent this month
through June 8, the preview of the IGP-M inflation report from
the Getulio Vargas Foundation in  Rio de Janeiro  showed. That
compared with the median forecast of a 0.24 percent increase in
a Bloomberg survey of 14 economists.  The Bovespa advanced 0.7 percent, with PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos & Participacoes leading gains among
homebuilders. BRF-Brasil Foods SA fell as much as 7 percent
after Brazil’s antitrust authority said yesterday the $3.8
billion merger of Perdigao SA and Sadia SA that created the
world’s largest poultry exporter should be blocked. Banco do
Brasil SA and Itau Unibanco Holding SA both declined 0.8 percent
after the interest-rate increase.  Poly Real Estate  Poly Real Estate Group Co.,  China ’s second-largest
developer by market value, dropped 2.5 percent. China Vanke Co.,
the biggest, slid 2.5 percent after the central bank denied a
newspaper report saying home-purchase limits would be relaxed.  PZU SA, Poland’s biggest insurer, sank 3.8 percent to 371.5
zloty as the government offered a stake of as much as 10
percent. Poland, seeking to raise 15 billion zloty ($5.5
billion) from state asset sales in 2011, is offering the PZU
stake to financial investors today, according to terms of the
deal obtained by Bloomberg News yesterday. The government is
said to price PZU’s shares at 367 zloty each, two people
familiar with the transaction said today.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 1.7 percent, while  India ’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index slipped less than 0.1
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  