-- 
Ensco, U.S. Settle Suit Over Deep-Water Drilling Permits

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-06-09T23:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ensco-u-s-settle-lawsuit-alleging-delays-in-deep-water-drilling-permits.html
Ensco Offshore Co. and the U.S.
 Justice Department  settled a lawsuit claiming federal regulators
intentionally delayed deep-water drilling after lifting a
moratorium.  U.S. regulators halted all drilling in waters deeper than
500 feet in May 2010 following the explosion and sinking of the
Deepwater Horizon rig off the  Louisiana  coast. After offshore
companies and regional leaders sued, U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New Orleans threw out the ban as overly broad and
punitive to the Gulf Coast economy.  Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar imposed a second ban in
July and Ensco, a unit of London-based  Ensco Plc (ESV) , sued. Ensco
pursued the suit even after the U.S. lifted the second
moratorium, contending that regulators continued to halt deep-
water drilling and delayed six of the company’s permit
applications.  “Under the terms of the parties’ now-executed settlement
agreement, defendants are to act on those of the six permit
applications that are presently before the defendants no later
than July 8, 2011,” lawyers for Ensco and the Justice
Department said in a court filing today.  The government and Ensco also filed a proposed order
requiring the U.S. to submit a report to Feldman on the status
of the permits by June 20.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment. Sean O’Neill, an Ensco spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call and e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  