-- 
Erdogan Seen Winning After Turning IMF-Hooked Turkey Into Mideast’s Model

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-10T14:57:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/erdogan-seen-winning-after-turning-imf-hooked-turkey-into-mideast-model.html
Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is set to win a
third term as Turkey’s prime minister and a mandate to reshape
the secular constitution, as the country enjoys an economic boom
that stands out amid upheaval to the east and west.  Erdogan’s  Justice and Development Party  or AKP may win 49
percent in June 12 elections, almost double the 26 percent
backing the main opposition  Republican People’s Party , according
to the average of four surveys by researchers Pollmark, Sonar,
Konsensus and Genar. The studies were carried out between May 17
and May 31. The AKP came to power with 34 percent of the vote in
2002 and won 47 percent four years ago.  Erdogan’s priority, in a third term that could make him the
longest-serving leader since  Turkey ’s founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is a constitution to replace the charter drafted after
a 1980 coup. That would cement his victory over generals who
accuse him of imposing Islamic values. Campaigning, he hammers
on the transformation of Turkey’s economy. Once a regular
applicant for International Monetary Fund loans, it now has
 Europe ’s highest growth rate, borrows more cheaply than  Spain ,
and is cited as a model by Middle Eastern opposition movements.  “Turkey has got a really genuine chance to move to the
next stage,” said Plamen Monovski, chief investment officer of
Renaissance Asset Managers in  London , which oversees $2.5
billion in emerging market assets. “They’ve done a magnificent
job of economic governance, the results of which are there for
everyone to see,” said Monovski, who’s been investing in Turkey
for a decade. “I hope in the third term there’s no hubris.”  ‘Building Modern Turkey’  Turkey’s $740 billion economy grew at an average annual
rate of more than 5 percent during nine years of AKP rule,
making it the world’s 16th largest. Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan today forecast 6 percent growth this year. Inflation
slowed to about 7 percent from 30 percent, and the benchmark
ISE-100 stock index more than quadrupled in dollar terms.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the biggest Istanbul-listed
company by market capitalization, surged more than tenfold and
 Turk Telekomunikasyon AS (TTKOM) , the previously state-owned phone and
Internet company, has gained 76 percent since an initial public
offering in May 2008.  On the campaign trail, Erdogan promises new investments --a
canal to link the  Black Sea  and the Marmara, high-speed
railways, roads and bridges -- and dismisses opposition charges
that he’s gathering too much power in his own hands. “We’re
building a modern Turkey,” he told an Istanbul rally June 5.
“I’m talking about projects. What are they talking about?”  Erdogan’s plan for a new constitution has also been a
central campaign issue. He argues for shifting from the current
parliamentary system to a presidential one, in which he himself
would be the leading candidate for the top job.  ‘Yes-Sayers’  “It still slightly worries me that Erdogan portrays
himself as the natural long-term leader of Turkey,” Katinka Barysch, deputy director at the Centre for European Reform, said
in an interview. “A country too centralized, too focused on one
personality usually leads to very bad decision-making because if
one leader is in power for too long he’s usually surrounded by
yes-sayers.”  Erdogan would need 330 votes in the  550-member parliament 
to put a new constitution to a public vote, and 367 to pass it
straight into law.  The premier said last week he would “find it unnecessary”
to hold a referendum if he wins a big enough majority to change
the constitution without one. He currently holds 331 seats and
would win 338 based on the four-poll average, according to an
 application  that simulates election outcomes developed by the
 Ari Movement , an Istanbul think-tank.  A charter approved by the public “would feel much better
for markets than if they do it by themselves by getting two-
thirds of the seats,” said  Elisabeth Andreew , strategist at
Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen.  Chasing Investment Grade  On the economy, Erdogan’s third-term challenges will
include a widening trade gap that threatens an abrupt halt to
Turkey’s boom. The current account deficit ballooned to more
than $60 billion in the 12 months through March, compared with a
government forecast of $42 billion for the year.  The AKP will probably win and should then make “much-
needed adjustments in policy,” said  Michael Gomez , co-head of
emerging markets at Pacific Investment Management Co., manager
of the world’s biggest bond fund, which owns Turkish debt. “The
economy still has some structural weaknesses that need to be
addressed before they are able to achieve the long-sought
investment-grade rating.”  Fitch Ratings , which ranks Turkey one step below that
status at BB+, said in October that changes to the constitution
after elections could justify an increase. Moody’s Investors
Service and  Standard & Poor’s  both rate Turkey two levels below
investment grade.  Repaying IMF  Erdogan can point to economic improvements that brought
four S&P upgrades under his government.  Treasury projections 
show that Turkey -- once the IMF’s biggest borrower after
tapping it for about $26 billion of loans following a 2001
banking crisis -- will pay off its remaining $4.9 billion debt
to the Fund by 2013.  That’s a contrast with the European Union countries,
including Turkey’s neighbor  Greece , that have been forced to
take IMF loans in the past two years as their economies
unraveled amid a debt crisis. Rebuffed in its efforts to join
the EU, Turkey now borrows at 10-year yields lower than at least
eight members of the 27-nation bloc.  In the  Middle East , where popular revolts have swept away
longtime leaders this year, Erdogan’s political success and
Turkey’s economic progress have been cited as a model by
opposition parties including  Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood.  No Crisis  About 50 million Turks are registered to vote on June 12,
with polls due to close by 5 p.m. and initial results expected
within a few hours.  Recalling earlier elections, Hatem Ete of the Ankara-based
Foundation for Political, Economic and Social Research says the
key difference this time is that parties are offering long-term
projects.  “All the general elections in Turkey’s recent past were
held to overcome a crisis,” he said in a telephone interview
from his office in the capital. “This time, it’s about how to
build the country’s future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 