-- 
Merkel Must Change Wind Energy Aid Law, German Opposition Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-06-09T10:53:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/merkel-must-change-wind-energy-aid-law-german-opposition-says.html
Germany ’s opposition Social Democrats
and  Green Party  called for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government
to make changes to planned renewable energy subsidies to promote
onshore wind and repowering projects.  Onshore turbine operators will see aid slide by an
additional 1.5 percent in 2012, the  Environment Ministry  said in
a  draft  law published June 6 on its website. The bonus for
repowering, replacing turbines with new models with higher
generation capacity, will be limited to units that started by
2001 and pose a problem to the network, it said.  “If you design it like this, then we won’t achieve the
potential of renewable energy,” SPD parliamentary leader Frank- Walter Steinmeier said in parliament today.  Germany plans to close its nuclear reactors by 2022 after
the disaster at the Fukushima station in  Japan  stoked safety
concerns and helped lose Merkel’s party votes. The government is
balancing aid for energy from solar panels and wind turbines
with the cost for consumers, who will finance the shift through
higher power bills.  “Explain to us how you’ll push for the growth of renewable
energy at manageable prices if you continue to treat repowering
and onshore wind worse than is necessary,” Juergen Trittin, the
floor leader for the Greens, said in a speech to Merkel and
fellow lawmakers in Berlin.  Cap on Aid  Trittin and Steinmeier spoke after Merkel addressed the
lower house of parliament, where lawmakers will today hold a
first reading of 10 energy bills, including renewable energy and
the country’s nuclear power exit.  The government doesn’t want aid to the renewable energy
sector to exceed 3.5 euro-cents a kilowatt-hour in consumer
power bills. Merkel plans to boost renewable energy output to 35
percent in 2020 from 17 percent last year.  Wind turbines  made up 6.2 percent of Germany’s power supply
in 2010 while nuclear accounted for 23 percent, according to the
BDEW utility association.  Germany had 21,607 onshore wind turbines with capacity of
27.2 gigawatts as of Dec. 31, according to the BWE German Wind
Energy Association’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  