-- 
Merrill Guzzlers, Ferraris, Arctic Art: Houston Weekend

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-09T16:59:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/merrill-strummer-ferraris-arctic-art-great-houston-weekend.html
Defining moments can build character,
change our direction or reshape the way we think about our
lives. The timing can be in a split second or over a long hot
summer.  At the  Inman Gallery  in Houston, artist  Shaun O’Dell  has
 installed  a hand-colored, graphite wall drawing of thoughts and
experiences with phrases like “seeing my father getting wheeled
out of an operating room,” “beauty in the pure pollution which
oozes from a dump” and “level with your destroyer.”  O’Dell’s work is inspired by his love of jazz, and the
changing qualities of nature and ideologies. Born in Beeville,
 Texas , O’Dell has works in such permanent collections as New
York’s Museum of  Modern Art  and the de Young in  San Francisco .  The exhibition “Feeling Easy Feelings” includes
sculpture, drawings and collage.  Inman Gallery, through July 2, 3901 Main St. Information:
+1-713-526-7800;  http://www.inmangallery.com/ .  On Friday night at 8:30 p.m. hear Austin-based band  The
Invincible Czars  debut their original score live, while watching
the 1920 silent film “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” starring John Barrymore. It’s another story about a good man gone bad.  Bring a blanket and stop at  The Lake House  in the park for
a picnic of burgers and fries to munch on during the movie.
Roving carts sell beer like  Shiner  in cans and  Fetzer  wine until
half an hour before the movie ends.  Discovery Green  is at 1500 McKinney. Information: +1-713-
400-7336;  http://discoverygreen.com/  The Lake House is at 1600
McKinney. Information: +1-713-337-7320;
 http://www.thelakehousehouston.com/ .  Saturday  Visit some of Houston’s contemporary homes featuring
environmentally friendly building materials on the  Modern Home
Tour .  James Leasure, one of the tour organizers, says the nine
homes “emphasize what architects are doing right now. They
feature recycled woods and flooring and light, energy-efficient
building techniques.”  Tickets for the self-paced tour can be purchased in advance
or at any of the homes. Talk with the architects, designers and
sponsors at the after party at  BMW West Houston  from 6 to 9 p.m.
Information: +1-512-535-1801;  http://houstonmodernhometour.com/ .  Saturday Night  Have dinner at Ouisie’s Table in the River Oaks section of
town.  The main dining room at Ouisie’s has ceiling fans, an
enormous blackboard for the day’s specials and “De-Merit,” an
artwork made by the architect Alsey Newton from hundreds of
Merit cigarette packages. Smoking has never been allowed in her
restaurants, even before it was outlawed at eateries in Houston.  Try the shrimp curry, served with the usual condiments like
chutney and mint yogurt. Crisp bacon, banana and avocado make an
appearance as well. Sounds crazy, tastes great. Finish up with
the house-made champagne sorbet.  Ouisie’s Table is located at 3939 San Felipe Drive.
Information: +1-713-528-2264;  http://www.ouisiestable.com/ .  Just down the road a piece is Capone’s where the oil and gas
crowd hang out on Tuesdays, when The Guzzlers usually play. But
this Saturday they’re doing a special show with country musician
Chris Webb and The Posse Band.  The Guzzlers frontman, Dave Wilde, also in the oil
business, says, “We are the ultimate party band and we take
requests -- whether we know them or not.” They do know  Johnny Cash , KC and The Sunshine Band and  Lynyard Skynyrd , and their
playlist reminds me of my youth.  Wilde and the lead guitar player Harriss “Wally”
Lauderdale, who recently joined Merrill Lynch, are the original
band members who played their first gig on Groundhog Day in
1995. They’ve opened for the likes of Asleep At the Wheel, Tim McGraw and Junior Brown.  Capone’s has great thin-crust pizza and the oven’s on until
late at 4304 Westheimer. Information: +1-713-840-0010;
 http://www.caponeshouston.com/ . Martin  Sunday  First thing to do before it gets too hot: Take a spin in an
Aston Martin or Lamborghini on a closed, outdoor course, part of
the Ride & Drive program at the Classy Chassis car show at
Reliant Stadium.  Then, move inside for the 8th annual event featuring more
than 100 rare, racing machines like the 1931 Bugatti Type 40A
and the 1951 Ferrari 340 Vignale Spyder, with all fees
benefitting  Shriners Hospitals for Children .  Classy Chassis Concours d’Elegance , at One Reliant Park,
runs Saturday and Sunday. Information:
 http://www.classychassis.org/ .  The nicest people you’ll ever want to meet are working at
 The Breakfast Klub . Stop there for a brunch of catfish and grits
or wings and waffles.  Be warned: the line is out the door even during off hours.
But it moves quickly and helpers are on hand to explain the
counter-ordering system, bring coffee and chat you up while you
wait.  The Breakfast Klub, 3711 Travis at Alabama St., is open
daily until 2 p.m. Information: +1-713-528-8561;
 http://www.thebreakfastklub.com .  My Defining Moment  Walk off your brunch and visit the Menil Collection. My
impressions of Houston changed the moment I saw the tree-lined
campus, including the Rothko Chapel, and the museum designed by
 Renzo Piano . Sure, Houston’s hot and it’s built on a bog, but
it’s hip and culturally rich.  The Arctic art exhibition, “ Upside Down: Arctic
Realities ” displays 19th-century masks and carvings, and almost
300 artifacts from indigenous cultures, some more than 3,000
years old.  The vast setting for these tools and trinkets has been
designed to evoke the disorienting feeling of snowy regions.
Artist Doug Wheeler’s neon lights cast an icy glow and the
floors meld into the walls, while sounds of whirling wind and
cracking ice enhance the installation.  Pieces in the exhibition come from  Denmark ,  France ,  New
Zealand , and the  United States , and many from curator Edmund
Carpenter’s private collection.  While you’re at the Menil, drift over to see some of the 90
Magritte paintings held by the museum.  At 1515 Sul Ross St., until July 17. Information: +1-713-
525-9400;  http://www.menil.org .  ( Catherine Smith  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Smith in  New York  
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 