-- 
Ethiopian Economic Growth to Beat IMF Forecast, Deputy Prime Minister Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-09T10:06:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ethiopian-economic-growth-to-beat-imf-forecast-deputy-prime-minister-says.html
Ethiopia ’s deputy prime minister,
Hailemariam Desalegn, dismissed forecasts that economic growth
would slow sharply this year and next and that monetary policy
was pushing up inflation, saying growth may exceed 10 percent.  Expansion won’t drop below 9 percent in the fiscal year to
July 7, 2012, from 11.4 percent this year, Hailemariam, who is
also the minister of foreign affairs, said in an interview at
the Ethiopian Embassy in  London  yesterday. International
Monetary Fund data show the economy has expanded an average of
11 percent over the past seven years.  The IMF forecast on May 31 that growth may slow to 6
percent next year from 7.5 percent in the current fiscal year,
citing faster inflation and restrictions on bank lending. This
year’s pickup in inflation is due to higher global food and fuel
costs and not loose monetary policy, Hailemariam said.  Price increases “in Ethiopia are imported inflation, it’s
not domestic-driven inflation,” said Hailemariam. “Oil has
soared because of the Middle East problem and if that problem is
sorted somehow then immediately the price will do down. So it’s
a temporary problem that’s pushing inflation in Ethiopia.”  The inflation rate jumped to 29.5 percent in April from 25
percent a month earlier as food prices increased, the Central
Statistical Agency said on May 10. Broad  money-supply  growth was
35 percent at the end of March, said the IMF, which had
previously projected growth of 22 percent in money supply this
fiscal year.  Savings and Sustainability  Ethiopia has stepped up savings through the sale of bonds
to individuals, said Hailemariam, after a World Bank official
said higher inflation may undermine savings and leave the
country reliant on foreign capital to finance investment
projects.  “The whole community has mobilized to buy bonds,” he
said. “This huge savings and mobilization is used for
infrastructure development.”  Ethiopia plans to borrow at least 398.4 billion birr ($23.5
billion) from home and abroad to fund a five-year growth plan,
with an additional 75.4 billion birr to finance fiscal deficits
over the same period.  The investment plans are unsustainable without a jump in
domestic savings, Ken Ohashi, the  World Bank ’s country director
for the Horn of Africa nation, said in a June 7 interview. Plans
to lift the savings rate to 15 percent of gross domestic product
by July 2015 from 5 percent will be hindered if inflation
continues to accelerate, Ohashi said.  “We are getting loans from  China ,  India ,  Turkey  and  South
Korea , so all these foreign savings are also mobilized,”
Hailemariam said. “So I think we can perform on the ambitious
plans that are in place.”  Foreign Banks  Ethiopia operates a mixed economy that encourages foreign
investment while state enterprises dominate or monopolize key
industries such as telecommunications, banking and power
generation.  The government may liberalize its banking industry in the
“mid-term” though it will take time because of weak central
 bank regulations , few foreign reserves and the need to establish
domestic lenders before introducing international banks,
Hailemariam said.  “We might complete these reforms in five or ten years but
it’s a mid-term, it cannot be a long-term process,” he said.
“There is a huge gap between imports and exports and that
balance of payment is creating lots of problems at this moment
and we have to work hard to generate more exports.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 