-- 
EU Delays Bulgaria, Romania Entry Into Visa-Free Travel Zone

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-06-09T15:25:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/eu-delays-bulgaria-romania-entry-into-visa-free-travel-zone.html
Romania  and Bulgaria need to do more
to overcome crime and corruption before joining the Schengen
zone, which allows passport-free travel, the European Union
Justice and Home Affairs Ministers Council decided today.  The council will reconsider the two Black Sea countries’
bids in September, after the  European Commission , the bloc’s
executive arm, releases its next report on efforts to fight
graft and organized crime, Bulgarian Interior Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov said. The decision came a day after the European
Parliament recommended the two countries’ applications.  “I hope the commission’s report will contribute to a
positive decision in September,” Tsvetanov told reporters today
in Luxembourg. “We have covered all the Schengen membership
criteria.”  Bulgaria  and Romania, which joined the EU in 2007, aspire
to join eight other former communist countries that are already
 Schengen  members. Their bids coincide with discussions in  France 
and  Denmark  to reintroduce passport checks at their borders on
concern about an influx of North African migrants through  Italy .  Countries hoping to join in the Schengen system, named for
the Luxembourg village where the treaty allowing border-free
travel was signed in 1985, need the unanimous endorsement of
existing members, based on an assessment by the commission.  The European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, voted 487 to
77 in favor of the Bulgarian and Romanian applications before
passing the recommendation on to the ministerial council.
The assembly urged Bulgaria “to take additional measures,”
including a special action plan with  Greece  and  Turkey , to cope
with a possible surge in migration pressure.  “Illegal migration makes Bulgaria, Turkey and Greece one
of the EU’s most sensitive external border areas,” the assembly
said yesterday.  The two former Soviet-bloc countries spent 1.16 billion
euros ($1.69 billion) to beef up their border police and equip
them with patrol boats, helicopters, scanners and night-vision
cameras to ensure the security of borders with Turkey, Serbia,
Moldova and Ukraine and a stretch of the Black Sea coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Elizabeth Konstantinova} in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  