-- 
Euro Set for Weekly Slump on Speculation Interest-Rate Increases to Slow

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-10T21:17:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/euro-is-set-for-weekly-decline-on-bets-central-bank-to-slow-rate-increases.html
The euro declined against the dollar
for the third day, extending the first weekly drop in almost a
month, as European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled a slowing pace of interest-rate increases this year.  The Dollar Index rose for a third day, the longest winning
streak since February. Sweden’s krona was the worst performer
against the dollar as falling stocks and commodities weighed on
growth-linked currencies. The yen climbed against all of its
most-traded counterparts as investors sought the perceived
stability of the currency.  “The inflation forecasts are definitely playing into the
euro negativity as it suggests that a third rate hike this year
may be off the table, which had previously been priced in,”
said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in  Washington  at
Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage.
“We’re seeing risk assets across the board come off pretty
aggressively. Crude oil is falling and stocks are negative.”  The euro has lost 2 percent this week falling to $1.4347 at
5 p.m. in  New York , from $1.4510 yesterday. The yen was little
changed today at 80.32 per dollar after sliding 0.6 percent
yesterday. It earlier reached 79.97, strengthening above 80 for
a fifth straight day, the longest streak since at least 1971,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures Shifts  Net dollar short positions against the euro, yen, pound,
Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Swiss franc rose for a
second week and reached 163,309 in the five days ended June 7,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission figures
released today (yesterday) and data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, advanced 0.9 percent to 74.835, from 74.192,
in the longest string of gains since Feb. 14. The gauge is
weighted 57.6 percent to movements in the euro.  The ECB said inflation next year will accelerate between
1.1 percent and 2.3 percent, compared with an earlier forecast
of 1 percent to 2.4 percent.  Euribor futures rose, pushing the implied yield on the
March 2012 contract down 10 basis points to 1.87 percent, as
traders reduced bets policy makers will boost rates. Investors
now expect the central bank to increase  interest rates  by 67
basis points over the next year, down from 81 on June 7,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps.  Trichet Position  Speaking in  Frankfurt  today, Trichet said euro-area
finances “as a whole are sound.” Asked yesterday if the ECB
would roll over its own holdings of Greek  government bonds  if
private investors agreed to do so, Trichet said that is
“certainly not our intention.” German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  stepped up his calls for bondholders to
assume a “fair” share of further Greek aid, pitting  Europe ’s
biggest against the central bank.  “The main concern is the ambiguity of the comments coming
out of the ECB and some politicians,” said  Dean Popplewell , an
analyst at the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp. in
Toronto. “The euro continues to falter as the sovereign debt
worries remain at the forefront. With that, individuals’ and
investors’ risk tolerance certainly depreciates.”  The dollar rose against all its major counterparts
excluding the yen. The greenback has gained 1.5 percent this
week, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar is still the worst-performer in the past year,
falling 16 percent, according to the index.  Import Prices  Growing demand from economies in  Asia  and  Latin America ,
paired with a weaker dollar, has pushed up the cost of goods
imported into the U.S. The import-price index unexpectedly rose
in May by 0.2 percent, compared with the forecasted decrease of
0.7 percent.  The Japanese currency rose against higher-yielding
currencies as stocks and commodities declined, boosting demand
for the yen as a refuge.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index fell 1.4 percent,
completing its sixth weekly loss. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
CRB Index of raw materials declined 0.2 percent this week. The
yen gained 0.9 percent to 84.64 per Australian dollar and was
rose 0.5 percent to 65.99 per  New Zealand dollar , today.  Sweden’s krona weakened after ECB policy makers yesterday
revised their forecasts for economic growth. The Frankfurt-based
central bank sees gross domestic product in the euro region
expand by 0.6 percent to 2.8 percent in 2012, compared with a
previous range of 0.8 percent to 2.8 percent.  Sweden’s krona depreciated 1.5 percent to 6.3273 per
dollar. It weakened 0.3 percent versus the euro to 9.0800.  Crude oil fell below $100 a barrel, sliding as much as 3.2
percent to $98.63 in New York, pulling down the currencies of
oil producers.  Norway’s krone fell 1.2 percent to 5.4852 per dollar. The
Canadian dollar dropped 0.7 percent to 97.99 cents versus the
U.S. currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  