-- 
Former BP Chief Hayward Plans to Raise $1.64 Billion in Oil Fund Offering

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-06-09T14:31:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ex-bp-chief-hayward-plans-to-raise-1-6-billion-in-oil-ipo.html
Former  BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Hayward  will raise 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) in an
initial public offering to target oil acquisitions in “emerging
and under-developed” regions.  Backed by financier  Nathaniel Rothschild  and veteran
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  banker Julian Metherell, the investment
vehicle known as Vallares Plc will seek to buy a company or
asset with an enterprise value of 3 billion to 8 billion pounds
within two years, according to Hayward.  “There could be significant interest,” said  Gianna Bern ,
president of Chicago-based Brookshire Advisory and Research Inc.
“There is no shortage of small-cap emerging market companies
that could utilize Vallares because the public market capital
raising process has become onerous and extremely expensive.”  Vallares has a “pipeline of potential deals” and will
focus on emerging markets such as Russia, Latin America,  Africa 
or the  Middle East , Hayward said in an interview, without
identifying any specific targets.  “Many high quality international resource assets have been
acquired by family owned or private companies in the last few
years,” Hayward said today in a statement. “We will have the
cash, access to funds and the capability to unlock value where
the current owners have neither the capital nor technical
expertise to develop the assets.”  London Listing  Modeled on Rothschild’s  Vallar Plc (VAA) , which raised 707.2
million pounds in a July IPO to buy mining and commodity assets,
Vallares will be listed on the London Stock Exchange. The
placing price will be 10 pounds for each ordinary share and the
order book will close around June 20, according to a statement.  “We have widespread support in the U.K. and in the U.S.”
from potential investors, Hayward said. “A couple of sovereign
funds will participate as well. We have a strong belief that we
are going to be successful in raising the money.”  At least 10 London IPOs were pulled or postponed this year,
compared with four in the same period last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.K. vacuum maker Edwards Group
Plc,  Russia ’s Nord Gold and eight other firms canceled or
delayed stock sales which were seeking as much as $5 billion,
the data show.  ‘Attractive Proposition’  “Think of this as a way of shortcutting an IPO process,”
Hayward said. “If you are an emerging market company wanting to
raise capital through the capital market, then the process of
coming to London via an IPO is quite long and difficult. It
takes three or four years.”  Vallares doesn’t plan to snap up assets from major  oil
companies , which are selling mature assets and directing capital
at exploration, and will instead look for smaller companies.  Teaming up with Vallares would be an “attractive
proposition” for such a company, he said.  Hayward resigned from BP in October following the  Gulf of
Mexico  disaster. Before becoming CEO in 2007, he headed BP’s
exploration and production division for five years, taking
charge of all the company’s oil and gas fields worldwide.  Credit Suisse Group AG is acting as global co-ordinator and
is also the joint bookrunner with JPMorgan Cazenove.  Rothschild, Hayward, Metherell and Tom Daniel, who was
involved in the IPO of Vallar, have committed 100 million pounds
of capital to the new company, including 80 million pounds to
subscribe to the placing.  The board of directors will be chaired by Rodney Chase,
former chairman of Petrofac Plc, and the board will include Jim
Leng, former chairman of Corus Group Plc.  Vallar agreed in November to invest $3 billion in
Indonesian coal companies PT Bumi Resources and PT Berau Coal
Energy in a stock and cash transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin  in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net 
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  