-- 
Ex-Duke Basketball Captain Thomas Emma’s Death Is Ruled Suicide From Fall

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-06-09T14:20:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ex-duke-basketball-captain-thomas-emma-s-death-is-ruled-suicide-from-fall.html
Thomas Emma, a former  Duke University 
basketball captain, committed suicide when he jumped from the
 New York  Athletic Club building in  Manhattan  this week,
according to the city’s medical examiner’s office.  Emma, 49, died of blunt-force trauma to the head, neck and
torso, consistent with a fall from a height, Grace Brugess, a
spokeswoman in the New York City medical examiner’s office, said
today in a telephone interview. The death was ruled a suicide
and foul play wasn’t suspected.  Witnesses said Emma jumped from the building at 180 Central
Park South on June 7, Joe Cavitolo, a New York Police Department
public information officer, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. Emma’s body was found at 11:28 a.m. on the second-
floor landing of the building next door.  Testing for alcohol and any medication in Emma’s system
would take an additional 6-8 weeks, Brugess said. No suicide
note was found, Cavitolo said.  Emma was recently dealing with unspecified health issues,
the New York Post reported yesterday, citing unidentified
friends.  Emma played for Duke from 1979 through 1983. A captain for
the 1982-83 season, his .843 career free throw percentage ranks
fourth in school history. He was picked in the 10th round of the
1983 National Basketball Association draft by the  Chicago Bulls .  A Manhasset, New York, native who lived in Manhattan, Emma
was the founder of Power Performance Inc., a company that
specializes in training young athletes. He also wrote books
about athletic performance, including “101 Strength and
Conditioning Exercises and Drills for Basketball.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  