-- 
Texas Rangers Tab Partially Paralyzed Georgia Outfielder in Baseball Draft

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/texas-rangers-tab-partially-paralyzed-georgia-outfielder-in-baseball-draft.html
University of Georgia  outfielder
Johnathan Taylor, who was partially paralyzed during a college
game this season, was selected by the  Texas Rangers  in the 33rd
round of the Major League Baseball draft.  Taylor, 21, is paralyzed from the waist down after breaking
his neck on March 6 in an outfield collision with a teammate
during a Bulldogs home game against  Florida State University . He
was on the Rangers’ scouting radar before the accident, Kip Fagg,
the American League champion’s director of amateur scouting,
said yesterday in an e-mailed release.  “We would have drafted him either way, regardless of any
other circumstances involving his injury,” Fagg said. “The
club has always liked his passion and ability as a player.”  Taylor had surgery March 7 to stabilize his spine and on
March 24 left in-patient rehabilitation care at the  Shepherd
Center  in Atlanta. He’s showing signs of improvement and is in
the center’s day program, where he’ll continue rehab for
approximately four to six weeks, the Bulldogs said yesterday in
a statement.  “This was truly a classy move and a great gesture on the
part of the Texas Rangers,”  Georgia  coach David Perno said in
the release. “When I talked to him after he got the call, he
was in the middle of rehabilitation work, laughing and having a
good time and was thrilled to be drafted.”  Roommate Also Drafted  The other player involved in the collision, Taylor’s
roommate, Zach Cone, also was selected by the Rangers, at No. 37
overall. According to Fagg, during pre-draft activities a few
weeks ago, the Rangers gave Cone, 21, a Rangers jersey signed by
the entire team for him to pass along to Taylor.  “I was pumped when the Rangers told me they were thinking
about drafting J.T.,” Cone said. “It’s just awesome and I’m so
happy for him.”  Taylor was not the only partially paralyzed player selected
in the 50-round draft that concluded yesterday. The  Houston
Astros  chose San Jacinto College pitcher Buddy Lamothe, 20, who
suffered a spinal cord injury in an early May diving accident in
a Texas river, in the 40th round.  A native of Acworth, Georgia, Taylor batted .312 in 117
career games with the Bulldogs. The junior consumer economics
major was named to the UGA Athletic Director’s Honor Roll in
2010. Taylor’s family has set up a  website  where people can send
him messages and monitor his progress.  Second Georgia Player  Taylor is the second Bulldog in three years to suffer a
serious spinal injury, after second baseman Chance Veazey broke
his neck in October 2009 when his scooter was hit by a car. A
number of teammates have worn Taylor’s No. 2 jersey during games
following the collision, and the Bulldogs took trips to the
hospital as a group to visit Taylor.  “When he got the call, his face lit up and we were all
very excited,” Tandra Taylor, Johnathan’s mother, said in a
statement. “We’re all very proud of him.”  The Rangers, who lead the American League West division one
year after playing in the  World Series , travel to Atlanta for a
three-game series starting June 17.  Team spokesman Rich Rice said in an e-mail that the team
may try to do something with Taylor and his family while they
are in town. Rice said announcements on other matters regarding
Taylor, including a signing bonus and his future with the team,
will not be made until next week.  “As an organization, I think all of us are always trying
to do the right thing,” Fagg said. “Taking Johnathan in the
draft today, it was something we felt was right.”  -- Editors: Rob Gloster, Dex McLuskey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  