-- 
Texas Instruments Sales Forecast to Miss Analyst Estimates

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-06-09T20:22:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/texas-instruments-sales-forecast-to-miss-analyst-estimates-1-.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
analog-semiconductor maker, gave a second-quarter sales and
profit forecast that fell short of analysts’ estimates, dragged
down by sluggish demand for wireless-phone chips from  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   Second-quarter profit will be 51 cents to 55 cents a share
on sales of $3.36 billion to $3.5 billion, the Dallas-based
company said in a statement yesterday. Analysts on average had
projected profit of 57 cents on $3.55 billion in revenue,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Texas Instruments gets most of its revenue from analog
chips, which go into everything from e-book readers to
industrial air conditioners. A decline in orders from Nokia, its
main customer for wireless chips, accounted for all of the
shortfall in the quarter, Texas Instruments said. The company is
exiting the wireless business to focus on analog, which it says
will deliver more profitability.  “Nokia’s numbers were awful,” said  Doug Freedman , a
Gleacher & Co. analyst based in San Francisco. He recommends
buying Texas Instruments stock and said he doesn’t own any.
“The sooner you get rid of that, the quicker you can pick up
the other side of the equation.”  In April, the company had said second-quarter profit would
be 52 cents to 60 cents a share on sales of $3.41 billion to
$3.69 billion. A year earlier, Texas Instruments had net income
of $769 million, or 62 cents, and revenue was $3.5 billion.  Texas Instrument gained 24 cents to $32.91 today in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained
1.3 percent this year.  Analog Versus Wireless  Analog semiconductors regulate a device’s power and convert
touch and sound into electronic signals. As more everyday items
such as dishwashers and cars have added advanced functions,
older analog technologies have seen a resurgence.  Chief Executive Officer  Rich Templeton  is getting Texas
Instruments out of the market for digital-signal processors that
manage radio signals in mobile phones -- an area the company
once dominated as the main supplier to Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia. On May 31, Nokia said second-quarter sales at its devices
and services division would be “substantially” less than
forecast.  “The reductions are due to a single wireless customer,”
Texas Instruments Vice President  Ron Slaymaker  said on a
conference call yesterday to discuss the forecast. Without the
drop in orders from Nokia, Texas Instruments would have been on
course for the midpoint of its original forecast range,
Slaymaker said.  Texas Instruments ranked second behind  Santa Clara ,
California-based  Intel Corp. (INTC)  among U.S. chipmakers in total
sales last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  