-- 
Exxon Expands U.S. Gas Reserves With $1.7 Billion Purchase

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-06-09T17:05:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/exxon-buys-natural-gas-companies-phillips-twp-for-1-69-billion.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S.
natural-gas producer, paid $1.69 billion for two closely held
energy explorers to gain shale-gas reserves in  Pennsylvania  and
neighboring states.  Exxon completed the purchases of Phillips Resources Inc.,
based in Warrendale, Pennsylvania, and TWP Inc. of Butler,
Pennsylvania, on June 2,  Alan Jeffers , an Irving, Texas-based
spokesman at Exxon, said in a phone interview yesterday. The 200
employees at the two companies may be retained, he said.  Exxon paid $34.9 billion for XTO Energy last year, making
it the biggest U.S. gas producer. The acquisition of Phillips
Resources and TWP gives Exxon access to 317,000 acres in the
Marcellus Shale, a gas-rich geological formation that stretches
beneath several eastern states including  New York , Pennsylvania
and  West Virginia .  “The fact that Exxon is buying in now is a vote of
confidence in shale in the U.S.,” Tony Regan, a Singapore-based
consultant at Tri-Zen International, said by telephone today.
“There had been a feeling that activity might have peaked a
bit. Exxon is a big, cautious company, and they wouldn’t have
rushed into this.”  Global energy producers such as  Total SA (FP)  and BHP Billiton
Ltd. are investing in shale formations impervious to traditional
drilling methods. In the past 10 years, U.S. drilling engineers
adapted decades-old hydraulic-fracturing techniques to free gas
from dense shale rock, unleashing new supplies that have glutted
the North American market and depressed prices.  U.S. gas futures have lost 69 percent of their value since
peaking at $15.78 per million British thermal units in December
2005, amid a surfeit of supply from shale formations in Texas,
Louisiana and  Arkansas . The New York-traded futures closed at
$4.85 per million Btu yesterday.  Shale Exploration  Shares of Exxon rose 31 percent in New York trading in the
past year, beating a 22 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. The stock climbed 57 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $81.33
at 12:25 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Exxon’s XTO unit will manage Phillips Resources and TWP,
which held combined reserves equivalent to 228 billion cubic
feet of gas at the end of 2010, Jeffers said.  Rex Tillerson, Exxon’s chief executive officer, said in
March that the company plans to export XTO’s expertise in shale
drilling to under-explored areas of  Europe  such as  Poland .  Shale formations have the potential to more than double the
world’s gas reserves, the U.S. Energy Information Agency said in
 an April 5 assessment . The U.S. has an estimated 827 trillion
cubic feet of shale gas and it may account for 47 percent of the
nation’s production of the fuel by 2035, the agency said.  Acquisitions in the shale industry are set to continue,
with “vulnerable smaller guys being taken out” as they face
higher costs and increased regulation, Tri-Zen’s Regan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 