-- 
Maiden Lane Sales Trigger Stampede to Dump Risk: Credit Markets

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n ,   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-06-10T15:26:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/fed-s-maiden-lane-sales-trigger-bank-stampede-to-dump-risk-credit-markets.html
Federal Reserve auctions of mortgage
securities that the central bank assumed in the rescue of
American International Group Inc. are fueling a selloff in
credit markets as Wall Street rushes to hedge against losses on
stockpiled debt.  Declines in credit-default swaps indexes used to protect
against losses on subprime housing debt and commercial mortgages
accelerated this month, reaching almost 20 percent in the past
five weeks as the cost of the insurance climbs, according to
Markit Group Ltd. The plunge this week started infecting
everything from junk bonds to the debt of financial companies.  The Fed has been selling the $31 billion Maiden Lane II
portfolio piecemeal after rejecting a $15.7 billion bid from AIG
for the entire pool in March. Since then,  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis has deepened and the U.S. recovery has shown signs
of slowing, with unemployment rising to 9.1 percent, the highest
level this year, and the economy growing 1.8 percent in the
first quarter, less than forecast.  “Dribbling risk into the market makes sense if everything
is good and continues to improve,” said  Ashish Shah , the head
of global credit investments in New York at AllianceBernstein
LP, which oversees $214 billion in fixed-income assets. “But
when you get yourself into a position where the Street suddenly
feels they’re long inventory and the macro backdrop is weaker,
now you’re selling into weakness.”  Hedging Strategy  Wall Street banks, which through May 25 increased their
holdings of corporate and asset-backed debt to the highest level
in 13 months, have been using both so-called Markit ABX and CMBX
indexes to hedge against the deteriorating values of mortgage
debt, said  Christopher Sullivan , chief investment officer at
United Nations Federal Credit Union in  New York . That’s
contributing to the drop in prices of the underlying bonds and
helped push up relative yields on speculative-grade, or junk,
corporate bonds to the widest level this year.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds worldwide instead of similar-
maturity government debt rose 1 basis point to 159 basis points,
or 1.59 percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged
3.761 percent. Spreads have widened 14 basis points since
touching 145 on April 11, the tightest level of 2011.  Markit CDX Index  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. rose. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 1 basis point to a
mid-price of 99 basis points as of 11:06 a.m. in New York, the
highest level since Nov. 30, according to Markit Group Ltd.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Following suggestions it was roiling markets with the AIG
asset auctions, the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , which is
being advised by BlackRock Inc., began slowing their  pace  and
boosting the size of the sales.  The central bank, which this month plans to conclude its
purchases of $600 billion of Treasuries in a program meant to
bolster markets, had typically been offering about $1 billion
from its  Maiden Lane  II portfolio once or twice a week until
early May. In its ninth auction yesterday, the first since May
19, the New York Fed offered $3.8 billion of debt. Investors
presented accepted bids for $1.9 billion, the smallest share
yet.  ‘Vulnerable State’  “The manner in which the sale of the Maiden Lane II
portfolio has been conducted put the market in a vulnerable
state,” said Bryan Whalen, the co-head of mortgage-backed bonds
at Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., which oversees $120 billion
in assets. Falling mortgage swap indexes and bond prices are
“reflective of levered money, dealers especially, taking risk
off the table, which is feeding on itself,” he said.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to
comment.  One Markit ABX index tied to subprime mortgage bonds that
were rated AAA when issued in 2006 has dropped to 47.2 from 58.8
on April 1, declining from a more than two-year high of 62.7 on
Feb. 15. A similar index tied to junior AAA ranked commercial-
mortgage bonds created in 2007, known as the Markit CMBX, has
plunged to 68.7 from 80.4 at the start of April and more than
two-year high of 85 on Feb. 15.  ‘Looking Pretty Good’  “I imagine the original $15.7 billion bid from AIG would be
looking pretty good right now,” said Clayton DeGiacinto, who
manages about $200 million as chief investment officer of New
York-based hedge fund Axonic Capital LLC.  Investors are also bracing for more sales from non-U.S.
banks after Dexia SA on May 27 said that it would take a charge
to accelerate its sales of toxic holdings, including $8.5
billion of home-loan securities, DeGiacinto said. “Europe has
never gone through the disgorging process that we’ve gone
through here,” he said.  Actual securities backed by subprime or second mortgages
issued from 2005 to 2007, the years that produced the most-toxic
loans, have lost 4.2 percent over the past three months on
average, Barclays Capital index data show. Reflecting the
difficulty that remains in understanding the bonds’ values,
 Ellington Financial LLC (EFC)  Chief Executive Officer Larry Penn said
at an investment conference in New York on June 8 the debt’s
prices have probably fallen 10 percent to 15 percent.  Ellington is considering buying more of the bonds after
previously focusing on the smaller amount of safer, older
subprime debt.  “Hopefully we’ll be able to pick some good securities” in
the Fed’s sales, said Penn, whose  Old Greenwich , Connecticut-
based company is run by hedge fund manager Michael Vranos’s
firm.  ‘Outsized Impact’  So-called mezzanine AAA commercial-mortgage bonds,
originally carrying top grades, are yielding about 600 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate, up from 325 basis
points over swaps in the first week of May, according to
Deutsche Bank AG data.  “A lot of dealers did go into May and June a bit heavy and
they have been using CMBX and ABX to hedge their inventories,
said Philip Weingord, the head of Seer Capital Management LP,
the hedge-fund firm that oversees $400 million. “As the indexes
continue to go down, it’s bringing down the cash bonds.”  Swaps indexes on securitized-debt don’t transact in large
volumes, so “a little bit of trading on the CMBX can have an
outsized impact on prices,” saidAndrew Solomon, a managing
director in New York at Angelo Gordon & Co., which oversees $24
billion.  Spilling Over  Primary dealers’ holdings of fixed-income assets including
corporate debt, commercial-mortgage bonds and home-loan
securities without government-backed guarantees swelled to $94.9
billion in the week ended May 25, according to Fed data. That
total, which includes only notes maturing in more than one year,
was up from $85.7 billion at the end of 2010 and a six-year low
of $59.8 billion in April 2009.  The drop in the mortgage-bond markets began spilling over
to corporate credit, which already had started to weaken from
the deteriorating economic picture and disagreement among
European leaders over who should bear the burden of rescuing
deficit-plagued governments including  Greece .  In addition, S&P put a “negative” outlook on the U.S.
government’s credit in April, citing a “material risk” the
nation’s leaders will fail to deal with rising budget deficits
and debt. Congress is locked in a stalemate over increasing the
government’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  Spreads on  junk bonds , rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , have
expanded to 538 basis points, the widest since Dec. 31, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  High Yield Index  As the mortgage-linked swaps indexes dropped, an index that
protects against losses on junk bonds headed for its biggest
weekly decline in seven months.  The Markit CDX North America High Yield Index, which falls
as investor confidence deteriorates, has fallen 1.2 percentage
points to 99.9 percent of face value since June 3, Markit data
show. It reached as low as 99.6 yesterday.  “Somebody who trades these indexes sees that kind of
movement in CMBX and reacts,” Angelo & Gordon’s Solomon said.
“That is the mechanism that leads these indexes lower.”  Bank Default Swaps  Default swaps on the six largest U.S. banks have gained an
average of 19.4 basis points to 137.2 basis points since May 31,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Five-year swaps insuring against a default on  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ,
whose bond insurance unit guaranteed some of Wall Street’s most
toxic mortgage-debt securities, jumped to the highest since July
through yesterday.  The contracts have climbed 3.8 percentage points to 19.8
percent upfront since May 31, CMA prices show. That’s in
addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would cost $1.98
million initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million
of MBIA obligations for five years.  “You almost have a perfect storm of events,” said Shah of
AllianceBernstein. “ You have both the fundamental
justifications for the market going lower and you have the
technicals being created by Maiden Lane.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  