-- 
Fed’s Yellen Says U.S. Housing Market Will Undergo a ‘Drawn-out’ Recovery

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-09T20:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/fed-s-yellen-says-u-s-housing-market-to-have-long-drawn-out-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the housing market will undergo a “long, drawn-out
recovery” and the Fed is working with other agencies to prevent
foreclosures and clear the stock of vacant properties.  “Looking forward, I unfortunately can envision no quick or
easy solutions for the problems still afflicting the housing
market,” she said in a speech today in  Cleveland . “Even once
it begins to take hold, recovery in the housing market likely
will be a long, drawn-out process.”  Residential construction and real estate, except rentals,
still showed “widespread weakness” last month, the central
bank said yesterday in its Beige Book survey of the economy.
Almost 2 million homes were vacant as of the first quarter, and
a large number of distressed sales is one reason house prices
remain low, Yellen said.  “For its part, the  Federal Reserve  will continue to use
its policy tools to support the economic recovery and carry out
its dual mandate to foster maximum employment in the context of
 price stability ,” the 64-year-old vice chairman said in remarks
at a Cleveland Fed policy conference.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a “steady pace” during May
in all but four of the Fed’s 12 regions, according to the Beige
Book report. Fed Chairman Ben S Bernanke said this week that the
“frustratingly slow” U.S. recovery warrants sustained monetary
stimulus, even while growth should speed up in the second half
of the year.  Prices Dropped  With an overflowing pipeline of delinquent and foreclosed
homes, “the inventory of empty and unsold homes will likely
stay elevated for some time, which will maintain downward
pressure on  house prices ,” Yellen said today.  Tight mortgage credit is hurting the housing recovery, and
“more households should be able to benefit from the greater
affordability” as credit conditions improve, she said. The Fed
is now urging lenders to pursue alternatives to foreclosures and
proposing to have all mortgages meet higher underwriting
standards, the policy maker said.  Home prices  in 20 cities dropped in March to the lowest
level since 2003, showing housing remains mired in a slump
almost two years into the economic recovery. The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values fell 3.6 percent from March
2010, the biggest year-over-year decline since November 2009,
the group said in a report released on May 31.  A further decline in property values of 10 percent to 25
percent in the next five years “wouldn’t surprise me at all,”
 Robert Shiller , the economist who co-founded the index, said at
a conference in  New York  today.  Stocks Rise  U.S. stocks rose for the first time in seven days and the
Dollar Index climbed as the trade deficit narrowed amid record
exports and the cheapest valuations of the year lured equity
investors. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.7 percent
to 1,289.00 at 4 p.m. in New York after six straight days of
losses, its longest slump since February 2009. The Dollar Index
rose 0.4 percent after falling as much as 0.3 percent.  Fed officials plan to meet in Washington on June 21-22,
just a week before the scheduled end of the central bank’s $600
billion bond purchase program. They’ve spurred growth by holding
the main interest rate near zero since December 2008 and
expanding the Fed’s balance sheet to $2.79 trillion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  