-- 
NHTSA Pushes Drivers to Disconnect From Devices in Vehicles

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-06-09T18:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/feds-push-to-disconnect-drivers-from-devices.html
The  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration  is studying ways to encourage new drivers to
disconnect from mobile devices and the Internet while operating
vehicles, Administrator David Strickland said.  “I’m not in the business of helping people Tweet better,
I’m not in the business of helping people post to Facebook
better,” Strickland said at an automotive technology conference
today in Novi, Michigan. “My job is to make sure we keep people
safe behind the wheel.”  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, whose department
oversees NHTSA, has said drivers are distracted by vehicle
information and entertainment systems such as  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
Sync and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s OnStar. The Transportation
Department began developing guidelines for in-vehicle systems
and aims to publish them this fall, Strickland said today.  “I’m not going to deny the fact that people want these
things,” Strickland said. “They do. Especially the generation
behind us. They’re used to being connected 24 hours a day.”  The agency is looking for ways to “impart to these future
drivers that it’s OK to not be connected when you’re operating a
car,” he said.  The  Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers , whose members
include GM, Ford,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz USA and  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW Group, is “committed to working with
Secretary LaHood, and others, to keep people safe while
driving,” said Wade Newton, a spokesman.  Auto Industry’s Challenge  “The challenge we must all work together on is allowing
drivers to do the things we know they’re going to do anyway, in
a way that makes it possible for them to still focus on the
road,” Newton, whose group is based in  Washington , said in an
e-mail.  GM’s OnStar, which has more than 6 million subscribers, has
been testing applications that would let users make audio
updates to their Facebook pages and have messages from the
social-media site read to them while driving. The system already
provides crash-notification services as well as directions and
information such as vehicle diagnostics.  Ford has been selling Sync, based on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
technology, since the 2008 model year. Ford added features such
as touch-command controls and voice-activated climate control
last year and plans to add social networking, Web browsing and
thumb controls similar to those on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPod to 80
percent of its models by 2015.  BMW and Mercedes-Benz also have added Internet and
smartphone access this year to vehicles such as BMW’s 5-series
sedan and the Mercedes-Benz SLK roadster.  “A car is not a mobile device -- a car is a car,”
Strickland said. “We will not take a backseat while new
telematics and infotainment systems are introduced. There is too
much potential for distraction of drivers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  