-- 
Florida Ponzi Schemer Rothstein’s Associates Scheduled to Change Pleas

-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-06-09T22:51:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/florida-ponzi-schemer-rothstein-s-associates-scheduled-to-change-pleas.html
Four South  Florida  men who pleaded
not guilty to aiding Scott Rothstein in a $1.2 billion
investment scheme involving fake court settlements are set to
change their pleas, according to court filings.  Howard Kusnick, an attorney at Rothstein’s Fort Lauderdale
law firm; Curtis Renie and William Corte, information technology
employees of the firm; and Stephen Caputi, an associate of
Rothstein’s, are scheduled for change-of-plea hearings in
federal court in Florida starting next week, according to case
dockets. Each was charged in May with a single count of
conspiracy to commit  wire fraud .  Rothstein pleaded guilty to five counts of racketeering,
 money laundering  and wire fraud in January 2010, admitting he
sold investors interests in fake lawsuit settlements. He was
sentenced to 50 years in prison.  Alicia Valle, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office
in Miami, declined to comment, as did Hy Shapiro, Caputi’s
attorney, and Joshua Rydell, Kusnick’s attorney. Alvin Entin,
who represents Corte, and Albert Levin, an attorney for Renie,
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  Prosecutors said Kusnick wrote a letter claiming to have
settled a pending case in a client’s favor when the case had
never been filed and no settlement existed. Caputi attended
meetings with potential investors in the scheme, acting as a
banker or as a plaintiff in fictitious suits, prosecutors said.  Renie and Corte created a Web page designed to look like it
was the website of a bank so investors would think Rothstein’s
law firm held as much as $1.1 billion in trust accounts,
prosecutors charge.  Each faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison.  The cases are U.S. v. Kusnick, 11-60125, U.S. v. Caputi,
11-60124, U.S. v. Renie, 11-60123, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida ( Fort Lauderdale ). 