-- 
Food Inflation Quickens to 8-Week High in India as Onion, Fruit Costs Rise

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-06-09T07:10:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/food-inflation-quickens-to-8-week-high-in-india-as-onion-fruit-costs-rise.html
India ’s food inflation accelerated to
an eight-week high, adding pressure on the central bank to raise
 interest rates  next week.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products rose 9.01 percent in the week ended May 28 from a year
earlier, the commerce ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi 
today. It gained 8.06 percent the previous week.  The  Reserve Bank  of India, which has boosted borrowing
costs nine times since mid-March 2010, may tighten its monetary
policy further in the June 16 meeting, economists said. Food
costs have been a policy concern for the last two years, Reserve
Bank Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said June 2.  “Price pressures are growing and more rate hikes are
needed,” N.R. Bhanumurthy, a New Delhi-based economist at the
National Institute for Public Finance and Policy, said before
the report. He said the central bank’s benchmark repurchase rate
may be increased by a quarter of a percentage point to 7.5
percent next week.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index lost 0.2
percent at 11:50 a.m., while the yield on the 7.8 percent note
due April 2021 climbed 2 basis points to 8.26 percent. The rupee
was little change at 44.72 against the dollar.  Food inflation quickened as prices of onions rose 14
percent from a year ago, today’s statement showed. Fruits
climbed 30.78 percent and milk advanced 8.5 percent.  Food prices will accelerate in the second half of the year
as farmers’ costs and oil prices rise, Ashok Gulati, chairman of
the government commission that helps set minimum farm-product
prices, said in an interview last month.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is relying on
adequate rainfall in the June to September monsoon season to
help moderate food inflation.  The weather office said yesterday that the monsoon, the
main source of irrigation for India’s 235 million farmers, was
17 percent above average since June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 