-- 
Ford Plans to Triple Its Production of Electric Vehicles, Hybrids by 2013

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-06-09T18:10:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ford-plans-to-triple-its-production-of-electric-vehicles-hybrids-by-2013.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  plans to triple North
American production of electric vehicles and hybrids to more
than 100,000 models by 2013 as it works to make a quarter of its
vehicles run at least partly on electricity.  The second-largest U.S. automaker is expanding production
plans for the C-Max hybrid wagon and C-Max Energi plug-in
hybrid,  Jim Farley , Ford’s global marketing chief, said today at
a factory in  Sterling Heights , Michigan. Ford will begin
producing the five-passenger wagon next year in the U.S., where
it won’t sell a gasoline-only version, Farley said.  “We’re not electrifying a certain vehicle and making a
science project,” he said. “We’re electrifying our core”
models.  Ford is investing $135 million and adding 220 jobs at three
 Michigan  plants to produce five “electrified” models. The
automaker is building an electric version of its Transit Connect
van and will start making a battery-powered Focus compact this
year. Automakers are developing models powered at least partly
by electricity as U.S. fuel-economy standards rise.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally has revived Ford in
part by focusing on  fuel efficiency  and broadening the lineup
with small cars like the Focus and Fiesta subcompact. The only
major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy, Ford earned $9.28
billion in the past two years after $30.1 billion in losses from
2006 through 2008.  Ford now sells about 35,000 hybrids a year, Farley said. It
offers hybrid versions of the Escape sport-utility vehicle and
the Fusion and Lincoln MKZ sedans.  ‘Growing Appetite’  “We’re seeing a huge, growing appetite for fuel-efficient,
green vehicles,” Farley said. “Customers are really
prioritizing fuel economy.”  Both the C-Max hybrid and C-Max plug-in hybrid will get
more than 41 miles per gallon on the highway, Farley said. He
declined to give specific city and highway mileage numbers. Each
version will have a driving range of more than 500 miles, said
Sherif Marakby, Ford’s director of electrification engineering.  “Is this our Prius fighter?” asked Farley, a former
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  marketing executive. “Let’s just say that
it’s the first vehicle from Ford with a unique silhouette
dedicated to a hybrid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Sterling Heights, Michigan, at   Knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  