-- 
Formula 1 Teams Seek ‘Damage Limitation’ on Bahrain Decision

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-06-09T15:32:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/formula-one-teams-seek-damage-limitation-on-decision-to-postpone-bahrain.html
As Formula One teams object to
holding a race in  Bahrain , some need to appease their  Middle
East  backers.  The sport’s ruling body Federation Internationale de
l’Automobile last week rescheduled the event to Oct. 30 after it
was canceled in March because of a government crackdown on civil
unrest. The FIA said in a letter today it asked series chief
executive  Bernie Ecclestone  to revise the decision after teams
complained, citing travel disruption, amid complaints by human
rights groups.  Daimler AG’s Mercedes and Red Bull are among five of 12
teams part-owned or supported by governments or sovereign wealth
funds in the Gulf region. The series, owned by CVC Capital
Partners Ltd., got $175.9 million from trackside advertising and
hosting fees from Bahrain and Abu Dhabi races last year,
according to industry monitor Formula Money.  Formula One teams “will do as much damage limitation as
possible,”  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the Brookings
Doha Center in Qatar, said. “If they pull out, they will use a
logistical or security pretext. We’re not going to see them talk
about human rights.”  The race, set to start the season, was first suspended by
Bahraini Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad  Al Khalifa . The Paris-
based FIA reinstated it after a 36-hour fact-finding mission
found protests had subsided and saying the event “reflects the
spirit of reconciliation in Bahrain.” Human Rights Watch
spokesman  Joe Stork  called the decision “highly questionable”
because there remains evidence of repression. Avaaz, an online
campaign group, collected almost 450,000 signatures backing the
cancellation of the race.  Mercedes,  Red Bull   Calls seeking comment from Bahrain authorities were
referred to Bahrain International Circuit spokesman Mohammed Al
Awadhi, who didn’t immediately answer e-mailed questions.  Today, the FIA head Jean Todt said in  a letter to teams 
that the group asked Ecclestone to re-examine his calendar
proposal and if necessary, to resubmit a revised proposal to the
world council” governing the sport.  The Mercedes team is part-owned by Abu Dhabi’s Aabar
Investments PJSC, which also sponsors Red Bull GmbH’s second
team, Toro Rosso, through its Falcon Private Bank Ltd. unit.
McLaren is part-owned by Bahrain Mumtalakat Holding Co. and
Williams has had a partnership with Qatar’s government to
develop automotive technology since 2009. Ferrari advertises  Abu
Dhabi ’s Ferrari World theme park on its cars.  The Gulf states bankroll Formula One to attract investment
and tourism to their region and Bahrain had hoped that staging
the race in October “would be a sign that it is safe to do
business in Bahrain again,” Hamid said.  Gulf Solidarity  “The other states will be keen to show solidarity with
Bahrain in the face of external pressure” to protect
themselves, said Jane Kinninmont, a senior research fellow for
the Middle East and North Africa at U.K. foreign think tank
 Chatham House . They “won’t be pleased” if Formula One sets a
precedent by withdrawing from Bahrain on human rights grounds,
Kinninmont added.  Reinstating the Bahrain race would mean delaying a race in
 India  and extending the schedule into December for the first
time since 1963. Mercedes team manager Ross Brawn told reporters
last month that was “totally unacceptable” because staff
already spend much of the eight-month season away from their
families.  ‘Disruption and Cost’  The teams’ association also said altering the schedule
“would cause an unacceptable degree of disruption and cost”
and they might struggle to get insurance coverage, according to
a June 7 letter to the FIA, which the ruling body published on
its website today.  Officials from Ferrari, Mercedes, Red Bull, McLaren and
Williams declined to comment for this story. In their letter,
they said Bahrain, which held races since 2004, “has always
hosted us with enthusiasm and warmth.”  “Formula One will want to play along” with Bahrain as
much as possible, Hamid said. Teams “stand to lose a lot if
they are seen to be on the wrong side of the Gulf states.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  