-- 
Gamesa Sells Spanish Wind Park to Greentech Energy of Denmark

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-06-09T19:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/gamesa-sells-spanish-wind-park-to-greentech-energy-of-denmark.html
Greentech Energy Systems (GES)  A/S, the
Danish renewable power developer, agreed to buy a wind park in
 Spain  from Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA.  Greentech will pay about 45 million euros ($65 million) for
the 15-turbine project in Tarragona, according to a person with
knowledge of the deal who declined to be identified as the price
is confidential. The wind park was built by Gamesa,  Europe ’s
second-largest turbine maker, and is already in operation.  Greentech, based in Herlev, is in discussions with a
Spanish bank and by July expects to receive a loan for 75
percent to 80 percent of the cost, Sigieri Diaz della Vittoria Pallavicini, chief executive officer, said in an interview.  With current tariffs supporting wind projects, the
Tarragona wind farm could generate annual revenue of about 5.5
million euros and Ebitda of 4.7 million euros, the company said.  The purchase is part of the company’s strategy to diversify
abroad through acquisitions and to reduce its dependence on
 Italy , where it has more than 168 megawatts of wind power in
operation, he said. That compares with a total of 54 megawatts
in  Poland ,  Germany  and  Denmark . Greentech has 10 projects under
development in Italy and others in Poland and Norway.  ‘Opportunistic’  “We are very opportunistic and can be very fast because we
have access to capital,” he said. The company has more than 70
million euros in cash as well as credit lines with major
international banks, he said.  It expects to reach 50 million to 60 million euros in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
by the third quarter, from about 40 million euros now.  “This is the first deal of more important deals,” he
said. “We are looking to other wind farms and other
opportunities together with Gamesa.”  Acquisitions could include operating solar, wind,
hydroelectric or biomass power plants, as well as other
companies, he said.  Greentech agreed in May to merge with GWM Renewable Energy,
a unit of the Geneva-based financial services company GWM Group
that’s amassed about 32 percent of the shares in Greentech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 