-- 
Gates Laments Delay in Missile-Defense Agreement With Russia

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-06-09T14:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/gates-laments-delay-in-missile-defense-agreement-with-russia.html
Defense Secretary Robert Gates today
lamented delays in reaching agreement with  Russia  on a U.S.-led
NATO missile defense system, saying a “long history of
hostility and wariness” will take time to overcome.  Gates, whose experience with Russia in other government
posts dates to the Cold War-era  Soviet Union , had hoped to make
more progress to surmount Russian opposition to the missile-
defense plan before retiring this month.  He commented at the end of two days of talks among the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s defense ministers in
Brussels on issues including Afghanistan and  Libya . The sessions
included the first meeting of defense ministers within the NATO-
Russia Council in three years. The council is intended to
improve relations between the former Cold War adversaries.  “While I had hoped we would be ready to move ahead on this
subject in the NATO-Russia Council, it is clear that we will
need more time,” Gates told reporters at NATO headquarters in
Brussels. “I think the Russians have a long history of
hostility and wariness about missile defense, and so I think we
just have to keep working at it.”  He said Russian leaders, who have steadfastly opposed the
system as potentially weakening their own defenses, have been
serious about reaching agreement. He also cited “strong
consensus support at the NATO-Russia Council for practical
cooperation on missile defense directed against threats from
outside  Europe , such as  Iran , and not against each other.”  Objections in Moscow  President  Barack Obama  is seeking to overcome objections to
the system from leaders in Moscow who have threatened to
withdraw from a new strategic nuclear arms agreement with the
U.S. The Obama administration won NATO backing last year for the
system, which Russian leaders say may blunt the effectiveness of
their military deterrence.  Gates said his talks in Brussels with his Russian
counterpart, Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov, reviewed
efforts by their staffs to find ways of cooperating on the
missile defense system. The two sides plan to jointly analyze
missile threats, and the Russians proposed a combined  data
center  that the Pentagon fleshed out in more detail when Gates
visited Moscow in March.  In addition to Serdyukov, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
expressed interest in cooperation during a 2002 meeting when he
was president, as has his successor  Dmitry Medvedev , Gates said.  “I still think there are those in Russia who are skeptical
of our motives,” Gates said today.  The domestic political calendar in Russia may play a role,
said  Jan Techau , head of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in Brussels.  Russian Elections  “I suspect there will be no big moves on any of this until
after the Russian presidential elections next year,” Techau
said in an interview. “Missile defense may be used as an issue
in the elections.”  On  Afghanistan , Gates said he warned his NATO and other
counterparts against a precipitous withdrawal of troops as they
consider how to reduce force numbers this year.  “These gains could be threatened if we do not proceed with
the transition to Afghan security lead in a deliberate,
organized, and coordinated manner,” Gates said. “Even as the
 United States  begins to draw down next month, I assured my
fellow ministers that there will be no rush to the exits on our
part -- and we expect the same from our allies.”  Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen sought to signal
assurances that alliance members will stay on board with the
Afghan mission. He said there will be “no rush to the exits”
in the NATO-led International Security Force in Afghanistan.  “ISAF partners will stay committed and see this through,”
Rasmussen told reporters in Brussels. “I know that the American
administration will take decisions based on the security
situation on the ground. This will not be calendar-driven but
conditions-based.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  