-- 
Georgia Says No ‘Substantial’ Progress on Russia’s WTO Accession

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-06-09T11:45:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/georgia-says-no-substantial-progress-on-russia-s-wto-accession.html
Georgia and  Russia  haven’t made any
“substantial” progress in three months of talks on Russia’s
bid to join the  World Trade Organization , Prime Minister Nika Gilauri said.  “We don’t see any substantial progress yet even though
there are some steps,” Gilauri said today in an interview with
Bloomberg News at the  World Economic Forum  on  Europe  and Central
Asia in Vienna. “So far the talks are going very much in the
same mode.”  Switzerland in March started mediating negotiations between
Russia and Georgia, which fought a five-day war in 2008 over the
breakaway Georgian region of South Ossetia. Georgia has cited
disputes over customs checkpoints in South Ossetia and another
breakaway region, Abkhazia, as reasons to withhold its approval
for Russian WTO membership.  Russia, the largest economy outside the WTO, has been
seeking to join the Geneva-based trade arbiter since June 1993.
The U.S. announced last year it had resolved most issues
necessary for Russia’s accession.  “The only request from  Georgia ’s side is for transparency
on border crossings, on customs checkpoints,” said Gilauri.
“If there is no transparency on checkpoints, how can Russia
become a member of the WTO?”  Russia rejects “politicization” of WTO accession talks by
Georgia, the Russian Foreign Ministry said in March.  The “political window of opportunity” for Russia to enter
may “start to close down” at the end of the year as the U.S.
and Russia enter election years, Russian Deputy Prime Minister
Sergei Ivanov said in an interview with Bloomberg in Miami in
April, adding that he is hopeful an agreement will be reached
before then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Vienna at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  