-- 
German Nuclear Ban Spurs French Atomic Imports: Chart of the Day

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/german-nuclear-ban-spurs-french-atomic-imports-chart-of-the-day.html
Germany’s retreat from nuclear power
has pushed its electricity prices above those of  France  for the
first time in 16 months, spurring exports from French atomic
plants as close as 1 mile (1.6 kilometers) to the border.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the European benchmark for next
year cost 59.80 euros ($86.75) a megawatt-hour yesterday, 1.05
euro more than in France. The German contract on June 6 rose
above its French counterpart for the first time since February
2010 after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  confirmed plans to abandon
nuclear following the March 11 disaster in Japan. Deutsche Bank
AG forecast electricity prices in  Europe ’s biggest economy may
rise as much as 6 euros from 2012 as new capacity is needed.  “The gains in German power are all politically driven,”
said Dieter Hluchy, a trader at Stadtwerke Hannover AG, a
utility in Hannover,  Germany . “As long as we are not able to
put additional supplies online, there will be more electricity
coming from France, the Czech Republic and Scandinavia.”  Nuclear accounted for 23 percent of power in Germany last
year and meets more than 75 percent of demand in France, which
exported 3,416 megawatts to its neighbor in the hour through 6
p.m. local time yesterday, more than twice as much as at the
same time last year, according to European grid group Entsoe.
French President Nicholas Sarkozy has offered to boost exports
of mostly atomic power to Germany.  Germany will exit atomic energy by 2022. The country’s
seven oldest reactors, halted in the second half of March after
the nuclear disaster at the Fukushima plant in  Japan , won’t
return, leaving France “in a favorable competitive position,”
Sarkozy said June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  