-- 
Germany Risks Losing Manager Post at EU Bank Stress-Test Agency

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-06-09T12:51:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/germany-risks-losing-manager-post-at-eu-bank-stress-test-agency.html
Germany ’s financial supervisor risks
losing its seat on the managing committee of the  European
Banking Authority , days after Bafin’s chairman criticized the
“legitimacy” of the agency overseeing stress tests on lenders.  Bank watchdogs from across the European Union are scheduled
to vote as soon as this month on a replacement for Bafin’s
Sabine Lautenschlaeger, who must step down from her role at the
EBA because she agreed to join the Bundesbank. The EBA’s six-
person managing committee helps decide the agency’s annual work
plan and includes supervisors from the  Czech Republic ,  Finland ,
 France ,  Hungary  and  Sweden .  “It’s true that Lautenschlaeger now loses her seat and
that it won’t automatically go to a new German candidate,”
Bafin spokesman Ben Fischer said.  Bafin Chairman  Jochen Sanio  this week lashed out at the
EBA, the agency carrying out this year’s European Union stress
tests, saying the regulator lacks “clear, defined corporate-
governance structures, which alone could guarantee process
legitimacy.”  The EBA, which took over from the Committee of European
Banking Supervisors at the start of the year, is responsible for
the EU’s bank stress tests. Under the terms of this year’s exam,
91 banks will be expected to maintain a Core Tier 1 capital
ratio of at least 5 percent, the EBA has said.  The regulator has disallowed lenders counting in their
results some types of non-voting capital, known as silent
participations, which are permitted under German rules.  The EBA created its capital definition for the stress tests
without “legal, defined competence,” Sanio said.  An association of German public sector banks also
criticized the tests in April, saying they would put them at a
disadvantage and convey false signals to the market.  Lautenschlaeger, whose departure from Bafin triggered the
EBA vote, was nominated by the government earlier this year to
become a board member of Germany’s central bank.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 