-- 
Ghana Hedges Crude Oil Sales to Stabilize Budget Revenue

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-06-09T14:04:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ghana-hedges-crude-oil-sales-to-stabilize-budget-revenue-minister-says.html
Ghana ,  Africa ’s newest oil producer,
has hedged its crude sales at $107 per barrel from May to
December as it seeks to stabilize budget revenue, Kwabena Duffuor, Minister of Finance and  Economic Planning  said.  “It is primarily an insurance program to ensure that we
have a predictable minimum price for our exports,” Duffuor told
reporters today in Accra, the capital. “This will help our
budget not to be destabilized if crude prices fall.”  Standard Chartered Bank Plc, Citigroup Inc. and BNP Paribas
SA helped set up the contract, he said.  Ghana , the world’s second biggest cocoa producer made West
Africa’s biggest oil discovery in a decade from an offshore
field in June 2007. Daily output from the Jubilee oil field is
expected to climb to 120,000 barrels per day by July from 70,000
barrels now, according to  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , its operator.  Ghana started to hedge crude purchases in October last
year, Duffuor said. It hedged 1 million barrels, or 50 percent
of its monthly crude purchases, up to December, he said.  Because of the volatility in  oil prices , the price at which
Ghana hedged the imports differ from month to month, Kwame Adu-
Okyere-Mensuo, a technical adviser at the Ministry of Finance
said. “The average price is around $117 per barrel,” he said.  Crude oil gained for a third day after OPEC’s failure
yesterday to reach an agreement on output targets for the first
time in at least 20 years. Crude oil for July delivery climbed
38 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $101.12 a barrel at 9:50 a.m. on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , extending the gain during the
last 12 months to 36 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  