-- 
Gingrich’s Presidential Bid Reels With Mass Resignation of Aides

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-06-11T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/gingrich-campaign-manager-top-aides-resign-leaving-candidacy-in-question.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich  vowed to continue his campaign amid skepticism
that he can recover from resignations of his top staff members
and lagging fundraising.  Gingrich, 67, is scheduled to give a foreign policy speech
in California tomorrow, the day before he is to appear in a
televised candidate debate in New Hampshire.  “I don’t think Newt is going to be president, and I don’t
think he is going be the nominee,” said Stanley S. Hubbard,
chief executive officer of Minnesota-based Hubbard Broadcasting
Inc., a longtime Gingrich supporter and donor who is backing
former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty ’s presidential bid.  “It’s not realistic,” Hubbard said in an interview
yesterday. “I think he is all finished.” He added, “If he is
smart, he will go back to American Solutions.”  American Solutions for Winning the Future  is an advocacy
group Gingrich established in 2007 that among other things
focuses on education, energy issues and economic matters.  In  Iowa , where the lead-off presidential caucuses are
scheduled for February, Republican Governor Terry Branstad said
he agreed with that sentiment.  “His campaign’s in real trouble,” Branstad said
yesterday, according to  Radio Iowa , during a taping of “Iowa
Press,” a public affairs program on public television.
“Whether this is the end for the campaign or not, I don’t know,
but it doesn’t look very good.”  Mass Resignation  The struggling start to Gingrich’s campaign worsened with
the June 9 departures of his national co-chairman, campaign
manager, longtime spokesman and aides in states that vote early
in the nomination race. The mass resignation resulted from
discord over strategy, the role of the candidate’s wife and
money problems, aides and supporters said.  Separately, Gingrich has sought and received a 45-day
extension from the  Federal Election Commission  allowing him to
wait until July 25 to file his personal financial disclosure
form. The report is expected to disclose his personal income and
the status of a line of credit of as much as $500,000 at  Tiffany
& Co. (TIF) , the New York-based jewelry store. It also may shed light
on income Gingrich earns from the mix of private endeavors he
established since leaving Congress in 1999.  The campaign’s implosion heightens doubts about whether
Gingrich will survive for much longer in the presidential
contest.  “I think he’d make a great president,” said Rick Tyler,
the campaign spokesman who has worked for Gingrich for more than
a decade and was one of those who resigned. “So far, he has not
made a very good candidate.”  Strategists Resign  Others who resigned included national campaign manager Rob
Johnson; Craig Schoenfeld, Gingrich’s executive director in
Iowa; and Katon Dawson, the former state Republican chairman in
 South Carolina , said David Carney, a top New Hampshire-based
strategist for the campaign who also quit.  “The professional team came to the realization that the
direction of the campaign they sought and Newt’s vision for the
campaign were incompatible,” Carney said in an e-mail.  The national co-chairman for Gingrich’s bid, former Georgia
Governor Sonny Perdue, switched presidential camps after word of
the resignations surfaced. Pawlenty’s campaign said in a June 9
statement that Perdue “will join its national efforts.”  Gingrich responded to the exodus by saying he intends to
remain in the race.  “There is a fundamental strategic difference between the
traditional consulting community and the kind of campaign I want
to run,” he told reporters yesterday outside his home in
McLean, Virginia. “Now, we’ll find out over the next year who
is right.”  ‘Idea-Oriented Campaign’  Gingrich said he will run an “idea-oriented campaign of
substance” that would make greater use of the Internet and
grassroots supporters.  “In the next few weeks you’ll see us doing it in new and
dynamic and much more open ways than the traditional consultants
are comfortable with,” he said.  Gingrich, a former U.S. House speaker from  Georgia ,
declared his bid for the Republican presidential nomination on
May 11. Days later, he was on the defensive within his party
after he referred to a proposal to privatize Medicare offered by
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, as “radical change” and a form of “right-wing
social engineering” on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  The comments drew criticism from other Republicans, and
Gingrich called Ryan to apologize.  Greek Islands Cruise  Gingrich, who returned to campaigning June 8 in New
Hampshire following a cruise vacation in the Greek islands that
caused discord within the campaign, also had been distracted by
stories about running up a bill of as much as $500,000 with
Tiffany & Co.  The pace of his schedule frustrated staff members, who
believed he needed to spend more time fundraising and
campaigning in early voting states, some of those who resigned
said.  The transition from Gingrich’s lifestyle before the
campaign, such as using private planes for his heavy travel
schedule, to the life of a candidate flying on commercial
airlines has been difficult for him and his wife, Callista, a
Washington political fundraiser who is close to the campaign
said on condition of anonymity.  Wrangling within the Gingrich campaign stemmed in part from
control over the schedule exerted by Gingrich’s wife, according
to a former aide who requested anonymity when discussing
internal campaign matters.  ‘Meet the Press’  Top fundraisers began defecting after the “Meet the
Press” interview, which raised concerns about his ability to
convey a disciplined campaign message, according to a Republican
strategist with knowledge of the campaign’s finances who
requested anonymity in discussing the matter.  Gingrich has racked up a seven-figure campaign debt since
then, according to the strategist, and has lost most of his
major campaign bundlers, who are responsible for soliciting
money from a wide circle of donors.  Commenting on the campaign’s status, Schoenfeld said,
“There was concern about the ability to be able to sustain an
operation in Iowa, much less a national campaign.”  Gingrich scheduled no public events in Iowa for this month,
said Schoenfeld, even as  state Republicans  gear up for a mid-
August straw poll in which a strong showing might help his
nomination prospects.  Staff members were also frustrated by his decision to
screen a documentary he and his wife produced and to hold a book
signing during a campaign trip this week in  New Hampshire , site
of the first presidential primary, the former aide said. That
time, they said, would be better used for campaigning.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  