-- 
Gold May Gain on Growth Outlook, Europe’s Debt, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-09T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/gold-may-gain-on-growth-outlook-europe-s-debt-survey-shows.html
Gold may gain as concern about
slowing economic growth and  Europe ’s debt crisis boost demand
for the metal as an alternative investment, a survey found.  Thirteen of 19 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 68 percent, said bullion will rise next week. Five
predicted lower prices and one was neutral. Gold for August
delivery was up 0.2 percent for this week at $1,545.10 an ounce
by 11:32 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York . It reached a
record $1,577.40 on May 2.  The  Federal Reserve  this week said the economy expanded at
a “steady pace” in most of the U.S. while slowing in four of
12 regions, underscoring Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s statement
that record stimulus should be maintained to bolster a
“frustratingly slow” recovery. The  European Central Bank 
signaled a July interest rate increase even as higher borrowing
costs may exacerbate the crisis that’s threatening to push
 Greece  toward a default.  “Continuing jitters in markets regarding the euro-zone
debt crisis and economic growth concerns globally should see
gold continue to make headway,” said Mark O’Byrne, executive
director of brokerage GoldCore Ltd. in Dublin. A new record
“seems likely, if not next week then in the coming weeks.”  The cost of insuring against default on government debt
sold by Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland yesterday surged to
records, according to traders of credit-default swaps. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled the bank intends to lift
its benchmark rate in July after keeping it at 1.25 percent this
month.  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of June 3.  The weekly gold survey, which started seven years ago, has
forecast prices accurately in 211 of 366 weeks, or 58 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 13 Bearish: 5 Neutral: 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 