-- 
Goldman Sachs Settles Massachusetts Probe of ‘Huddles’

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-09T17:08:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/goldman-to-settle-massachusetts-huddle-probe.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to
pay a $10 million fine and stop holding private meetings of
stock analysts and traders known as “huddles” to settle an
investigation by  Massachusetts ’s chief securities regulator.  The settlement ends a two-year probe by William Galvin, the
secretary of the commonwealth, into New York-based Goldman
Sachs’s “Asymmetric Service Initiative,” in which information
on analysts’ trading ideas was disseminated earlier to favored
clients. The company will “permanently discontinue” the
practice, Galvin’s office said in a statement today.  The investigation concluded that the dissemination by
equity analysts of unpublished short-term trading ideas was “a
dishonest and unethical violation of the Massachusetts Uniform
Securities Act by putting certain clients at an advantage over
others,” Galvin’s office said in the statement.  Goldman Sachs analysts, who publish stock recommendations
for long-term investments, attended weekly meetings where they
shared short-term trading ideas, the Wall Street Journal
reported in 2009, citing internal company documents. Galvin’s
office sent a subpoena to Goldman Sachs shortly after the
article was published and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which
polices brokerages, also began examining the practice.  Finra’s Probe  The authority, known as  Finra , is close to concluding its
investigation of Goldman Sachs’s trading huddles, a person
familiar with the situation said today. The person spoke on
condition of anonymity because the details of the investigation
aren’t public. Michelle Ong, a spokeswoman for Finra, said she
couldn’t comment.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined
to comment.  “We are pleased to have resolved this matter with the
Massachusetts securities division,”  Stephen Cohen , a Goldman
Sachs spokesman in  New York , said in an interview.  While the settlement finds that Goldman Sachs “engaged in
dishonorable or dishonest conduct,” it adds that nothing in the
settlement “shall be construed as a finding or admission of
fraud.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ; 