-- 
Gold May Gain as Rallies in Corn, Oil Fan Concern Inflation May Accelerate

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-06-09T05:04:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/gold-may-climb-as-rallies-in-corn-oil-fan-inflation-concerns.html
Gold may advance for the first time
in three days after grain and energy prices surged, boosting the
precious metal’s appeal as a hedge against inflation.  Immediate-delivery bullion was little changed at $1,536.25
an ounce at 2:01 p.m. in Seoul, 2.6 percent below a record. The
metal has gained 24 percent in the past year, reaching an all-
time high of $1,577.57 on May 2. The August-delivery contract
was also little changed at $1,537.30 in  New York .  “You might see some support on the back of food inflation
with corn and wheat, particularly corn” gaining,  Jonathan Barratt , managing director at Commodity Broking Services Pty,
said by phone from Sydney. “You might find people starting to
reassess the food-inflation aspect.”  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
has advanced 38 percent in the past year, with corn more than
doubling. The grain, used in food, animal feed and biofuels,
surged by the most in three weeks yesterday. Global food costs
are near the highest ever, according to the United Nations.  Crude oil rose, trading above $100 a barrel in New York,
after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries failed
to reach an agreement on production targets for the first time
in at least 20 years and U.S. crude inventories fell.  Brazil’s central bank raised its benchmark interest rate
for a fourth straight meeting yesterday after consumer prices
exceeded the upper limit of its target range for the first time
since 2005. At least two dozen nations including  China ,  India ,
Thailand,  South Korea ,  Indonesia  and the  European Central Bank 
raised rates this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ECB Meeting  The ECB meets today and is forecast to leave its benchmark
rate at 1.25 percent, according to economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The central bank may increase borrowing costs by 25
basis points in July, a separate survey showed.  “We expect more upside for gold and platinum-group
metals,” Stefan Graber, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG,
wrote in a report today. “Today’s ECB meeting and its impact on
interest rate expectations will be followed closely.”  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has spurred
growth by holding the main interest rate near zero since
December 2008. Gold is up 8.1 percent this year after climbing
the past 10 years, the longest run of gains in at least nine
decades.  Bernanke this week signaled that there won’t be a third
round of so-called quantitative easing. The Fed will end the
second round of quantitative easing by buying back $600 billion
in Treasuries by the end of the month.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s largest gold company, cut
its full-year output forecast for the third time this year after
a power failure interrupted production at its Lihir Island mine
in Papua New Guinea. The reduction is adding to “already tight
global supplies,”  Mark Pervan  and Natalie Robertson, analysts
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., wrote in a report.  Silver for immediate delivery fell 0.6 percent to $36.595
an ounce. The price has more than doubled in the past 12 months.  Cash palladium increased 0.3 percent to $807.75 an ounce,
while immediate-delivery platinum fell 0.2 percent to $1,819.95
an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in  Seoul  at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  