-- 
Two-Time U.S. Open Champ Goosen Understated Income, U.S. Tax Court Says

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-09T21:59:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/golfer-retief-goosen-understated-income-u-s-tax-court-says.html
Professional golfer Retief Goosen,
the winner of the  U.S. Open  in 2001 and 2004, understated the
share of his endorsement income generated in the U.S., the U.S.
Tax Court ruled.  “On the evidence presented, we cannot accept petitioner’s
contention that less than 7 percent of his royalty income is
U.S. source income,” Judge Diane Kroupa wrote in a ruling
released today in  Washington .  The decision involved Goosen’s endorsement deals with
companies including  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS)  and Rolex Group. The
 Internal Revenue Service  had determined that Goosen, 42, owed
$20,224 for 2002 and $144,474 for 2003. The golfer challenged
the IRS findings in tax court.  On some issues, particularly on the question of how much of
the earnings were related to his image as opposed to his
performance, the court sided with Goosen. It was unclear from
the ruling how much he would have to pay the government if the
ruling stands.  “We’re in the process of reviewing it,” said one of his
tax attorneys, Matthew Kadish of  Kadish, Hinkel & Weibel  in
Cleveland. A voicemail message seeking comment from Guy
Kinnings, Goosen’s agent at IMG Worldwide Inc. in  London , wasn’t
immediately returned.  Endorsement Deals  The IRS case against the South African native centered on
Goosen’s endorsement deals with six companies: Electronic Arts;
Rolex; Upper Deck Co.; Izod, which is owned by  Phillips-Van
Heusen Corp. (PVH) ; Acushnet Co., the maker of Titleist golf equipment
sold by  Fortune Brands Inc. (FO) ; and TaylorMade, which is owned by
 Adidas AG. (ADS)  The TaylorMade deal had an annual base payment of
$400,000, and the Acushnet deal included a base payment in 2003
of $375,000, according to the ruling.  The case turned on whether Goosen’s endorsement earnings
were royalty income based on his image or personal services
income based on his performance on the golf course. The IRS
argued the latter position.  The judge took a middle position, Kadish said. She found
that the golfer’s off-course image and his on-course performance
were both important.  Kroupa noted that TaylorMade valued Goosen less than it did
Spanish golfer  Sergio Garcia , who was paid “substantially more
than petitioner despite his lesser record.” Garcia has a case
pending before the tax court on similar issues regarding
endorsement income.  ‘Paid Substantial Money’  “TaylorMade valued Mr. Garcia’s flash, looks and maverick
personality more than petitioner’s cool, ‘Iceman’ demeanor,”
Kroupa wrote. “We find that TaylorMade, Izod and Acushnet
valued petitioner’s image, and they paid substantial money for
the right to use his name and likeness.”  The ruling notes that Goosen, a permanent resident of the
U.K., was advised by his agents to set up a bank account in
Liechtenstein to receive his non-U.K. earnings.  Goosen won his last professional championships in 2009,
according to his  website . He tied for third at the Abu Dhabi
HSBC Golf Championship in January, and his best finish on the
U.S. PGA Tour this season is a tie for 12th at the Northern
Trust Open in February.  Goosen is playing this week at the St. Jude Classic in
Memphis, Tennessee, and scored a first-round 2-under-par 68. He
is scheduled to play next week in this year’s  U.S. Open , which
is being held at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda,
 Maryland , just outside Washington.  The case is  Retief Goosen  v. Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, 023323-09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  