-- 
Greece Said to Need 45 Billion Euros in New Loans

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-06-09T15:33:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/greece-is-said-to-need-65-8-billion-more-in-emergency-loans-from-eu-imf.html
European governments and the
 International Monetary Fund  would lend as much as an extra 45
billion euros ($65 billion) to Greece under an expanded plan to
avoid the euro area’s first sovereign default, two people with
direct knowledge of the talks said.  European estimates put Greece’s 2012-14 financing gap at as
much as 170 billion euros, the people said. It would be filled
by the loans, plus around 57 billion euros in unspent aid from
last year’s bailout, roughly 30 billion euros in asset-sale
proceeds and about 30 billion euros in rollovers by creditors.  Structuring the rollovers remains the most sensitive part
of the package, with European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet warning on a teleconference of euro-area officials
yesterday that German calls for a debt exchange might lead
rating companies to declare  Greece  in default, the people said.  “It’s hard to imagine something that’s truly voluntary in
the current climate,” Bart Oosterveld, managing director for
sovereign risk at Moody’s Investors Service, told reporters in
Frankfurt today. “The default risks for peripheral European
countries continue to increase.”  Greek bonds fell for third day and the price of insuring
Greek debt against default reached a record as 5,000 public
workers struck against the asset-sales and budget-cut plans
demanded by  Europe  and the IMF as conditions for aid.  Chants of “no, won’t sell” rang out outside the  Finance
Ministry  in Athens as Prime Minister George Papandreou’s Cabinet
weighed the emergency plan, which includes the sale of stakes in
Hellenic Postbank SA and  Agricultural Bank of Greece (ATE)  SA.  Merkel’s Role  Chancellor Angela Merkel  of Germany, the biggest aid
contributor, needs to saddle bondholders with part of the cost
to persuade the German parliament to offer new loans in another
three-year package to a country that has veered toward financial
meltdown even after getting a 110 billion-euro lifeline in 2010.  Greek sovereign debt has been the world’s most expensive to
insure since April, when it surpassed  Venezuela . Moody’s puts
the chance of a default at 50 percent in the next five years.  Merkel tried to sell German lawmakers on another Greek
package yesterday, after returning to Berlin from a White House
meeting in which President Barack Obama said  Germany  holds the
key to preventing an “uncontrolled spiral of default” in
Europe.  Germany wants bondholders to buy around 30 billion euros of
new Greek bonds to replace maturing ones over the next three
years. Any arrangement that appears to force private investors
to maintain their Greek holdings might be ranked as a default,
sending losses cascading through the banking system.  It would be “an enormous mistake to embark on a decision
that would trigger a  credit event ,” Trichet told reporters
today in Frankfurt. “We exclude all elements which are not
voluntary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  