-- 
Sino-Forest’s Greenheart Surges as Canada Regulator Poised to Start Probe

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-09T15:34:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/greenheart-jumps-on-sino-forest-investigation.html
Greenheart Group Ltd., a unit of
timber producer  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , rose the most in almost two
years in Hong Kong trading after its parent asked Canadian
regulators to probe short selling by  Muddy Waters  Research.  Greenheart climbed 43 percent, the biggest gain since June
24, 2009, to close at HK$1.47 today. The stock fell 63 percent
yesterday after Muddy Waters, founded by short seller Carson Block, said Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-
Forest’s disclosed land holdings don’t match Chinese city
records.  Sino-Forest shares are down 69 percent on the Toronto Stock
Exchange since Muddy Waters published its report on June 2. The
company said yesterday it asked the bourse and the Investment
Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada to probe trading in
its stock. The Ontario Securities Commission said the same day
it was studying “matters related” to the company. Block said
June 6 he plans to release more research on Sino-Forest and will
address its stake in Hong Kong-listed Greenheart, which harvests
and processes logs.  The regulator probe “erases some concern about the
accounting issues or corporate governance issues,” said Nelson Yan, an investment manager who helps oversee $90 million at
Mayfair Pacific Financial Group in Hong Kong. “It’s not a
surprise to see some rebound in the stock.”  Regulators and investors have increased scrutiny of Chinese
companies trading in  North America . The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission began an investigation last year into the
use of reverse takeovers, in which a closely held company buys a
shell company whose shares already trade.  Short Selling  Short selling, or selling borrowed shares with the hope of
profiting when they fall, more than doubled to a record 35
percent of Sino-Forest’s outstanding stock as of June 3, up from
17 percent at the beginning of May and 13 percent at the end of
2010, according to Data Explorers, a New York-based research
firm.  Sino-Forest welcomed the regulator inquiry and said it’s in
keeping with the OSC’s responsibility and reflects the unusual
trading in its shares. Block’s statements are false and Sino-
Forest is studying its legal options, it said on June 6.  Wendy Dey, a spokeswoman for the OSC, reiterated
yesterday’s statement from the regulator that an investigation
related to Sino-Forest is under way.  The Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of  Canada 
is working with the OSC, Connie Craddock, a spokeswoman for the
market surveillance body, said in a telephone interview.  Hedge Funds  “We’re not responding to a request from anybody,”
Craddock said.  “We don’t need a formal request,” she said. “If we do
anything it’s because it’s the appropriate thing to do.”  Sino-Forest holds 64 percent of Greenheart.  Muddy Waters “pre-marketed” its report to hedge funds for
the past five weeks, Richard Kelertas, a Montreal-based analyst
at Dundee Securities Ltd., said June 7. Block declined to
comment on Kelertas’s comments when contacted by e-mail.  Greenheart today provided details on its assets in
Suriname, rebutting a Muddy Waters’ allegation that it doesn’t
have a business registration there, according to a statement to
the  Hong Kong  stock exchange.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  