-- 
Greek Financing Solutions Shouldn’t Be Disruptive, IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-06-09T15:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/greek-financing-solutions-shouldn-t-be-disruptive-imf-says-1-.html
Any steps taken to narrow  Greece ’s
financing gap “should not be disruptive” for financial
stability, said  Caroline Atkinson , a spokeswoman for the
 International Monetary Fund .  “Everybody agrees that any involuntary debt restructuring
or credit event would be undesirable,” she told reporters in
Washington today.  Talks are under way in  Europe  on how to increase aid to
Greece, whose borrowing costs are too high to allow it to return
to the markets next year. European governments and the IMF will
lend Greece as much as an extra 45 billion euros ($65 billion)
under an expanded plan to avoid the euro area’s first sovereign
default, two people with direct knowledge of the talks said.  Atkinson declined to say which measures would be considered
a debt default. She repeated that the original 110 billion-euro
loan program by the European Union and the IMF for Greece “does
not contemplate” restructuring.  European estimates put Greece’s 2012-14 financing gap at as
much as 170 billion euros, the people said. It would be filled
by the loans, plus about 57 billion euros in unspent aid from
last year’s bailout, roughly 30 billion euros in asset-sale
proceeds and about 30 billion euros in rollovers by creditors.  Structuring the rollovers remains the most sensitive part
of the package. Atkinson said the IMF’s role in current
discussions is to “advise what would make sense” and outline
the implications of the options that were discussed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
James Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  