-- 
Gross Says ‘No Regrets’ Over Missing Short-Term Treasury Rally

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-06-09T16:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/gross-says-no-regrets-over-missing-short-term-treasury-rally.html
Bill Gross, manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, is proving once again that he’s willing to
suffer short-term pain for long-term gain.  The billionaire investor and co-chief investment officer
of  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co. has seen his flagship Total Return Fund gain 2.52 percent
since eliminating  U.S. government debt  from his holdings in
February, and betting against the securities, forgoing an
additional 3.1 percent in Treasury returns in the last three
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund beat
just 55 percent of its peers in the past month, the data show.  While that may seem disappointing for a manager who has
outperformed 99 percent of his rivals in the past five years,
history shows that Gross’s calls often seem wrong before proving
accurate and generating above-average returns for investors. In
2007, his fund lost about 0.8 percent through June, trailing the
performance of 80 percent of comparable funds before rebounding
to beat 99 percent of them for the year as the  Federal Reserve 
began to lower interest rates, as he predicted.  “I certainly don’t have any regrets.” Gross said of his
current strategy in an interview yesterday in Chicago. “We’re
beating the market by 50 basis points. We’re not completely
satisfied but it’s not the negative headline that one sees.”  Reiterates Call  Gross, 67, who has helped catapult Pimco into a firm
overseeing $1.2 trillion over the past 40 years, reiterated his
call that the 30-year bull-run in bonds is over.  The fund, which has attracted retail investors, public and
private pension and retirement funds, exited Treasuries before
the securities outperformed all other debt classes in May. Gross
didn’t anticipate that investors would largely ignore warnings
on the rising budget deficit and the stalemate in Congress on
increasing the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  “He missed the rally,” said Edward Lashinski, senior
strategist in  Chicago  at ABN Amro Clearing LLC. “Ultimately he
may be correct. Even the smartest investment business doesn’t
get it right all the time. Gross has substantially
underestimated the prospect for lower Treasury yields in the
near-term.”  The yield on the benchmark 3.125 percent Treasury note due
in May 2021 has fallen to 2.98 percent from this year’s high of
3.77 percent on Feb. 9, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show.  Below Potential  Yields have fallen as reports on jobs, manufacturing,
housing and  consumer confidence  suggest that the economy isn’t
recovering as fast as forecast, keeping inflation from
accelerating.  “The economy is still producing at levels well below its
potential; consequently, accommodative monetary policies are
still needed,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , 57, said June 7
during a speech to a conference in Atlanta. “Until we see a
sustained period of stronger  job creation , we cannot consider
the recovery to be truly established.”  Gross isn’t the only manager wary of Treasuries after
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service both warned that
the U.S.’s AAA credit rating is in jeopardy if lawmakers aren’t
able to reduce the deficit.  At the same time, the Fed’s efforts at injecting cash into
the economy has caused the Labor Department’s  consumer price
index  to rise 3.2 percent in April from a year earlier, the
biggest increase since 2008. That’s higher than the yields on
bonds due in 10 years or less.  ‘Fiscally Irresponsible’  “We would not lend money long-term to a fiscally
irresponsible entity with unattractive real yields,” said
Thomas Atteberry, who manages $3.7 billion in fixed-income
assets at First Pacific in  Los Angeles . “I don’t know if
Congress will have any kind of credible debt ceiling spending
reduction proposal in place by August. The level of rates today
is because people believe that it’s all going to work out with
the U.S. credit.”  While First Pacific has 25 percent of its holdings in
Treasuries, its longest-maturity bond is one maturing in October
2012, Atteberry said.  “We share  Bill Gross ’s view towards Treasuries and their
values,” he said. “It would have been speculative to have
invested in Treasuries because even at 50 or 60 basis points ago,
they still didn’t offer value.”  Gross has had his share of misses. Pimco held bonds of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., in at least 12 of its funds,
including the Total Return Fund, before the investment bank
filed bankruptcy in September 2008. Gross was buying the debt as
recently as June 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Mistake’  In May 2005 he said a Fed rate of 3.25 percent to 3.5
percent “is all the economy can stand.” At the time, the Fed
had lifted its benchmark eight straight times to 3 percent, and
didn’t stop increasing it until June 2006, when the target
reached 5.25 percent.  “We have made a mistake over the past 12 months expecting
the Fed, first of all, to stop before 5.25 percent and, second
of all, to maybe start to ease a little before where the market
expects it to ease,” Gross said May 17, 2007. “If there’s been
a mistake, that’s it.”  Perhaps his biggest correct call was on housing. During a
yoga session in 2005, he thought of sending analysts posing as
homebuyers into the field to test his theory that the bubble was
about to burst.  The research helped him decide to avoid subprime mortgage-
backed securities as well as riskier credits. His emphasis on
what he at the time called “quality” lower-risk debt and
government-backed debt helped his fund return 9.1 percent in
2007, better than 99 percent of its peers.  Good Call  Gross said in 2007 that falling home prices would be the
main driver of U.S. monetary policy for “several years.” Bear
Stearns Cos. and Lehman rode the U.S. housing boom from 2000 to
2005 as the top two underwriters of new mortgage securities,
just before the values of homes plunged.  Bear Stearns collapsed and was sold to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in March 2008 and Lehman declared the world’s biggest bankruptcy
on Sept. 15 of that year, both suffering from losses in mortgage
securities and spearheading a systemic crisis that prompted the
Fed to drop its target rate for overnight loans between banks to
a range of zero to 0.25 percent as of December 2008.  In May 2005, Gross said 10-year Treasury yields might fall
as low as 3 percent this decade because there was little threat
of accelerating inflation. The yield on the 10-year note touched
a record low 2.035 percent in December 2008 and the consumer
price index fell 2.1 percent in July 2009, the biggest year-
over-year drop in about six decades.  Fund Assets  Pimco’s Total Return Fund has advanced 3.4 percent this
year, ranking sixth out the 10 biggest actively-managed bond
funds that invest mainly in  U.S. debt  as of May 31, according to
data compiled by Morningstar.  Treasuries are considered the safest and most liquid,
investments in the world. The U.S. is the world’s biggest debt
issuer. It has $14.2 trillion of debt outstanding, while
marketable Treasuries total $9.7 trillion. Central banks and
other overseas investors own $4.48 trillion, or 46 percent of
marketable debt.  The fund had minus 4 percent of its assets in government
and related debt in April, compared with negative 3 percent in
March, according to figures from the firm’s website. The
negative position reflected trades that would profit from a
decline in Treasuries. Cash and equivalents, the largest
component, rose to 37 percent from 31 percent.  Treasury Alternatives  “The Treasury market up to seven or eight years is
negative in terms of real  interest rates , and that’s not a
positive for savers,” Gross said in an interview on June 3 with
 Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio. “To the extent they can risk a
little bit of their capital, then there are alternatives.”  Investors should increase holdings of corporates, mortgages
and other country bonds with better balance sheets than the U.S.,
such as Germany, Canada and  Brazil  that have “half the debt,”
Gross said June 3, adding that those bonds are “better
opportunities” because they have higher yields and are safer
credits.  Gross has been betting against U.S. debt through short
sales, in which the Total Return Fund would borrow and then sell
 government bonds , hoping to profit by repurchasing the
securities at a lower price in the future. The fund’s annual
report showed that, as of March 31, it had sold short about $2.2
billion of Treasuries that mature in about 10 years and $5.8
billion of agency debt that comes due in 2041.  Rate Swaps  In addition, the fund also entered into 10- and 30-year
interest-rate swaps with a face value of about $15.2 billion
during the fourth quarter of 2010 and first quarter of 2011,
according to filings. Based on the terms disclosed in Pimco
Total Return’s annual report, the 10-year and 30-year swaps held
by the fund have lost about $1 billion in market value since
March 31, according to Bloomberg calculations.  In order to obtain the contracts, which are the equivalent
of betting against Treasuries, the Total Return Fund paid
upfront premiums totaling about $331 million to 12 Wall Street
banks, the filing shows.  While the swaps are costly for the fund, given that it must
pay out more than it takes in under the contracts, Gross would
reap big profits from the trades should long-term rates rise,
causing Treasuries to tumble. Conversely, a decline in long-term
rates would punish the fund’s returns.  “Over the long-term Treasuries and all U.S. bonds are
overvalued and he’s correct,” said Mark MacQueen, a partner at
Austin, Texas-based Sage Advisory Services Ltd., which oversees
$9.5 billion, and holds 25 percent to 30 percent of its
portfolio in Treasuries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  