-- 
Groupon May Gain as About One-Fifth of Non-Users Plan to Try Out Service

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/groupon-may-gain-as-non-users-try-coupons.html
Almost a fifth of U.S. consumers who
have never bought a coupon online from Groupon Inc. plan to try
it in the next six months, an indicator of the company’s
prospects for growth as it plans for an initial public offering.  Some 19 percent of people who aren’t Groupon customers said
they plan to buy from the site in the next six months, according
to a Bloomberg/YouGov survey of 1,166 consumers. Meanwhile, 90
percent of respondents who bought a deal on Groupon in the past
six months said they plan to do so again, the survey showed.  Groupon has faced skepticism since saying on June 2 that it
has yet to make a profit and that its marketing costs are rising
faster than sales. Its allure to potential investors in a $750
million IPO hinges on attracting new customers and keeping
current ones, even as rivals such as Facebook Inc. and  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  push into the market. A third of respondents who hadn’t
used the service had never heard of Groupon.  “Groupon’s position among existing deal sites is strong,
though Facebook Deals and the very new Google Offers loom on the
horizon,” Michael Nardis, head of YouGov investment products,
said in a statement about the survey.  The portion of survey respondents who said they have
purchased from Groupon is about equal to the number who said
they plan to try it for the first time, meaning the service has
the opportunity to double its number of customers by year-end,
YouGov said.  Customer Base  Bloomberg and London-based market researcher  YouGov Plc (YOU) 
polled 1,000 U.S. residents online from June 3 to June 6. An
additional 166 customers of Groupon were interviewed for the
survey.  Chicago-based Groupon delivers daily discounts on hotels,
restaurants and other goods and services to 83.1 million
subscribers. Of those, 15.8 million had purchased a deal on the
site by the end of March this year, up from 874,017 the previous
year.  The service has built loyalty among existing customers, 23
percent of whom said they plan to increase the number of deals
they buy on  Groupon  in the next six months. Some 21 percent plan
to decrease buying on Groupon.  Only 16 percent of survey respondents who have never used
Groupon said they were familiar with it. The company spent
$263.2 million on marketing last year, according to a filing
last week.  More than 480 daily deal sites now compete with Groupon,
which has maintained the best visibility among consumers,
according to the survey. More than half of all respondents, or
52 percent, said they were familiar with Groupon, while 29
percent were familiar with  LivingSocial.com , its next-largest
competitor.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  