-- 
IBM Teams With Met Museum to Monitor Indoor Climate for Art

-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-06-09T20:12:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ibm-teams-with-met-museum-to-monitor-indoor-climate-for-art.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest computer-services provider, is using
its technology knowledge to help preserve medieval art in a bid
to gain clients seeking to make their buildings more efficient.  IBM is installing sensors at the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art
in  New York  that will monitor room temperature, humidity and
chemicals and automatically make adjustments to preserve art,
the company said in a statement. The project is starting in the
museum’s Cloisters branch, which houses medieval art, and will
later expand to the rest of the museum.  The project is part of the Armonk, New York-based company’s
bid to digitally monitor buildings -- and everything from
traffic and utilities to hospitals -- to make them more
efficient. The initiative, coined Smarter Planet, is expected to
generate $10 billion in sales for IBM by 2015. The global market
for managing buildings specifically should more than triple to
$10.2 billion in that time frame, according to Framingham,
Massachusetts-based research firm IDC.  IBM’s sensors at the museum will detect humidity and
temperature, as well as other elements, such as when a door
opens, lights change, or when an air duct starts corroding and
emits chemicals, said Dave Bartlett, who heads the Smarter
Buildings program for IBM.  ‘Years of Preservation’  “It’s immediate,” Bartlett said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “Every minute you can maintain the optimum
condition, you’re putting years of preservation on that. Every
minute you don’t, you’re adding pressure on that piece of art.”  After the project expands to the rest of the museum, the
company expects to work with others on similar technology, he
said.  IBM also announced its building-management software, which
tracks a structure’s boilers, water pipes and outside
temperatures to monitor energy use and predict needed
maintenance.  For example, if the air conditioning and the heat are on,
the software will detect that and determine which needs to be
shut down, Bartlett said. If a fan is working overtime, an alert
will pop up to check the area and see if a nearby fan needs to
be replaced.  “It’s like tuning. As we work and live with these
buildings, we can do this in real-time,” Bartlett said.
“That’s the huge opportunity.”  When IBM used it at some of its buildings in Rochester,
 Minnesota , it saved 8 percent in energy costs, according to the
statement. The software, which is priced per square-foot, is
available July 1.  IBM rose 50 cents to $164.84 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed 12 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 