-- 
IG Group Will Shut Sports-Betting Unit to Focus on Finance

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-06-09T15:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ig-group-will-close-sports-betting-unit-to-focus-on-finance.html
IG Group Holdings Plc (IGG) , owner of the
IG Index financial spread-betting brand, said it will close its
sports-wagering unit to focus on financial trading.  The company expects to report that so-called adjusted
pretax profit rose 3 percent to 163 million pounds ($268
million) in the year ended May 31, London-based IG said in a
statement. The group plans to shut the sports operations, known
as extrabet, and sell most of its client list to Spreadex Ltd.  Sports betting has dwindled to 2.5 percent of IG sales,
down from half in 1999, Chief Executive Officer Tim Howkins said
in a telephone interview. The unit made a small profit last
fiscal year, only because wagers on soccer’s  World Cup  boosted
the business, he said.  “We were pretty certain not to make money for the next
three years,” until the next World Cup, Howkins said. He said
he couldn’t say yet how many of the unit’s 55 staff would lose
their jobs.  IG fell 0.5 pence, or 0.1 percent, to 439.5 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in London. The shares have fallen 14 percent so
far this year, giving the company a market value of 1.6 billion
pounds.  Sales growth slowed in the fourth quarter as trading in the
U.K., its biggest single market, slumped in April due to
extended Easter and Royal Wedding holidays.  “It felt like the U.K. was on holiday for the whole of
April,” Howkins said.  Trading Revenue  While group trading revenue, or sales less interest income
on client money, rose 7 percent for the full year, it gained
only 2 percent in the fourth quarter, the company said. Adjusted
profit excludes amortization and impairment of intangibles.  Sales gained about 60 percent in  Germany  in the fourth
quarter, and it should remain the company’s fastest-growing
region, Howkins said.  Japanese sales dropped 14 percent for the year and 38
percent in the fourth quarter, following the country’s
restriction on leverage in foreign-exchange and stock-index
betting, the company said.  Howkins said the Japanese earthquake helped rather than
hurt business, because clients were attracted by volatility in
Japanese stocks and the yen. Spread-betting customers often
trade more in times of high volatility because they can see more
opportunities to make money.  Japan  returned to profit this year, as IG’s unit there cut
jobs to 33 from 55, Howkins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in  London  at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  