-- 
Tiger Woods’s Absence Brings 20% Decrease in U.S. Open Ticket Resale Price

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-06-09T19:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/tiger-woods-s-absence-brings-20-decrease-in-u-s-open-ticket-resale-price.html
Ticket prices for golf’s  U.S. Open 
have dropped 20 percent on the resale market since Tiger Woods
withdrew from the event two days ago.  Four-day tickets to the tournament on  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s Stubhub
dropped today to $402 from almost $500 on June 7, when Woods
withdrew because of leg injuries, company spokesman  Glenn Lehrman  said in a telephone interview.  Lehrman said he anticipates prices will continue to drop
another 17 percent by next week. The tournament, the year’s
second major championship, begins June 16 at Congressional
Country Club outside  Washington .  “Missing Tiger is a big deal,” Lehrman said. “He’s a
huge draw, not only for tickets, but also for television
ratings.”  The tournament will be televised by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN
and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC.  Tickets are available on-site for the opening round, the
 United States Golf Association  said today in an e-mailed
release. The tournament has sold out for the past 24 years and
organizers expect that streak to continue, U.S. Open Managing
Director Reg Jones said today in a telephone interview.  “Our ticket sales are consistent with what we have seen
for the past three years, really just based on the economy,” he
said. “We are pretty happy with our ticket sales.”  Jones said the U.S. Open doesn’t track its tickets on the
secondary market. He said the absence of Woods, the winner of 14
major titles, does affect a tournament’s popularity.  ‘Iconic Figure’  “He is certainly an iconic figure and I think he certainly
has an effect on attendance at our golf events,” Jones said.  Ticket prices on the secondary market for last year’s U.S.
Open, where Woods finished tied for fourth, were comparable to
this year’s, said Lehrman, who attributed the 2010 prices to the
tournament’s remote location. It was played at Pebble Beach Golf
Links, roughly 125 miles (200 kilometers) south of  San
Francisco .  Jones said the economy has a larger effect on ticket sales
than the tournament’s location.  “I think it’s just a sign of the times,” Jones said.
“One thing we’ve noticed is people, like everything else,
purchasing a little bit later.”  Of the three major tournaments played in America, the U.S.
Open is typically the second-most popular in terms of ticket
prices, behind the  Masters Tournament  and ahead of the  PGA
Championship , Lehrman said. The volume of sales on Stubhub has
stayed relatively flat, abnormal for the final two weeks before
a major, when it typically picks up, Lehrman said.  Woods’s Fall  Woods, who has not won a tournament in almost two years,
has fallen to No. 15 in the  Official World Golf Ranking  after
holding the No. 1 spot for a record 281 weeks. His 14th major
title came at the 2008 U.S. Open, where he beat  Rocco Mediate  in
a 19-hole playoff before disclosing that he had played on a
fractured leg.  “We are disappointed that  Tiger Woods , a three-time
champion, will not be able to play in the 2011 U.S. Open,” USGA
Executive Director Mike Davis said in a June 7 statement on the
association’s website. “The excitement that he generates will
be missed, but the Blue Course at Congressional Country Club
will surely provide an excellent test for the 156 world-class
players in the field.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  