-- 
Comcast, Horace Mann, RealD, Verigy, Zipcar: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-06-10T13:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/high-plains-gas-oyo-geospace-seachange-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 8:50 a.m. in New York.  Standard & Poor’s  said  OYO Geospace Corp. (OYOG)   and
 NuVasive Inc. (NUVA)   will replace LaBranche & Co. (LAB US)
and  American Medical Systems Holdings Inc. (AMMD)   in the S&P
SmallCap 600 Index after the close of trading on June 15.
LaBranche and American Medical are both being bought in deals
expected to be completed around that time.  Benihana Inc. (BNHNA)  : The restaurant chain said same-
store sales rose 5.6 percent in the fourth quarter compared with
the same period the prior year.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   jumped 6 percent to $25.77. The
cable company’s NBC finished talks with advertisers on advance
commitments for the television season that starts in September,
said a person with knowledge of the situation. NBC averaged
about 9 percent higher ad rates for its prime-time shows, said
the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly, and
received commitments for about 80 percent of the inventory.  High Plains Gas Inc. (HPGS US) declined 7.8 percent to
$1.18. The natural-gas producer with leases in  Wyoming  said it
expects to return three fields to production in the third
quarter.  Horace Mann Educators Corp. (HMN)   slipped 3.2 percent to
$14.75. The company which sells insurance to public school
employees cut its forecast for 2011 to no more than $1.30 a
share, down from an earlier prediction of at least $1.75.  National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM)  : The chipmaker being
taken over by  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)   reported fourth-
quarter revenue of $374.1 million, beating the average $365.3
million of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  RealD Inc. (RLD)   slumped 9.4 percent to $21.80. Analysts
questioned executives of the maker of the equipment cinemas use
to show movies in 3-D about the appeal of the format. “It’s
going to go all over the place, but the net result is going to
be a very, very good one,” said Chief Executive Officer  Michael
Lewis  to a question about the volatility of tickets sold for 3-
D. “I don’t think you can really read that much into a couple
of films’ performance.”  SeaChange International Inc. (SEAC)   fell 2.1 percent to
$9.89. The provider of digital video systems raised its forecast
for 2011 earnings to as much as 74 cents a share excluding some
items, compared with the previous prediction of up to 70 cents.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  : The homebuilder’s Chief
Executive Officer Douglas Yearley said he sees the rest of the
year being “relatively flat,” but that the “healing has
begun” in the housing industry, speaking on CNBC.  Valence Technology Inc. (VLNC)  : The lithium-ion battery
maker reported fourth-quarter revenue of $13.9 million, compared
with the $15.5 million estimate of one analyst.  Verigy Ltd. (VRGY)   rallied 11 percent to $14.93. The
U.S. maker of testing equipment for the semiconductor industry
received a notification from the  Department of Justice  that its
antitrust waiting period has ended for its merger with Advantest
Corp. and the department has closed its investigation.  Zipcar Inc. (ZIP US) climbed 7.1 percent to $20.73. The
car-share company that rents vehicles by the hour was raised to
“overweight” from “neutral” at JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst
Paul Coster, who said the recent pullback in shares is a buying
opportunity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 