-- 
Unemployment Makes IHOP-to-Red Lobster Target Higher Incomes

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-06-09T05:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/high-unemployment-makes-ihop-to-red-lobster-target-higher-income-customers.html
Red Lobster is trying to create the
ambiance of a small, seaside town in  Maine  as it rolls out a
three-year remodeling plan for its 700 U.S. and Canadian
restaurants.  The seafood chain is the latest eatery to spruce up its
menu, décor and architecture to lure consumers who can afford to
eat out more frequently. With economists trimming growth
forecasts and unemployment at 9.1 percent, restaurants are
becoming increasingly dependent on households earning more than
$70,000 to keep sales growing, according to Malcolm Knapp, a New
York-based consultant who has monitored the industry since 1970.  “We’ve really become an ‘allocation nation,’ where every
month, people look at what’s left from their paycheck and decide
how they’re going to spend that money,” said Knapp, creator of
the Knapp-Track Index of monthly restaurant sales and guest
counts. “Restaurants are re-conceptualizing their brands to
appeal to a broader demographic.”  Americans in lower-income brackets have been forced to cut
back on dining out to live within their means, according to
Robert Dye, senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. in Pittsburgh. Real disposable incomes, the money left over
after taxes and adjusted for inflation, are essentially flat
since December 2010, he said. Meanwhile, more-affluent
households are benefiting from higher dividend payments and
earnings from rental properties, which have grown 10 percent and
20 percent, respectively, since the September 2009, Bloomberg
data show.  “More and more, restaurants are competing for a slice of a
pie that’s not getting any bigger,” Dye said.  Spending on Takeout  Households that earned more than $70,000 in 2009, about 32
percent of the  U.S. population , accounted for 55 percent of
spending on takeout and food away from home, according to the
most recent data available from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Consumers making less than $40,000 -- or “aspirational
diners” -- cut back on eating out about five years ago and have
yet to rebound much, Knapp said. This “erosion of frequency”
among lower-income households forced executives at quick-service
and casual-dining restaurants to figure out how to broaden their
appeal as the market began to weaken in 2008, he said. Now, many
of their plans are becoming reality.  Red Lobster, part of  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , is
redesigning all of its Tampa Bay restaurants in  Florida  with a
“Bar Harbor” theme, complete with ship lanterns and Adirondack
chairs, according to an April 26 statement.  Spaghetti-Squash Marinara  Ruby Tuesday Inc. (RT)  recently rolled out menus with entrees
under 700 calories such as a spaghetti-squash marinara, Chief
Executive Officer Sandy Beall said on an April 6 conference
call. Meanwhile,  Denny’s Corp. (DENN)  launched a new campaign --
“America’s Diner is Always Open” -- to position itself as an
eatery with “great hospitality and great comfort food at a
great price,” Chief Executive Officer  John Miller  said on a May
3 conference call.  San Diego-based  Jack in the Box Inc. (JACK)  is wrapping up a five-
year program to re-image its more than 2,000 restaurants.
Changes include ceramic-tile floors, a variety of seating
options in the dining area, landscaping and a new logo that was
adopted in 2009.  DineEquity Inc. (DIN) , owner of IHOP, recently completed market
research for its pancake-eatery chain and the findings will be
incorporated into operations, menu, ambiance, décor and
advertising changes, Chief Executive Officer Julia Stewart said
on a May 3 conference call.  These companies are following the lead of  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ,
the world’s largest fast-food chain, which has boosted sales by
as much as about 7 percent at its re-imaged locations, according
to Steve West, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  St. Louis .  Healthier Options  The  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company set the tone about 10
years ago when it spruced up its menu to include healthier
options and remodeled its stores to provide a more inviting
dining space, West said. More recently, McDonald’s redesigned
its counter space to make room for more coffee and frozen
beverage selections through its McCafé concept, he said.  The fast food chain’s revenue grew 69 percent during the
past decade, while its stock has nearly tripled in value,
Bloomberg data show.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Restaurants Index,
which includes McDonald’s, Ruby Tuesday and 25 other companies,
has risen by 44 percent since Dec. 31, 2007, while the  S&P 500
Index  has declined by 13 percent.  If done correctly, consumers will more than pay for such
investments, West said. If not, the gamble can be costly.
“We’ve seen the rest of the industry try to replicate what
McDonald’s has done with mixed success,” he said.  Pulled the Plug  Chili’s Grill & Bar, owned by Dallas-based  Brinker
International Inc. (EAT) , tried to remodel its stores prior to the
recession and didn’t achieve desired sales gains, so it pulled
the plug on the initiative, West said. The casual-dining chain,
known for hamburgers and baby-back ribs, hasn’t significantly
revamped its menu amid increased competition from rapidly
expanding chains including Five Guys and In-N-Out Burgers, he
said.  “The mistake comes when companies try to sell the same
old, boring food out of a spruced-up box,” West said.  Brinker is “still in the test phases of our re-image
project and currently evaluating results,” according to
Danielle Smith, a spokeswoman for the company.  The restaurant industry isn’t alone in pursuing higher-
income customers, according to Maggie Gilliam, president of
retail consultant Gilliam & Co. in  New York . Many retailers also
are reinventing themselves in the face of increased competition
from low-priced alternatives and online shopping by offering
exclusive merchandise, she said.  ‘Distinguish Themselves’  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and J.C. Penney Co., often considered mid-tier
department stores, are trying to “upgrade their image with
better brand names and merchandise to distinguish themselves
from the mass market,” Gilliam said.  Menomonee Falls ,
Wisconsin-based Kohl’s sells an exclusive line of clothing and
home goods by designer  Vera Wang , while J.C. Penney, based in
Plano,  Texas , now has in-store Sephora cosmetic shops.  Still, companies must balance how much change their
regulars can stomach, according to Knapp.  “Restaurants have to have a more contemporary and elegant
interior, as well as exterior, to appeal to a higher
demographic,” Knapp said. “At the same time, they have to make
sure it’s not too nice to deter their other customers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  