-- 
Immigration Scams Targeted by Coordinated Government Effort

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-06-09T20:06:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/immigration-scams-targeted-by-coordinated-government-campaign.html
Federal, state and local officials
are joining forces to stop scams that charge immigrants for
bogus services, U.S. immigration officials said.  The officials are stepping up efforts to prosecute con
artists and educate immigrants about the schemes, according to
an executive summary of the initiative released today by the
 U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services .  The effort is
starting in seven cities --  New York ,  Los Angeles , Atlanta,
Baltimore,  Detroit , Fresno,  California , and San Antonio,  Texas  -
- and will expand nationwide, according to the summary.  The scammers “target people who are among the most
vulnerable,” said Edith Ramirez, a Democrat, one of five
members of the  Federal Trade Commission , in a statement.  Criminals lure victims by increasingly using the Internet
as well as word of mouth, fliers and paid advertisements on the
radio or newspapers, the summary said.  A federal judge shut down Loma International Business Group
Inc., a Baltimore-based company run by Manuel and Lola Alban,
for allegedly charging immigrants tens of thousands of dollars
for services they weren’t authorized to provide, according to
the FTC.  Manuel Alban didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  Posing as Lawyer  The Obama administration held a news conference today in
 Washington  attended by officials from the citizenship and
immigration services agency, the FTC,  Immigration and Customs
Enforcement  and the  Justice Department .  Often the scams involve someone posing as a licensed
attorney charging immigrants to file for benefits for which they
are ineligible or to furnish forms that the government provides
for free, according to the summary.  A common scam in Spanish-speaking communities takes
advantage of immigrants’ confusion with the word “notario,”
the government said. In many Latin American countries, a notario
is a licensed attorney while in the U.S. the term refers to a
notary, who has authority to authenticate official documents  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  