-- 
Indonesia Still Planning Global Sukuk as It Waits for Approval

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-06-09T08:46:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/indonesia-still-planning-global-sukuk-as-it-waits-for-approval.html
Indonesia is still planning a sale of
dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the second half even though
it has yet to get approval for state-owned land and office
buildings to be used to back the debt, the  finance ministry  said.  The ministry is seeking parliamentary approval to allow 30
trillion rupiah ($3.5 billion) of land and buildings to be used
for the sukuk offerings, Dahlan Siamat, director of Islamic
finance at the ministry, said in an interview today. It has “run
out” of approved buildings and land, he said last month. The
finance ministry is also waiting for a ministerial decree to
enable it to use new projects, such as roads, railways and
buildings to back Shariah-compliant bonds.  “The plan is still to sell dollar sukuk in the second half
of the year but we’ve yet to identify the underlying assets,”
Siamat said. If either the ministerial decree or the
parliamentary approval don’t come through soon, “I think the
chances of selling global sukuk in July or August will be rather
slim.”  The government had to postpone a proposed sale of rupiah-
denominated Islamic bonds on May 31 to this month due to the
delay in getting the approvals, Siamat said. The next auction of
rupiah sukuk is scheduled for June 14, according to the calendar
of issuance.  “We can’t sell sukuk if we don’t have assets,” Siamat
said. “We may get approval soon and the sale can go ahead as
scheduled. Hopefully by end of this month we can sell sukuk.”  Shariah-compliant bonds pay asset returns to comply with
Islam’s ban on interest. Rent on state-owned lands and buildings
is one form of payment for such securities.  Sales of Islamic debt in  Indonesia ,  Southeast Asia ’s
largest economy and home to the world’s largest Muslim
population, amount to 17.94 trillion rupiah so far this year,
according to combined data from the  debt management office  and
the  Capital Market and Financial Institution Supervisory Agency .
Offerings rose 45 percent to 27.76 trillion rupiah in 2010. 