-- 
Indonesia Keeps Interest Rate at 6.75% for a Fourth Month as Rupiah Climbs

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-06-09T07:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/indonesia-keeps-interest-rate-at-6-75-for-a-fourth-month-as-rupiah-climbs.html
Indonesia ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a fourth straight month as
a strengthening currency helped contain inflation in Southeast
 Asia ’s largest economy.  Bank Indonesia maintained the  reference rate  at 6.75
percent, it said in a statement in Jakarta today. The decision
was predicted by all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s policy makers have
extended fuel subsidies and let the rupiah gain the most after
Taiwan in Asia this year to damp price gains, as rising food and
oil costs force  China , Thailand,  India , Vietnam, Malaysia and
the  Philippines  to raise rates. Indonesia’s inflation eased for
a fourth month in May, to below 6 percent.  “ Bank Indonesia  remains comfortable that its policy to
allow the currency to appreciate to curb imported inflation is
working,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , an economist at OSK-DMG
Group in  Singapore . “Bank Indonesia should start thinking about
frontloading rate increases because core inflation is still
edging higher.”  Indonesia’s rupiah rose to a seven-year high yesterday on
speculation the central bank will favor appreciation to help
tame inflation. The currency touched 8,499 per dollar, the
strongest level since March 2004, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It traded at 8,524 at 1:50 p.m. in Jakarta today.  Thailand, Malaysia  The currency has climbed even as Governor Darmin Nasution
refrained from adding to the central bank’s first rate increase
in more than two years in February while neighbors from  Thailand 
to the Philippines tightened monetary policy further.  “The continuing trend of rupiah appreciation is in line
with Bank Indonesia efforts to mitigate inflation pressures,
particularly those stemming from imported inflation,” the
central bank said today, adding it will also watch the impact of
currency gains on economic growth.  Neighboring Thailand raised rates last week for the fourth
time this year to damp accelerating inflation, boosting the one-
day bond repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3
percent. The Philippine central bank increased the rate it pays
lenders for overnight deposits to 4.5 percent in May from 4.25
percent in its second move this year, while Bank Negara  Malaysia 
lifted the overnight policy rate by a quarter-point to 3 percent.  “There are no signs that the economy is overheating, so
why would Bank Indonesia raise interest rates?” Damhuri Nasution, an economist at PT Danareksa Sekuritas in Jakarta,
said before the decision. “If Bank Indonesia raises the key
rate, it would increase capital flows.”  Core Prices Rising  Indonesia’s consumer prices rose 5.98 percent last month
from a year earlier, less than the 6.16 percent gain in April.
Core inflation accelerated to 4.64 percent from 4.62 percent in
April. Danareksa Sekuritas estimates that inflation won’t exceed
6 percent this year, and Bank Indonesia predicts inflation may
be 4 percent to 6 percent this year.  “The continuing increase in core inflation is driven by
the increase in global commodity prices, accelerating domestic
demand, and relatively high inflation expectation,” the central
bank said. “Bank Indonesia is continuously vigilant to these
risks on accelerating core inflation pressures, as well as
inflation pressures that may rise from government policy
relating to fuel and electricity subsidies.”  Growth Slows  Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy, expanded 6.5
percent last quarter from a year earlier, slowing from 6.9
percent in the previous three months. Gross domestic product may
rise 6.5 percent to 6.9 percent in 2012, Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said May 20. The central bank said today it expects
growth to be at the upper end of a range of 6 percent to 6.5
percent.  “Maintaining interest rates at this current level is
boosting economic growth and improving property demand,”
Handaka Santosa, vice president director at PT Agung Podomoro
Land in Jakarta, Indonesia’s third-biggest property developer by
revenue, said before the decision.  Indonesian banks’ lending rose 23.5 percent from a year
earlier as of May, driven by new investment loans, Muliaman Hadad, deputy governor at Bank Indonesia, said this week.  The rupiah’s appreciation is in line with the strengthening
of other regional currencies and isn’t having a “negative
impact” on exports, the central bank said today. Bank Indonesia
will keep monitoring the risk to  core inflation , it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  