-- 
Initial Jobless Claims in U.S. Unexpectedly Increased Last Week

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-09T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/initial-jobless-claims-in-u-s-unexpectedly-climbed-last-week-to-427-000.html
U.S. initial jobless claims
unexpectedly rose last week, a sign that the labor market is
struggling to gain traction.  Jobless claims increased by 1,000 to 427,000 in the week
ended June 4, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a
drop in claims to 419,000, according to the median forecast. The
number of people on unemployment benefit rolls and those
receiving extended payments decreased.  Some employers are cutting staff as demand slows because of
elevated energy prices, falling  house prices  and tight credit.
The economy generated the fewest jobs in May in eight months and
the  unemployment rate  rose, a report showed last week.  “The labor market is obviously struggling,”  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New
York , said before the report. “I expect claims to stabilize and
eventually come down.”  It was the ninth consecutive week that claims were above
400,000. They reached a two-year low of 375,000 in February.  The median forecast was based on a survey of 49 economists.
Estimates ranged from 400,000 to 430,000. The Labor Department
revised the prior week’s figure to 426,000 from the 422,000
initially reported.  Payrolls grew by 54,000 workers last month after increasing
by 232,000 in April, Labor Department data showed last week. The
jobless rate rose to 9.1 percent from 9 percent.  Barclays Forecast  Economists at  Barclays Capital  Inc. last week cut their
forecast for the year to 2.5 percent growth from a prior
estimate of 3.1 percent at the beginning of the year.  Housing prices in 20 major cities dropped in March to the
lowest level since 2003, according to data from S&P/Case Shiller
released last month. Declining home values weigh on  consumer
confidence  and curb the household spending that makes up 70
percent of the economy.  Prices for regular gasoline that rose as high as $3.99 in
early May also hurt confidence and spending, likely leading to
less hiring. Those prices have since come down more than 20
cents, which may provide some relief.  Today’s data showed the four-week moving average, a less
volatile measure than the weekly figures, fell to 424,000 last
week from 426,750.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
fell by 71,000 in the week ended May 28 to 3.68 million.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
52,100 to 3.99 million in the week ended May 21.  The unemployment rate among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, fell to 2.9 percent from
3 percent, today’s report showed.  Claims Increase  Twenty-six states and territories reported an increase in
claims, while 27 reported a decrease. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Some employers are still considering possible cuts to their
workforce.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s largest brokerage, may
eliminate more jobs at its wealth management unit as Barclays
Capital cuts positions in its equities division worldwide.  “As we continue to take actions to improve broker
efficiency we may reduce our broker headcount below previously
announced targets,” Morgan Stanley Chief Financial Officer Ruth
Porat said at the Deutsche Bank Global Financial Services
Conference on June 7. The unit, which had about 17,800 employees
at the end of March, was previously aiming to reduce that figure
to as little as 17,500, according to a spokesman for the bank.
The firm cut 300 brokers at the division in the first quarter.  Barclays Capital, the investment-banking unit of London-
based  Barclays Plc (BARC) , cut as many as 50 jobs in its equities unit,
a person familiar with the matter said.  General Motors  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Ford Motor Co. may enter contract
talks with the  United Auto Workers  this year seeking to close as
many as six assembly plants to boost profit while the union
tries to save jobs amid an industry recovery.  Kim Carpenter , a GM spokeswoman, said last month the
company hasn’t decided how many plants it may close and what
savings might result. Ford, which intends to close a plant in
 Minnesota  late this year, also may choose to shutter Michigan
and Ohio plants making slow-selling vehicles, industry
researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  