-- 
LinkedIn-Inspired ‘Low-Float’ IPOs Threaten to Bring Back Bubble

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/linkedin-inspired-low-float-ipos-threaten-to-bring-back-bubble.html
LinkedIn Corp.’s success is inspiring
Web companies to limit the amount of shares they sell in initial
public offerings, fueling concern that scarcity will inflate
stock values and contribute to another dot-com bubble.  Three weeks after LinkedIn made less than 10 percent of the
company available in its IPO, Pandora Media Inc. is working on
its own “low-float” offering, and Zynga Inc. is planning a
similar strategy with its share sale later this month, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Surging demand for new Internet companies, combined with a
dearth of available shares, may give the businesses higher
valuations than they deserve, said  Francis Gaskins , president of
industry tracker IPODesktop.com. That’s creating the perception
of frothiness in the IPO market, even for growing companies with
established revenue, he said.  “You have people overly excited,” said Gaskins, who’s
based in  Marina del Rey ,  California . “It’s a supply-demand
thing. There’s not that much supply, and there’s pumped-up
demand.”  By selling less than a tenth of their shares, LinkedIn,
Zynga and Pandora are offering less than half the typical
amount. For U.S. technology IPOs in the past year, the average
float was 24 percent. Amid scarce supply, LinkedIn’s shares more
than doubled in their first day of trading, giving the company a
valuation of $8.91 billion.  Pressure’s On  Companies are using the low-float strategy to protect the
value of existing investors’ stakes, and it leaves the
possibility of raising cash at a higher stock price months
later. At the same time, the pop that typically follows a low-
float IPO can add pressure on the company to keep a rapid growth
pace, said Ryan Jacob, chairman and  chief investment officer  at
Jacob Internet Fund in  Los Angeles .  “For the share price to maintain that level, the company
is going to have to perform very well,” said Jacob, whose firm
manages about $70 million in assets. The risk for investors
increases after the so-called lock-up period ends, when insiders
can sell their shares, he said. “You’re going to have sellers
making sales into a small market.”  Groupon Inc., the largest provider of online coupons, also
plans to sell a “small piece” of the company in its IPO, Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  said in a memo this month to
employees. It filed on June 2 to raise $750 million. While the
Chicago-based company didn’t disclose a potential valuation, it
discussed an amount of as much as $25 billion with underwriters
in March, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Zynga IPO  Zynga, the top developer of games for Facebook Inc.’s site,
is in talks to have Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lead its stock
sale, according to a person with knowledge of the discussions.
The startup has yet to submit an IPO filing, and its plans still
may change. Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Zynga, declined to comment on the IPO or the number of shares
that will be sold.  Zynga makes its money from selling virtual items within
games -- for instance, a townhouse in “CityVille.” The
worldwide virtual-goods market is expected to more than double
to $20.3 billion in 2014, from $9.28 billion last year,
according to  ThinkEquity LLC , a San Francisco-based research
firm. Still, Zynga will be the first of its kind on the U.S.
public markets.  In a typical IPO, investors receive shares worth 20
percent to 25 percent of the valuation, said Paul Deninger,
a senior managing director at investment bank
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in San Francisco. That usually lets
shareholders buy and sell the stock without creating big
price moves, he said.  Retail Investors  The chance of an initial pop is higher when the companies
are well-known Internet brands, Deninger said. Those names may
be more likely to attract retail investors -- small shareholders
who buy and sell stocks for their own accounts.  “The more you constrain demand, the more likely,
especially in a retail-oriented name, you’re going to see a
spike in price,” he said.  One unintended consequence of this approach is it
encourages employees to capitalize on the initial run-up by
cashing in their options, Deninger said. And employees hired
after the IPO have less chance of seeing major gains, he said.
That means there’s less incentive for them to stick around and
help the company thrive in the long term.  While investors point to the capital flooding into a select
number of hot technology startups as signs of a potential bubble
forming, the industry’s publicly traded companies are still
relatively cheap.  Low Ratios?  Technology stocks are at their lowest valuations in more
than a decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. As of last week,
they were trading for 9.3 times reported earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That’s 1.3 times
the index’s multiple -- the lowest ratio since at least 1998.  OpenTable Inc. (OPEN)  also relied on the low-float approach to
ensure the success of its May 2009 IPO, one of the first dot-com
offerings after a financial crisis froze dealmaking the previous
year. Now there’s less reason to do it, other than getting a
short-term bounce in the stock, said  Lise Buyer , founder of IPO
advisory firm Class V Group.  “It’s the game de jour,” said Buyer, who helped lead
Google Inc.’s 2004 IPO. “It made sense for OpenTable to tread
lightly coming out of the recession. Now it’s just
gamesmanship.”  Still, the strategy may help persuade investors to start
pouring more money into the market, which can be a good thing
for the economy, said Tom Taulli, founder of the website
IPOByte.com and author of “Investing in IPOs.”  “It could be a catalyst to growth,” Taulli said. “It’s
been dead in tech, at least in the public markets, for the past
10 years. Exciting IPOs are a way to get investors back in the
market and taking some risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  