-- 
Ipsen Plans to More Than Double Sales, Focus on Toxin Research

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-06-09T07:17:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ipsen-plans-to-more-than-double-sales-focus-on-toxin-research.html
Ipsen SA (IPN)  said it plans to focus
research and development on disease-causing substances known as
toxins and peptides, which play a role in ailments such as
Alzheimer’s, to more than double revenue in the next decade.  The reorganization will also lead it to shut a research
center in  Barcelona , the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based
company said in an e-mailed statement today. Ipsen said it aims
for revenue of as much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.7 billion) by
2020 and repeated its sales goals for this year.  Ipsen has been reorganizing since the arrival of Chief
Executive Officer Marc de Garidel, who replaced Jean-Luc Belingard in November. It has since announced the departure of
Chief Financial Officer Claire Giraut, effective from Sept. 1,
and of Stephane Thiroloix, executive vice president of corporate
development. Ipsen said June 6 it would abandon the development
of irosustat as a standalone treatment against cancer.  “Following recent writedowns, pipeline disappointments and
the departure of the CFO, we see considerable uncertainty,”
Luisa Hector and other analysts at Credit Suisse in  London , who
have a “neutral” recommendation on the stock, wrote in a June
6 note. “The new CEO’s strategic update is critical to allow
investors to evaluate medium-term potential.”  Shares in Ipsen, which sells a wrinkle-smoothing rival to
Allergan Inc.’s Botox in the U.S., have shed 20 percent over the
past year.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  said in February it was returning
rights of one of the company’s most promising drugs, an
experimental diabetes medicine called taspoglutide, to Ipsen
after patients dropped out of trials because of side effects.  Ipsen rose less than 1 percent to 26.795 euros at 9:06 a.m.
in Paris trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  