-- 
Iron Ore May Remain Around Two-Week High, Simpson Spence Says

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-06-09T10:49:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/iron-ore-may-remain-around-two-week-high-simpson-spence-says.html
Iron-ore prices may remain around a
two-week high as  steel mills  replenish stockpiles of the raw
material and  India ’s monsoon season curbs exports, said Simpson
Spence & Young Ltd., the second-biggest shipbroker.  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content at  China ’s
Tianjin port last fell on June 1 and has since gained 1.7
percent to $171.70 a metric ton as of yesterday, Steel Business
Briefing Commodities Research data show. That’s the highest
level since May 25.  “Short term, we should see it trading in a tight range,”
Simon Hardy, head of iron-ore swaps derivatives with  Simpson
Spence & Young  in London, said by e-mail today. Mills are
running low on stocks, which should support prices, though how
high they may rise is “difficult to say,” he said.  High-grade  iron ore  is in “tight supply” as the monsoon
season nears, Hardy said. India, the third-biggest iron-ore
exporter after Australia and Brazil, is swept by rains from June
to September that disrupt infrastructure and deliveries to
ports. At the same time, China faces a power shortage after a
dry spell in central and southern regions cut hydropower
generation. That may curb factory output.  China, the world’s biggest iron-ore consumer, may face an
electricity shortfall of 30 million kilowatts during the summer
peak this year, analysts including Lu Yanjin at Industrial
Securities said on May 20. That might reduce industrial output
by 3.6 percentage points, they said.  In turn, that may discourage steel mills from building
stockpiles of iron ore, checking prices.  China produces 47 percent of crude steel globally,
according to data from the World Steel Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in  London  at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  