-- 
IRS Budget, U.K. Websites, Lloyds’ Plan, Deutsche Bank Trades: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-09T12:06:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/irs-budget-lloyds-plan-deutsche-bank-trades-compliance.html
Internal Revenue Service Commissioner
Douglas Shulman said proposed budget cuts to his agency would
hurt tax enforcement and voluntary compliance.  Shulman made the remarks about the budget yesterday in
 Washington  before a Senate Appropriations subcommittee.  The U.S. House has yet to recommend a specific budget level
for the agency. The House set a funding level for a group of
agencies including the IRS that would suggest a budget below the
$12.1 billion the agency will receive this year. The IRS is
seeking an increase of almost 10 percent in its budget.  Shulman said that, without additional information
reporting, the IRS has few levers it can use to attack the
estimated $345 billion annual gross tax gap. That gap is the
difference between taxes owed and taxes paid.  Shulman noted that recent efforts to improve information
reporting, such as a requirement on businesses to report some
purchases that was repealed this year, can run into political
opposition.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  FSA Says Price Comparison Websites Should be Clearer to Clients  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority said price
comparison websites should be clearer about whether they are
introducing, arranging or advising customers to buy insurance
policies, according to a statement from the regulator yesterday.  The FSA sent a letter to “firms operating price comparison
websites to ensure they are aware of their regulatory
Requirements,” the authority said in the statement.  The letter follows a review carried out between June and
September 2010, according to the statement.  Compliance Action  Senate Rejects Amendment to Delay Debit Swipe Fee Rule  The  U.S. Senate  rejected a six-month delay of a Federal
Reserve rule capping debit-card swipe fees set by  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA) , whose shares fell after the vote was completed.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in
the chamber, led the opposition to the delay amendment, which
was defeated yesterday in a 54-45 vote. The measure needed 60
votes for approval.  For the video report, click here.  For related story, click here.  For commentary by  Michael Greenberger , click here.  Lloyds Says U.K. Commission Plan May Not Mean Extra Branch Sales  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  Chief Executive Officer Antonio
Horta-Osorio said the U.K.’s  Independent Commission on Banking 
hasn’t told the lender whether it should sell extra branches,
other assets, or nothing at all.  “We don’t even know if it’s branches, it could be other
assets or liabilities,” Horta-Osorio told the  House of Commons
Treasury Committee  in  London  yesterday.  The government-appointed ICB said in its interim report two
months ago that the London-based bank should sell
“substantially” more assets than the 600 outlets agreed with
the European Union following Lloyds’ 20 billion-pound ($32.7
billion) taxpayer bailout. The government should agree with
Lloyds, in which it holds a 41 percent stake, on the extent of
that sale, the ICB said.  The ICB said in its report that the current Lloyds plan is
“insufficient” and will have a “limited effect on
competition.”  Any extra sales are unwarranted and would be against the
interests of Lloyds’ shareholders, including the U.K. taxpayer,
Horta-Osorio said. He described the market as competitive and
said the bank sees “no evidence that justifies that
divestment.”  In a November 2009  ruling , the EU stated that the bank must
sell “at least” 600 branches in England and Wales and
surrender 4.6 percent of the U.K. checking-account market.  The lender is sending out a so-called information
memorandum, a description of what’s being sold, to prospective
bidders this week. This will give a list of the 600 branches,
including locations and business mix, said a person with
knowledge of the plan.  Canada’s OSC Investigating ‘Matters Related’ to Sino-Forest  The Ontario Securities Commission, Canada’s main stock
market regulator, is investigating “matters related” to Sino-
Forest Corp., whose shares have plunged more than 75 percent
after a short seller said the company’s production figures may
not be accurate.  Wendy Dey, a spokeswoman for the Toronto-based regulator,
confirmed yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions that
the OSC is “investigating matters related to Sino-Forest.”
Carolyn Shaw-Rimmington, another spokeswoman for the regulator,
declined to elaborate on the statement.  Sino-Forest has plunged about 76 percent since June 1 after
Muddy Waters Research, the firm founded by short seller Carson
Block, said in a report the forestry company’s disclosures of
land holdings don’t match Chinese city records and that its
stated production figures may not be accurate.  The Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based company told
the Globe and Mail newspaper yesterday that allegations by Block
are “false, unjustified and unfair.”  Regulators and investors have increased scrutiny of Chinese
companies trading in North America.  Deutsche Bank Unites Derivatives Trades as Swaps Oversight Looms  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is consolidating trading and processing
services for listed and over-the-counter derivatives before U.S.
and European regulations take effect.  The Dodd-Frank Act financial overhaul required swaps that
are to be processed by clearinghouses to be routed through the
part of a bank that handles futures transactions, forcing the
dealers who dominate the market to reorganize. Futures contracts
by law must be traded on an exchange and cleared.  Congress mandated the clearinghouse requirement after over-
the-counter derivatives contributed to and complicated efforts
to resolve the financial crisis. The European Union last month
moved closer to adopting a clearing mandate for most interest-
rate, credit-default and other swaps.  The new Deutsche Bank unit will be called Markets Clearing
and will offer customers access to interest rate, foreign
exchange, credit, commodities and equities contracts, said Jon
Hitchon, who will head the Frankfurt-based bank’s service.
Deutsche Bank previously offered separate execution and post-
trade services by asset class, such as in interest rates, he
said.  U.S. regulators at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and Securities and Exchange Commission are now writing rules to
comply with Dodd-Frank that will lessen risk and increase price
transparency. Final versions should be published by the end of
the year, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said last week.  SEC Resolves Claims Over BuyaBeerCompany.com Plan to Buy Pabst  Two advertising executives who used Facebook and Twitter
solicitations to attract investors for their effort to buy Pabst
Brewing Co. have resolved regulatory claims that the campaign
violated U.S. securities laws.  Michael Migliozzi II and Brian William Flatow received more
than $200 million in pledges from more than 5 million investors
through the BuyaBeerCompany.com website before it was shuttered
in April 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission said
yesterday in a statement announcing a cease-and-desist
agreement.  The two men, who never received any money, violated federal
law by failing to register the offering before seeking to raise
$300 million by selling shares to the public, according to the
SEC. They promised investors certificates of ownership as well
as beer of a value equal to the amount invested, the SEC said.  Pabst, the Milwaukee, Wisconsin-based brewer of Blue Ribbon
and Old Milwaukee beers, was bought last year by private-equity
firm C. Dean Metropoulos & Co.  The two men consented to the order without admitting or
denying wrongdoing, the SEC said. A phone call to their lawyer,
Steven Berkowitz, wasn’t immediately returned.  SEC Sees Suspected Insider Trading in Schneider’s Telvent Deal  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ordered the
trading profits of unidentified investors to be frozen because
it suspects they used inside information to gain from  Schneider
Electric SA (SU) ’s takeover of  Abengoa SA (ABG) ’s  Telvent GIT SA (TLVT)  unit.  The investors bought 1,200 call options through an account
at Pershing LLC with two thirds of the contracts acquired in the
two trading days before the deal was announced, the SEC said in
a statement on its website. The purchases accounted for 52
percent of the trading volume in the options on one day and the
account made a profit of $475,000 on the trading.  Regulators are seeking to confiscate any illegal profit and
impose fines on the investors, the SEC said.  EU Backs Some Small-Business Loans Unnecessarily, Auditors Say  A $1.4 billion European Union loan-guarantee program for
small and medium-sized enterprises is backing too many projects
that could find funding elsewhere, the  European Court of
Auditors  said.  The court recommended more emphasis on “innovative”
projects that lack the collateral for a traditional commercial
loan. It found that 38 percent of the 181 loans analyzed were
made to businesses that obtained loans while “not using them
for innovation” by the study’s assessment, it said.  As of the end of 2009, the program guaranteed 10.6 billion
euros in loans and had sustained 1.7 million euros in losses on
more than 64,000 loans, according to the study.  The study found that about a quarter of the guaranteed
loans were made to manufacturing companies, another quarter to
retail businesses, and the rest to other industries including
food services, transportation and construction.  The court of auditors did not offer a target for an
acceptable level of loans to projects that have other loan
options. The  European Commission  said it is comfortable with the
program’s level of support to SMEs and that “deadweight” isn’t
the same thing as bad budgeting.  The commission, the EU’s Brussels-based executive, is
looking for better ways to evaluate the program, according to a
statement attached to the report.  The European Court of Auditors is an independent audit
institution that monitors the EU’s budget.  Courts  Privacy Group Plans FTC Complaint on Facebook Facial Recognition  A privacy-rights group said it plans to file a complaint
with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission over Facebook Inc.’s
facial-recognition feature for photo tagging.  The Washington-based  Electronic Privacy Information Center 
is working on the complaint and was expected to file it with the
FTC yesterday or today,  Marc Rotenberg , the group’s executive
director, said in an interview. He said other privacy and
consumer groups that he declined to identify plan to join the
complaint.  Facebook, owner of the world’s most popular social-
networking service, said on its  blog  June 7 that “Tag
Suggestions” are available in most countries after being phased
in over several months. The feature uses facial-recognition
software and when a user posts a new photo to their Facebook
page it suggests peoples’ names based on pictures in which they
have already been tagged.  The feature also is drawing scrutiny in the European Union,
where a group of privacy watchdogs are studying phototagging for
possible rules violations.  A spokesman for Facebook, Andrew Noyes, declined to comment
on the center’s plans for the FTC complaint. The facial-
recognition feature is active by default on existing users’
accounts, and Palo Alto,  California-based Facebook  explains on
its blog how people can disable the function.  Murdoch’s Sun Can’t Identify Ex-RBS CEO Goodwin’s Mistress  Rupert Murdoch’s Sun newspaper can’t identify a woman who
had an affair with former Royal Bank of Scotland Group Chief
Executive Officer Fred Goodwin, a judge ruled, in a case
involving super injunctions and corporate governance.  Justice Michael Tugendhat at the High Court in London today
refused to allow the paper to name the woman, but modified a
court order to allow more details about her job description to
be published.  RBS posted the largest loss in U.K. corporate history in
2008 and required a 45 billion-pound ($74 billion) bailout
following its acquisition of ABN Amro Holding NV. Goodwin was
cleared of responsibility in December in a report by the
Financial Services Authority on RBS’s rescue.  The rescue of RBS “may well explain why News Group
consider that articles about Sir Fred Goodwin will be of
interest to the public to whom they wish to sell The Sun,”
Tugendhat said in the ruling. “But what is of interest to the
public is not the same as what it is in the public interest to
publish.”  The Sun’s lawyer, Richard Spearman, said at a June 1
hearing that an anonymity order was stifling public debate about
corporate governance at the bank prior to its 2008 bailout. Hugh Tomlinson, the lawyer representing the woman, said at the same
hearing that there was no need to change the order because there
isn’t any evidence the affair contributed to the collapse of
RBS.  Following today’s ruling, Tomlinson said he planned to
challenge the judgment at the Court of Appeal.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  SocGen’s CIB Unit Should Have Core Tier 1 at 10%, Oudea Says  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA’s corporate- and investment-banking
unit should have a core tier 1 ratio of about 10 percent, Chief
Executive Officer Frederic Oudea said in a presentation webcast
on the Paris-based bank’s website today.  Oudea reiterated that Societe Generale as a whole expects
to have core Tier 1, a key capital strength indicator under new
Basel III rules, above 9 percent by the end of 2013, according
to the presentation.  Comings and Goings  Obama Considering Former Banker Raj Date to Head Consumer Bureau  President Barack Obama is considering nominating Raj Date,
a former banker with  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and Deutsche
Bank AG, as head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
according to a person briefed on the process.  Date, who is the bureau’s associate director for research,
markets and regulation, was appointed in February to his current
job by Elizabeth Warren, the Obama administration adviser who in
September was given the task of setting up the new agency. He is
on a short list of candidates to become director of the bureau,
the person said.  Hong Kong  Fails to Appoint New Regulator as Wheatley Departs  Hong Kong failed to name a new  Securities and Futures
Commission  chief, leaving the watchdog with an interim head as
record share sales and the growth of yuan-denominated products
spur calls for more supervision.  Alexa Lam, the deputy chief executive, will run the agency
until a replacement is found, the regulator said. The new SFC
head will need to review how initial share sales are sponsored
and oversee the introduction of regulations for over-the-counter
derivatives, said Martin Wheatley, who ended his tenure
yesterday.  Under Wheatley the SFC pursued reforms, including a
crackdown on  insider trading . The delay in naming a new
regulatory head comes as Hong Kong attracts more shares sales
from overseas. Wheatley, who announced his departure as chief
executive officer in December, left to lead the agency that will
take over most of the powers of the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority.  The Hong Kong government “is making good progress” in
finding a replacement, said Terry Wong, a spokeswoman of the
Financial Services and the  Treasury .  For more, click here.  Lagarde Says IMF Selection Must Be Open, Based on Merit  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said she agrees
with leading developing countries that the selection of the next
managing director of the  International Monetary Fund  should be
transparent and based on merit.  Speaking after meetings with Chinese leaders in Beijing to
press her candidacy for the post, Lagarde said selecting the
first woman to head the Washington-based agency would help
improve the institution’s commitment to diversity. China, India
and Brazil are among emerging economies that have demanded an
end to the six-decade-old custom where the top job at the IMF
goes to a European, with an American taking the deputy position.  “The IMF does not belong to anybody, it  belongs  to the 187
members of the fund,” Lagarde told reporters today in Beijing.  Lagarde, who is traveling to IMF nations around the world,
is trying to turn attention away from her nationality by
focusing on her track record as finance minister and running law
firm Baker & McKenzie LLP, as well as her being a woman.  The IMF post fell vacant when fellow French national
Dominique Strauss-Kahn resigned last month after being charged
with sexually assaulting a chamber maid in a New York hotel.  For more, click here.  Italy’s Guido Rasi Nominated as Chief of EU Drug Regulator  The  European Medicines Agency ’s management board nominated
Italian regulator Guido Rasi as the new executive director.  The appointment will be confirmed after a hearing before
the  European Parliament  next month, the London-based EMA said
yesterday in an e-mailed  statement . Rasi has led the Italian
drug regulatory agency since 2008 and has had a seat on the
EMA’s management board since last year, the EMA said.  Andreas Pott will continue as EMA’s acting executive
director until Rasi takes office, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 