-- 
Ivory Coast Plans Fourfold Increase in Crude Oil Output in Next Five Years

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-06-09T17:22:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ivory-coast-plans-fourfold-increase-in-crude-output-in-next-five-years.html
Ivory Coast  is planning a fourfold
increase in crude oil production in five years as the West
African nation, which is recovering from a 4 1/2 month violent
post-election crisis, seeks investors in mining and energy.  The world’s top cocoa producer wants oil output to rise to
200,000 barrels a day from the current rate of around 50,000
barrels as new drilling operations begin, said Adama Toungara,
minister of mines, oil and energy.  “We’ll have to build an integrated economy of mines and
energy sectors,” Toungara, who was named to the post on June 1,
told an industry conference in Yamoussoukro, the capital, today.  Toungara is a member of the administration of  Alassane Ouattara , the winner of Ivory Coast’s November presidential
election. He was prevented from taking office until the April 11
capture of  Laurent Gbagbo , who ruled for a decade and refused to
cede power after losing the vote.  At least 2,000 were killed in clashes between supporters of
the two men, according to the  United Nations .  Ivory Coast also wants to triple production of gold from
the current 7 metric tons (246,911 ounces) annually over the
next four to six years, Toungara said.  The country may “take incentive and attendant measures for
companies willing to invest” in its mines, oil and energy
industries, he said without providing details.  Randgold Resources Ltd., Cluff Gold Plc and Newcrest Mining
Ltd. operate gold mines in Ivory Coast and had their operations
disrupted during the post-election conflict.  Ivory Coast neighbors  Ghana , where oil production at the
offshore Jubilee oil field is expected to reach 120,000 barrels
per day by July, according to  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the field’s
operator. U.K.-based Tullow also operates in Ivory Coast, where
it pumped 3,850 barrels of oil equivalent per day last year,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Yamoussoukro via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 