-- 
Japan’s Economy Shrinks 3.5% in First Quarter After Quake Disrupts Output

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-06-09T03:59:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/japan-s-economy-contracts-annualized-3-5-less-than-initially-estimated.html
Japan ’s economy contracted more than
economists estimated in the first quarter, underscoring the
damage the March 11 earthquake and tsunami inflicted on capital
spending and factory production.  Gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 3.5 percent
rate in the three months ended March 31, the Cabinet Office said
today in Tokyo, compared with the 3 percent median forecast of
23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The government
initially estimated a contraction of 3.7 percent last month.  Toyota Motor Corp. and Nissan Motor Co., which posted sales
declines in May, are working to restore operations after the
disaster caused a shortage of parts and power, pushing the
economy into a recession. Analysts including Yoshimasa Maruyama
say the report doesn’t alter predictions that the economy will
gain momentum later this year as companies boost output and
government reconstruction projects get underway.  “The supply chain disruptions have been easing at a faster
pace than we expected, and it looks like companies will be
investing in repairs relatively quickly,” said Maruyama, an
economist at Itochu Corp. in  Tokyo . “The second quarter
contraction will be milder -- probably about half the pace of
the first quarter. Once reconstruction spending kicks in in the
third quarter, we’ll see a V-shaped rebound.”  BOJ Optimism  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on June 1
that supply constraints are easing faster than expected as
companies rush to repair their facilities and economists predict
the economy will expand in the second half of the year as
reconstruction work kicks in. Toyota predicts that its domestic
output will recover to 90 percent of normal levels this month.  The yen traded at 80.04 against the dollar as of 12:53 p.m.
in Tokyo, compared with 79.86 before the report was published.
The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.5 percent on concern a
strengthening yen would erode the earnings of exporters.  The central bank will consider raising its economic
assessment for the first time since the March 11 earthquake when
policy board members meet next week, the Nikkei Newspaper
reported today, without citing where it obtained the information.  Government reports for April showed that factory production
rose less than economists forecast and exports had the biggest
drop since October 2009, signaling the economic contraction may
continue this quarter. The  unemployment rate  also climbed in
April and households cut spending.  Contraction Forecast  Japan’s economy may shrink at a 2.97 percent annual pace in
the second quarter before returning to growth in the final six
months of the year, according to the average forecast of 43
economists in a survey by the government-affiliated Economic
Planning Association released yesterday.  Capital investment  dropped 1.3 percent in the first quarter,
compared with the previous estimate of a 0.9 percent decline,
according to the data. Private inventories detracted 0.4
percentage point from GDP, better than the government’s initial
0.5 percentage point estimate.  Reconstruction work may drive a rebound later this year,
with parliament last month approving an initial 4 trillion yen
($50 billion) spending package. Utilities are rushing to boost
gas generation after shutdowns of nuclear power stations.  “Supply-chain disruptions and power-shortage problems are
being fixed more quickly than initially expected,” said  Hiroshi Watanabe , a senior economist at the Daiwa Institute of Research
in Tokyo. “Corporate profits will likely return to growth in
the third quarter.”  Production Rebound  Machinery orders, an indicator of future  capital spending ,
unexpectedly increased in March, while companies plan to boost
industrial production in May and June.  Sharp Corp., Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal
displays, said on June 3 that operating profit may rise 23
percent this year as the company boosts earnings from LCD and
solar panels. The company resumed operations at its two biggest
LCD factories in Japan on May 16 after suspending them due to a
shortage of materials after the quake in March.  Consumer spending  fell 0.6 percent in the January-March
period from the previous three months, unchanged from the
initial estimate, today’s report showed. Net exports, or
shipments less imports, subtracted 0.2 percentage point from GDP,
also the same as the preliminary reading.  From the previous quarter, the economy shrank 0.9 percent
in the first three months of 2011, today’s report showed. The
 GDP deflator , a gauge of price trends, fell 1.9 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  