-- 
Most Japanese Stocks Decline on U.S. Slowdown Concern; Tepco Pares Losses

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-06-09T07:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/japanese-stocks-decline-as-gdp-shrinks-fed-cites-regional-concerns.html
Most Japanese stocks declined after
the Federal Reserve said the recovery is weakening in some
regions of the U.S., sparking concern the world’s biggest
economy is slowing.  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s No. 2 carmaker by market value,
retreated 0.7 percent. Nintendo Co., a maker of game machines,
sank 4.6 percent after UBS AG cut its rating to “neutral.”
 Tokyo  Electric Power Co. closed 4 percent lower after falling as
much 26 percent following power failures yesterday at the
utility’s crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  The Topix lost 0.2 percent to 812.95 at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo, with about eight shares dropping for every seven that
gained. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 0.2 percent to
9,467.15, after reversing an earlier loss of as much as 0.7
percent.  “Investors are likely to become more, rather than less
concerned about the U.S. in the short term.”  Yoshinori Nagano ,
a senior strategist in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management Co.,
which oversees about $104 billion. “From the point of view of
valuations, stocks are cheap enough that there isn’t a strong
impetus to sell.”  The Topix has tumbled 13 percent since March 10, the day
before a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami devastated Japan’s
northeast coast, damaging Tokyo Electric’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant, disrupting supply chains, and leaving almost 24,000
people dead or missing.  ‘Second-Half Recovery’  Stocks slipped even after a report showed  Japan ’s economy
in the first quarter shrank less than the government initially
expected. Gross domestic product contracted 3.5 percent in the
three months ended March 31, the Cabinet Office said today in
Tokyo, compared with an earlier estimate of 3.7 percent.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted a 3 percent
contraction.  “Investors understand that the contraction in the economy
was unavoidable after the quake,” Kenji Sekiguchi, general
manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees
the equivalent of $75 billion. “The market is looking past
these numbers and people are expecting a recovery in the second
half.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent yesterday
in  New York , sending the gauge to its longest losing streak
since February 2009, as raw-material and financial shares
slumped amid growing concern the economy is slowing.  U.S. Economy  The  Federal Reserve  yesterday said that while the economy
expanded at a “steady pace” in most of the U.S., it weakened
in four of 12 regions where consumers are contending with higher
food and fuel prices and shortages of auto parts after Japan’s
March disaster hampered factory production.  Honda declined 0.7 percent to 2,958 yen.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
the world’s biggest carmaker, sank 0.6 percent to 3,270 yen.
Ricoh Co., an office equipment maker that gets more than half of
its revenue outside of Japan, slumped 0.4 percent to 864 yen.  Nintendo lost 4.6 percent to 16,160 yen, extending
yesterday’s 5.7 percent drop after it unveiled a new game
console that disappointed analysts. UBS cut the company’s rating
to “neutral” from “buy” in a report dated yesterday, saying
its new, high-definition game console was “insufficient to
encourage past users to return.”  Tokyo Electric , the day’s most-actively traded stock by
value, closed 4 percent lower at 192 yen, after earlier plunging
as much as 26 percent. The No. 1 and 2 reactors at the Fukushima
power station suffered electricity outages yesterday, hindering
work to bring radiation leaks under control. The utility said
today power has been fully restored.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 