-- 
JPMorgan Targets AmEx Clients With New Ritz-Carlton Card

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-06-09T20:18:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/jpmorgan-ritz-carlton-target-affluent-with-new-credit-card.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the Ritz-
Carlton Hotel Co. are making a run for  American Express Co. (AXP) ’s
affluent clients with the hotel’s first rewards program targeted
at value-minded luxury customers.  The Ritz-Carlton Rewards card will give points as well as
room upgrades and other services at the hotel’s roughly 75
worldwide locations, according to executives of the two
companies. The card, which carries the  Visa Inc. (V)  brand, has an
annual fee of $395 and an interest rate of prime plus 11.99
percent.  Perks include access to JPMorgan’s concierge service,
currently available only to the New York-based company’s
wealthiest customers in its private bank, as well as access to
about 600 first-class airport lounges and $200 toward baggage
fees and other incidentals on flights on all major airlines.  “We found out in 2008 and 2009 that people wanted more
value,” Herve Humler, president and chief operations officer of
Ritz-Carlton, said in an interview before announcing the
program. The hotel company, based in  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland ,
started its first rewards program in September and has about
100,000 members who are being offered the card, Humler said.  Applications are also being taken  online . The bank is
targeting prime and “super-prime” customers, those who have
the highest credit scores and incomes among borrowers, said Tina
Chen, who is running the Ritz-Carlton rewards card program for
JPMorgan. Cardholders will be awarded 50,000 Ritz-Carlton points
after their first purchase, which can be redeemed for a one-
night stay.  AmEx, the biggest credit-card issuer by purchases,
dominates the market for affluent consumers. Its customers spend
about three to four times more than those who use Visa and
MasterCard Inc. credit cards, AmEx has said.  JPMorgan rose 59 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $40.98 at 4:15
p.m. in composite trading on the  New York  Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 