-- 
JPMorgan Won’t Face Metal Market Probe, U.K. Regulator Says

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T21:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/jpmorgan-warehouses-won-t-get-lme-investigation-u-k-oft-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s stockpile of
copper and ownership of warehouses for goods traded on the
London Metal Exchange won’t be probed for market violations,
Britain’s antitrust regulator said, citing a lack of evidence
and jurisdiction.  The U.K. parliamentary committee that sought the review
didn’t give proof that certain “large dealers” on the exchange
were undermining the market by owning warehouses, the U.K.
 Office of Fair Trading  said in a  May 27 letter  posted on the
Science and Technology Committee’s website.  “In the light of the range of options that appear to be
available to companies that wish to arrange trades on the London
Metal Exchange, we do not consider there to be any obvious
competition issues,” the watchdog said in the letter.  The exchange last year handled $11.6 trillion in contracts,
offering trading in metals from copper to cobalt to steel. In
May, the committee said it was concerned about allegations made
by other traders at hearings reviewing the country’s
“strategically important metals.”  Other allegations that New York-based JPMorgan “could
distort commodity markets” by owning 50 percent of the stock of
copper as part of a creation of an exchange-traded fund fall
under the jurisdiction of Britain’s Financial Services
Authority, the OFT said.  A JPMorgan spokeswoman, Jennifer Zuccarelli, said in an e-
mail the company declined to comment  LME Response  The suggestions that “ownership of a warehousing company
implies anticompetitive behavior is unjustified and completely
out of context,” LME spokeswoman Miriam Heywood said today in
an e-mail. The practice “is not new and there are clear and
robust regulations in place.”  More than 400 warehouses in about 35 countries handle metal
traded on the exchange, and JPMorgan’s Henry Bath unit has
warehouses in 14 locations, the OFT said.  Most reserves of metals from lithium used in batteries to
cobalt for medical implants are “unlikely to run out over the
coming decades,” according to the committee’s report. “The
perception of scarcity may lead to increased speculation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London 
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 