-- 
JSW, Top EU Coking-Coal Producer, Sets Schedule in Largest 2011 Polish IPO

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-06-09T11:02:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/jsw-coal-producer-to-start-bookbuild-in-poland-s-largest-2011-ipo-june-13.html
Poland  expects to raise 5.25 billion
zloty ($1.94 billion) from the initial public offering of coal
producer Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on offering documents published today.  Individual investors in Poland’s biggest IPO this year will
be allowed to bid for a maximum of 75 shares in the European
Union’s largest coking-coal producer, known as JSW, according to
its  prospectus . Sale procedures elsewhere on the company’s
website said individuals may buy “about 10,000 zloty” of
shares each, which implies a price of about 133 zloty for each
of the 39.5 million shares being offered.  The Treasury Ministry is seeking to raise 15 billion zloty
from asset sales this year to help finance the  budget deficit 
and curb debt. Poland sold 12 percent of Bank Gospodarki
Zywnosciowej SA last month and is offering 10 percent of its
biggest insurer PZU SA today.  “We’re starting one of the biggest IPOs in  Europe  this
year and we’ve already received very positive feedback from
investors,” Minister Aleksander Grad said at a news conference
in Warsaw today. He declined to comment on the calculations by
Bloomberg News.  JSW’s maximum price will be announced on June 13, with
final pricing on June 28, according to the prospectus. The
government and JSW pledged not to sell shares for 360 days after
the IPO.  Fastest-Growing Market  Poland, whose sole stock exchange is central Europe’s
fastest-growing equity market, has had 84 IPOs so far this year,
attracting more companies than all of western Europe and ranking
second after  China  among emerging markets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Brokerages helping manage the sale value JSW at 13 billion
zloty or more, a person who had seen research from four of the
nine underwriters said on May 31.  JSW will be the biggest coal producer listed in Warsaw when
its stock starts trading on July 6, with a market value set to
exceed  New World Resources NV (NWR)  of the  Czech Republic , Poland’s
 Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA (LWB) , and Ukraine’s Sadovaya Group SA.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup
Inc. and UniCredit SpA are joint global coordinators and joint
bookrunners for the sale. PKO Bank Polski SA, Ipopema Securities
SA, Societe Generale SA, BRE Bank SA and Wood & Co. also help
manage the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  