-- 
Kansai Electric Postpones Bond Issue Amid Nuclear Disaster

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-06-09T10:51:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/kansai-electric-delays-bond-sale-as-nuclear-crisis-sends-spreads-to-record.html
Kansai Electric Power Co. postponed a
sale of 10-year bonds after relative yields on the debt of
Japanese utilities surged to a record amid the worst nuclear
crisis since Chernobyl.  It pulled the deal because of “market conditions that
changed rapidly,” according to an e-mailed statement from
Nomura Securities Co., which was arranging the issue with four
other banks. Osaka-based Kansai Electric had planned to sell
about 20 billion yen ($250 million) of notes next week, said a
person with direct knowledge of the matter.  Japanese power producers haven’t sold bonds since March 11
when a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami crippled  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. Spreads
on bonds sold by the nation’s utilities widened to a record 172
basis points more than similar-maturity government debt
yesterday, from 12 basis points a day before the quake,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  “It may be difficult for power producers with nuclear
plants to sell bonds until about September,” said Hisayoshi Nogawa, a structured credit strategist at BNP Paribas Securities
Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. “Loans would be cheaper.”  Kansai Electric last sold debt on Dec. 2, when it raised 30
billion yen from an issue of 10-year, 1.285 percent bonds that
were priced to yield 9 basis points more than Japanese
government debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
spread on the securities widened to a record 32 basis points
today from 12 basis points on March 10, according to Japan
Securities Dealers Association prices on Bloomberg.  Debt Insurance  Credit-default swaps insuring the company’s debt against
non-payment more than doubled today to 177 basis points,
according to CMA.  “The market conditions have become very fluid,” said
spokeswoman Tomoe Sugimori. “Under such circumstances, we
thought it would be difficult for investors to make appropriate
judgments, so we decided to postpone the bond sale.”  Nomura, Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co., SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc., Mizuho Securities Co., and Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. were hired to manage Kansai
Electric’s bond sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net 
Taku Kato in Tokyo at 
 tkato6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  