-- 
Kasman Says Economy May Lose Safety Net After Fed Ends Treasury Purchases

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 
2011-06-09T18:39:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/kasman-says-economy-may-lose-safety-net-after-fed-ends-treasury-purchases.html
The  U.S. economy  could be “sitting
without a safety net” after the  Federal Reserve  ends its asset
purchases, said Bruce Kasman, chief economist at JP Morgan Chase
& Co. in  New York .  The Fed has few options left to boost the economy after the
$600 billion of purchases, known as QE2 for the second round of
quantitative easing, end this month, Kasman said. The bond-
buying program sparked the harshest political backlash against
the Fed in three decades.  “The Fed has used political capital with QE2, both
internally and more broadly,” Kasman said today in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg on the Economy” with Sara Eisen and
Michael McKee. “The bar to get something from the Fed is much
higher,” he said. “We’re kind of sitting without a safety net
of any insurance policy certainly coming from the Fed unless
things get really bad.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking to bankers this week
in Atlanta, said the “frustratingly slow” recovery warrants
sustained monetary stimulus while predicting that growth will
gain speed in the second half of the year.  The economy expanded at a “steady pace” in April and May
in most of the U.S. while slowing in four of 12 regions as
consumers contend with higher food and fuel prices, according to
the Fed’s regional economic survey, known as the Beige Book,
released yesterday.  Employers in May added the fewest number of workers in
eight months, and the jobless rate unexpectedly increased to 9.1
percent, Labor Department figures showed June 3.  Consumer spending grew less than forecast in April,
according to Commerce Department data. Manufacturing expanded in
May at the slowest pace in more than a year, the  Institute for
Supply Management  said last week.  (In the U.S., hear Bloomberg Radio on satellite radio: Sirius
Channel 130 and XM Channel 129. In  New York City , tune to WBBR
1130 on the AM dial.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  