-- 
Kazakhstan to Sell Shares in ‘People’s IPOs’

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 
2011-06-09T12:45:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/kazakhstan-to-sell-citizens-5-10-of-shares-in-people-s-ipos-.html
Kazakhstan plans to sell 5 percent to
10 percent of the shares in major state-owned companies to its
citizens through “people’s IPOs” that will start in October,
said  Economic Development  and Trade Minister  Kairat Kelimbetov .  The initial public offerings will stretch through 2013,
followed by international share sales that will raise “billions
of dollars,” Kelimbetov said today in an interview at the  World
Economic Forum  on  Europe  and Central Asia in Vienna. The
government hasn’t decided whether to include energy producer
KazMunaiGaz National Co. in the sales, he said.  “I think there will be a big discussion” about this,
Kelimbetov said.  President Nursultan Nazarbayev in February ordered state
companies to sell stock to citizens before elections that
extended his rule into a third decade. Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and China National Petroleum Corp. are among
companies that have invested  $120 billion  in Central Asia’s top
energy producer and the world’s biggest uranium producer.  KazMunaiGaz’s London-listed unit,  KazMunaiGas Exploration
Production , is expected to be included in the citizen share
sales, along with Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Co.,
postal company JSC Kazpost and AO Kazakhstan Temir Zholy
National Co., the state-railroad monopoly, Kelimbetov said.  The first share sale to foreigners in the strategic oil,
gas and uranium industries will take place “in three years’
time,” Kelimbetov said.  The people’s IPOs will raise “hundreds of millions of
dollars,” Kelimbetov said. “But the next stage, when we will
really sell these shares of the big industrial companies, we
will talk about billions of dollars, and this will be the very
serious IPO program in the future.”  Kazakhstan holds about 3 percent of the world’s oil
reserves, according to BP Plc.  The country increased its economic growth forecast to 7
percent this year and 6.9 percent in 2012 after gross domestic
product expanded 7 percent in 2010, Kelimbetov said May 10.
Growth will average 7 percent through 2015, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Vienna at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  