-- 
KPMG, Watson, Tui, Dunkin’ Brands: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-09T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/kpmg-watson-tui-dunkin-brands-intellectual-property.html
China ’s drug market is primed for
“explosive growth,” making its pharmaceutical companies
attractive takeover targets for drugmakers about to lose patents
on their most popular medicines, according to  KPMG  LLP.  Products worth more than $30 billion will lose patent
protection this year, leading more drugmakers to consider buying
or joining with companies in China, the world’s third-biggest
drug market, according to a KPMG report released yesterday.  The report said that large pharmaceutical companies are
turning away from traditional mergers that boost margins and
reduce costs, and are looking for unconventional acquisitions
such as firms that have unique uses for drugs, according to the
report.  “The pharmaceutical market will experience explosive
growth in the coming years,” KPMG said, adding that the
expansion would be fueled by rapid environmental, economic and
social changes that follow urbanization. “The industry now
feels there is a better business model in zeroing in on the end
customer rather than on bulk manufacturers of generics.”  As an example, KPMG mentioned Nasdaq-listed SciClone
Pharmaceuticals’ purchase of  NovaMed Pharmaceuticals Inc.,  a
China-based specialty company, in April. NovaMed has a portfolio
of 18 drug products spanning major therapeutic areas including
oncology, cardiovascular disease and central nervous system
disorders.  China’s pharmaceutical market is predicted to grow at least
25 percent this year, according to U.S.-based research firm IMS
Health.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  on June 3 unveiled plans for a potential joint
venture with Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceutical Co. to produce
branded and low-cost generics, as it seeks revenue sources
before it loses U.S. patent protection in November for Lipitor,
the cholesterol medication. Lipitor was the world’s best-selling
drug last year with $10.7 billion in sales.  KPMG also said foreign companies investing in China risk
running afoul of new Chinese laws, such as the 2008 PRC Anti-
Monopoly Law, as well as other laws such as the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and the recently enacted U.K. Bribery Act.  Compliance can be difficult due to China’s lack of
transparency in transactions and less-than-complete business
records to support corporate payments, KPMG said.  “It becomes even more murky and ambiguous in the health-
care, medical device, and pharmaceutical sectors given the
significant use of distributors, agents, and other third-
parties,” the report said.  The law may see those groups as part of the company, but
they don’t typically “have the internal controls in place to
adequately maintain their own books and records,” KPMG said.  Pay-for-Delay Drug Deals Said to Be Target for Rule at FTC  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is considering using its
rule-making power to stop so-called pay-for-delay deals between
brand-drug manufacturers and makers of generic medicines after
failing to get judges or Congress to act, three people familiar
with the process said.  FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz, pushing to abolish these deals,
is studying how the agency could prohibit brand-name
manufacturers such as  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  and Sanofi Aventis SA from
paying generic-drug makers such as  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) 
to drop patent lawsuits that might get generics to market
faster, the people said. The people declined to be identified
because the decision-making process isn’t public.  Leibowitz estimated in an interview May 3 that the deals
cost consumers about $3.5 billion a year in higher prescription
drug prices by slowing the introduction of generics.  A rule to block certain patent settlements would be unusual
for the FTC because it would involve antitrust rather than
consumer protection and it could be made on the agency’s own
initiative under its basic statutory authority rather than at
Congress’s specific direction, said Bert Foer, president of the
American Antitrust Institute in  Washington .  Efforts by the FTC to challenge the settlements in federal
courts have failed and Congress hasn’t moved to outlaw them. The
settlement amounts are confidential,  Peter Kaplan , an FTC
spokesman, said by e-mail.  Generic drugs  account  for 78 percent of all retail
prescriptions in the $307.4 billion-a-year U.S. pharmaceuticals
market, according to the IMS Institute for Healthcare
Informatics.  Consumer spending  on generic drugs is growing as
patents expire and patients choose lower-cost options, IMS said
on its website.  The FTC may try to issue the rule under an expedited
procedure it hasn’t often used, the people said. One precedent
was in 1971, when the FTC passed a rule that required labeling
octane content at the gas pump.  “Any potential attempt by the FTC to move forward
unilaterally with such a rulemaking would be unprecedented,”
said Sean Heather, executive director of the global regulatory
cooperation project at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The ‘if
you don’t at first succeed try, try, and try again’ approach to
policy making by an independent agency isn’t appropriate.”  In recent years, the FTC has slowed its rule-making, partly
as a result of procedures, set up under a 1975 law, that
Liebowitz has described as “cumbersome.” Final rules under
this process take almost seven years on average to implement,
said Jeffrey Lubbers, a professor of administrative law at
American University in Washington. The FTC hasn’t initiated any
new rules under this system since 1980, he added.  Drug company lobbyists say the settlements can benefit
consumers when brand-name drugmakers allow generic equivalents
to get to market before patents expire.  “Patent settlements have never prevented competition
beyond the patent expiry, and generally have resulted in making
lower-cost generics available months and even years before
patents have expired,” said David Belian, a spokesman for the
Generic Pharmaceutical Association, a Washington-based trade
group whose members include Mylan Inc. and Anchen
Pharmaceuticals Inc.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Asia Pacific Battles  Tui AG (TUI1)  Over New Zealand ‘Tui’ Trademark  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB) ’s DB Breweries unit is asking
New Zealand’s high court to permit the registration of its
trademark for Tui beer in several categories, New Zealand’s
National Business Review reported yesterday.  The application was blocked by  Germany ’s Tui AG, which
holds several “Tui” trademark registrations, the newspaper
reported.  DB has sold its Tui beer since 1889, according to the
Business Review.  The case has its origins in the  Intellectual Property 
Office of New Zealand’s refusal to grant DB new “Tui”
registrations, the Business Review reported.  Williams Cheese’s ‘Amish Country’ Mark Barred to Competitor  Williams Cheese Co.  of Linwood,  Michigan , has succeeded in
its trademark action against another Michigan cheesemaker.  Amish Country Cheese Spread LLC of Sturgis, Michigan, has
until July 1 to sell off all infringing products and to change
its name, according to a June 2 court order.  Williams sued the Sturgis-based cheese company in federal
court in Bay City, Michigan, April 22, accusing it of infringing
the “Amish Country” trademarks. These included the “Amish
country” phrase and a horse-and-buggy design.  Amish Country had been selling products under what Williams
said was an infringing name, causing “actual confusion as to
the origin of cheese products” it sold, according to the
complaint.  No money damages were awarded and each party was ordered to
pay its own attorney fees.  The case is Williams Cheese Co. v. Amish Country Cheese
Spread LLD, 1:11-cv-11762-TLL-CEB, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Michigan (Bay City).  EMF, Operator of K-Love and Air 1 Networks, Claims Infringement  Educational Media Foundation , the operator of non-profit
Christian-themed radio networks, sued a  Texas  broadcast company
for trademark infringement.  The suit, filed June 3 in federal court in Amarillo, Texas,
accused  Chermion Enterprises Inc. , of Amarillo of infringing
“love” and “air” trademarks. These marks are used by EMF for
its K-Love and Air 1 networks, according to court papers.  EMF, whose radio programming is heard in multiple markets
in 48 states, said it will be harmed if Chermion continues to
operate as “AirLove.”  Both entities broadcast in a similar
format, with an emphasis on what EMF calls “contemporary
Christian programming.”  Rocklin, California-based EMF asked the court to bar
Chermion’s use of “Air Love,” including registering it as a
trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and using
the airloveradio.com domain name. It seeks be transferred
control and registration of that domain name.  The  California  company also asked for awards of attorney
fees and litigation costs. It said it doesn’t’ seek to recover
any other financial compensation in connection with the case.  Chermion Enterprises didn’t respond immediately to an e-
mailed request for comment.  EMF is represented by  David L. Patterson ,  Neal G. Massand ,
 Eric T. Fingerhut  and  Shannon M. McKeon  of Detroit’s Dykema
Gossett PLLC.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Dunkin’ Seeks Declaration It Doesn’t Infringe Software Copyright  Dunkin’ Brands Inc., owner of the Dunkin’ Donuts chain and
the Baskin-Robbins ice cream stores, sued a California software
company over copyrights.  In the suit filed June 7 in federal court in Boston,
Dunkin’ Brands asked the court to declare it isn’t infringing
copyrights belonging to VBConversions LLC of  Santa Monica ,
California.  According to court papers, Dunkin’ received a letter from
VBConversions accusing the food company of infringing copyrights
and making multiple copies of computer code used in a software
program belonging to the California company. VB asked for
$130,000 in compensation for what it said was infringement.  Dunkin’ said it investigated VB’s claims and said that the
alleged employee who was accused of copying the code was an
independent contractor. In response it received a second letter
claiming Dunkin’ was “vicariously” liable for the contractor’s
actions and that the allegedly infringement was deliberate.  Dunkin’ said in court papers that any alleged copying of
the program was performed in  Canada  and not by its employee or
an employee of its affiliates. It said it hasn’t profited in any
way from the use of this material, and that it hasn’t worked
around any technological measure designed to prevent copying of
the program.  The food company said in court papers that the company
“has engaged in a pattern dating back to at least 2006 of
demanding outrageous sums of money from those who have used its
software without a proper license.” According to Bloomberg
data, VBConversions or its owner David Crook have filed 14
copyright-infringement cases since 2006 against a wide range of
defendants, among which are  McKesson Corp. (MCK) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
Autodesk Inc. and Honeywell International Inc.  The program that the various companies are accused of
infringing converts older programming languages to a new one,
making it easier for programmers to create software components
for their employers.  Dunkin’ asked the court to declare it hasn’t infringed the
VBConversions’ copyright or the Digital Millennium Copyright
Act, and asked for awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  VBConversions didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Dunkin’ is represented by Eugene A. Feher and Jacob W.
Schneider of  Hayes Bostock & Cronin LLC  of Andover,
Massachusetts.  The case is Dunkin’ Brands Inc., v. VBConversions LLC,
1:11-cv-11020-DJC, U.s. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Kirkland & Ellis Scores IP Litigator From Latham & Watkins  Kirkland & Ellis LLP hired Michael W. De Vries for its IP
practice, the Chicago-based firm said in a  statement .  De Vries , a litigator, joins from Los Angeles-based Latham
& Watkins LLP. He has represented clients in the semiconductors,
software, pharmaceutical, medical devices, investment banking,
telecommunications, heavy machinery, media and Internet
industries.  In addition to patent cases, he has also handled trademark,
copyright, trade secret and unfair competition disputes.  DeVries has an undergraduate degree and a law degree from
the  University of California  at Berkeley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 