-- 
NATO Says ‘No Rush to the Exits’ in Faster Afghan Withdrawal

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-09T14:55:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/nato-says-no-rush-to-the-exits-in-faster-afghan-withdrawal.html
NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said there won’t be any “rush to the exits” among
allies in  Afghanistan  as the U.S. considers how many troops to
withdraw from the fight beginning next month.  The alliance chief responded to U.S. concerns that an
American troop reduction starting this year might trigger a
departure by other countries in the coalition that face public
opposition at home to the Afghan war. Rasmussen said any cut of
the 150,000-strong force led by the North American Treaty
Organization would depend on Afghan security rather than dates.  “Partners will stay committed and see this through,”
Rasmussen said today to reporters after a two-day meeting of
NATO defense ministers in Brussels. “I know that the American
administration will take decisions based on the security
situation on the ground. This will not be calendar-driven but
conditions-based.”  President  Barack Obama  and leaders of other nations in the
coalition are facing dwindling support from lawmakers and their
publics at home for the war as well as questions about the
financial cost. Obama set a timeline to begin a drawdown of
forces next month as a condition for last year’s 30,000-troop
increase that has turned back previous Taliban advances.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who made his last
appearance among NATO counterparts before retiring at the end of
the month, is urging them and his own leaders to stick with the
fight. In four days of visits with troops in Afghanistan over
the weekend, he said unflagging pressure should allow the
coalition and its Afghan partners to turn the tide in the war by
the end of this year.  Threat to Gains  “These gains could be threatened if we do not proceed with
the transition to Afghan security lead in a deliberate,
organized and coordinated manner,” Gates said. “Even as the
 United States  begins to draw down next month, I assured my
fellow ministers that there will be no rush to the exits on our
part -- and we expect the same from our allies.”  Gates said the progress of Afghan security forces is a
“mixed picture.”  Afghan soldiers are taking on tasks such as special
operations night raids in partnership with coalition forces. The
U.S. and its partners also provide training with about 30,000
Afghans enrolled in courses for officers and in fields such as
logistics.  Marksmanship has improved. In the past year, the passing
rate for graduates of basic training has risen to more than 95
percent from 35 percent, Gates said.  Better Soldiers  “So there’s been some real change in the quality of people
that are coming out of the training,” he said.  The coalition aims to recruit and train 305,000 soldiers
and national police by October and reach a level of 352,000 by
the end of next year. The goal is to have sufficient numbers and
quality to hand over security control to Afghan forces in 2014.  The difficulty in withdrawing from the nearly 10-year-old
conflict was underscored by a U.S. Senate report this week that
showed almost $19 billion in U.S. aid to Afghanistan may be
promoting corruption and undermining the Afghan government.  Asked about the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee  report’s
findings and whether money had gone to waste in Afghanistan,
Gates said it had.  “Of course there’s been a waste of money in Afghanistan,”
Gates said today. “You show me a war where there hasn’t been a
waste of money.”  Corruption and Aid  Still, he said the report was focused primarily on
development projects and cited responses by the State Department
and the U.S. foreign-aid agency yesterday, whose officials said
they’d already taken steps to correct the problems.  The NATO-led coalition, for its part, has three oversight
bodies just for monitoring contracts.  “We wouldn’t have those if we didn’t know we had a problem
in effectively administering contracts,” he said.  Gates said he’s recommended setting up a hotline for
coalition troops to call when they spot fraud or waste because
they’re in the best position and often have cited examples to
him when he’s visited bases in Afghanistan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Brussels at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Brussels at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 