-- 
Natural Gas Drops Most in Five Weeks on Bigger-Than-Forecast Supply Gain

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-06-09T19:04:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/natural-gas-futures-decline-after-government-storage-report.html
Natural gas futures fell the most in
five weeks after a government report showed a bigger-than-
expected increase in U.S. inventories.  Gas declined from the highest level in 10 months after the
Energy Department said gas stockpiles gained 80 billion cubic
feet in the week ended June 3 to 2.187 trillion cubic feet.
Analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed an expected
increase of 78 billion. A separate survey of Bloomberg users
showed an increase of 76 billion.  “The number was a little bigger than what people were
looking for,” said Brad Florer, a trader at Kottke Associates
LLC, an energy trading firm in Louisville,  Kentucky . “We are
kind of at the top of the range, and if you are a bear, you are
figuring that this is a good place to see if we are a bit
overdone.”  Natural gas for July delivery fell 17.3 cents, or 3.6
percent, to settle at $4.674 per million British thermal units
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest percentage loss
since May 5. Gas traded at $4.945 before the storage report was
released at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington .  Prices had advanced to $4.983, the highest intraday price
since Aug. 2, as forecasts showed hotter-than-normal weather.  Storage levels last week were 2.6 percent below the five-
year average, wider than a deficit of 2 percent the previous
week, today’s report showed. Inventories were down 10.4 percent
from a year earlier compared with 10 percent in last week’s
report.  The five-year average storage change for the week is an
increase of 96 billion cubic feet, department data showed.  Demand Drop  “A larger than expected drop in demand over the Memorial
Day weekend or rising nuclear plant operating rates may have
played a role in the latest data,”  Tim Evans , an energy analyst
at Citi Futures Perspective in New York, said in an e-mailed
comment. Memorial Day fell on May 30.  U.S. nuclear-power production rose 1.1 percent to the
highest level in more than three months as reactors in Ohio,
South Carolina, Minnesota and  California  increased output, the
 Nuclear Regulatory Commission  reported.  Power generation increased 982 megawatts from yesterday to
87,970 megawatts, or 87 percent of capacity, according to the
NRC report today and data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the most
since March 6.  Power plants  use about 30 percent of the nation’s gas
supplies, according to the Energy Department.  The weather will be hotter than normal across the U.S.
East, Midwest and South through June 13, according to Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Hot Weather  The high temperature today in New York’s Central Park may
reach 99 degrees Fahrenheit (37 Celsius), topping a record of 97
set in 1933, said Tim Morrin, a National Weather Service
meteorologist in  Upton, New York.   The weather will return to normal next week in the East,
with highs in the upper 70s in New York, according to MDA
EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S. natural-gas producer,
paid $1.69 billion for two closely held energy explorers to gain
shale-gas reserves in  Pennsylvania  and neighboring states.  Exxon completed the purchases of Phillips Resources Inc.,
based in Warrendale, Pennsylvania, and TWP Inc. of Butler,
Pennsylvania, on June 2,  Alan Jeffers , the Irving, Texas-based
spokesman at Exxon, said in a phone interview yesterday.  German utilities need to build as much as 20 gigawatts of
fossil-fuel-fired power plants over the next 10 years as the
country exits from nuclear power,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
today.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
481,123 as of 2:35 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 316,000. Volume was 379,810 yesterday. Open interest was
1,001,995 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
941,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  