-- 
NBA Agrees With Players’ Union That Labor Discussions Are ‘Very Far Apart’

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/nba-agrees-with-players-union-that-labor-discussions-are-very-far-apart-.html
The  National Basketball Association 
and its players union said they remain “very far apart” after
two days of negotiations on a new labor accord, with the current
one set to expire in three weeks.  “We’re not where we started, but we’re not anywhere near
where we need to be,” NBA Commissioner David Stern told
reporters after four hours of talks yesterday at a  Dallas  hotel
that followed a five-hour session two days ago. “We’re not any
place close to a deal.”  The talks, which have totaled 13 hours in both NBA Finals
cities, will continue on June 14 in Miami if there is a Game 7
or in New York if the series has concluded. Another session also
has been scheduled in New York for June 17. The best-of-seven
championship between the  Miami Heat  and  Dallas Mavericks  resumes
tonight in Dallas with the teams tied at two games apiece.  With the collective bargaining agreement set to expire on
June 30, both Stern and the  Los Angeles Lakers ’ Derek Fisher,
president of the  National Basketball Players Association , used
the phrase “very far apart” to characterize the state of the
talks. Billy Hunter, the union’s executive director, called the
two sides “miles apart.”  The talks this week included almost all of the NBA’s labor
relations committee as well as the executive committee of the
union. The two sides have discussed the split of basketball-
related income between the players and owners, of which 57
percent currently goes to the players, and issues such as what
type of salary cap can work in a new labor accord.  Each side has made multiple proposals and each will put
verbal projections and proposals made this week in writing
before the next session, Stern said.  Teams Losing Money  Team owners want the changes because the league expects to
lose $300 million this season, Stern said in April. Twenty-two
of the 30 franchises are expected to lose money, Adam Silver,
the NBA’s deputy commissioner, said.  “We’ve actually come to a point where we feel we can get
on somewhat the same page with that level of loss,” Fisher said,
adding that the union still says that some of the costs teams
have cited are unrelated to player expenses.  The negotiations center on three major components: spending
on player payrolls, the length of contracts, and whether they
should be guaranteed.  The NBA wants to limit payrolls to $45 million per team
annually. Fisher reiterated that the union is “adamantly
against a hard salary-cap system” and wants clubs to be allowed
to spend more under some circumstances.  “It’s very clear that if we don’t agree to what we’ve been
offered so far, then we’re probably facing a lockout,” Fisher
said.  Length of Deal  Hunter yesterday said the owners are asking for a 10-year
deal, while the union wants a shorter accord. The current
contract is six years.  Both parties are watching the  National Football League ’s
labor dispute, which became a legal battle after the league
locked out its players in March.  That dispute, which could last for months, is weighing on
the NBA negotiations, said Jeff Kessler, an attorney for both
the NBA’s and NFL’s unions.  “Everyone in basketball will watch what happens in
football,” Kessler said.  Hunter also said one of the owners ended the bargaining
session by expressing pessimism that the two sides could reach
an accord before June 30.  “I’m forced to share that sentiment,” Hunter said. “It’s
going to be a difficult struggle.”  While it might not lead to lost games next season, the end-
of-month deadline is very real to the NBA, according to Stern.  “We very much feel the weight of the deadline,” he said.
“We know that the 30th itself is a time when, if we don’t have
a deal, things will begin to deteriorate at a faster pace, and
we don’t want that to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 