-- 
New York Giants Sponsors Seek Deals at Stadium Mixer During NFL Lockout

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-06-09T04:49:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/new-york-giants-sponsors-seek-deals-at-stadium-mixer-despite-nfl-lockout.html
The  National Football League ’s
three-month old lockout hasn’t deterred John Antonaccio from
doing business with the  New York Giants .  Antonaccio is a partner in Carlstadt, New Jersey-based El
Rancho Foods, which has Taco Bell franchises in the New York
region. The 70-year-old visited the team’s East Rutherford
stadium last night to mingle with other Giants sponsors, saying
he’s looking for more ideas like the one that last season put
team-themed cups in 110 stores.  “I just love the affiliation,” Antonaccio said, while
sitting on a stool with a view of the empty field’s 50-yard
line, near busts of Giants greats such as coaches Vince Lombardi and Tom Landry. “We signed a renewal and I’m
confident that the season will take place.”  The sponsors’ mixer was one of a series of events the
Giants are holding to maintain contact with season
ticketholders and business partners. The agenda has also
included a draft party, a conference call with NFL Commissioner
Roger Goodell, a celebration of the 1986 championship team and
a contest that placed fan photos on next season’s tickets.  The events help the Giants to engage customers while
making use of the $1.6 billion stadium, which is shared with
the  New York Jets , said  Mike Stevens , the team’s chief
marketing officer.  “We’re bringing suite holders and sponsors together, to
get both sides of the house to get to know each other,”
Stevens said. “It’s really kind of a general social event, but
you never know what comes of it. Maybe a suite holder meets a
sponsor and they end up doing business.”  Making Deals Pay  The sponsors can use the events to think up new ways to
make their deals with the Giants pay off, said Geoff Spies,
senior brand delivery consultant with  MetLife Inc. (MET)   The insurer in 2008 became a “cornerstone” partner in
the stadium along with PepsiCo Inc., the world’s largest snack-
food provider, brewer  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and
telecommunications provider  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   MetLife uses game day to run events for fans, such as flag
football tournaments or raffles for the chance to attend a
Giants-style practice with a visit from Coach Tom Coughlin.  The company’s corner of the stadium also hosts corporate
events and board meetings.  “We’re a New York-based company and we do a lot of off-
site stuff here,” he said.  High-Level Contacts  Patrick Russell, sales manager for  Waste Management Inc. (WM) 
in Hillsdale,  New Jersey , stood near Kevin Gilbride, the team’s
offensive coordinator, and said he appreciated the opportunity
to meet people at similar companies.  “We just made a great contact with Stop & Shop,” he
said. “This is a great way to get our message to the highest
levels.”  Giants owner John Mara didn’t attend after a day spent
with Goodell, other owners and player representatives before
Chief Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan in talks aimed at ending
the lockout. Owners and players are fighting about how to
divide about $9 billion in revenue, the most of any sports
league.  Antonaccio said he’s optimistic the season will proceed on
schedule. A season-ticket holder since 1965, he won’t take a
suite at the stadium.  “I’m a fan,” he said. “I told the Giants when they
invited me to the suites ‘Thank you very much.’ I’ll come to
the social events. But games? I want to be in my seats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  