-- 
New York Synagogue Bomb Plotters Should Be Given Life Sentences, U.S. Says

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T23:24:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/new-york-synagogue-bomb-plotters-should-be-given-life-sentences-u-s-says.html
Three of the four  New York  men
convicted of plotting to bomb New York synagogues and fire heat-
seeking missiles at military planes should be sentenced to life
in prison, U.S. prosecutors said.  “The defendants are career criminals; they have shown
little respect for the law throughout their adult lives,”
prosecutors said yesterday in a sentencing memorandum filed in
federal court in White Plains, New York. “This investigation
revealed what their rap sheets never could: that these
defendants were among the handful of people in the country who
would actually agree to join forces with a terrorist to bomb
synagogues.”  The four men, residents of Newburgh, New York, were
convicted in October. According to trial testimony, an FBI
informant attended a Newburgh mosque for about six months when
he was approached by one of the men,  James Cromitie , who said
that he was unhappy about Muslims getting killed in Afghanistan
and  Pakistan  and that he wanted “to do something in America.”  The four were arrested in a coordinated sting operation in
the Riverdale section of the Bronx on the night of May 20, 2009.  Prosecutors say the men planted three devices packed with
the plastic explosive C4 in two cars, parked outside the
Riverdale Temple and adjacent to the Riverdale Jewish Center.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  had rendered inactive
the 37-pound bombs. Officers apprehended the men after one of
them placed the devices in the cars.  In a May 25 court filing, Cromitie asked U.S. District
Judge  Colleen McMahon  to sentence him to 25 years in prison and
argued that the informant spurred the plot.  ‘Small-Time Criminal’  Cromitie is a “lifelong, small-time criminal; despite his
conviction in this case, he is not a terrorist,” his lawyer,
Kerry Lawrence, said in the filing.  McMahon today rescheduled sentencing for Cromitie and two
others, David Williams and  Onta Williams , to June 29. Sentencing
of the fourth man, Laguerre Payen, would be put on hold pending
the results of a psychiatric evaluation, McMahon said in a June
1 order.  Lawrence and lawyers for David Williams and Onta Williams
didn’t immediately return calls to their offices after regular
business hours yesterday.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( White Plains ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 