-- 
Nickel Pig-Iron Output in China Seen Surging in Challenge to Refined Metal

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-06-09T06:33:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/nickel-pig-iron-output-in-china-seen-surging-in-challenge-to-refined-metal.html
Nickel pig-iron output in  China , the
world’s largest metals user, may surge 50 percent this year,
possibly curbing demand for the refined product and hurting
prices that have lagged behind all other base metals in London.  Production of the low-cost substitute for refined nickel
may be 240,000 metric tons in 2011 compared with 160,000 tons in
2010, according to Xu Aidong, senior nickel analyst at Beijing
Antaike Information Development Co. Output in China in April was
25,000 tons compared with the average of 20,000 tons per month
in January to March, said Xu.  Lower refined-nickel prices may hurt OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel,
the biggest producer of the commodity that’s used to make steel
resistant to corrosion. Makers of the alternative in China “can
produce as much nickel pig-iron as they wish,” according to
Citigroup Inc. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., China’s second-biggest
stainless-steel maker, said it’ll use more of the substitute.  “Our forecast is for nickel pig-iron production to reach
200,000 tons this year, however, looking at the output so far as
well as the price trend, we may revise this to 240,000 tons,”
said Xu, who’s been analyzing the market since 1993.  Refined-nickel futures on the  London  Metal Exchange have
lost 8 percent this year, outpacing declines in copper, tin, and
zinc, while lead and aluminum have gained. Nickel traded at
$22,770 per ton on the LME at 2:30 p.m. in  Singapore , 23 percent
lower than the 34-month high of $29,425 set on Feb. 21.  Low-Grade Ore  Nickel pig-iron is made from low-grade, laterite ore from
 Indonesia  and the  Philippines . Investors may “be wondering why
nickel traded up to $29,000 a ton in the first quarter when the
Chinese can produce as much nickel pig-iron as they wish at a
cost of $22,000 a ton,” Citigroup’s Jon Bergtheil wrote June 6.  Baoshan Iron & Steel said June 7 it planned to cut refined-
nickel use for the first time in at least three years to lower
raw-material costs. Higher quantities of nickel laterite will be
used instead, according to Dai Xiangquan, assistant general
manager at the Shanghai-based company’s stainless-steel unit.  “It’s an industry-wide trend to turn to lower-grade
material,” Dai said in an interview. The profit margin for
Baoshan’s stainless-steel business was 0.9 percent last year,
compared with 22 percent for cold-rolled steel sheets.  The problem for refined nickel “lies with the oversupply
and low prices of stainless steel,” Zhang Yan, a trader at Jin
Yuan Futures Co., said from  Shanghai . About two-thirds of global
nickel production goes into stainless steel, which is used to
make products from kitchen sinks to aircraft-fuel tanks.  Declining Prices  Hot-rolled stainless-steel prices at China’s ports fell to
$3,090 a ton last week, the lowest level since October,
according to industry publication Metal Bulletin. The nation’s
production of the rust-proof alloy may gain to 14 million tons
this year from 12.3 million tons in 2010, said Antaike’s Xu.  Global nickel stockpiles may climb this year as production
increases to 1.6 million tons while worldwide usage is forecast
to rise to 1.54 million tons, the  International Nickel Study
Group  said on April 12.  “The Chinese have converted a large number of small steel
plants into nickel pig-iron facilities in the past three to four
years,”  Australia  and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a
May 20 report. China’s nickel ore imports show “the strong
appetite for the alternative nickel market,” the report said.  China imported 8.1 million tons of nickel ore and
concentrate in the first four months of this year, up 45 percent
from a year earlier, according to customs data.  Norilsk’s Outlook  The global nickel market will return to balance this year
from a deficit in 2010 as production increases faster than
demand, Norilsk said last month. Primary nickel usage will
expand more than 5 percent this year, compared with 15 percent
in 2010, said Dmitry Kuznetsov, the company’s chief analyst.  Norilsk produced 283,000 tons of refined nickel last year,
according to data from London-based metals consultancy CRU.
 Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE3)  was second, making 155,000 tons and China’s
Jinchuan Group Ltd. was third with 130,000 tons.  Costlier electricity, combined with power cuts expected
across China this summer, may raise costs for nickel pig-iron
makers and could trigger output curbs, said Tao Jinfeng, an
analyst at Jiangsu Donghua Futures Co. China raised electricity
prices for non-residential users in 15 provinces from June 1.  “This is not a new problem for the industry,” said Wang
Chongfeng, an analyst at research Shanghai Metals Market.
“Producers have found a way to work their production schedule
around it,” said Wang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  