-- 
Nicotine May Lead to Discovery of New Weight-Loss Drugs, Scientists Say

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-09T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/nicotine-may-lead-to-discovery-of-new-weight-loss-drugs-scientists-say.html
Smoking cigarettes, even with its
health risks, has long been used as a way to shed pounds. Now
scientists have discovered how the habit suppresses appetite,
pointing the way for potential weight-loss drugs.  Nicotine, the addictive substance in cigarettes, quells
appetite by latching to certain brain receptors that crank up
the activity of a system of neurons influencing food desire,
according to a study in the journal  Science . Scientists
identified this pathway as the hypothalamic melanocortin system.  In experiments with mice, the researchers determined which
nerves in the brain are affected by nicotine, suggesting a
pathway for weight-loss drugs, said  Marina Picciotto,  the
study’s lead author and professor of psychiatry at  Yale
University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut . Drugs might be developed
that mimic the effects of nicotine on the brain’s appetite
system, now that researchers know where to aim, she said.  “Whether it works for weight gain in humans hasn’t been
studied,” Picciotto said in a telephone interview. “It does
work in mice.”  One of the substances she used in the mice to stimulate
weight-loss, cytisine, is used as a smoking-cessation drug in
Eastern Europe, she said.  Nicotine seems to have a long-term effect on weight-loss,
with smokers keeping off the pounds they lost when they started
until they quit, Picciotto said. Smokers have a “notably
lower” body mass index than non-smokers and generally gain
about 5.5 pounds (2.5 kg) when they quit, according to the
report.  Smoking to Stay Lean  “You know what’s worrying?” Picciotto said. “In surveys,
the number one reason teenage girls start smoking is to stay
lean.”  Smoking is the leading cause of preventable death in the
developed world and kills 443,000 and sickens 8.6 million each
year in the U.S.,  according to  the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention.  About 68 percent of American adults are overweight or
obese, raising their risk of diabetes,  heart disease , high  blood
pressure  and cancer, according to a 2008 National Health and
Nutrition Examination Survey. Almost 34 percent are obese.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 