-- 
Nissan, Chevy Have Highest Crash Death Rates

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/nissan-chevrolet-drivers-have-highest-car-crash-death-rates.html
Drivers of Nissan Motor Co.’s 350Z
sports car and Titan pickup, and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet
Aveo mini and compact Cobalt are more likely to die in accidents
than those of other vehicles, an insurance group said.  Drivers of sport-utility vehicles, who used to be the most
likely to die in crashes because of rollovers, are now among
those with the highest probability of survival, the  Insurance
Institute for Highway Safety  said in a report released today.  “The rollover risk in SUVs used to outweigh their
size/weight advantage, but that’s no longer the case,” Anne
McCartt, the Arlington, Virginia-based group’s senior vice
president for research, said in the report on driver death rates
for passenger vehicles from model years 2005 to 2008.  None of the 26 lowest-rated vehicles had standard
electronic stability control, while almost all of the top-rated
ones did, the study found. Models equipped with the technology,
which can automatically apply brakes or reduce throttle speed
when drivers over- or under-steer, had lower death rates than
those without it.  It will be required on all new vehicles beginning next
year. Suppliers of the systems include  Continental AG (CON)  and  Robert
Bosch GmbH .  Of the 26 top-rated cars and trucks, all but one had
electronic stability control. In 2008, the technology was
standard on 65 percent of cars, 96 percent of SUVs and 11
percent of pickups, according to the insurance institute, which
last conducted a driver death-rate study in 2007.  Today’s results analyze data from 2006 to 2009, using
fatality reporting from the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration.  Lowest Death Rates  Vehicles with the lowest death rates include the Audi A6
and the Mercedes Benz E-Class, both luxury cars;  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s Sienna minivan;  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Edge SUV; Nissan’s
Armada SUV; and Jaguar Land Rover’s Range Rover Sport and Rover
LR3 SUVs.  Three vehicles made by Toyota, which was probed last year
by U.S. regulators and lawmakers for safety-related defects,
rated among the 26 cars and trucks with the lowest driver death
rates, including the Lexus GX 470 SUV.  Toyota last year recalled its successor model, the GX 460,
to reprogram stability-control software after Consumer Reports
magazine rated it a safety risk because of potential rollovers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 