-- 
Noble Group’s Offer For Territory Resources Betters Exxaro Resources’ Bid

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-06-09T10:57:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/noble-group-offer-for-territory-resources-betters-exxaro-resources-bid.html
Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , the Hong Kong-based
commodity trader, offered A$90 million ($95 million) for the
shares in  Territory Resources Ltd. (TTY)  it doesn’t own, outbidding a
deal agreed to with  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)   Noble, Territory’s largest investor with a 32 percent
stake, offered 50 cents for each share, Perth-based Territory
said in a filing. That’s 8.7 percent more than Exxaro’s offer
and a 6.4 percent premium over yesterday’s close.  Buying Territory would give Noble an iron ore operation in
Australia’s Northern Territory with production capacity of 2
million metric tons. Companies are adding steel raw material
assets as demand in  China  and India grows.  Territory surged 11 percent to 52 Australian cents by the
4:10 p.m. close of Sydney trading, taking its gain this year to
53 percent.  Exxaro is “looking at all options” after Noble’s bid,
Pretoria-based spokesman Hilton Atkinson said by phone today. In
an earlier statement, Exxaro urged Territory shareholders not to
take any action until it reviews its position. Exxaro said the
Noble bid will remain open until July 21, unless extended.  Exxaro, which has a stake in  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) ’s Sishen
mine in  South Africa , has been looking since at least last year
for iron ore opportunities, betting demand for the material will
increase. Bank of America Merrill Lynch said June 7 market
supply of the material will “disappoint” expectations in the
near and mid-term, pushing up prices.  “Maybe they should just let it go,” Sasha Naryshkine, a
fund manager at Johannesburg-based Vestact Ltd., said by phone
from the city today of Exxaro. Territory’s operations have
higher production costs than Kumba’s Sishen mine and its assets
are “relatively small,” Naryshkine said.  Exxaro was 0.3 percent higher at 159.47 rand as of 11:39
a.m. in Johannesburg, giving the company a market value of 57
billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net 
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net 
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 