-- 
Nokia’s Tirri Fills In as Technology Chief as Green Takes Personal Leave

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-06-09T11:28:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/nokia-says-rich-green-takes-leave-to-attend-to-personal-matter.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s largest
mobile-phone maker by volume, said Henry Tirri will take over
the duties of Chief Technology Officer Rich Green, who started a
leave of absence for personal reasons.  Tirri, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , is the head of the
Nokia Research Center, which has offices in a dozen locations
from Berkeley to Nairobi. Nokia won’t provide a timetable for
Green’s return,  Doug Dawson , a spokesman for the Espoo, Finland-
based company, said by phone today.  Green’s departure came a week after Nokia slashed its sales
and profit forecasts, which triggered a slump of the stock to
its lowest price in 13 years. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is readying a line of phones based on Microsoft Corp.’s
Windows Phone 7 operating system to replace the company’s own
Symbian line, which is losing out to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
Android handsets based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s system. Nokia targets
the fourth quarter for the first Windows handset.  “The company doesn’t seem to have much defense for the
next 12 months,” Nomura analyst Richard Windsor said today in
at the Open Mobile Summit in London. “The high-end market is
lost and the opportunity for Nokia to come back is in the $200-
$300 device market and the Windows Phone for that won’t be here
till next year.”  Nokia’s long-term credit rating was cut by one level to
BBB+ from A- and the company was placed on CreditWatch negative
at S&P today. The rating is three steps above speculative grade.
It was the second ratings cut for the Finnish handset maker this
week after Fitch on June 7 cut its rating on Nokia to the lowest
investment grade.  ‘Weaker Earnings’  “Nokia will likely report significantly weaker operating
results in 2011 than we had expected,” S&P analysts including
Matthias Raab in  Frankfurt  wrote in the statement. The
“unexpected and significant sales and profit warning” caused
S&P to reduce its sales estimates to a 10 percent decline in
handset revenue.  The rating cut won’t have a material impact on the
company’s financing costs, Nokia spokesman James Etheridge said
in an e-mailed statement. S&P said Nokia’s “exceptional”
liquidity position can more than cover its needs for the
“foreseeable” future.  Time to Market  “We have the assets, we have the innovation,” Elop said
in London today. “When you go through our labs and resource
centers, when you see what’s available and say oh, if I could
just get that faster and working better, we can do very well.”  Green started as chief technology officer in May last year
to define “Nokia’s technology vision across hardware, software,
user experience, cloud services and developer programs,”
according to the company’s  website . He joined Nokia after a 19-
year career at Sun Microsystems Inc., where he was in charge of
software as executive vice president.  Nokia’s Dawson said the company doesn’t expect the
personnel change to have impact on its product strategy or the
timeline for handset introduction. Elop said today he plans to
cut time to market by “at least a third.”  Nokia said in April it will outsource its Symbian
development to  Accenture Plc , moving over 3,000 workers and
cutting 4,000 jobs, as part of an effort to cut 1 billion euros
in expenses.  Elop reiterated today that speculation about a sale of
Nokia to Microsoft or another company is “baseless.”  Nokia fell 0.2 percent to 4.29 euros at 2:02 p.m. in
Helsinki. The stock has fallen 45 percent this year, cutting the
company’s market value to 16 billion euros ($23.4 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in  London  via the Helsinki newsroom at 
   dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  