-- 
Nokia Bonds Treated Like Junk as Apple, Google Dominate: Corporate Finance

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-06-09T15:06:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/nokia-bonds-treated-like-junk-as-apple-google-dominate-corporate-finance.html
Credit investors are betting that
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  is poised to lose its investment-grade rating as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s  iPhone  and Google Inc.’s Android eat into the market-
leading position held by the world’s biggest seller of handsets.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the company’s 6.75
percent bonds due 2019 rather than government debt has more than
doubled to 307 basis points since May 30, the day before it
dumped its 2011 targets and unveiled second-quarter results
below analyst forecasts. The cost of insuring Nokia debt soared
to 246 basis points from 120 in the period, according to CMA
prices for credit-default swaps.  Standard & Poor’s today cut the Espoo, Finland-based
company’s ranking one level to BBB+, two days after  Fitch
Ratings  downgraded it to BBB-, a step above speculative grade.
Consumers are deserting Nokia’s handsets, powered by its Symbian
operating system, as the company works to start shipping its
first phone based on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 7 in the
fourth quarter.  “Nokia has totally lost its way at the high end of the
market, where it’s just not up to the standards of its
competitors,” said Madeleine King, a credit analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG in London, who said she “doesn’t rule out”
Nokia being cut to junk if the Windows phone flops. “At the low
end, it offered very similar products while rivals came up with
handsets specific to each market.”  Value Plunge  S&P said it may cut the rating again and Fitch left the
outlook negative. Both cited sliding margins and sales and
likely cash burn.  “S&P also noted the group’s exceptional liquidity profile
and Nokia’s history of maintaining a conservative financial
policy, which targets a strong balance sheet,” James Etheridge,
a spokesman for the phone company, said in an e-mail. “Nokia
does not expect that S&P’s rating action will have a material
impact on our current financing costs. Nokia’s credit ratings
are underscored by our strong market position and IPR portfolio,
as well as our solid liquidity and capital structure.”  Nokia, whose 2010 sales of $61 billion are equivalent to
about a quarter of  Finland ’s annual economic output, has seen
its value plunge by more than 77 percent since Apple introduced
the iPhone in June 2007. The company is racing to come up with
products to meet consumer demand for smartphones, particularly
in Europe and  China , where competition from Google’s free
Android software is “intense,” according to CreditSights Inc.
analysts Ping Zhao and Jordan Chalfin.  Moody’s Grade  Moody’s Investors Service rates Nokia A3, three levels
higher than Fitch, and is reviewing the company for a possible
downgrade. The New York-based ratings firm said it will focus
the review on how Nokia plans to stem the erosion in market
share and on its ability to cut costs and limit spending.  Bonds rated A have an average spread of 91 basis points,
according to Bank of America’s EMU Corporates, Industrials, A
Rated index.  The company’s plan to reduce expenditures by 1 billion
euros ($1.5 billion) may not be enough, according to  New York- 
based CreditSights. It’s “very likely” the company will have
to reduce or suspend its dividend as it carries out the
transition to Windows software, the analysts wrote in a  report .  Nokia’s 2019 bonds yield about 5.9 percent, compared with
the 3.77 percent average for European industrial companies rated
BBB, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporates,
Industrials, BBB Rated index shows. The 307 basis-point spread
on the company’s bonds, a measure of investor perceptions of
risk, compares with an average of 144 basis points. Those rated
BB, the top junk category, have an average spread of 398 basis
points, according to Bank of America.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index
of 40 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings are at
397, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The momentum remains sharply negative,” said Jonathan White, an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London ,
in a report. Fitch’s note “suggests that a downgrade to junk is
possible at any time.”  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, a former Microsoft
executive who took over in September, turned to Windows Phone 7
after deciding Nokia’s Symbian software couldn’t compete with
the iPhone and Android, the fastest-growing smartphone operating
system. The Canadian is the first non-Finn to head the company.  A Microsoft bid to buy Nokia is “not totally ridiculous,”
according to King at Credit Suisse. “If the share price
continues to fall, it may reach a price where a takeover starts
to look attractive.”  Nokia said May 31 it has “increased confidence” its
Windows-powered phones will ship on schedule.  “That will be a key moment for them,” said Juliano Hiroshi Torii, an analyst at Societe Generale SA in London. “If
the Windows phone doesn’t take off, they’ll have wasted nine
months and got nowhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  