-- 
Nuclear Industry Will Conduct Post-Fukushima U.S. Safety Review

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-06-09T19:37:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/nuclear-industry-will-conduct-post-fukushima-u-s-safety-review.html
Three U.S. power-industry groups will
set up a panel to run their own nuclear-safety review as federal
regulators probe  Japan ’s reactor crisis.  The  Nuclear Energy Institute , the Electric Power Research
Institute and the  Institute of Nuclear Power Operations  unveiled
their plan today. The Fukushima Response Steering Committee will
“learn the lessons” from Japan and “apply them at our
plants,” Tony Pietrangelo, the energy institute’s senior vice
president and chief nuclear officer, said at a news conference
in Washington.  “We must continually evolve and improve standards of
practice and adapt to events and new information,” he said.  U.S. reactors are getting closer scrutiny from regulators
after a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11 knocked
out  power lines  and backup generators at Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, about 135 miles (217 kilometers)
north of  Tokyo .  Without electricity to run cooling systems, some of the
fuel rods overheated and melted, causing fires, explosions and
radiation leaks in the worst nuclear incident since the 1986
Chernobyl disaster. A  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  task force
conducting a 90-day review of U.S. reactor safety after the
Japan earthquake is scheduled to release a report next month.  The U.S. nuclear industry believes its plants are safe and
the panel will “triple check” existing U.S. standards,
Pietrangelo said. The industry’s post-Fukushima review will aid
the NRC’s work, he said.  ‘Strong, Credible Regulator’  “We have a very strong, credible regulator,” Pietrangelo
said. “We want to work with our regulator.”  The Fukushima committee will examine issues such as the
ability of U.S. operators to cope with a “station blackout,”
when power lines are cut and backup generators fail, said Chip Pardee, the panel’s chairman and chief operating officer of
 Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s power-generation subsidiary.  Storage pools filled with spent radioactive fuel rods will
also be checked to make sure they won’t overheat during an
accident, Pardee, whose company is the largest U.S. nuclear-
plant operator, said at the news conference.  The industry panel will assess how companies with nuclear
reactors can standardize some disaster response plans, so they
can “help one another” during a crisis, Pardee said. Some
improvements may include the use of standard-sized fire hoses at
nuclear plants and common radio frequencies, he said.  Multi-Unit Event  The panel also will examine whether emergency-response
plans must be changed to deal with a “multi-unit event,”
Pardee said. Fukushima has six reactors and three units suffered
meltdowns, the operator of the Japanese plant said.  The industry panel will work until at least the end of this
year, according to a statement from the groups. The task may
take longer because many details of the Fukushima disaster won’t
be known for months, Pardee said.  “This will be a fairly protracted effort,” he said.  The NRC has inspected how U.S. plants are prepared to keep
radioactive fuel rods from overheating and melting after
“extreme events,” such as natural disasters and terrorist
attacks. The NRC also studied the nuclear industry’s “severe
accident” plans for bringing reactors under control if a
meltdown can’t be prevented.  Agency inspectors have so far concluded U.S. nuclear plants
are meeting safety regulations, with a few flaws in disaster-
response preparations.  Almost one in five nuclear plants needed to improve plans
for preventing meltdowns after large fires, explosions,
electricity blackouts or extreme floods, the NRC said. While all
nuclear plants have severe-accident guidelines, almost two in
five don’t carry out drills on bringing a meltdown under
control, according to the NRC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in  Washington  at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  