-- 
Nuclear Power Groups Will Conduct Joint Post-Fukushima U.S. Safety Review

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-06-09T22:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/nuclear-power-groups-will-conduct-joint-post-fukushima-u-s-safety-review.html
A nuclear review by the U.S. power
industry will weigh safety upgrades at domestic plants after
Japan’s reactor crisis, helping investors estimate costs from
the worst atomic accident in 25 years.  “We are frequently asked by the Wall Street community how
much is this going to cost, and we simply don’t know yet,” Chip Pardee, chief operating officer for power generation at  Exelon
Corp. (EXC)  and chairman of the industry’s Fukushima Response Steering
Committee, said yesterday at a news conference in Washington.  The  Nuclear Energy Institute , the Electric Power Research
Institute and the  Institute of Nuclear Power Operations 
introduced the panel yesterday. The 12-member committee will
“learn the lessons” from Japan’s nuclear crisis, which began
three months ago tomorrow, and “apply them at our plants,”
said Tony Pietrangelo, the energy institute’s senior vice
president and chief nuclear officer.  U.S. reactors are getting closer scrutiny from regulators
after a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11 knocked
out  power lines  and backup generators at Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, about 135 miles (217 kilometers)
north of  Tokyo .  Without electricity to run cooling systems, some fuel rods
overheated and melted, causing fires, explosions and radiation
leaks in the worst nuclear incident since the 1986 Chernobyl
disaster. A  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  task force conducting
a 90-day review of U.S. reactor safety after the Japan
earthquake is scheduled to release a report next month.  Tougher regulations from the NRC aimed at preventing
disasters similar to Japan’s may cost the U.S. nuclear industry
more than $10 billion, according to a Bloomberg Government study
released in April.  ‘Laughable’ Panel  The industry-led panel is “laughable” and U.S. officials
shouldn’t give any weight to its findings, said Damon Moglen, a
climate and energy project director for Friends of the Earth, a
Washington-based group that opposes nuclear power.  “The nuclear industry owns an alarming track record of
ignoring safety flaws and downplaying lapses, and it does not
deserve the trust of regulators or the public,” Moglen said in
an e-mail.  The U.S. nuclear industry believes its plants are safe,
Pietrangelo said. The new panel, which includes representatives
from operators such as New Orleans-based  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  and Xcel
Energy Inc. of  Minneapolis , will “triple check” existing
safety procedures to find improvements, he said.  “We must continually evolve and improve standards of
practice and adapt to events and new information,” he said.  ‘Credible Regulator’  The industry’s post-Fukushima review will aid the work of
the NRC, which is a “very strong, credible regulator,” he
said.  “We want to work with our regulator,” he said.  The Fukushima committee will examine a range of safety
issues, such as the ability of U.S. operators to cope with a
“station blackout,” when power lines are cut and backup
generators fail, Exelon’s Pardee said.  Storage pools filled with spent radioactive fuel rods will
also be checked to make sure they won’t overheat during an
accident, said Pardee, whose Chicago-based employer is the
largest U.S. nuclear-plant operator.  The industry panel will assess how companies with nuclear
reactors can standardize some disaster response plans, so they
can “help one another” during a crisis, Pardee said. Some
improvements may include the use of standard-sized fire hoses at
nuclear plants and common radio frequencies, he said.  Emergency Response  The panel also will examine whether emergency-response
plans must be changed to deal with a “multi-unit event,”
Pardee said. Fukushima has six reactors and three units suffered
meltdowns, the operator of the Japanese plant said.  The review will check safety systems at nuclear plants
against the most recent estimates for “external events,” such
as earthquakes and floods, according to a statement from the
three power-industry groups.  The industry panel will work until at least the end of this
year, according to the statement. The task may take longer
because many details of the Fukushima disaster won’t be known
for months, Pardee said.  “This will be a fairly protracted effort,” he said.  Since the earthquake in  Japan , the NRC has inspected how
U.S. plants are prepared to keep radioactive fuel rods from
overheating and melting after “extreme events,” such as
natural disasters and terrorist attacks. The NRC also studied
the nuclear industry’s “severe accident” plans for bringing
reactors under control if a meltdown can’t be prevented.  Agency inspectors have so far concluded U.S. nuclear plants
are meeting safety regulations, with a few flaws in disaster-
response preparations.  Almost one in five nuclear plants needed to improve plans
for preventing meltdowns after large fires, explosions,
electricity blackouts or extreme floods, the NRC said. While all
nuclear plants have severe-accident guidelines, almost two in
five don’t carry out drills on bringing a meltdown under
control, according to the NRC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in  Washington  at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  