-- 
Corn Surge Spurring U.S. Hog-Herd Slaughter as Wholesale Pork Prices Slump

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-09T14:14:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/hog-prices-seen-higher-as-ranchers-may-cull-herds-on-surging-feed-costs.html
U.S. hog producers may start to cull
herds as the faltering economic recovery curbs pork demand and
tightening corn inventories boost livestock-feed prices, curbing
animal supplies and increasing costs for meatpackers.  Since May 16, wholesale pork has dropped 9.6 percent from
the highest since at least October 1997, while corn, the main
ingredient in  animal feed , gained 9.5 percent. Hog producers are
facing record production costs, based on current futures prices,
Steve Meyer, the president of Paragon Economics, said yesterday
at the  World Pork Expo  in  Des Moines ,  Iowa .  “I do not think there is any stomach in the industry for
expansion, and there may be some contraction,” Ron Prestage,
whose family business, Prestage Farms, has 170,000 sows in the
Carolinas, Mississippi and  Oklahoma , said in an interview at the
expo. Hog futures may gain as much as 9.5 percent to $1 a pound
by the end of August or early September without disruption to
export demand, he said.  Hog producers without risk-management plans may lose $8 a
head in the fourth quarter and $10 a head in the first quarter
of next year, said  Ron Plain , a livestock economist at the
 University of Missouri  in Columbia. The breeding herd may start
to shrink as soon as September, and that will reduce slaughter
rates in the third quarter of 2012, he said.  Cutting Sow Herd  “Fewer hogs should mean higher hog prices, and my forecast
would be that this isn’t a wonderful corn crop, and we will
start cutting the sow herd this fall and help out hog prices,”
said Plain, who has studied the industry for three decades.  He declined to give a price projection. Meat demand may ebb
this year if the economy stumbles, Plain said.  Hog producers lost about $6.2 billion from October 2007 to
February 2010, primarily because of high feed costs, Plain said.  A shrinking herd may increase costs for meatpackers such as
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the biggest U.S. meat processor, said Heather Jones, a BB&T Capital Markets analyst in Richmond, Virginia.  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the leading pork processor, raises
its own animals and may benefit from a hog rally, Jones said.
Higher feed costs may erode profit, she said. The company is
based in Smithfield, Virginia.  ‘Potential Contraction’  “In the case of pork packers, they’re not exposed to the
cost of corn, but clearly the producer is, and I think these
high feed costs are going to force some potential contraction in
the hog herd,” Jones said.  Keira Lombardo, a spokeswoman, declined to comment on
rising feed costs. Gary Mickelson, a Tyson spokesman, also
declined to comment.  Tyson, based in Springdale,  Arkansas , has forecast that
grain costs in the year ending around Oct. 1 will increase
almost $500 million from a year earlier.  U.S. shoppers may pay as much as 7.5 percent more for pork
this year, more than overall food costs that are projected to
jump as much as 4 percent, the government has  forecast .  Tightening grain supplies and increased demand helped send
global food prices higher in nine of the past 11 months,
including a record in February, United Nations data show.  Corn prices have more than doubled in the past year as
adverse weather slashed crops, global demand increased and use
of the grain in the U.S. to make ethanol climbed.  In the U.S., the planting delays caused by excessive rain
last month mean “a lot of uncertainty,” said Bob Nielsen, an
agronomist at  Purdue University  in  West Lafayette ,  Indiana .  ‘Extreme Costs’  Gary Asay, a hog farmer in Osco, Illinois, said some
ranchers fear that they won’t be able to afford high feed costs
again and may have to reduce herds. He said that feed makes up
about 70 percent of his input costs, up from 50 percent a year
earlier.  “Some producers will not be able to endure the extreme
costs and loss of profit for another year,” Asay, 55, said in
an interview at the World Pork Expo. “Producers are very
uncertain about the availability of corn.”  Decisions on liquidating herds may be made from August to
December as the size of the corn crop emerges, and the cuts
probably won’t occur until early next year, Asay said. He
declined to give a price forecast for a hog rally.  Corn futures in  Chicago  have climbed 21 percent in 2011,
while hogs gained 15 percent. In May, spot-market hogs fell 3.7
percent the first drop since October.  Corn Supplies Drop  “When corn initially made its run higher, hog prices ran
right along with it,” Lawrence Kane, a market adviser at
Stewart-Peterson Group in  Yates City ,  Illinois . “The hog
producer was buying more expensive feed but getting better
prices. It was a wash. Now, he can’t say it’s a wash.”  Today, the Department of Agriculture slashed its estimate
on U.S. corn inventories before the 2012 harvest by 23 percent
to 695 million bushels from a month earlier. Analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey expected supplies at 781 million.  This year, 45.608 million hogs were slaughtered as of June
4, down 1 percent from a year earlier, USDA data show. As of
March 1, the breeding herd rose 0.5 percent to 5.788 million
sows from a year earlier. The agency plans release its next
inventory report on June 24.  Yesterday, hog futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
rose 2.1 percent to 91.35 cents. Corn on the Chicago Board of
Trade jumped 3.7 percent to $7.64 a bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 