-- 
Oil Speculation Curbs Would Aid Market Diversity, Gensler Says

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-06-09T16:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/oil-speculation-curbs-would-aid-market-diversity-gensler-says.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission ’s authority to impose curbs on speculative trading is
designed to prevent small groups from dominating markets in oil,
gold, natural gas and other commodities,  Gary Gensler , CFTC
chairman, said.  “At the core of our obligations is promoting market
integrity, which the agency has historically interpreted to
include ensuring that markets do not become too concentrated,”
Gensler said in a speech prepared for the Sandler O’Neill Global
Exchange and Brokerage Conference held in  New York .  The agency’s January proposal for so-called position limits
is among the most contentious aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act and
spurred about 12,000 public comments from supporters including
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  as well as from opponents including  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and Cargill Inc. The CFTC has faced pressure from
Democrats in Congress who have urged the agency to quickly
implement the trading curbs, citing the increase in commodity
prices.  “Congress gave the CFTC the power to rein in excessive oil
speculation and the CFTC should use it,” Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington Democrat, said on May 24. The agency has
yet to schedule a meeting to finalize the proposal, which was
approved on a 4-1 vote.  Swap dealers and other financial money managers represent a
majority of trading in futures markets, Gensler said. About 12
percent of gross long and about 20 percent of gross short
positions in the market for West Texas Intermediate crude were
held by producers, merchants, processors and other uses of the
commodity, Gensler said, citing CFTC data as of May 31.  The CFTC plans later this month to publish historical data
on changes in positions in the futures market, he said. As much
as 80 percent of volume in some futures markets is conducted by
day trading or a type of trade known as a calendar spread, he
said.  “This means that only about 20 percent or less of the
trading is done by traders who bring a longer-term perspective
to the market on the price of the commodity,” Gensler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  