-- 
Tokyo Office Vacancies Fall for 2nd Month Post Quake

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-06-09T03:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/tokyo-office-vacancies-fall-for-2nd-month-after-earthquake-1-.html
(Corrects conversion to show it’s per tsubo in fifth
paragraph.)  Tokyo ’s office vacancy rate fell for
a second straight month in May, signaling improvement in the
property industry in the wake of the March 11 earthquake.  The measure of unoccupied office units in Tokyo fell to
8.88 percent in May from 8.92 percent a month earlier, Miki
Shoji Co., a privately held office brokerage company, said in a
report today. In March, the vacancy rate was a record 9.19
percent. Demand for buildings with favorable criteria such as
newer offices is increasing, the Miki Shoji said in a report.  Office occupancies are recovering after reaching a record
high in March when the magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing
tsunami led to the nation’s worst disaster since the World War
II. The report may be the latest sign of an improvement in the
nation’s property market after the nation’s housing starts
unexpectedly rose in April, rebounding from a decline in March.  The  Topix Real Estate Index (TPREAL)  trimmed an earlier loss of as
much as 1 percent to close down 0.6 percent at the 11 a.m. lunch
break in Tokyo.  The average office rent in Tokyo’s five main business
districts of Chiyoda, Chuo, Minato, Shinjuku and Shibuya fell to
17,400 yen ($217) per tsubo from April, Miki Shoji said. One
tsubo, a standard measure of property area in  Japan , is 3.3
square meters, or 35.5 square feet.  Longer Recovery  Construction companies broke ground on 0.3 percent more
homes in April from a year earlier, Japan’s Ministry of Land,
Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism said on May 31. Housing
starts were expected to fall 3 percent, based on the median
estimate of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Even so, some analysts are expecting that the recovery in
the office market may take longer because of a lack of demand.  “There is still not enough demand to absorb the large
amounts of  office space  coming onto the market in 2011 and
2012,” Daisuke Fukushima, an analyst at Nomura Securities Co.,
said in a report dated yesterday. “We were cautious about
prospects for office vacancy rates even before the earthquake
struck, and it may have pushed back recovery expectations even
further.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  