-- 
Hong Kong Auditor Rejected by U.S.

-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-10T06:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/hong-kong-auditor-rejected-by-u-s-.html
The  Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board   rejected  Hong Kong-based Zhonglei CPA Co.’s
application to become a registered U.S. auditor, citing an
inability to inspect its work for companies based in  China .  This was the first time the PCAOB blocked an auditor since
toughening rules in October. The decision follows the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s increased focus on Chinese-
based companies that trade on American stock markets. Yesterday,
the SEC cautioned investors about buying stakes in companies
that gain listings through so-called reverse mergers,  saying 
they may be prone to “fraud and other abuses.”  “The PCAOB is putting a line in the sand that is telling
China very clearly that if you want your CPA firms to be
involved in companies listed here in the U.S., you’ve got to
agree to ensure that there are high-quality audits, and that
means letting us in to inspect,” said  Lynn Turner , a former SEC
chief accountant who serves on a PCAOB advisory group.  The SEC has halted trading in firms such as Guangzhou,
China-based  Heli Electronics Corp. (HELI)  and  Rino International Corp. (RINO) 
of Dalian, China, in the past few months. More than 24 companies
have disclosed auditor resignations or accounting problems to
the SEC since March, Chairman  Mary Schapiro  wrote in an April 27
letter. As short sellers increased bearish bets against the
stock, the Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index of 78 shares
listed in the U.S. has dropped 43 percent in 2011.  Zhonglei CPA can appeal the decision. Zhonglei CPA decided
to stop the application process to be registered as an U.S.
auditor and focus on its Hong Kong and China businesses, the
company said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg News today.  IPO Scrutiny  “For the application as a member of PCAOB, since our firm
would like to focus our future businesses in  Hong Kong  and PRC,
we internally decided to stop the application of the membership
of PCAOB,” Hong Kong-based Ricky Ho, the director of Zhonglei
CPA said in the statement. “PCAOB considered that if our firm
did not provide all the information required, PCAOB would
automatically disapprove our case.”  In a reverse merger, a closely held firm buys a publicly
traded shell company to gain a stock listing, avoiding the
scrutiny usually involved in an initial public offering. More
than 150 Chinese firms entered U.S. markets through reverse
mergers since 2007, according to the PCAOB, which oversees
auditors of public companies.  Talks With China  The PCAOB issued a new policy in October making the
inability to inspect auditors in nations such as China a factor
when considering whether to approve them. The organization is
blocked from inspecting firms based in China.  “Since 2004, the board has approved registration
applications of non-U.S. firms with the expectation that any
potential obstacles to inspections would be resolved,” PCAOB
Acting Chairman Daniel L. Goelzer said in an October  statement .
“The continuing obstacles to inspections in some jurisdictions
have forced us to re-evaluate that approach to registration.”  James R. Doty, chairman of the PCAOB, said in April that
the inability to inspect auditors in China represents a “gaping
hole in investor protection.”  Last month, the regulators met in  Washington  with
counterparts at the China Securities Regulatory Commission --
negotiations that Doty told reporters could “lead us to
something conclusive on the way the two nations handle this
issue.” Doty hopes a bilateral agreement can be struck with
China later this year, he said in a statement after the meeting.  Auditors Oversight  The PCAOB, a nonprofit corporation funded by fees on public
companies, regulates and inspects 2,500 registered auditors
under the oversight of the SEC. The board, formed by the
 Sarbanes-Oxley Act  of 2002 after the collapse of Enron Corp.,
has hoped for years to get inspectors into the European Union
and China.  Earlier this year, the accounting organization reached
agreements with the U.K. and  Switzerland  to inspect auditors in
those nations. Doty, when asked in a February interview whether
he would resort to yanking registrations for nations still
closed, said: “You never say never about an enforcement tool.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  