-- 
Honoring the Past and Accepting Reality in Immigration Law: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-09T22:45:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/honoring-the-past-and-accepting-reality-in-immigration-law-view.html
An influx of millions of largely
unskilled, uneducated, rootless workers would present a
challenge to any nation. At points around the globe, it often
does. Though the U.S. has been defined -- physically, culturally
and metaphorically -- by immigrants, that doesn’t mean it always
will be.  Nor does it mean that  immigration  should be a self-
selecting process, with the U.S. accepting whoever possesses the
wiles to sneak over the border. Nevertheless, there are good
reasons for America’s long embrace of immigration to continue,
and for it to be extended to the illegal immigrants already
here.  In addressing illegal immigration, two questions stand out.
First, what to do with the estimated 11 million illegal
immigrants who are here today. Second, how to deal with millions
more who stand ready to breach the border, and the law, in order
to reside here in the future. Those tandem concerns are the
focus of “comprehensive immigration reform,” a concept with deep
roots in the political lexicon but, as yet, none in the law.  Illegal immigration has both economic and moral dimensions.
In a May 10  speech  in El Paso,  Texas , President  Barack Obama 
called comprehensive reform an “economic imperative.” Yet
calculating the costs and benefits of illegal immigration is
difficult. According to a 2007 Council on Foreign Relations
 report , individual state governments most likely lose money
paying for services to illegal immigrants while the federal
government realizes a modest revenue bump from their presence.
Illegal immigration places burdens on health-care and education
systems, especially in border states, such as  Arizona . At the
same time, perhaps half of all illegal immigrants pay state and
federal taxes, including Social Security payroll taxes, though
they are ineligible to collect benefits.  Stake in Society  Illegal labor supports the nation’s general prosperity
while undermining wages in some low-skill trades.  George Borjas ,
a  Harvard University  professor of economics, points out that if
illegal immigrants reduce the market wage for a low-skilled,
low-income earner by only 4 percent, the effect can be
devastating. Yet anecdotal evidence abounds that many illegal
immigrants work in jobs that U.S. citizens don’t want and won’t
accept.  While the short-term economic impact of illegal immigration
is mixed, the long-term picture is clearer: Immigrants create
jobs, add to the tax rolls and generate national wealth.  New
York City  was rescued in the 1980s and 1990s by the labor of
immigrants; today, roughly half a million illegal immigrants
help keep the city humming. Many illegal immigrants have
established roots in American communities and almost 4 million
of their children are U.S. citizens. Having invested heavily in
the education of these children, we should encourage them to
stay and lend their skills to the economy.  Pathway to Citizenship  Likewise, we should bring America’s illegal residents into
the mainstream by providing a pathway to citizenship. Businesses
need their spending to sustain growth and employment; the
housing market needs their aspirations to fuel recovery;  baby
boomers , on the verge of retiring in record numbers, need their
taxes to fund Medicare and Social Security. For these reasons
and more, President Obama should speak out consistently and
forthrightly in defense of such a policy.  Opponents decry a pathway to citizenship -- which would
require the payment of fines and other measures in return for
legal status -- as “amnesty.” We cede the point. With
comprehensive reform, illegal immigrants would, in effect, be
rewarded for having broken the law and outlasted the political
opposition. However, there are times when compassion is the
better part of self-interest, and comprehensive reform would
also constitute a reward for the ambition and fortitude that
countless illegal immigrants display by forging productive lives
in precarious circumstances.  Broken Families  Moralistic demands for mass deportations are neither
realistic nor especially moral. The Obama administration
deported almost 800,000 illegal immigrants in its first two
years, a record number that has left broken families, riled
communities and fear in its wake. Yet its annual expulsions
account for less than 4 percent of the illegal population. There
is no way to banish 11 million people without unleashing an ugly
police dragnet that would drain public budgets and batter the
body politic, setting pro- and anti-immigrant citizens at one
another’s throats.  Illegal immigrants contribute much today; after reform, we
could expect those contributions to grow. Once legalized,
immigrants would have higher wages and improved education,
allowing them to add value to communities and the nation. With
access to credit and investment opportunities, immigrants would
gain a greater stake in society and make more of their own human
and financial capital.  National Guard  This solution is predicated on a strong enforcement
component. The Obama administration has delivered on this,
deploying 1,200 National Guard troops to the Southwest border,
adding 250 new  Immigration and Customs Enforcement  agents and
beefing up the Border Patrol, which now has almost 21,000
officers, more than double the number in 2004. Illegal
immigration has declined; border seizures of drugs, weapons and
currency have risen significantly.  Still, the U.S. has 7,500 miles of border with  Mexico  and
 Canada  and 88,000 miles of coastline. There is no way to secure
this vast expanse. The only way to rebuff future illegal
immigrants is to shut off their prospects for employment. This
will probably require a biometric national identity card, a
federal database to confirm each card’s legitimacy and severe
penalties for employers who hire workers lacking an authentic
card. Civil libertarians on left and right object to this plan.
Their concerns are justified, which is why cards should contain
only the holder’s name, Social Security number, residency status
and a biometric marker to confirm identity. No other information
should be permitted on the cards or in the database.  Increased Visas  With the flow of illegal immigrants diminished, the U.S.
would be able to increase visas for legal immigration. The
current limit on visas for highly skilled immigrants is one of
the most self-defeating policies imaginable, undermining
economic growth in the U.S. while supplying entrepreneurs and
skilled workers to global competitors. The consequence for
government budgets is also stark. A 1997  National Research
Council  report estimated that highly skilled immigrants have,
overall, a positive fiscal impact of $198,000 each. Visas for
low-skilled immigrants should be increased, as well, sustaining
the opportunity to rise from the bottom that is the essence of
the American dream.  Opposition to immigration is a mainstay of U.S. politics.
By the early 1830s,  Samuel F.B. Morse , an inventor of the
telegraph, was already inveighing against the “outcast tenants
of the poorhouses and prisons of  Europe ” who would soon strangle
a nation in its infancy. But the immigrants kept coming. They
shaped American character and fueled American success. Their
story isn’t over.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 