-- 
Moody’s Says Voluntary Participation on Greece’s Debt Is Hard to Imagine

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 
2011-06-09T13:58:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/moody-s-says-voluntary-participation-on-greece-s-debt-is-hard-to-imagine.html
Moody’s Investors Service said it’s
“hard to imagine” voluntary investor participation in a Greek
debt restructuring and any default would increase the risk of
Portugal and Ireland being unable to meet payment obligations.  “It’s hard to imagine something that’s truly voluntary in
the current climate,” Bart Oosterveld, managing director in
charge of sovereign risk at Moody’s, said at a press conference
in Frankfurt today. “The default risks for peripheral European
countries continue to increase.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in a June 6
letter that bondholders must contribute a “substantial” share
of a second aid package for Greece, proposing a swap to extend
maturities that may constitute a default. The German position
clashes with the stance of European Commission officials and the
 European Central Bank , which oppose anything beyond a voluntary
rollover of debt as they struggle to avert the euro area’s first
sovereign default.  “We are not in favor of restructuring, haircuts and so
forth. We exclude all elements which are not voluntary,” ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said today. “We call for avoiding
all credit events and selective defaults.  Moody’s said that there is “no such thing as a default
that is both orderly and meaningful,” adding that 50 percent of
the countries placed on a credit rating of Caa1 in the past have
defaulted. “A default that is large would be very disruptive,”
it said.  Greek Cut  Greece ’s local and foreign currency bond ratings were cut
to Caa1 from B1 on June 1 by Moody’s, which cited a growing risk
that the country will default on its debt. The outlook on Greek
debt is negative, meaning the rating could be reduced further,
Moody’s said. The rating is seven steps below investment grade.  Oosterveld said small defaults tend to be followed by
further defaults by the same issuer. There have been about 20
sovereign defaults since 1998, limited to emerging markets, with
an average loss, or haircut of, about 50 percent, he said.  “The backdrop to address these issues is not favorable --
our base case expectation is that markets will continue to be
unsettled about sovereign risks and related banking risk for
some time,” he said. Asked about the potential impact of a
declared default by Moody’s, he said “markets are volatile.”  Moody’s expects the euro area to continue to provide
liquidity support to so-called peripheral European nations, he
said. “We think the euro-zone leaders are well incentivized to
provide liquidity support and limit contagion,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  