-- 
Moody’s Seeing a ‘Serious Deterioration’ in South Africa’s Fiscal Position

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-06-09T13:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/moody-s-sees-serious-deterioration-in-south-africa-s-fiscal-position.html
South Africa  has had a “serious
deterioration” in its fiscal position that is unlikely to
reverse quickly, said Kristin Lindow, a sovereign credit analyst
at Moody’s Investors Service.  Political risk in  Africa ’s biggest economy is also rising
after the ruling  African National Congress  lost support in last
month’s municipal elections, Lindow said in a speech in
Johannesburg today.  South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  postponed
plans to narrow the fiscal deficit in his budget speech in
February, forecasting the shortfall would be unchanged at 5.3
percent of gross domestic product in the year through March
2012. In October’s mid-term budget, he predicted the deficit
would narrow to 4.6 percent.  “After years of low deficit and fiscal surpluses, the
situation has turned,” Lindow said. “There has been a very
serious deterioration in the fiscal position now and for some
time to come we don’t expect there to be a turnaround. There’s
been a dramatic shift in policy stance from November to
currently.”  The rand weakened to 6.7526 against the dollar as of 2:55
p.m. in Johannesburg today from 6.6919 before Lindow’s speech.  Jobs Growth  The government has stepped up spending on programs to
create jobs for the one in four who are unemployed. President
 Jacob Zuma  has pledged to create 5 million jobs in the next
decade to slash the  unemployment rate  to 15 percent.  Unemployment is one of the biggest constraints on South
Africa’s A3 credit rating, Lindow said. Rising debt levels don’t
pose a threat to the rating yet, she said.  Economic growth will be higher this year than in 2010,
though not “appreciably” so, Lindow said. Moody’s expects the
economy to expand more than 3 percent this year and about 4
percent in 2012, she said.  Growth in manufacturing, which expanded an annualized 14.5
percent in the first quarter, is unlikely to be sustained and
investment remains “weak,” Lindow said.  Manufacturing growth almost ground to a halt in April,
slowing to an annual 0.4 percent from 4.9 percent in March, the
statistics office said today.  The  Reserve Bank , which has kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent since November,
may raise the rate later this year as inflation accelerates,
Lindow said. The central bank expects the inflation rate, which
reached 4.2 percent in April, to breach the 3 percent to 6
percent target range in the first quarter of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 