-- 
Osram to Supplement R&D With Takeovers to Keep Pace With Demand

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-09T12:42:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/osram-to-supplement-r-d-with-takeovers-to-keep-pace-with-demand.html
Osram, the lighting maker to be spun
out of  Siemens AG (SIE) , plans to make acquisitions to supplement
research spending as a move toward LED marks the fastest change
in the industry for three decades, chief Wolfgang Dehen said.  “The lighting business will see dramatic changes like
we’ve not seen in the past 30 years,” said Dehen at a press
conference in Munich today. “If you look at what we did in the
past, that’s going to be a good indicator going forward.”  Osram, expected to list shares in  Germany  in the fall, is
prepared for being outside the Munich-based German engineering
giant, Dehen said. The company, which holds the No. 2 spot in
the $65 billion industry behind Royal Philips Electronics NV,
earlier this year agreed to buy Siteco Lighting, strengthening
its position in the market for fixtures.  Governments are discouraging the use of conventional  light
bulbs , which convert only 5 percent to 10 percent of the energy
used into light and have shorter lifespans than LEDs. To help
reach its target of reducing carbon dioxide emissions 20 percent
by 2020 from 1990 levels, the European Union is phasing out
conventional clear incandescent bulbs of 100 watts or more.  By next year, models such as frosted bulbs and high-energy
halogen lights will also be erased.  Munich-based Osram spent 5.5 percent of sales on R&D last
year and aims to maintain it at a high level, Dehen said. It
supplies  Ford Motor Co. (F)  with an LED system for its Mustang
sports car, and headlights for the flagship A8 model of
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi. It is developing LEDs that allow mobile
phones to project pictures or movies onto a wall and generates
more than 20 percent of sales from LEDs.  Philips, which spent 6.2 percent of sales on R&D last year,
bought four lighting businesses last year.  The overall lighting market is likely to grow 44 percent to
about 65 billion euros by 2016, according to Siemens.  “It’s a fast-growing market, you need to invest,” said
Dehen, who aims to get Osram included in Germany’s benchmark DAX
index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 