-- 
Motorola Mobility to Sell Photon 4G Smartphone With Sprint

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-09T20:10:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/motorola-mobility-said-to-plan-its-first-4g-sprint-smartphone.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.
introduced its first so-called fourth-generation smartphone for
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s network today, deepening a partnership
with the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier to boost sales.  The Photon, which has a 1-gigahertz processor and an 8-
megapixel camera, will be available this summer, Sprint Chief
Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  said at an event in New York today.
It will run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software like other
Motorola smartphones. No price was given.  Motorola and Sprint are teaming up as they look for an edge
against larger rivals. Motorola is trying to differentiate
itself against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , as well
as other handset makers that use the Android software such as
Samsung Electronics Co. and HTC Corp.  “We have a long-standing relationship with Sprint and we
are thrilled to open a new chapter of working together,”
Motorola Mobility CEO Sanjay Jha said at the event. “We are
showing the breadth of this partnership.”  Sprint is facing competition from Verizon Wireless and  AT&T
Inc. (T) , which is seeking regulatory approval for its proposed $39
billion purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. Motorola Mobility, based
in Libertyville, Illinois, makes phones for the Droid line at
Verizon Wireless and also manufactures the Atrix for AT&T.  Feature Phones  Until now, Sprint has mainly sold Motorola feature phones,
or devices that lack sophisticated Web-browsing and e-mail
capabilities. Feature phones are usually less profitable since
consumers typically pay little or no money for data service, on
top of charges for voice calls.  “We used to have a lot of devices on Sprint, primarily on
the push-to-talk network,” said Jha in an interview. For “4G
phones to go up in sales, that’s very important for us.”  Android’s share of U.S. smartphone subscribers jumped 5.2
percentage points to 36.4 percent in April from three months
earlier, according to ComScore Inc., making it the fastest
growing smartphone platform.  Hesse also unveiled the  Motorola Triumph , which will be
available with the Sprint’s Virgin Mobile brand for prepaid
customers. Sprint and Motorola will release at least 10 new
phones together in 2011, he said.  Motorola fell 66 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $23.36 at 4 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Sprint, based in
 Overland Park , Kansas, climbed 7 cents to $5.41.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  