-- 
Household Worth in U.S. Rises $943 Billion as Stocks Outstrip Home Values

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-09T21:37:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/household-worth-in-u-s-rises-by-943-billion-as-stocks-offset-home-prices.html
Household wealth in the U.S. climbed
by $943 billion in the first quarter of 2011 as rising share
prices outstripped declines in home values.  Net worth for households and non-profit groups increased at
a 6.8 percent annual pace to $58.1 trillion after rising at a 19
percent pace in the previous three months, the  Federal Reserve 
said today in its flow of funds report from Washington. American
households also cut debt for a 12th consecutive quarter.  The 5.4 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
last quarter helped boost household wealth that remains below
pre-recession levels. Stock declines, a weakening housing market
and rising unemployment in the current quarter probably means
households will continue saving and cutting debt, slowing the
spending that accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  “The easy part of the repair of balance sheets may be
behind us,”  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  New York , said before the report. “It’ll be
tougher to get big increases in household wealth. We need to at
least see  house prices  showing signs they are approaching
stability.”  Since reaching a five-year low of $49.4 trillion in the
first quarter of 2009, net worth has improved by $8.7 trillion.
That still leaves it $7.7 trillion below the record high of
$65.8 trillion reached in the quarter ended June 2007, six
months before the recession began.  Corporate Cash  Companies had a record $1.91 trillion in cash and other
liquid assets at the end of the first quarter, the report also
showed, up from $1.86 trillion in the prior three months. Six
consecutive quarters of profit growth helped fuel a 96 percent
jump in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index from its recession-low
in March 2009 through March 2011.  The value of financial assets, including stocks and pension
fund holdings, held by American households increased by $1.16
trillion in the first quarter, today’s report showed, as the
Fed’s planned purchases of $600 billion in Treasuries through
June continued to push investors into riskier assets.  The value of real estate fell by $298.5 billion following
the prior quarter’s $84.4 billion drop.  Home values may keep falling as unemployment causes
foreclosures to mount. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values across the nation was down 4.2 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, the biggest one-quarter
decrease since the first three months of 2009. The national
 price index  fell to its lowest since the second quarter of 2002,
and was down 34 percent from the peak reached in the second
quarter of 2006.  Home Values  Robert Shiller , a co-founder of the index, told a
conference in New York today that a further decline in property
values of 10 percent to 25 percent in the next five years
“wouldn’t surprise me at all.”  Owners’ equity as a share of total real-estate holdings
fell to 38 percent last quarter from 38.9 percent in the last
three months of 2010.  Household debt fell at a 2 percent annual rate in the first
quarter. Mortgage borrowing decreased at a 3.4 percent pace, the
biggest decline in a year. Other forms of  consumer credit ,
including auto and student loans, climbed at a 2.4 percent pace.
It was the second consecutive gain following nine quarterly
decreases.  Americans have cut debt and increased savings to cope with
an  unemployment rate  that averaged 9.6 percent last year. The
rate fell to 8.8 percent in March and climbed back to 9.1
percent in May, the Labor Department said last week.  Fuel Prices  A surge in gasoline prices caused by turmoil in the  Middle
East  prompted consumers to slow spending, paring economic
growth. The average price of a gallon of regular unleaded
gasoline at the pump rose to an almost three-year high of $3.99
on May 4 and has since declined by about 26 cents.  Consumer spending  rose at a 2.2 percent annual pace in the
first quarter, compared with 4 percent in the prior three months
which was the most in four years, according to Commerce
Department data.  Total non-financial debt in the first quarter grew at a 2.3
percent annual pace, led by a 7.8 percent increase by the
Federal government and a 4 percent gain among businesses. State
and local government borrowing fell at a 2.9 percent pace.  Some economists lowered their projections for grow last
week as the smallest payroll gains in eight months capped a
series of data suggesting the economy was decelerating. Among
them,  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc.,
trimmed his 2011 forecast to 2.5 percent from a 3.1 percent
estimate at the beginning of the year.  To contact the report on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  