-- 
Outback’s Sullivan Races Deadline for Flight 93 Donations

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-06-09T20:41:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/outback-s-sullivan-races-deadline-for-flight-93-memorial-money.html
Outback Steakhouse Inc. co-founder
Chris Sullivan said he knows what his friends William Minardi
and Timothy Coughlin would do had they survived the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks: raise money to remember the victims.  Now Sullivan is doing just that, heading an effort to pay
for a $62 million memorial and park dedicated to the 40 people
who died when Flight 93 crashed into a Shanksville,
 Pennsylvania , field. Three months before the 10th anniversary of
the attacks, Sullivan said the Flight 93 National Memorial
 campaign  is still $13 million to $14 million shy of its goal.  “It’s been harder than I thought it would be,” he said in
an interview today. “I really thought the checks would fly in.
It’s been tough to get some of the big, big corporations in
America to get involved in the project.”  The fund-raising drive has attracted 70,000 donors. The
problem has been in finding individuals and companies willing to
contribute “seven-digit” figures, said Sullivan, who has given
$2 million himself and  been chairman of  the campaign since 2006.  Shanksville, a hamlet 82 miles southeast of Pittsburgh,
isn’t near many large firms that can be tapped for donations.  Some companies have scaled back their giving as they focus
on sustaining themselves in a faltering economy, said Sullivan,
who served as Outback’s chief executive officer until 2005.  Requests for Money  Also, potential donors have been “inundated” with
requests for money following  Hurricane Katrina  and other
disasters, he said.  Sullivan said he is aware it took 60 years to erect a World
War II  memorial . A plan to construct a  memorial  to  Martin Luther King Jr . still hasn’t been completed more than 40 years after
the civil rights leader’s assassination.  Sullivan’s campaign has pledged to raise a net of $30
million, with the rest of the amount coming from the government.  The campaign has enough money to complete half the memorial
and park by Sept. 10 and 11, the days of the dedication and
commemoration ceremonies, he said.  Donors can contribute at
https://myaccount.nationalparks.org/Page.aspx?pid=438  Among the  features  of the memorial will a “Tower of
Voices,” a structure that contains 40 wind chimes; 40 maple-
tree groves planted along the site’s perimeter; and a 150-acre
bowl-shaped “Field of Honor” covered with wildflowers and
grass.  ‘In the Cockpit’  United Airlines Flight 93 took off at 8:42 a.m. from  Newark
Liberty International Airport  bound for  San Francisco , carrying
a crew of seven and 37 passengers including four al-Qaeda
hijackers,  according  to the 9/11 commission’s report.  At 9:28, the hijackers attacked, taking over the cockpit
and announcing they had a bomb on board.  In phone calls to loved ones, passengers heard about the
planes crashing into the World Trade Center earlier that morning
and rushed the cockpit door in an attempt to wrest control from
the hijackers.  “In the cockpit. If we don’t, we’ll die,” shouted one
passenger caught on the cockpit recorder.  As the passenger assault continued, Ziad Jarrah, the
hijacker pilot, plunged the plane at 580 miles per hour into the
ground.  Jarrah’s target had been the U.S. Capitol or White House,
the report said.  “He was defeated by the alerted, unarmed passengers of
United 93,” the report said.  Management Class  On that day, Sullivan, who served as  Outback ’s chief
executive officer until 2005, was teaching a company management
class in Tampa,  Florida .  He looked at the television image of the World Trade
Center’s smoking columns and immediately thought about his
friends “Billy” and “Timmy,” who worked at Cantor Fitzgerald
LP.  “I went, ‘Oh my God, please,’” Sullivan said.  Working on the Flight 93 project gave Sullivan a chance to
do more than just donate money to the memory of the people who
died on Sept. 11, he said.  The Flight 93 passengers and crew “were the first soldiers
on the war on terror,” Sullivan said. “They had the courage to
step up and make a difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  