-- 
Toyota Owners Can’t Use California Law in Economic Loss Suit

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-06-09T06:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/toyota-vechicle-owners-can-t-use-california-law-for-economic-loss-claims.html
Toyota Motor Corp. vehicle owners
outside  California  can’t pursue under that state’s laws their
claims that unintended acceleration problems lowered the value
of their cars, a judge ruled.  Toyota owners say the company drove down the value of their
vehicles by failing to disclose or fix defects related to sudden
acceleration. Their lawyers asked U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in  Santa Ana , California, to allow them to pursue their
claims under California law, which gives plaintiffs a better
chance than most states of recovering damages.  Toyota asked the judge to find that car owners can’t use
California law on suits brought in other states. About 70
percent of the economic-loss cases were filed outside the state.
Using California’s law would permit claims to go forward that
would be barred by laws in other states, Selna said.  “Application of California law to a nationwide class, at
least in some instances, would drastically expand the scope of
relief available to plaintiffs (to the detriment of Toyota),”
Selna said in yesterday’s ruling. “Application of California
law would likely have the effect of reviving a number of claims
that would otherwise be time barred.”  Selna had said in court papers filed May 13 that he was
likely to rule in the vehicle owners’ favor. He issued the final
ruling yesterday.  California Difference  Using California law helps plaintiffs in the other states
pursue claims that might otherwise be dismissed, said Michael I. Krauss, law professor at George Mason University School of Law
in Arlington, Virginia.  “The damage they’re claiming is not that they’re driving a
dangerous car, but that people will think they’re driving a
dangerous car,” he said. “The overwhelming majority of states
don’t allow recovery if the only damage is economic damage.”  “We’re gratified the court has recognized that allowing a
few handpicked plaintiffs to set the course for customers
throughout the  United States  through this kind of procedural
engineering would go against established law, diminish Toyota’s
substantive rights and undermine the purposes of these
multidistrict proceedings,”  Celeste Migliore , a spokeswoman for
the Toyota City, Japan-based automaker, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Most Cases  “Importantly, approximately 70 percent of the economic-
loss cases in this litigation were originally filed outside of
California, and many of those states would not allow the claims
brought by customers whose vehicles have never manifested a
defect,” she said.  Steve W. Berman, a lead lawyer for the vehicle owners, said
he was “quite surprised” by the ruling. It won’t be a “huge
issue” for the plaintiffs, he said.  “We will prove a defect exists that Toyota hid and if we
have to do it state by state, so be it,” Berman said.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles, starting in 2009, after claims of defects and
incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration. The recalls
set off a wave of litigation, including hundreds of economic
loss suits and claims by individuals or their families alleging
injuries and deaths.  Most of the federal lawsuits were combined before Selna, in
a multidistrict litigation, or MDL, for evidence gathering and
pretrial rulings. In an MDL, while one judge oversees the
litigation, individual claims are generally governed by the
state law where a lawsuit was brought, Krauss, the law
professor, said.  ‘Highly Uncommon’  “The basic rule is if somebody buys his Toyota in  Iowa  and
suffers damages in Iowa, they have to use Iowa law.” Allowing
the use of one state’s law to cover claims brought in others, is
“highly uncommon,” he said.  A number of states, including  Alabama ,  North Dakota ,  Ohio 
and  Pennsylvania , “would preclude or highly likely preclude
some or all of the claims asserted by plaintiffs whose products
have manifested no defect,” Selna said in his 22-page ruling.  Allowing the plaintiffs to pursue the claims under
California law “would undermine the purposes of the present
MDL,” because it wouldn’t “take into account the requirement
that cases retain their separate and distinct identities” so
they can be returned to their home states for trial, he said.  “Just as the court should not permit filing in the present
forum by a singular plaintiff to dictate the choice of
substantive law, the court cannot permit the selection of the
moving plaintiffs here to dictate the conclusion regarding which
state’s substantive law should apply,” he said.  Defect, Value  Selna denied Toyota’s motion to dismiss most claims on May
13, finding lawyers for vehicle owners had properly pleaded loss
or injury.  “Taking these allegations as true, as the court must at
the pleading stage, they establish an economic loss,” Selna
wrote. “A vehicle with a defect is worth less than one without
a defect.’  Toyota’s series of recalls began in September 2009 with an
announcement that 3.8 million vehicles were being recalled
because of a defect that may cause floor mats to jam the
accelerator pedal. In January 2010, the company recalled 2.3
million vehicles to fix sticking gas pedals.  The carmaker said in February that it was recalling another
2.17 million vehicles in the U.S. for carpet and floor-mat flaws
that could jam gas pedals.  Many of the lawsuits claim that loose floor mats and sticky
pedals don’t explain all episodes of sudden acceleration and
that the electronic throttle system in  Toyota vehicles  is to
blame. Toyota has disputed any flaws in its electronic throttle
control system.  NASA  Test  In February, NASA, the U.S. space agency, and the  National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration  said their probe of
possible electronic defects found no causes for unintended
acceleration other than sticking accelerator pedals and floor
mats that jammed the pedals.  The cases are combined as In re  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Callahan  in  San Diego  at 
 callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  