-- 
Panetta Supports Cuts While Maintaining ‘Core Elements’

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-09T17:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/panetta-backs-pentagon-cuts-while-maintaining-core-elements-of-defense.html
The days of “large growth, unlimited
defense budgets are over,” Leon Panetta, said in testimony
during his confirmation hearing to become U.S. defense
secretary.  “Our challenge will be to design budgets that eliminate
wasteful and duplicative spending while protecting those core
elements that we absolutely need for our nation’s defense,” he
said to the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Panetta said he shares the concern of departing Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  “about the possibility of hollowing out
our force.”  “I share his concern about automatic, across-the-board
cuts,” he said in his confirmation hearing to succeed Gates. He
warned about viewing defense spending cuts as the solution to
the nation’s deficit. “Defense is by no means the causes of the
huge deficits we are facing today,” he said.  He faced repeated questions about the how he views the goal
of the Pentagon’s comprehensive strategic review of the
implications of the White House’s goal of cutting $400 billion
over 12 years.  Panetta, the current CIA chief, received a warm welcome
from committee members of both parties. Panetta has
“extraordinary qualifications” for the job, said Arizona
Senator  John McCain , the committee’s ranking Republican.  South Carolina Republican Lindsey Graham called him the
“linchpin” of an “A+ national security team.”  F-35 Costs  Panetta, when pressed about acquisition reform and weapons
systems, said he will watch costs on the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
F-35 fighter jet program “very closely” if confirmed.  “We have to take a very hard look at all weapons systems
to make sure they are cost-effective,” he said.  One of those systems is the  General Electric Co. (GE)  alternate
engine for the F-35 that Gates has said repeatedly is
unnecessary. Panetta said he supports canceling that program.  In his opening remarks, Panetta said the U.S. has moved
from the  Cold War  to face a “blizzard of threats.”  Citing  Iran , he said he would address Iran’s nuclear
activities in closed session. Still, “there’s no question they
continue to try to develop some kind of nuclear capability,” he
said.  ‘Next  Pearl Harbor ’  In terms of new threats, the U.S. faces the “real
possibility” of a surprise cyber attack, he said.  “The next Pearl Harbor we confront could very well be a
cyber attack that cripples our power systems, our grid, our
security systems, our financial systems, our governmental
systems,” Panetta told the panel.  “This is a real possibility in today’s world,” he said.
“As a result, I think we have to aggressively be able to
counter that. It is going to take both defensive measures as
well as aggressive measures to deal with it.”  In his written responses to the panel and in testimony,
Panetta cited as top security priorities prevailing in  Iraq  and
Afghanistan against al-Qaeda, keeping weapons of mass
destruction from terrorists and “rogue nations,” preparing for
future conflicts, preserving the U.S. military’s combat prowess
and continuing the search for efficiencies that Gates has
initiated -- “which will be crucial in this time of budget
constraints.”  Libya  Outlook  On Libya, Panetta testified that  Muammar Qaddafi  staying in
Libya would send “a terrible signal” to other countries that
the U.S. word “isn’t worth very much.”  Panetta said it appeared that NATO attacks have
“significantly weakened” Qaddafi’s regime.  On Iraq, Panetta said the White House should “seriously
consider” keeping some U.S. troops in Iraq after the December
withdrawal date if requested by the Iraqi government.  On  Afghanistan , he declined to endorse any figures for an
early withdrawal of some of the 100,000 U.S. troops there,
deferring to the White House and Gates. Some withdrawals are
expected next month.  Panetta, 72, is a  California  Democrat who served in the
U.S. House of Representatives from 1977 to 1993 and then as
budget director and White House chief of staff in the Clinton
administration. He has been director of the Central Intelligence
Agency since February 2009. He would succeed Gates, the lone
holdover in Obama’s cabinet from the George W. Bush
administration.  Panetta’s experience as chairman of the House Budget
Committee and as director of the Office of Management and Budget
would position him as defense secretary to implement President
 Barack Obama ’s plan to cut $400 billion in national security
spending through 2023. Panetta said he’d have a “large” role
in the review.  ‘Difficult Choices’  Panetta, in his written answers, said he expects that
“difficult choices will have to be made” to rein in defense
spending and reduce the federal deficit.  Heritage Foundation defense analyst  Mackenzie Eaglen  said
in an e-mail before the hearing that, “given that this
nomination is a foregone conclusion, members are really only
looking out for any ideological red flags and whether Panetta
believes it is ‘when and how,’ not ‘if,’ we cut defense by up to
$400 billion before the strategy review is completed.”  “The  United States  must continue to monitor carefully
 North Korea ’s weapons of mass destruction and missile
development,” said Panetta promising as defense secretary to
work closely with allies in that effort.  He also promised to support improvements in the U.S.
missile defense program.  Missile Defense  “The United States is currently protected against the
threat of a limited intercontinental ballistic missile attack
from states like North Korea and Iran,” Panetta said. “It is
important we maintain this advantage by continuing to improve
the Ground-based Midcourse Defense system” that’s deployed in
Alaska and California, he said.  The U.S. ground-based system of 30 interceptors is managed
by  Boeing Co. (BA) , and supported by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  Raytheon builds the hit-to-kill warhead that sits
on top of 30  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  interceptors in Alaska and
California.  In his testimony, Panetta said that the U.S. and  Pakistan 
need to strengthen ties to combat the Taliban and al-Qaeda,
though he said the relationship is frustrating.  Panetta said that improvements have been made in Afghan
security ahead of Obama’s announcement to begin withdrawing U.S.
troops.  The CIA chief indicated he opposes waterboarding, a
technique that simulates drowning, as an interrogation method
for terrorism suspects, as was done with alleged 9/11 mastermind
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  