-- 
Pay-for-Delay Drug Deals Said to Be Target for Rule at FTC

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-06-09T12:45:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/pay-for-delay-pharmaceutical-settlements-said-to-be-target-of-new-ftc-rule.html
The Federal Trade Commission is
considering using its rule-making power to stop so-called pay-
for-delay deals between brand-drug manufacturers and makers of
generic medicines after failing to get judges or Congress to
act, three people familiar with the process said.  FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz, pushing to abolish these deals,
is studying how the agency may prohibit brand-name manufacturers
such as  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  and Sanofi Aventis SA from paying generic-
drug makers such as  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  to drop patent
lawsuits that might get generics to market faster, the people
said. They declined to be identified because the decision-making
process isn’t public.  Leibowitz estimated in an interview May 3 that the deals
cost consumers about $3.5 billion a year in higher prescription
drug prices by slowing the introduction of generics.  “There are few competitive problems that harm consumers as
much as the pay-for-delay settlements,” said  David Balto , a
Washington-based attorney who has represented consumer groups on
the issue. “This is an endemic problem that needs a
comprehensive solution.”  A rule to block certain patent settlements would be unusual
for the FTC because it would involve antitrust rather than
consumer protection and it could be made on the agency’s own
initiative under its basic statutory authority rather than at
Congress’s specific direction, said Bert Foer, president of the
American Antitrust Institute in Washington.  Courts, Congress  Efforts by the FTC to challenge the settlements in federal
courts have failed and Congress hasn’t moved to outlaw them. The
settlement amounts are confidential,  Peter Kaplan , an FTC
spokesman, said by e-mail.  Generic drugs  account  for 78 percent of all retail
prescriptions in the $307.4 billion-a-year U.S. pharmaceuticals
market, according to the IMS Institute for Healthcare
Informatics.  Consumer spending  on generic drugs is growing as
patents expire and patients choose lower-cost options, IMS said
on its website.  The FTC may try to issue the rule under an expedited
procedure it hasn’t often used, the people said. One precedent
was in 1971, when the FTC passed a rule that required labeling
octane content at the gas pump.  ‘Unprecedented’ Effort  “Any potential attempt by the FTC to move forward
unilaterally with such a rulemaking would be unprecedented,”
said Sean Heather, executive director of the global regulatory
cooperation project at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The ‘If
you don’t at first succeed try, try, and try again’ approach to
policy making by an independent agency isn’t appropriate.”  In recent years, the FTC has slowed its rule-making, partly
as a result of procedures, set up under a 1975 law, that
Liebowitz has described as “cumbersome.” Final rules under
this process take almost seven years on average to implement,
said Jeffrey Lubbers, a professor of administrative law at
American University in  Washington . The FTC hasn’t initiated any
new rules under this system since 1980, he added.  The FTC’s move could be controversial after Congress last
year shot down an effort by the agency to seek rule-making
authority under the faster process.  Options Open  “We are not dismissing any option out of hand,” said
Kaplan, who said the agency’s strategy remains focused on
fighting the deals in court and pressing for legislation.  Drug company lobbyists say the settlements can benefit
consumers when brand-name drugmakers allow generic equivalents
to get to market before patents expire.  “Patent settlements have never prevented competition
beyond the patent expiry, and generally have resulted in making
lower-cost generics available months and even years before
patents have expired,” said David Belian, a spokesman for the
Generic Pharmaceutical Association, a Washington-based trade
group whose members include Mylan Inc. and Anchen
Pharmaceuticals Inc.  The FTC doesn’t need a blanket ban against patent
settlements as the current system allows legal agreements that
don’t hurt competition, said Diane Bieri, executive vice
president and general counsel of the  Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America , a Washington-based trade group.  Court View  A rule blocking patent settlements might not hold up in
court, said Marc Schildkraut, a lawyer with Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP
in Washington and former assistant director of the FTC’s Bureau
of Competition. In private practice, Schildkraut successfully
defended Schering-Plough Corp. against the agency over patent
settlements.  “The question is whether the FTC can trump the courts by
doing this,” Schildkraut said. “That’s pretty novel, but will
it work? I’m not sure how much traction it will have.”  The commission may await the outcome of several cases over
alleged anticompetitive agreements involving Abbott
Laboratories’ AndroGel, a testosterone replacement therapy, and
Cephalon Inc.’s Provigil, a drug to improve wakefulness, before
making a move, the people familiar said. FTC Commissioner Thomas Rosch said in a May 11 speech that he’s “optimistic” about
both cases.  U.S. courts, including federal appeals panels in  New York ,
Atlanta and Washington, have upheld settlement agreements as
long as they don’t delay generics beyond the expiration of
patents.  ‘Tough Sell’  “Judges who have been trained to encourage settlements to
avoid the costs of litigation now have the FTC trying to tell
them they’re wrong,” Schildkraut said. “It’s a tough sell.”  The expedited approach, allowed under the 1975 law if the
rule involves competition, is the same as used by agencies such
as the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal
Communications Commission. This process could lead to rulemaking
in less than a year, Lubbers said.  Past rules have primarily involved consumer protection
issues such as labels on appliances, clothing and food, said the
American Antitrust Institute’s Foer.  Some of the agency’s efforts have backfired, notably when
the FTC tried to regulate  television advertising  aimed at
children in 1978, spawning an uproar that prompted Congress to
shut down the agency for several days. A Washington Post
editorial dubbed the FTC the “National Nanny.”  “The result was that many rules didn’t go through after
that and the FTC backed away from rule making,” Foer said.
“Naturally when you start a rule process, the whole industry
jumps on you and cries to Congress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 