-- 
PCCW Said to Seek Up to $2 Billion in Telecom Business Trust Spinoff Plan

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-06-09T12:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/pccw-said-to-seek-up-to-2-billion-from-telecom-unit-spinoff.html
PCCW Ltd. (8)  plans to raise as much as
$2 billion by listing its telecommunications assets as a
business trust in  Hong Kong , two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  The company, Hong Kong’s biggest phone carrier, has hired
China International Capital Corp.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for the sale, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the information is private.  PCCW, controlled by billionaire Chairman  Richard Li , last
week said Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. approved the
company’s plan to list the business trust, after initially
rejecting the proposal. The carrier said it may sell a minority
stake of the trust, which will include the company’s “mature”
operations including divisions that offer fixed-line, broadband
Internet, and mobile-phone services.  Anita Choi, a spokesman at PCCW in Hong Kong, declined to
comment.  Proceeds from the proposed offering will be used to reduce
debt and for investment in faster-growing businesses, PCCW said
on June 2. Falling revenue from sales of fixed lines had weighed
on shares of PCCW, which have underperformed Hong Kong rivals
including SmarTone Telecommunications Holdings Ltd. this year.  PCCW shares rose 0.3 percent to HK$3.12 in Hong Kong
trading today, and have declined 9.3 percent this year, compared
with the 69 percent gain in SmarTone, the mobile carrier
controlled by the city’s leading real-estate company  Sun Hung
Kai Properties Ltd. (16)   In April, PCCW said that the stock exchange’s listing
committee had rejected the application for the business trust.  The Wall Street Journal reported on PCCW’s fund-raising
plans earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  