-- 
Periodic Table Gains 2 Newly Created Elements, Chemistry Group Reports

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-06-09T19:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/periodic-table-gains-2-newly-created-elements-chemistry-group-reports.html
Scientists have added two new
elements to the  periodic table , the first additions since 2009.  Known as numbers 114 and 116 until they are officially
named, the new elements were created through a process known as
“cross-bombardment,” in which particles are hurtled into one
another through an accelerator.  Scientists from the  Joint Institute for Nuclear Research  in
Dubna,  Russia , and the  Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory  in
Livermore,  California , are credited with the discoveries,
according to the  International   Union of Pure and Applied
Chemistry , the organization that reviews claims of potential new
elements. The researchers smashed calcium into plutonium to
create 114, and calcium into curium for 116, the group said in
an  article  published June 1.  “The periodic table is the focus point of the whole field
of chemistry,” said  Paul Karol , a professor of chemistry at
 Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania , and
chair of the committee that made the recommendation to add the
elements. “It’s always exciting when a new element gets added
to it.”  The last new element, copernicium, was added in 2009, Karol
said. The elements 114 and 116 will be named by the Russian
discoverers, he said. Their numbers refer to how many protons
are in the atomic nucleus. The chemistry group ruled that three
elements, 113, 115 and 118, didn’t meet criteria for discovery.  The periodic table is a chart that lists pure chemical
materials called elements. Whether the new elements will be
useful isn’t known yet, Karol said. The timing of the
recommendation happened during a particularly celebratory year
in the field, he said.  “It turns out this is the  International Year of
Chemistry ,” Karol said. “It’s also the 100th anniversary of
the year Marie Curie got the  Nobel Prize  in chemistry for
discovering two elements.”  Curie won the prize for discovering radium and polonium.
Curium, an element in the research that created 116, was named
after Curie and her husband, Pierre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 