-- 
Perry Presidential Notion May Get Serious as Gingrich Aides Quit

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 
2011-06-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/perry-for-president-gains-credence.html
Texas  Governor Rick Perry’s
flirtation with the Republican presidential nomination edged
closer to becoming a serious affair as key figures in his past
campaigns quit working for  Newt Gingrich .  Dave Carney, a longtime Perry adviser, and Rob Johnson, a
former political aide to the Republican, both abandoned
Gingrich’s presidential bid yesterday. Their departures drew
more attention to the possibility that the longest-serving U.S.
governor could make a run for the nation’s top office.  “Perry would be hard-pressed to get serious about a
campaign without his trusted team in place,” said Harold Cook,
an Austin political consultant who works for Democrats. “Carney
and Johnson are very good, they are very loyal to Perry and now
they don’t have a date to the prom.”  Johnson, who resigned as Gingrich’s campaign manager, ran
the governor’s re-election effort last year. Carney began
advising Perry, 61, in 1998. Last year, Perry beat U.S. Senator
 Kay Bailey Hutchison  in the primary and former Houston Mayor
Bill White in the general election. The Texas governor said May
27 he was “thinking about” a presidential bid, after denying
any interest in his party’s nomination for months.  “People in Austin close to Perry are saying that he’s
being drawn into this because the Republican field is so weak,”
said Jeff Crosby, an Austin political consultant to Democrats.
The upheaval in the Gingrich camp will spark “a ripple of
chatter about Perry for people who think there’s some meat on
the bone.”  Unrelated to Perry  Carney, a former White House political aide to President
George H.W. Bush, denied that his departure from the Gingrich
campaign was related to a possible Perry bid. The governor’s
deliberations didn’t affect his decision “in the least,”
Carney said by e-mail.  “The professional team came to the realization that the
direction of the campaign they sought and Newt’s vision for the
campaign were incompatible,” Carney said in the e-mail to
Bloomberg News.  Gingrich, a former speaker of the U.S. House of
Representatives, gained prominence by leading a 1994 Republican
surge to wrest control of the chamber from Democrats for the
first time in 40 years. He declared his candidacy last month.  Perry has raised his national profile in the past two weeks
by scheduling speeches to Republicans in New Orleans and  New
York , and inviting governors to a  prayer  day Aug. 6 in Houston.  No Change  The resignations by Carney and Johnson “don’t change
anything,” Mark Miner, a spokesman for the governor, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. He said Perry began
considering a prayer meeting in December.  “The governor has said he is thinking about running, but
his current focus is on the special legislative session,” Miner
said. He said Perry hasn’t taken any steps toward a campaign.  “Whether he runs or not, every day that passes there seems
to be a greater opportunity for him,” said Allen Blakemore, a
Houston political consultant to Republicans who hasn’t worked
for Perry. “Nobody in the presidential race right now is
catching fire.”  Perry will “get in this race,” Mark McKinnon, a political
consultant who once worked for former President  George W. Bush ,
said in a June 5 appearance on ABC’s “This Week with Christiane Amanpour” show. A vacuum exists in the Republican field, said
McKinnon, vice chairman of Austin-based Public Strategies Inc.
He served as a campaign strategist to Bush in 2000 and 2004.  First Test  The Republican presidential field is taking shape two
months before the mid-August Iowa Straw Poll, a carnival-like
political event sponsored by the state party that tests the
organizational prowess of campaigns.  Besides Gingrich, several former governors including
 Minnesota ’s Tim Pawlenty and  Massachusetts ’s Mitt Romney, former
Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania , and U.S. Representative
Ron Paul of Texas have joined the race, as have Herman Cain, a
former chief executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc., and
Gary Johnson, once New Mexico’s governor.  Other potential candidates include Sarah Palin, the 2008
Republican vice presidential nominee; Jon Huntsman Jr., a former
Utah governor, and U.S. Representative Michelle Bachmann of
Minnesota.  None of the candidates has won strong support, said  John Feehery , a Republican strategist in  Washington . Surveys released
this week showed no more than 25 percent back any of those
running or potential candidates, according to PollingReport.com.
Perry wasn’t included in the surveys.  ‘Vast’ Opportunity  “He’s pretty opportunistic and he is looking at a pretty
large unclaimed territory in the Republican electorate,”
Feehery said of Perry. “The vast unclaimed part of the
 Republican Party  is the social, hard-core conservatives. There
really isn’t a candidate out there who appeals to them and is
credible.”  The Texas governor has the best story to tell because of job
growth in his state and his devotion to principles such as
shrinking government, Blakemore said. More than 254,000 workers
were added to the employment rolls in his state in the past
year, the most in the U.S., according to the Labor Department.  “Perry is a relentless, hardworking campaigner and
everyone else in the race will have to step up their games if he
does enter,” said Michael Quinn Sullivan, president of Empower
Texans, an Austin-based group that promotes limited government.  Not all Republicans in Texas back a Perry presidential bid,
however.  Not a Winner  “I have yet to find one Republican who wants Perry to
run,” said David Jaderlund, a bond trader and salesman for
Dallas-based investment adviser Hempstead Group LLC. Those party
members he talks to “think he would be staunchly trounced,”
Jaderlund said. “He wouldn’t make it past the first primary.”  Many Republicans outside Texas and general-election voters
may view Perry as too conservative based on issues including his
immigration position and his education spending cuts, said Cook,
the Austin political consultant to Democrats.  “ Rick Perry  on first glance has a great story to tell, but
when you dive deeper into the story, you don’t see much magic
there,” Cook said.  Perry’s positions on fiscal and social issues would appeal
to a segment of Republican primary voters, said George Edwards,
presidential scholar at  Texas A&M University  in  College Station .
“He really is a strong right-wing ideologue,” he said.  Even so, Pawlenty and Bachmann also hold a similar appeal
for those voters, Edwards said. And if he were nominated, Perry
would lose the general election, he said.  Can’t Beat Obama  “When push comes to shove, he wouldn’t succeed” against
President  Barack Obama , Edwards said. “It would be too easy to
characterize Rick Perry as extreme.”  If he decides to run, Perry would have a lot of work to do
to catch up to the other candidates who have been preparing for
a year, hiring aides, raising money and building grassroots
support in the early primary and caucus states of  Iowa ,  New
Hampshire ,  South Carolina  and  Nevada , said Kevin Madden, a
Republican strategist in Washington.  “The process of running for president is so brutal, the
investment that is required is so great, I don’t think it is a
process that you can back into or get drafted into,” said
Madden, a former Romney spokesman who still backs the candidate.
“Still, people are still open for more options.”  Perry would need to decide soon whether to participate in
the Iowa event in August. Doing so would require an investment
of time and money in short order.  By flirting with a possible run for president now, Perry
could set himself up to be the party’s vice presidential nominee
next year or to run in 2016, said Cal Jillson, who teaches
politics at Southern Methodist University in  Dallas . It also
could strengthen his position as governor.  “The fact he’s being bandied about nationally helps in
Texas dealing with the Legislature,” said Ann Bowman, who
teaches government and politics at Texas A&M.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net 
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  