-- 
Peru May Raise Key Rate to 4.5% to Help New Leader Humala Check Inflation

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-09T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/peru-may-raise-rate-to-4-5-to-help-humala-check-inflation.html
Peru ’s central bank will probably
raise its benchmark lending rate for a sixth straight month to
head off inflationary pressures four days after Ollanta Humala
won the country’s presidential election.  The seven-member board will raise the benchmark rate by a
quarter point to 4.50 percent, according to 13 of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Four economists forecast a pause. The
board will announce its decision today at about 6 p.m. New York
time.  Higher food costs pushed inflation outside the central
bank’s target range of 1 percent to 3 percent for the first time
since mid-2009 in April. While the annual rate slowed last month,
a rate increase would show policy makers haven’t taken their eye
off inflation in the heated aftermath of the former army
lieutenant-colonel’s electoral victory June 5, Bank of America-
Merrill Lynch said in a report this week.  “Investment is growing more slowly than it was, but it’s
still growing,” said Carola Sandy, a Latin America economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG. “It’s not obvious that the economy is
slowing down enough. So far, the story that we’re getting from
the Humala camp is relatively supportive of the economy.”  Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said in a June 7
interview that another rate increase isn’t necessary because
inflationary pressures are receding as investors await “clear
signals” from Humala on how he’ll manage the economy.  Humala Cabinet, Policies  Peru’s benchmark stock index plunged a record 12 percent on
June 6 on concern the president-elect might make good on
campaign pledges to increase government control of the economy
and unilaterally boost mining royalties. In trading on June 7,
stocks, bonds, and Peru’s sol currency rebounded as investors
took advantage of the selloff.  Humala, leader of Peru’s Nationalist party, shifted his
stance during the campaign to defending policies that made Peru
the fastest growing Latin American economy over the past decade
and distanced himself from his one-time ally, Venezuelan leader
 Hugo Chavez .  In an interview with  CNN ’s Spanish-language channel on June
7, Humala said he is considering asking central bank President
Julio Velarde to remain in his post once his five-year term
expires.  The new government is committed to maintaining existing
macroeconomic, monetary and fiscal policies, said former central
bank President Oscar Dancourt, an advisor to Humala who Bank of
America said may be a candidate to take over at the central bank.  Still investors remain wary of Humala, whose original
government platform called for changing the constitution to give
the state a stronger role in the economy, including its ports
and pension fund system.  Growth, Investment, Prices  Peru is in the midst of an “unsustainably strong
expansion” Morgan Stanley economists  Gray Newman  and  Daniel
Volberg  wrote in a June 6 report. Economic indicators including
electricity output, which rose 7.2 percent in April, show
domestic demand still risks fuelling inflation.  Peru’s economy, which expanded 8.8 percent in 2010, slowed
in the first quarter as companies curtailed spending before the
election. The government last month cut its 2011 growth forecast
to 6.5 percent from 7.5 percent.  Consumer prices in May fell 0.02 percent from April and
annual inflation slowed to 3.07 percent from 3.34 percent. An
easing of government spending growth and increases in the
benchmark rate have helped tame inflation, Benavides said June 7.  The president-elect needs to send signals about ministerial
appointments and future policies to reassure companies, many of
which have placed investment projects on hold, said Pedro
Olaechea, president of the National Society of Industries.  “Some companies have decided to continue but others are
waiting for signs on whether to keep investing or not,”
Olaechea said in an interview in  Lima  yesterday. “It doesn’t
make sense to raise rates because of the fall in economic
activity.”  Central bank policy makers will keep the benchmark rate on
hold until the outlook for growth is clearer, Barclays Capital
Inc. said in a June 6 note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 