-- 
Peru Unexpectedly Pauses at 4.25% After Humala Wins Presidential Election

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-09T23:24:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/peru-unexpectedly-pauses-at-4-25-after-humala-wins-presidential-election.html
Peru ’s central bank unexpectedly
paused for the first time in six months after investment into
Latin America’s fastest growing economy slowed ahead of the June
5 presidential election won by Ollanta Humala.  The seven-member board kept the benchmark rate unchanged at
4.25 percent, surprising 12 of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg who expected a quarter-point increase. Five economists
forecast a pause.  “This decision reflects the moderation in the pace of
growth in consumer prices and some indictors of activity,” the
central bank said in a  statement  posted on its website. “Future
adjustments in the benchmark rate will depend on new information
about inflation.”  Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said in a June 7
interview that another rate increase isn’t necessary because
inflationary pressures are receding as investors await “clear
signals” from Humala on how he’ll manage  Latin America ’s
fastest growing economy. The government last month cut its 2011
growth forecast to 6.5 percent from 7.5 percent as companies
slowed spending before the election.  “Economic activity has really slowed down in the second
quarter,” said  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based Latin America
economist at 4Cast Inc. “ You don’t know if the investment is
coming back or how the market will react to the new government.
There’s a lot of uncertainty,” said Tuesta, who accurately
predicted today’s pause.  Humala Cabinet, Policies  Peru’s benchmark stock index plunged a record 12 percent on
June 6 on concern the president-elect might make good on
campaign pledges to increase government control of the economy
and unilaterally boost mining royalties. In trading on June 7,
stocks, bonds, and Peru’s sol currency rebounded as investors
took advantage of the selloff.  Humala, leader of Peru’s Nationalist party, shifted his
stance during the campaign to defending policies that made Peru
the fastest growing Latin American economy over the past decade
and distanced himself from his one-time ally, Venezuelan leader
 Hugo Chavez .  The 48-year-old president-elect will follow the Brazilian
government’s “successful” socio-economic policies to sustain
region-beating growth and cut poverty with higher social
spending, he told reporters in Brasilia today.  In an interview with  CNN ’s Spanish-language channel on June
7, Humala, a former army lieutenant-colonel, said he is
considering asking central bank President Julio Velarde to
remain in his post once his five-year term expires.  Investor View  Still, investors remain wary of Humala, whose original
government platform called for changing the constitution to give
the state a stronger role in the economy, including its ports
and pension system.  The president-elect needs to send signals about ministerial
appointments and future policies to reassure companies, many of
which have placed investment projects on hold, said Pedro
Olaechea, president of the National Society of Industries.  Peru’s economy, which expanded 8.8 percent in 2010, slowed
in the first quarter as companies curtailed spending before the
election.  “Some companies have decided to continue but others are
waiting for signs on whether to keep investing or not,”
Olaechea said in an interview in  Lima  yesterday. “It doesn’t
make sense to raise rates because of the fall in economic
activity.”  Central bank policy makers will keep the benchmark rate on
hold until the outlook for growth is clearer, Barclays Capital
Inc. said in a June 6 note to clients.  Higher food costs pushed inflation outside the central
bank’s target range of 1 percent to 3 percent for the first time
since mid-2009 in April.  Consumer prices in May fell 0.02 percent from April and
annual inflation slowed to 3.07 percent from 3.34 percent. An
easing of government spending growth and increases in the
benchmark rate have helped tame inflation, Benavides said June
7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 