-- 
Philippine Bonds Extend Rally on Interest-Rate, Rating Outlook

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-06-09T08:55:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/philippine-bonds-extend-rally-on-interest-rate-rating-outlook.html
Philippine seven-year bonds rose,
pushing yields to the lowest level in six weeks, on speculation
the central bank will refrain from raising  interest rates  after
inflation last month was milder than economists expected.  Consumer prices climbed 4.5 percent from a year earlier,
after a revised 4.3 percent advance in April, official data
showed on June 7. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 5 percent increase. Local-currency debt
gained for a third day after Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima
said this week the nation has a program to eventually win an
investment-grade  credit rating .  “The market scaled back expectations of another rate
increase after the inflation data,” said Dave Estacio, a senior
fixed-income dealer at First Metro Investment Corp. in Manila.
“Positive comments on the credit rating and possibly lower
borrowings next year are also helping.”  The yield on the 5.875 percent bond due January 2018 fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.82 percent as
of 4:15 p.m. in  Manila , according to Tradition Financial
Services. That was the lowest level since April 29.  The peso closed little changed at 43.232 per dollar from
43.243 yesterday, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas raised its overnight
borrowing rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.5 percent
last month. The next policy meeting is scheduled for June 16.  The  Philippines  is aiming for an upgrade from Moody’s
Investors Service, Purisima said yesterday. Moody’s raised its
outlook on the nation’s Ba3 rating in January. The current
rating is three levels below investment grade.  The Philippines may cut borrowings in 2012, Finance
Undersecretary Rosalia de Leon said yesterday. The nation will
continue to ensure that its sovereign-debt securities are
liquid, de Leon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  