-- 
Pimco Adjusts Holdings to Show Gross’s Fund Owns U.S. Debt

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-06-09T20:37:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/pimco-adjusts-holdings-to-show-total-return-fund-owns-u-s-government-debt.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. ,
under criticism for missing this year’s rally in Treasuries,
revised how it lists asset holdings to show that its flagship
fund held  U.S. government debt  in May.  The $243 billion Total Return Fund managed by  Bill Gross 
increased its holdings of U.S. government debt to 5 percent from
4 percent in April, according to data on the  Newport Beach ,
California-based company’s  website . In the prior month’s posting,
the category that was classified as government and government-
related debt had shown negative holdings of 4 percent. The
website showed an added category this month of swaps and liquid
rates with holdings of minus 9 percent. Michael Reid, a
spokesman at Pimco, declined to comment.  Gross, the billionaire founder and co-chief investment
officer of Pimco, has said for months that Treasuries are
unattractive because yields don’t offer enough compensation for
the risk of inflation and U.S. policies will hurt investors.
After topping 98 percent of competitors the last five years, the
fund beat just 33 percent in the past month as Treasuries gained
1.4 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I certainly don’t have any regrets.” Gross said of his
current strategy in an interview yesterday in  Chicago . “We’re
beating the market by 50 basis points. We’re not completely
satisfied, but it’s not the negative headline that one sees.”  ‘Swap, Liquid Rates’  The new government-Treasury category includes holdings of
U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures and inflation-protected
securities, according to Pimco. The swaps and liquid rates
sector includes U.S. dollar-denominated interest rates swaps,
swaptions, options, and other derivatives. A negative number in
the swaps and liquid rates category indicates a negative
duration position in U.S. interest rates achieved by swaps or
other interest-rate derivatives, Pimco said in an email.  Pimco also moved agency securities held by the Total Return
Fund into a separate category called government-agency, which
includes holdings of U.S. agencies, as well as FDIC-guaranteed,
government-guaranteed corporate securities, and so-called
supernationals.  Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category previously
included nominal and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the firm.  “He’s able to say I’m not short governments; I’m not short
Treasuries, which is true, but doesn’t diminish the fact that
the overall rate view is negative,” said Edward Lashinski,
senior strategist in Chicago at ABN Amro Clearing LLC.  Negative Position  Treasuries are considered the safest and most liquid,
investments in the world. The U.S. is the world’s biggest debt
issuer. It has $14.2 trillion of debt outstanding, while
marketable Treasuries total $9.7 trillion. Central banks and
other overseas investors own $4.48 trillion, or 46 percent of
marketable debt.  The negative position reflected trades that would profit
from a decline in Treasuries. Cash and equivalents, the largest
component of the Total Return Fund, rose to 37 percent from 35
percent in April, under the revised categories.  Gross has been betting against  U.S. debt  through short
sales, in which the Total Return Fund would borrow and then sell
 government bonds , hoping to profit by repurchasing the
securities at a lower price in the future. The fund’s annual
report showed that, as of March 31, it had sold short about $2.2
billion of Treasuries that mature in about 10 years and $5.8
billion of agency debt that comes due in 2041.  Rate Swaps  In addition, the fund also entered into 10- and 30-year
interest-rate swaps with a face value of about $15.2 billion
during the fourth quarter of 2010 and first quarter of 2011,
according to filings. Based on the terms disclosed in Pimco
Total Return’s annual report, the 10-year and 30-year swaps held
by the fund have lost about $1 billion in market value since
March 31, according to Bloomberg calculations.  In order to obtain the contracts, which are the equivalent
of betting against Treasuries, the Total Return Fund paid
upfront premiums totaling about $331 million to 12 Wall Street
banks, the filing shows.  While the swaps are costly for the fund, given that it must
pay out more than it takes in under the contracts, Gross would
reap profits from the trades should long-term rates rise,
causing Treasuries to tumble. Conversely, a decline in long-term
rates would punish the fund’s returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  