-- 
Tokyo Riot Squad to Safeguard Tepco Meeting

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-06-10T02:47:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/police-to-send-riot-squads-to-tepco-meeting.html
Japan ’s  National Police Agency  will
send 150 officers and riot squads to  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.’s
annual general meeting this month to quell possible protests by
shareholders and terror attacks, a police official said.  About 7,000 shareholders are expected to attend the June 28
meeting, said the official, who declined to be identified,
citing the agency’s policy. Residents from Fukushima, where
Tokyo Electric’s crippled nuclear plant lies, may stage
demonstrations, the official said. Officers and riot police will
be stationed around the  Prince Park Tower Tokyo  Hotel, the venue
for the shareholder meeting, the official said.  Tokyo Electric’s stock has slumped 91 percent, erasing 3.2
trillion yen ($40 billion) in market value, since the March 11
earthquake and tsunami triggered the worst nuclear crisis in 25
years. The disaster at the Fukushima nuclear station displaced
50,000 households in the evacuation zone because of radiation
leaks into the air, soil and sea.  “It’s going to be a stormy meeting,” said Tomoko Murakami,
a nuclear researcher at the Institute of Energy Economics in
 Tokyo . “The meeting will likely continue for hours and hours as
individual investors will have a lot to say.”  The utility known as Tepco had about 747,000 registered
shareholders as of March 31. Usually about 4,000 of them turn up
for the annual meeting, said company spokesman Takeo Iwamoto. He
declined to comment on security for this year’s event.  The Atago Police Station near the hotel normally sends
about five officers to shareholder meetings, the police official
said.  Safety Precautions  “We’ve been discussing with Tepco and police authorities
about safety precautions at the event,” said Atsushi Mori, an
official in charge of marketing at the Prince Park Tower. “We
will pay full attention to prevent any trouble.”  According to documents sent to its shareholders today,
Tepco said 402  shareholders  will propose a motion to ask the
company to decommission its existing nuclear plants and promise
it won’t build new atomic stations. The company plans to
disagree with the proposal, the documents said.  “In the long run, it’s better to have nuclear power,”
Murakami said. “The shareholders must realize that they
shouldn’t be too emotional.”  Tepco’s share price fell 1 percent to 190 yen at the 11 a.m.
break on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  