-- 
Pound Stronger Versus Euro, Gilts Rally, as Traders Trim Bets on ECB Rates

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T15:10:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/pound-advances-against-the-euro-gilts-rally-as-ecb-rate-bets-are-trimmed.html
The pound gained versus the euro and
gilts rallied as speculation the  European Central Bank  won’t
raise interest rates as quickly as previously forecast prompted
traders to favor sterling over  Europe ’s shared currency.  Sterling rebounded from within a penny of yesterday’s one-
month low against the euro. The ECB kept its main interest rate
unchanged at 1.25 percent and said inflation is unlikely to rise
above 2.3 percent in 2012, trimming a previous forecast for 2.4
percent. President  Jean-Claude Trichet  still said the bank would
maintain “strong vigilance” on inflation, a move interpreted
as signaling a July rate increase. The BOE kept interest rates
at a record low 0.5 percent today.  “Trichet may have used the term ‘strong vigilance’ but the
rest of the speech was surprisingly dovish,” said  Neil Jones ,
head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
in London. “That’s causing some liquidation out of long euro
positions, which is pushing it weaker, including against the
pound.”  The pound appreciated 0.3 percent to 88.61 pence per euro
as of 4:09 p.m. in London. It slid to 89.18 pence, near the
89.76 pence reached yesterday, its weakest since May 5. The U.K.
currency bought $1.6364, from $1.6404.  Sterling strengthened against most of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg, posting its biggest gains versus the Swiss
franc.  Record Low  Before today, sterling fell against the euro on all but one
day this month as investors added to bets the central bank will
keep  interest rates  at a record low while the government reduces
spending to trim the U.K.’s fiscal deficit.  U.K. 10-year government bonds advanced for a second day,
pushing the yield down two basis points to 3.27 percent. The
two-year yield was little changed at 0.86 percent  Britain’s central bank has kept its main interest rate at
near zero since March 2009, and bought 200 billion pounds of
bonds under a so-called quantitative-easing program that ended
in January 2010.  The yield on short-sterling futures for June 2012 fell
three basis points to 1.22 percent, signaling investors were
curbing bets for higher borrowing costs.  Traders are speculating that U.K. policy makers will raise
the benchmark rate by 25 basis points in April, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc data showing forward contracts on the
sterling overnight interbank average. As recently as February,
investors bet the rate would have been lifted last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  