-- 
Power Cuts Spread to West Japan as Nuclear Restarts Put on Hold

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-06-09T10:03:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/power-shortages-loom-in-japan.html
Power cuts will hit Kansai, Japan’s
second-largest industrial region, as early as this month as
restarts of nuclear plants may be delayed, impeding the nation’s
recovery from a record earthquake and atomic disaster.  A delay in starting reactors shut for regular maintenance
could mean Kansai Electric Power Co.’s clients will be asked to
cut power use by 10 percent this summer, Fukui Governor Issei Nishikawa said in an interview. The Kansai region, home to
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Nintendo Co., sources about 55 percent of
its energy from atomic plants in Fukui, north of Osaka.  Since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami crippled the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station and caused the biggest
radiation fallout in 25 years, approvals to restart reactors
have been delayed as prefectures agreed to wait for national
guidelines. Mandatory maintenance every 13 months would also
mean that just 14 of the nation’s 54 nuclear reactors may be
operating in August, according to Bloomberg calculations.  The approval process “will take some time,” Nishikawa
said in an interview at his office inside Fukui castle grounds
on June 3. “When you’re along the highway and there’s rain and
fog, it’s best to wait it out in a service area.”  That timeframe is likely to be more than one year, said
Shinobu Tokioka, mayor of Ohi town in Fukui. The town houses a
four-reactor plant owned by Kansai Electric with one unit idled
for maintenance. Ohi’s nuclear plant supplies most of the power
to  Osaka , Japan’s third-biggest city, he said.  Shares Slump  Kansai Electric today postponed a sale of 10-year bonds
scheduled this month, according to an e-mailed statement from
Nomura Securities Co. The utility’s shares traded on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange dropped 1.8 percent to 1,196 yen, the lowest
level in 27 years, extending to 44 percent their plunge since
the March natural disasters.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., fell 4 percent to 192 yen, taking
its drop to 91 percent since March 10, the day before the
tsunami crippled its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station.  As of June 3, 19 reactors with a capacity of 17,580
megawatts were online nationwide. Kansai, the most nuclear
energy-reliant region, accounts for a fifth of  Japan ’s economy.  Heavy snow in December 2005 caused a rupture of the power
cable to the Ohi nuclear station and led to blackouts in four
cities in Kansai. One of four reactors at the Ohi plant, which
supplies most of Osaka’s power at present, is idled for
maintenance.  “We’d be in trouble if the plant was scrapped,” Ohi’s
Tokioka said, referring the subsidies the town earns from the
nuclear plants. “Even if we bear that trouble, it won’t help
the country. There won’t be enough power.”  Industrial Output  Should western Japan join the country’s east in suffering
power cuts, due to delayed nuclear plant restarts, national
industrial output will likely fall 8.4 percent by August next
year, SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. said in a report yesterday.  The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, otherwise
known as METI, has the legal authority to let nuclear utilities
restart reactors after maintenance, according to Penn Bowers, a
utility analyst with CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in  Tokyo .
Typically, prefectural governments and cities closest to the
plant also have a say in the approval process.  Governors of the 14 prefectures with nuclear power plants
sent a letter on May 31 to the Trade Ministry asking for new
safety guidelines, according to a copy of the letter obtained by
Bloomberg. The governors agreed to hold off approving the
restarts of reactors, Nishikawa said.  Guidelines  Some cities have decided to agree to restart without the
national guidelines. Genkai town in Saga prefecture in Kyushu,
southern Japan, said it will allow operations to resume at its
nearby nuclear plant in early July,  Kyodo News  reported this
week. Yasushi Furukawa, Saga’s governor, said he won’t approve
the proposal until the introduction of the new guidelines, Kyodo
said last week.  After Tokyo Electric’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant lost
external power and control over its cooling systems in March,
utilities in eastern Japan scrambled to find coal and natural
gas for thermal  power plants , Bowers said. Those in the Kansai
and Kyushu regions didn’t follow suit as they expected their
nuclear generators to resume after routine maintenance, he said.  The day after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  asked Chubu Electric
Power Co. on May 6 to idle its Hamaoka nuclear power plant to
address safety concerns, the utility’s chairman, Toshio Mita,
flew to Qatar to hold talks on additional gas supplies. On May 9
Chubu Electric said it would shut the plant.  Hamaoka and the two Fukushima nuclear plants, the Dai-Ichi
and the Dai-Ni, have a total of 13 reactors.  Fukushima Probe  The new guidelines will need to take into account an
investigation into what caused Fukushima Dai-Ichi to fail. The
plant in Japan’s northeast was crippled by at least three
hydrogen explosions and has since leaked as much radiation into
the soil as was found around Chernobyl, site of the 1986 nuclear
catastrophe, according to a state-backed report.  The government set up a 10-person committee this week to
investigate the March accident and look into an overhaul of the
way the industry runs and is monitored. An interim report from
the committee, which plans to interview  Tokyo Electric  and top
government officials, is expected in December and a final report
by next summer, the Nikkei newspaper reported on June 7, citing
a draft agenda.  Work on Measures  The Nuclear and Industry Safety Agency, an affiliate of
METI, asked 11 nuclear power plant operators, including Kansai
Electric, to work on measures to avoid severe accidents on June
7, according to the statement posted on its website. This
requirement includes countermeasures to prevent hydrogen
explosions and the reinforcement of fuel tanks against
earthquakes.  “I don’t see any problems with a plant’s operation and the
restart of idled plants if these measures are implemented,”
Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  told reporters on June 7.  Kansai Electric, which operates 11 reactors at three
stations in Fukui prefecture, doesn’t have a clear schedule to
complete the safety enhancements, spokesman Akihiro Aoike said
by telephone from Osaka. Currently, five of the reactors are
idled for maintenance. Three of those were due to resume
operations in April.  “We will seek approvals from local authorities in Fukui
after works required by the agency are done at each plant,”
Aoike said. “We may have to request energy-saving efforts
during summer,” he said, adding that details aren’t available
yet.  For the greater Tokyo region, the government ordered
industrial power users in areas covered by Tokyo Electric and
Tohoku Electric Power Co. to cut electricity consumption by 15
percent starting July 1 to help cope with shortages.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  