-- 
Private Equity Eyes Shipping as Financing Falls Short

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-06-10T09:48:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/private-equity-considers-ship-investmen-amid-30-billion-funding-shortfall.html
(Corrects story published June 9 to say invested in eighth
paragraph.)  Private-equity companies may help
fill a forecast $30 billion shortfall in funding for the
shipping industry over the next three years as banks restrain
lending, two financiers said.  Banks have about $50 billion a year to lend, while shipping
firms need $60 billion for new or used vessels, Paul Packard,
head of maritime industries at Bank of Ireland Plc, said at a
conference in  London . Vessel owners have already been “trekking
to New York” to talk to private investors, said Peter S. Shaerf, a managing director at AMA Capital Partners, which runs
shipping funds and advises on debt and equity.  The world economic crisis, which began with the collapse of
U.S. real estate in 2007, triggered more than $2 trillion of
writedowns and credit losses at financial institutions, curbing
their ability to lend to businesses. It also caused a shipping
slump, with returns for owners of supertankers plunging more
than 90 percent since the middle of 2008 and secondhand prices
for the carriers, each bigger than the Chrysler Building,
dropping about 49 percent over the period.  “There’s a sense in the coming six to nine months it’s
time to buy assets,” Shaerf said at the conference. “We are
seeing a lot of people now more than just circling the wagons,
they’re loading up their arrows.”  Vessel prices will collapse within a year or two,  John
Fredriksen , the billionaire chairman of Frontline Ltd., the
world’s biggest supertanker operator, said in an interview in
Oslo last month. He plans to “buy up what’s there” once that
happens, the 67-year-old said.  Secondhand Capesize  The cost of a five-year-old supertanker has fallen to $82
million from as much as $162 million in 2008, according to the
London-based Baltic Exchange, which publishes daily rates for
more than 50 maritime routes. A secondhand capesize ship, a
typical hauler of coal and iron ore, slumped to almost $44
million from about $154 million in 2008, the data show.  Rates have tumbled as fleets expand more quickly than
demand. Vessels ordered in 2007 and 2008, when freight costs
were peaking, are still leaving shipyards.  U.S. private-equity firms invested a combined $3 billion in
the industry in 2009 and 2010, seeking returns in excess of 20
percent, according to Shaerf, who is also chairman of the  New
York  Maritime Association. The cruise-line industry got $1
billion of the total, he said.  The 25 biggest bank lenders to the industry had about $333
billion of outstanding loans in 2009, of which $49.3 billion was
held by Hamburg-based  HSH Nordbank AG , according to a
presentation at the conference from ship-finance consultant
Eurofin International.  Banks aren’t lending to owners controlling fewer than 10
vessels that are more than 10 years old, said Alan McCarthy, a
consultant at Athens-based Eurofin. Such companies make up about
90 percent of the global fleet, he estimated.  “The banking market is pretty much nonexistent for people
like that, and that’s a cause of serious concern,” he said.
“That vacuum will be filled by alternative lending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  