-- 
Prudential Says Fed Oversight of Insurers Is Science Fiction

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-06-09T19:53:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/prudential-s-grier-says-fed-mandate-to-oversee-insurers-is-science-fiction.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  said new
global rules for financial firms won’t work and the Federal
Reserve’s revised mandate to potentially oversee insurers is
science fiction.  Prudential Vice Chairman Mark Grier told analysts today
that Solvency II and Basel III, the insurer and bank standards
being readied by European regulators, will fail in a crisis. In
remarks about the Fed’s expanded role, Grier said he refers to
systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs, as
“sci-fi,” which is short for science fiction.  “Solvency II and Basel III aren’t even going to work,”
Grier said today at  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential’s annual
investor and analyst conference. “If there’s a crisis
everybody’s going to go back to doing stress tests because no
one’s going to believe those things.”  Executives at financial firms are squaring off against
regulators as new rules, designed to prevent a recurrence of the
2008 credit freeze, are implemented.  Jamie Dimon , chief
executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said this week that
regulation may slow the economy. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman Sheila Bair today urged regulators to continue “full
speed ahead.”  The biggest U.S. life insurers, including No. 2 Prudential,
will be subject to Fed oversight if they are deemed systemically
important to the stability of the financial system. Grier said
he hopes federal regulators won’t apply bank rules to insurance
companies and that he expected Prudential to face greater
scrutiny, even if it isn’t designated a SIFI.  ‘The Sci-Fi World’  “I prefer to call it sci-fi, by the way,” Grier said.
“They won’t let Prudential go unregulated at the group level.
Whether it’s in the sci-fi world, or whether it’s for some other
reason, I think the more important question for us and for our
industry is, ‘Will we just be pounded into a bank framework?’”  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a spokeswoman for the  Federal Reserve ,
declined to comment.  Insurance in the U.S. is currently regulated by watchdogs
at the individual states. After the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
reform act expanded the role of the Fed and created a new
federal office of insurance, the American Council of Life
Insurers called on carriers to bring their concerns to U.S.
regulators.  Grier’s use of the term sci-fi may indicate mistrust that
the new rules, which entail compliance costs, would prevent
another period of market instability, said  Lawrence Kaplan , an
attorney at Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker LLP in  Washington .  ‘Politely Dissing’  “By using the colloquialism, he is politely dissing the
new structure,” said Kaplan, a former senior attorney at the
Office of Thrift Supervision. “Maybe what he was getting at is
it’s really imaginary and theoretical that all these
bureaucratic requirements are going to help prevent another
crisis.”  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for Prudential, said the sci-fi
characterization was meant to reflect the change represented by
the involvement of federal agencies in insurance industry
oversight.  “He’s referring to the disconnect between the fact that
insurance has historically been regulated by the states,”
DeFillippo said. “It’s that disconnect that is the reference to
sci-fi.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 