-- 
Qaddafi Resisting Negotiated Tripoli Exit

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-06-09T10:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/qaddafi-resisting-negotiated-tripoli-exit-spanish-foreign-minister-says.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  is
resisting a negotiated exit from power, Spanish Foreign Minister
Trinidad Jimenez said before the start of a conference in Abu
Dhabi to discuss the conflict in the North African country.  “We still don’t even know if Qaddafi will accept a
negotiated exit, but of course there are many countries willing
to facilitate this because it will end the conflict,” Jimenez
told reporters today. “Finding a place for him is now the
critical issue, since everyone has agreed he has to go.”  She declined to say which countries would be prepared to
accept Qaddafi, while saying that  Turkey  and  South Africa  are
involved in working on a solution to the issue. The Libyan
leader remains in control of the capital, Tripoli, while rebels
control the east of the country. NATO-led forces are conducting
an air campaign in support of the rebels.  Foreign ministers from the 22-nation  Libya  Contact Group
are holding their third meeting, and discussions are expected to
deepen on what the North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies
envision for a post-Qaddafi Libya, said senior U.S.
administration officials who spoke on condition of anonymity.  The oil-rich  United Arab Emirates  is recruiting more Arab
support for the air campaign during the meeting, according to
the officials. The U.A.E. and Qatar were the first Arab nations
to take part in the United Nations-authorized no-fly zone over
Libya aimed at protecting civilians.  Daylight Strikes  The escalation of NATO’s campaign was underscored June 7 by
a daytime bombardment of Tripoli and targets in and around
Qaddafi’s compound. Daylight strikes continued in the capital
yesterday. The intensification comes as the rebels make gains
and the Libyan leader faces a series of high-level defections.  “Qaddafi is history,” NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters yesterday in Brussels at a meeting of
defense ministers from the 28-member alliance. “It may take
weeks, but it could happen tomorrow -- and when he goes, the
international community has to be ready.”  NATO will take a back seat in any transition and expects
the UN to take the lead after Qaddafi leaves power, he said.  Oil rose for a third day in  New York  on speculation that
OPEC’s failure to reach an agreement on output targets for the
first time in at least 20 years may limit supply as U.S.
inventories fell more than analysts forecast. Crude for July
delivery rose as much as 96 cents to $101.70 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , and was
at $100.94 at 10:20 a.m. London time.  Production Plans  Areas under rebel control are not producing any oil at the
moment, Ali Tarhouni, finance minister of the rebels’ National
Transitional Council, said in Abu Dhabi. “We are hoping soon,”
he added, saying they expect production to rise to 100,000
barrels a day. Libya holds  Africa ’s largest reserves.  Tarhouni said countries “need to walk the walk” on
providing financial assistance. Those opposing Qaddafi are in
severe need and have yet to receive financial assistance, said
Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, vice president of the NTC.  U.K. Foreign Office minister Alistair Burt told reporters
that funding “is happening in a variety of ways,” and that
further details may be announced today.  One option would be to unblock frozen assets of the Qaddafi
regime as a guarantee to release “credits,” and allies are
close to agreeing on a mechanism to get around legal
impediments, Jimenez said. U.S. officials won’t let the rebels
run out of cash, according to administration officials.  Italy plans to give the rebels as much as 400 million euros
($585 million) in cash and 150 million euros in fuel, a Foreign
Ministry spokesman said, peaking on customary condition of
anonymity.  The meeting will be “a failure if there is no clear-cut
financial agreement,” Tarhouni said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Abu Dhabi at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  