-- 
Qaddafi’s Son Approaches Rebels With Libya Exit Proposal, Jebril Aide Says

-- B y   L a r a   S e t r a k i a n ,   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-10T12:48:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/qaddafi-s-son-approached-rebels-with-libya-exit-proposal-jebril-aide-says.html
A son of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , Saif al-Islam, has approached rebels in recent days to
negotiate an exit from power for his father, an aide to  National
Transitional Council  leader Mahmoud Jebril said.  “Of course, he is trying to put some terms. We understand
those terms and we know how to play the negotiations,” Mohamed
Al Akari told Bloomberg Television yesterday in Abu Dhabi, where
foreign ministers from the 22-nation Libya Contact Group met.
“We are talking now of the last stage of this operation.”  Qaddafi won’t be allowed to remain in Libya even though he
is “dreaming of staying in the country,” Al Akari said.  South Africa  and Senegal are among the countries that might
offer him a safe haven, he added. Australian Foreign Minister
 Kevin Rudd  said Qaddafi had sent out many “feelers” to
negotiate an end to the conflict.  The insurgency against Qaddafi’s four-decade rule began in
February. Forces under the command of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization are fighting an air campaign in support of the
rebels that intensified on June 7 with attacks on Qaddafi’s
compound in the capital, Tripoli.  Libya’s OPEC Impact  The rebellion has cut oil production in the North African
country by almost 90 percent, according to Bloomberg estimates.
OPEC’s quota system has been weakened by the need to replace
Libya’s lost oil, the secretary-general of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, Abdalla el-Badri, said after the
group’s meeting in Vienna June 8.  Qaddafi requested refuge in a village in Libya, which isn’t
possible, Al Akari said, partly because rebels can’t afford the
security to prevent him from being assassinated. Qaddafi has
previously said he would rather die in Libya than leave.  Russia ’s envoy for the Libyan conflict, Mikhail Margelov,
told reporters in Moscow today that “all scenarios” are still
possible for Qaddafi’s future. Margelov said he’ll go to Tripoli
soon for talks with government representatives and will meet the
Libyan leader if Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  wants him to.  “The window is still open” to resolve the conflict and
end the fighting, said Margelov, who has just returned from
talks with rebels in the eastern port city of Benghazi, which
they have declared as their capital.  Pro-Qaddafi forces today launched their third infantry
assault in five days on the rebel-held western city of Misrata.
The attack came hours after NATO confirmed it used British
Apache helicopters to strike army and communications targets
near Misrata overnight. The alliance operation followed a
request yesterday for the Apaches from rebel commanders.  ‘Multiple Feelers’  “There have been obviously multiple feelers from the
Qaddafi regime to various members of the international community
coming every other day,” Rudd told reporters after the  Abu
Dhabi  meeting. “In our view collectively, this represents
growing desperation on the part of the regime as we believe it
enters its end period.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said that “there
have been numerous and continuing discussions by the people
close to Qaddafi and we are aware that those discussions include
among other matters the potential for transition.” Even so,
“there is not any clear way forward yet,” she said.  Before the Abu Dhabi talks started, Spanish Foreign
Minister Trinidad Jimenez told reporters that “finding a place
for him is now the critical issue, since everyone has agreed he
has to go.” She said  Turkey  and South Africa are involved in
working on a solution.  Asylum Request  Uganda said on March 30 it would consider a request for
asylum for Qaddafi, while Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  still
calls him a “friend.” Qaddafi may also find refuge in about a
dozen African states, such as  Zimbabwe , where he has investments
and protection from prosecution for  war crimes .  Senegalese President Abdoulaye Wade arrived yesterday in
Benghazi. He intends to encourage negotiations during his trip,
Wade’s spokesman, Serigne Mbacke Ndiaye, said by phone June 8.  Wade appealed yesterday to Qaddafi to step down, a U.S.
official said. Wade’s special adviser, Papa Dieng, declined to
comment when contacted by telephone in Dakar,  Senegal .  Separately yesterday, the Libya Contact Group established a
mechanism through which countries can support the rebel council,
the United Arab Emirates foreign minister, Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed al-Nahyan, told reporters.  “We are all working” to put the National Transitional
Council “on firmer financial footing,” Clinton said. The U.S.
supports the idea that to help the rebel council secure credit,
a future Libyan government should honor any financial
obligations the council assumes on behalf of the Libyan people.  Bankrolling the Rebels  “Already, Kuwait announced it will transfer about $180
million, and Qatar will transfer $100 million through this
mechanism,” she said.  The U.S. will continue to provide non-lethal supplies and
work to “deepen all our relationships,” she said. She also
announced “$26.5 million of new funds to help all victims of
this conflict, bringing the American total to nearly $81
million.”  The international community has begun planning for what
NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen described on June 8
as a “long and complex” transition to democracy in  Libya .  Abdurrahman Shalgham, Libya’s former foreign minister and
representative to the  United Nations , told reporters in Abu
Dhabi that rebel troops will reach Tripoli within “some weeks”
and that Qaddafi has “very few days” left in power.  In  Washington , Leon Panetta, director of the Central
Intelligence Agency and President Barack Obama’s nominee to
succeed  Robert Gates  as secretary of defense, said it is
important to be successful in pushing Qaddafi from power.  “If Qaddafi stays, I think it sends a terrible signal to
these other countries,” Panetta said yesterday during his
confirmation hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee,
referring to the Arab nations facing popular uprisings to demand
reform.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lara Setrakian in Dubai at 
 lsetrakian1@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Abu Dhabi at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 