-- 
U.S. Economy: Trade Gap Narrows as Exports Rise to Record

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-09T21:13:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/trade-deficit-in-u-s-unexpectedly-narrows-as-oil-auto-imports-decrease.html
Record exports and lower oil purchases
unexpectedly helped narrow the  U.S. trade deficit , easing
concern that the world’s largest economy is faltering.  The gap shrank 6.7 percent to $43.7 billion in April, the
lowest since December, Commerce Department figures showed today
in Washington. Other reports showed applications for jobless
benefits rose last week and consumer confidence improved.  Stocks rallied on expectations trade will help boost
economic growth in the second quarter. A 10 percent drop in the
dollar over the past 12 months will probably keep lifting
overseas sales at manufacturers like  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , helping
the economy counter slowing consumer spending and auto sales.  “Our exports continue to perk along,” said Samuel Coffin,
an economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Foreign growth is still moving along at an OK pace, and the
dollar is helping out exports to some degree.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent to 1,289
at the 4 p.m. close in  New York . The dollar was worth 80.36 yen,
up from 79.89 yen late yesterday.  Applications for unemployment insurance benefits increased
by 1,000 to 427,000 in the week ended June 4, the Labor
Department said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected
a drop to 419,000, according to the median forecast.  Consumer confidence  improved as gasoline prices ebbed. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to minus 45.9 in the
period to June 5, the best showing since the end of April, from
the prior week’s minus 47.1. Sentiment improved the most among
those making less than $50,000 a year.  Economist Projections  The trade deficit was projected to widen to $48.8 billion
from an initially reported $48.2 billion in March, according to
the median forecast of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The Commerce Department revised the March shortfall down to
$46.8 billion.  The report prompted economists at Morgan Stanley to raise
their estimates for second-quarter growth to an annual rate of
3.1 percent from 2.7 percent. Growth slowed to a 1.8 pace in the
first quarter.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among policy
makers projecting the softening in growth will be temporary.
Bernanke this week said the economy is likely to pick up as fuel
prices moderate and disruptions of parts supplies ease as
factories in Japan recover from an earthquake and tsunami.  The drop in the value of the dollar against a trade-
weighted basket of currencies from the country’s biggest trading
partners may be one reason for continued optimism on sales
overseas.  Growth Drivers  “The low dollar means we can export, so we are actually
fundamentally growing globally from the U.S.,” Andrew Liveris,
president and chief executive officer at Dow Chemical, said
during a June 2 conference call. “We see strong growth drivers
in emerging regions.  China  is the locus of growth.”  After eliminating the influence of prices, which renders
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade
deficit in April fell to $44.2 billion, the lowest since
February 2010, from $49.7 billion. The number was smaller than
the $50.4 billion deficit averaged in the first quarter.  Exports increased 1.3 percent to $175.6 billion, boosted by
sales of  fuel oil , petroleum products and computers.  Imports dropped 0.4 percent to $219.2 billion from $220.2
billion in March. Demand for foreign-made automobiles and parts
dropped by $2.82 billion to $19.1 billion.  Auto Production  The disaster in  Japan  curtailed purchases from overseas.
Supply disruptions caused by the earthquake and tsunami will cut
vehicle production in America and Japanese exports to the U.S.
by a combined 300,000 to 400,000 units in the second quarter,
Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, chief economist at Dearborn, Michigan-
based Ford Motor Co., said during a June 1 conference call with
analysts.  The biggest drop in auto stockpiles in more than a year
restrained growth in wholesale inventories, another report from
the Commerce Department showed today.  The 0.8 percent increase in inventories in April compared
with a 1 percent gain median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
and followed a revised 1.3 percent increase in March that was
larger than initially estimated. Sales increased 0.3 percent in
April after climbing 3 percent the prior month.  Crude oil imports fell by $2.42 billion as prices rose. The
average price of a barrel of crude climbed to $103.18, the
highest since September 2008. The U.S. imported 8.41 million
barrels per day on average in April, the fewest since October.  Economy Cools  The rise in fuel prices and the disaster in Japan have taken
a toll on the  U.S. economy .  Consumer spending  grew less than
forecast in April, according to Commerce Department data.
Manufacturing expanded in May at the slowest pace in more than a
year, the  Institute for Supply Management  said last week.  Employers in May added the fewest number of workers in
eight months and the jobless rate unexpectedly increased to 9.1
percent, further raising the risk of an economic slowdown, Labor
Department figures showed June 3.  The  trade gap  with China increased to $21.6 billion from
$18.1 billion. Exports to  France  climbed to the highest level
since May 2008 and demand for American goods from countries in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries increased to
the highest level since December 2008.  Dow Chemical, based in Midland,  Michigan , also expects “a
short-term boost in Japan as that country rebuilds from its
recent tragic natural disaster,” Liveris said.  The Commerce Department today also issued revisions for
trade dating back to 1999. For 2010, the trade gap was revised
up by $4.3 billion, or 0.9 percent, to $500 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  