-- 
Bond Traders Betting Slim’s TV Failure Will Be Short-Lived: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T21:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/traders-bet-slim-s-tv-failure-to-be-short-lived-mexican-credit.html
Speculation  America Movil  SAB will
win an appeal to overturn a regulator decision denying its
fixed-line unit a TV license is helping spark a rally in the
company’s bonds.  Yields on dollar bonds due in 2020 sold by America Movil,
the biggest wireless carrier in the Americas, fell four basis
points since May 26, the day before the government rejected the
license request. The average yield on Mexican corporate debt
climbed three basis points in the same period while borrowing
costs for Latin American telecommunications companies jumped 9
through yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Credit
Suisse Group AG.  Investors are betting billionaire  Carlos Slim , who controls
America Movil and its fixed-line unit Telefonos de  Mexico  SAB,
will overcome government efforts to curb the companies’ market
share. America Movil was fined $1 billion by Mexico’s antitrust
commission on April 15 for anticompetitive practices. Citigroup
Inc. and Scotia Capital predict Telmex, as Mexico’s biggest
phone carrier is known, will obtain the TV license in the next
nine months.  “They will get the license because it’s a matter of
opening markets and providing greater competition,” Alejandro Hernandez, who helps manage about $1.5 billion of debt at
Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview. “Investors are waiting for the license,
which is going to happen sooner or later.”  America Movil’s bonds yield 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, more than Mexican government notes due the
same year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap was
7 a month ago.  Safer Than Government  The company’s bonds are also benefiting from rising
investor demand for higher-rated emerging-market debt, Hernandez
said. America Movil is rated A2, two steps above the Mexican
government and five levels from the highest investment-grade
ranking, by Moody’s Investors Service.  The yield on Telmex’s dollar bonds due in 2019 has dropped
one basis point since May 26 to 4.44 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  An America Movil official declined to comment. An official
at the Communications Ministry didn’t return a phone call
seeking comment. In response to an America Movil request, the
antitrust agency ruled June 3 it would review its decision to
assess the $1 billion fine.  Fee Reduction  The Communications and Transportation Ministry ruled
against Telmex’s bid for a TV license on May 27, citing
deficiencies in its connections with rivals’ networks and a
failure to provide the required information. The decision came
after Mexico City-based Telmex obtained a court order last month
that compelled the government to rule on the TV license request,
which it has sought since 2006.  The rejection follows a decision by regulators on March 16
to side with competitors by cutting in half the fees that
America Movil sought to charge rivals to connect calls. America
Movil, also based in Mexico City, will face new rules that could
force it to cut prices as soon as this month, Mony de Swaan, the
Federal Telecommunications Commission president, said in a June
2 interview in Mexico City.  “There’s been negative news about America Movil and Telmex
that have not been reflected in the yields,” Araceli Espinosa,
a debt analyst at  Scotia Capital  in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview. “Some investors might be expecting that
Telmex will get the TV license.”  America Movil, spun off from Telmex in 2001 by Slim, the
world’s richest person according to Forbes magazine, may get the
license as soon as the first quarter of next year, driving
yields on the company’s debt to about 4 percent, Espinosa said.  Triple Play  Telmex, which said May 27 it will challenge the
government’s rejection in court, is seeking to offer TV services
to help stem a loss of customers to competitors such as Grupo
Televisa SA, whose cable units offer packages of phone, Internet
and TV service, known as triple play. Telmex, which accounted
for about 17 percent of America Movil revenue in the first
quarter, has 15.6 million phone lines, or about 80 percent of
the Mexico’s land-line market.  America Movil stockholders have shown more concern than
bond investors. America Movil has slid 5.2 percent on the Mexico
City bourse since May 26, compared with a 1.4 percent drop in
the benchmark IPC index.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 13 basis points
to 134 at 5:12 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  New Subscribers  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December rose two basis points to 5.02 percent. The
peso gained 0.6 percent to 11.7730 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell one basis point to 106, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  A combination of satellite and fiber-optic TV services
would give Telmex about 3.8 million subscribers by 2015 if it
gets permission to offer video, James Rivett, a Citigroup Inc.
analyst in  New York , wrote in a June 6 research note. Sales of
TV service would generate 5.94 billion pesos in 2015, Rivett
wrote. He estimates Telmex will get permission to offer TV
service in the second half of this year.  “The ability to offer integrated services would translate
into a stronger competitive position for America Movil,” Sergio Rodriguez, a Fitch Ratings analyst, said in a telephone
interview from Monterrey, Mexico. The triple play option
“allows companies to protect the customer loyalty, which
translates in stronger earnings,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  