-- 
Red Bulls’ Stadium Bonds Sap New Jersey Town as Condominium Visions Vanish

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/red-bulls-stadium-bonds-sap-new-jersey-town-as-condominium-visions-vanish.html
On a May evening, soccer fans
streamed down a Harrison,  New Jersey , sidewalk lined with
posters depicting cafes and parks that don’t exist. They were
headed to the $200 million Red Bull Arena, which rises above
warehouses and industrial wreckage that were to become condos
for New York City commuters and transform the town.  Harrison predicted that redevelopment revenue would cover
its $39 million debt to buy and clean up land under the stadium
for the Major League Soccer team owned by Dietrich Mateschitz,
billionaire founder of the namesake energy-drink company.
Instead, most construction projects haven’t begun. The
community, across the Passaic River from  Newark  with a per-
capita income 69 percent of the state average, had its  credit
rating  slashed and is firing police and firefighters.  “The numbers didn’t make any sense; the economics didn’t
make any sense,” said George Zoffinger, who criticized the deal
in 2006 as president of the New Jersey Sports & Exposition
Authority, a state agency that runs sporting and entertainment
complexes. “Now the taxpayers are going to pay.”  Larger communities have been stung, too: The recession
undermined the finances of stadium deals in Houston and
Cincinnati. Harrison, a town of 14,000, spent years wooing a
soccer team, only to see its prize become a burden.  No Way Forward  The town has no “long-term solution” for its debt load,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a May 20 ratings report. The
company downgraded Harrison five levels to Ba3, a junk-bond
rating, from Baa1, the eighth-highest investment grade.  Town officials in December had to borrow $3.1 million -- 21
percent of its municipal tax collections -- to make the debt
payment on the 2006 issue, and they anticipate doing so again
this December, Moody’s said.  Meanwhile, the New York Red Bulls, whose owner is No. 208
on Forbes magazine’s list of the world’s billionaires, are
challenging their taxable status. The team refuses to pay a $1.4
million property levy, according to Moody’s.  To close its $6 million budget gap, Harrison plans to
dismiss 17 percent of its police and 29 percent of its
firefighters on July 1, according to an e-mail from Town Clerk
Paul Zarbetski. Mayor Raymond McDonough is also considering
selling seven parking lots.  ‘It’ll Work Out’  Those involved in Harrison’s plight said thousands of
condos, shops and offices would have sprung up in its 1.3 square
miles were it not for the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009, the longest since the Depression.  “Maybe we were a little aggressive,” McDonough said in a
telephone interview. He said he wouldn’t do anything
differently. “It’ll work out in the end.”  During the 1950s and 1960s, Harrison, which is 12 miles (19
kilometers) west of  Manhattan , thrived. Wire and cable maker
Driver-Harris Co., Crucible Steel Co. and Otis Elevator Co.
employed tens of thousands. Eventually, manufacturers moved
south and overseas, leaving the landscape by the Passaic River
littered by vacant brick warehouses with broken windows.  McDonough, a 62-year-old retired plumber, has been mayor 16
years. An “old woman crying” in his office that she couldn’t
pay what she owed the town prompted him to look for ways to
boost the tax base, he said. In 1997, Harrison designated a
third of the town, including the stadium area, for
redevelopment.  Gazing Upon Newark  Because of its 20-minute train ride from  Wall Street , town
leaders envisioned the community, which the  U.S. Census  says is 
44 percent  Hispanic or Latino, as a lower-cost home for New York
City professionals. They saw how the waterfronts in Hoboken and
 Jersey City  attracted such commuters, although Harrison’s
skyline view is of the Passaic and Newark, not the  Hudson River 
and Manhattan’s towers.  To jump-start development, officials of the town, Hudson
County and the state had tried since the early 2000s to craft a
stadium deal for the team, then called the MetroStars. In 2006,
Harrison agreed to pay $39 million for the land, the county put
in $45 million for a parking garage and the team paid $200
million for stadium construction.  Revenue from development would fund debt service, said the
official statement of Harrison’s bonds, which were sold through
the Hudson County Improvement Authority and backed by the town
and county. The issue also carried bond insurance from MBIA, now
known as National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.  Over the past month, a Hudson County Improvement Authority
bond from that deal maturing in 2016 traded at an average yield
of 4 percent to 4.32 percent, which compares with an average
yield of 1.53 percent for top-rated five-year municipal bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fitful Building  The bond offering described two ventures in particular.
One, a 331-townhouse development, is about half built, said
James Bruno, a lawyer who represents the Harrison Redevelopment
Agency. The other hasn’t begun construction.  No feasibility study was done when the debt was sold, said
Edward McManimon III, partner at bond counsel McManimon &
 Scotland , based in Newark.  The town forecast that developers’ payments would total
$2.3 million in 2008 and increase to $11.5 million in 2011,
according to Moody’s. Instead, Harrison received only $980,000
in 2009 and $1.1 million in both 2010 and 2011.  Herman Charbonneau, senior vice president at New York-based
underwriter Roosevelt & Cross Inc., declined to comment on the
record. The company got a fee of $354,603 for the  bond issue ,
according to its offering statement.  Dennis Enright, principal at financial adviser NW Financial
Group of Jersey City, didn’t respond to two calls for comment.  Plunking it Down  Restaurateurs and shopowners are wary of opening businesses
around arenas because they don’t draw visitors every day, said
 Andrew Zimbalist , an economics professor at  Smith College  in
Northampton,  Massachusetts .  “If you’re talking about an area that is economically
stagnant, and you simply plunk the facility there, it’s unlikely
in the extreme that something will happen,” he said in a phone
interview.  Harrison is the latest town to invest in sports only to
find fiscal forecasts didn’t bear out. Hamilton County,  Ohio ,
paid for stadiums for  Major League Baseball ’s  Cincinnati Reds 
and the Bengals of the  National Football League  with a sales-tax
increase. Declining collections since 2008 have taken a toll: A
$33 million deficit is projected in 2013 for capital repairs,
said Terry Evans, county director of operations.  The Harris County-Houston Sports Authority, which financed
venues for three teams, dipped into reserves in November after
the global financial crisis rocked its variable-rate debt.  ‘Pretty Pictures’  In Harrison, critics such as Councilwoman Maria McCormick
and property owner Steven Adler said the plan never added up.
Town leaders were dazzled by promises, they said.  “You can’t imagine a quality development into being by
drawing pretty pictures,” said Adler, who was paid $24 million
for land the town claimed for development. “The idea you can
graft that onto an industrial community is the height of
pretense, arrogance and foolishness.”  Even the stadium, the one project that has come to
completion, isn’t providing the revenue the town anticipated.
The team argues that since the Harrison Redevelopment Agency
owns the land, it shouldn’t have to pay property taxes, said
Bruno, the agency’s lawyer.  “We continue to work with them to find an amicable
solution,” said Erik Stover, the team’s managing director.  Cheering Development  The Red Bulls delivered, Stover said.  “Just building and bringing the team is a huge economic
impact,” he said in a stadium skybox as the crowd roared during
a match against the Colorado Rapids that featured the Bulls’
marquee player,  Thierry Henry .  Several fans interviewed before the game, such as Bobby
Kocal from Queens, said they loved the two-level arena. Seating
is close to the action, and it’s covered by a roof of
translucent polycarbonate and aluminum. Average attendance for
the 25,000-seat arena ranges between 16,000 and 17,000,
according to Jurgen Mainka, a Red Bulls spokesman.  Harrison continues to identify with the team. Its website
advertises the phone number, and drivers exiting Route 280 are
greeted with a sign that welcomes them to the home of the Red
Bulls.  In a month, residents may see the fallout of betting on
soccer as police and firefighters leave their posts.  “It bothers me,” McDonough said. “I’ve had some
sleepless nights.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 