-- 
Boston Red Sox Take Fifth Straight Game at Yankee Stadium to Top AL East

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-06-09T04:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/red-sox-win-5th-straight-at-yankee-stadium-to-take-outright-division-lead.html
The  Boston   Red Sox  won their fifth
straight game, defeating the Yankees 11-6 to take the lead from
New York in Major League Baseball’s American League East
division.  Boston’s victory last night at Yankee Stadium improved the
Red Sox to 35-26. It was their 10th win in their last 12 games
on the road. The Yankees dropped to 33-26, one game behind their
rivals in the standings.  The Red Sox have won all five of their games this season in
New York, marking the first time since 1912 that the Yankees
have lost their first five home games against Boston in a
season. The teams conclude a three-game series today.  After opening the season with six straight losses and
building a 2-10 record, the Red Sox have won 18 of their past 24
games. The Yankees have now lost seven of eight meetings with
Boston this season. In each of the past three seasons, the teams
have finished 9-9 against each other.  Boston led 3-0 after the first inning on a run-scoring
groundout by Adrian Gonzalez and a two-run homer by  David Ortiz ,
his team-leading 15th of the season.  A sacrifice fly by J.D. Drew scored Marco Scutaro in the
second to make it 4-0. The Red Sox added three runs in the
fourth on a groundout, Jacoby Ellsbury’s run-scoring double and
Dustin Pedroia’s run-scoring infield single.  Yankees starter  A.J. Burnett  (6-4) took the loss, allowing
eight runs on seven hits and four walks in 5 2/3 innings. He is
winless in his last nine starts against Boston.  A-Rod’s Home Run  Alex Rodriguez  led off the Yankees’ fourth with his 11th
home run of the season and his eighth career home run off Boston
starter Tim Wakefield (3-1), the most the Red Sox right-hander
has yielded to any active hitter.  New York  added three runs in the fifth, including a run-
scoring double by  Derek Jeter , to pull within 7-4. They got no
closer, and Carl Crawford and Drew added ninth-inning home runs
for Boston.  Mark Teixeira , who had a sacrifice fly and a run-scoring
single and leads the Yankees with 43 RBIs, played after being
struck on the right knee by a fastball from Red Sox left-hander
Jon Lester in the first inning of Boston’s 6-4 win a day
earlier.  Jeter went 1-for-5, leaving him 11 hits shy of becoming the
first Yankee and 28th major league player to reach 3,000 career
hits. Jeter has 32 hits against Wakefield, the most he’s had
against any pitcher.  The Yankees placed reliever Joba Chamberlain on the 15-day
disabled list with a strained flexor muscle in his pitching arm
before last night’s game, the latest blow to a bullpen already
missing the injured Rafael Soriano.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  