-- 
Reliance Industries Exports Rise as Jet Fuel Shipments More Than Triple

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-06-09T20:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/reliance-exports-rise-as-jet-fuel-shipments-more-than-triple.html
Fuel exports by  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL) ,  India ’s largest publicly traded company, climbed at least
15 percent in May as the owner of the world’s biggest refining
complex more than tripled jet fuel shipments.  The Mumbai-based company, controlled by billionaire Mukesh
Ambani, shipped at least 2.3 million metric tons of oil products
from its Jamnagar facility in western India last month, up from
2 million tons in April, according to ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg and vessel fixtures from  Clarkson Research 
Services Ltd.  Reliance exported at least 410,000 tons of aviation fuel,
compared with about 120,000 tons a month earlier, according to
transmissions captured by AISLive on Bloomberg and data from
Clarkson Research, a unit of the world’s biggest shipbroker.
Prices for  jet fuel  in Europe, which took 85 percent of the
cargoes, climbed to the highest in 32 months in April as
fighting in  Libya  reduced supplies.  Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance in Mumbai, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. All figures from Clarkson
are for single-voyage bookings and exclude long-term charters.
Shipbrokers aren’t obliged to report charters so the scope of
data capture can vary from month to month.  Jet Fuel Demand  About 1.6 million tons of aviation fuel were shipped or
provisionally booked to sail to Europe from the  Middle East  or
India before the start of the peak summer travel season,
compared with 1.2 million tons in April, according to reports
from three shipbrokers including Delhi-based Interocean
Shipping.  FedEx Corp., the biggest air-cargo carrier, and Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd. forecast a pickup in freight demand in the
second half of the year.  The Tamar was hired in May by Total SA to transport 65,000
tons of jet fuel to  Europe  from the port of Sikka near Jamnagar,
vessel fixture data show. The ship was last tracked near the
Suez Canal, according to transmissions captured by Bloomberg.  Reliance’s gasoline shipments dropped 27 percent to at
least 880,000 tons as a surge in U.S. prices for the motor fuel
reduced demand. The company shipped at least 380,000 tons of
gasoline to the U.S., down 21 percent from a month earlier.
Other destinations included Singapore and Africa.  Gasoline prices at the pump climbed 28 percent in the first
four months of this year, according to the American Automobile
Association. Demand fell 322,000 barrels in the two weeks ended
May 6, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  Qi Lin Zuo  The Qi Lin Zuo was hired in late April by New York-based
Hess Corp. to ship 65,000 tons of gasoline to the U.S, according
to vessel fixtures. The tanker left Sikka in early May and was
last tracked off the coast of  New York , after sailing through
the  Suez Canal , the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Reliance’s gasoil, or diesel, shipments fell 3 percent to
at least 455,000 tons last month, the data show. Destinations
for diesel cargoes in May included Brazil and Africa. The
company also shipped 255,000 tons of naphtha, mainly to  Japan .
It exported about 300,000 tons of fuel products that couldn’t be
identified.  The Rich Duke II, chartered to transport 90,000 tons of
diesel, left Sikka in mid-May and was last tracked near  South
Africa , heading to the port of Cotonou in  Benin , West Africa,
vessel fixture data and ship transmissions show.  Reliance runs two refineries in Gujarat state. They can
process heavier grades of crude and have a throughput of as much
as 1.24 million barrels a day, accounting for about 1.6 percent
of global refining capacity, according to the company’s  website .  The company exports more products from its plants than
state-owned rivals such as Indian Oil Corp. and Bharat Petroleum
Corp., which sell most fuel domestically below international
rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  