-- 
Trichet May Signal July Increase as ECB Holds

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-06-09T11:45:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/trichet-may-signal-july-increase-after-ecb-keeps-interest-rate-at-1-25-.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet may signal the bank intends to raise  interest
rates  in July after leaving the benchmark unchanged today.  ECB officials kept the key interest rate at 1.25 percent,
as predicted by all 52 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Trichet is likely to call for “strong vigilance” on inflation,
indicating a rate increase next month, a separate survey shows.
He holds a press conference at 2:30 p.m. in Frankfurt, during
which the central bank will also publish its latest economic
forecasts for this year and next.  ECB policy makers are concerned about oil-driven inflation
feeding into wage demands. Their task of normalizing policy is
being complicated by tensions with the German government over
how much pain private-sector creditors should bear in tackling
the Greek-led sovereign debt crisis.  “The ECB certainly is in no mind to make monetary policy
based on the periphery,” said James Mason, senior research
analyst at Roubini Global Economics in  London . “We see them
continuing to try to hike rates according to their plan.”  Separately, the  Bank of England  kept its benchmark rate at
a record low of 0.5 percent today. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week the “frustratingly slow” U.S.
recovery warrants sustained monetary stimulus, though the Fed
will also “take whatever actions are necessary to keep
inflation well controlled.”  Inflation Forecast  While euro-region inflation weakened to 2.7 percent in May
from 2.8 percent the previous month after energy costs
retreated, the ECB will probably increase its full-year estimate
to 2.7 percent from 2.3 percent and also raise its growth
estimate, said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London.  “We do look for the expression ‘strong vigilance’ to be
used, in the context of significant upward revisions to the
staff macroeconomic projections,” said  Julian Callow , chief
European economist at  Barclays Capital  in London.  After a move in July, economists expect the ECB to raise
rates again in October, taking the benchmark to 1.75 percent.  At the same time, the ECB and the German government are at
loggerheads over their response to Greece. In a letter to
Trichet and other finance officials this week, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said maturities on Greek bonds
should be extended seven years to give the debt-wracked nation
time to overhaul its economy.  Lehman Catastrophe  The ECB has opposed anything beyond a voluntary rollover of
debt to avoid what European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  has called a “Lehman Brothers
catastrophe.”  A swap offering investors terms that are “worse” than
those of existing securities would constitute a coercive or
distressed exchange, and be considered a default,  Fitch Ratings 
said earlier this week. Trichet has said the so-called Vienna
initiative approach, which would see bondholders commit to
purchase new bonds after their existing holdings mature, was
something “the ECB would consider appropriate.”  “The ECB is frustrated that there are these irrational
politicians that they can’t control,” said Jens Sondergaard, an
economist at Nomura International in London.  Greece ’s “doomsday
scenario is that they default, they don’t get the payments and
all bets are off.”  Unlimited Liquidity  With governments struggling to contain the region’s debt
crisis, the ECB may keep providing lenders with unlimited
liquidity. Banks in Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  have been
reliant on central bank funding after lending dried up.  “You cannot separate monetary policy and the problems of
the periphery completely, but you can to a certain extent,”
said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh. Berenberg,
Gossler & Co. in London. “It’s likely they’ll indicate a rate
hike and keep most of the other liquidity measures in place.”  Moody’s on June 1 downgraded Greece to Caa1 from B1,
putting it on the same level as Cuba after policy makers
considered asking investors to reinvest in new Greek debt when
existing bonds mature. Greece said the move “overlooks” its
commitment to meeting its 2011 fiscal target as well as an
“accelerated” state-asset sale program.  Investors remain unconvinced. Greek 10-year bonds yield
almost 16 percent and the country is the most expensive in the
world to insure against default, at about 1,500 basis points,
according to CMA prices. The yield investors demand to hold
Greek 10-year bonds instead of benchmark German bunds widened
for the first day in four yesterday.  The ECB is “desperate to avoid the debt crisis becoming a
euro crisis,” said  Steven Barrow , an economist at Standard Bank
Plc in London. “The best way to do this is to prove its
independence and raise rates. Do I think this is the best way?
No. Do I know the ECB well enough to know that they will do it?
Yes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  