-- 
Trichet Escalates Greece Clash as ECB Puts Onus on Governments for Rescue

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-10T13:54:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/trichet-rejects-ecb-participation-in-greece-bailout.html
Germany  stepped up demands that
investors share the cost of a second Greek rescue after Jean- Claude Trichet rejected direct involvement by the  European
Central Bank .  “We have to insist on the participation of the private
sector,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
lawmakers in Berlin today, ignoring warnings from credit-rating
firms that his proposal to extend Greek debt maturities by seven
years would be deemed a default. A working group set up this
week is charged with indentifying “a good solution for the
involvement of the private sector that can and has to be
supported by the European Central Bank,” he said.  As politicians try to find a plan by June 24 that would
share the cost of a new rescue with bondholders, Trichet
yesterday ruled out the Frankfurt-based ECB setting an example
with its own assets. While the bank has said it could accept a
plan in which investors voluntarily agree to buy Greek bonds to
replace maturing debt, President Trichet said the ECB has no
intention of rolling over its own Greek holdings.  Greek, Irish and Spanish benchmark bonds slumped after
Schaeuble’s speech.  Portugal ’s 10-year bond yield rose to a
record 10.45 percent before settling up 13 basis points at 10.42
percent as of 12:17 p.m. in London.  Greece ’s 10-year yield rose
12 basis points to 16.78 percent.  The euro declined 0.52 percent to $1.4452 as of 3:17 p.m.
in Berlin.  ‘Enormous Mistake’  Sustained ECB resistance could leave politicians facing the
prospect of asking their taxpayers to finance a Greek budget
shortfall that may amount to 90 billion euros ($130 billion)
through 2014. Trichet also warned against Schaeuble’s approach,
saying any solution forcing private-sector involvement amounts
to a “ credit event ” and would be an “enormous mistake.”  “Trichet is really digging his heels in now,” said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe  in London
who worked at the ECB until April. “The ECB has already
shouldered the main burden of the crisis. These are the same
politicians that dithered last year and got the ECB to pick up
the pieces.”  The cost of insuring against default on government debt
sold by Greece surged to a record yesterday, according to
traders of credit-default swaps. Contracts on Greece soared 30
basis points to 1,522, according to CMA.  The ECB started buying the bonds of distressed governments
in May last year to help ensure the transmission of its monetary
policy in money and credit markets.  Stark, Constancio  ECB officials reinforced their resistance today to taking
additional measures to stem the sovereign debt crisis, saying
that it is again up to politicians and governments to respond.  “The burden is not on us,” Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said in Frankfurt today. “It wasn’t the ECB that
asked for private-sector involvement.”  Executive Board member Juergen Stark called on governments
to end their “fruitless discussion” about debt restructuring,
which is unlikely to lead to “a substantial involvement of the
private sector.”  “With a strong commitment from Greek authorities, I think
there’s no need for private-sector involvement,” Stark told
reporters in Frankfurt today. “The ECB is not against
involvement of the private sector but conditions have to be
clear: The involvement of the private sector has to be purely
voluntary and not create a default.”  ECB Purchases  The central bank has so far purchased 75 billion euros
worth of assets in the secondary market under its Securities
Market Program, which it stresses is temporary and not designed
to finance governments. It may have purchased about 40 billion
euros of Greek  government bonds ,  Barclays Capital  estimates.  It is also financing the banking systems of Greece,
Portugal and Ireland, which have together received bailouts
totaling 256 billion euros, by continuing to lend them unlimited
amounts of money at its benchmark rate.  While the ECB is prevented by its founding treaty from
buying bonds on the primary market, it “could be instrumental
in convincing private bondholders to roll over by re-launching
its SMP program on the secondary market,” said  Gilles Moec , an
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . Trichet’s comments are
a “further confirmation that the Europeans are still far from a
fully fledged solution,” he said.  ‘Skeptical Voices’  Schaeuble, in a June 6 letter to Trichet and fellow euro
finance ministers, called for Greek bondholders to extend the
maturities of their debt by seven years to give Greece more time
to cut its debt and budget deficit.  “I have proposed a fair distribution of risks between
taxpayers and private creditors for the phase of gaining time,”
Schaeuble said today. “We’re taking skeptical voices and
warnings from the European Central Bank on the involvement of
the private sector seriously.”  Governments aim to reach agreement on a new aid package by
a European Union summit on June 23-24. The IMF has threatened to
withhold its share of what remains of Greece’s original 110
billion-euro bailout until governments guarantee that the
country’s financing needs for the next 12 months are covered.
The IMF was due to turn over 3.3 billion euros this month.  European governments and the IMF would lend as much as an
extra 45 billion euros to Greece under a new bailout plan that
also includes roughly 30 billion euros in asset-sale proceeds
and about 30 billion euros in rollovers by creditors, two people
with direct knowledge of the talks said yesterday.  While a debt rollover has been gaining support among EU
officials, credit analysts at Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have indicated that pressure
on private investors to participate would prompt a default
rating on Greek debt.  “We exclude all elements which are not voluntary,”
Trichet said. Asked if the ECB would roll over its own holdings
of Greek government bonds if private investors agreed to do so,
Trichet said: “It is certainly not our intention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in  Frankfurt  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  