-- 
Ringgit Rallies on Speculation Yesterday’s Slide Was Excessive

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-06-09T09:06:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ringgit-rallies-on-speculation-yesterday-s-slide-was-excessive.html
Malaysia’s ringgit strengthened on
speculation yesterday’s biggest drop in two weeks was excessive
even as a government report today showed factory output growth
contracted.  Industrial production unexpectedly fell 2.1 percent in
April from a year earlier, compared with a revised 2.9 percent
increase in March, as  Japan ’s record earthquake disrupted trade
in the Asian region. The median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a 2.5 percent increase.  “The contraction is temporary as the supply chain
disruption in Japan should start to subside in the third
quarter,” Lee Heng Guie, chief economist at CIMB Investment
Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur said. “The Malaysian economy should
still be on track to meet the government’s growth forecast.”  The ringgit advanced 0.2 percent to 3.0215 per dollar as of
5:05 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency declined 0.6 percent yesterday, the
biggest loss since May 23.  “The selling of the ringgit was overdone as the Malaysian
economy is still resilient,” said D. Sivadass, a foreign-
exchange forwards trader at EON Capital Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .
“The interest-rate differential between emerging markets and
the U.S. should see sustained demand for Asian currencies.”  The central bank raised the overnight policy rate to 3
percent on May 5, boosting the yield advantage over the U.S. and
 Europe , where  interest rates  are a maximum 1.25 percent.  Bank Negara Malaysia  projects the Southeast Asian nation
will expand between 5 percent and 6 percent this year, slowing
from a 7.2 percent pace in 2010. Borrowing costs will rise at
least another 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, by the
end of the year, according to the median estimate of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings.  Government bonds  were little changed as the treasury
prepares to sell an additional 4 billion ringgit ($1.3 billion)
of 2021 securities on June 14.  The yield on the 4.16 percent note due July 2021 was
unchanged at 3.98 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  