-- 
Roth & Rau’s Chief Says Meyer Burger, Gutekunst May Agree on Sale

-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-09T16:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/roth-rau-s-chief-says-meyer-burger-gutekunst-may-agree-on-sale.html
Roth & Rau AG (R8R) ’s second-biggest
shareholder may sell its stake in the German manufacturer to
 Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN) , which is bidding for the company,
Chief Executive Officer Dietmar Roth said.  “We are in discussions with Gutekunst,” Roth said today
in an interview during the Intersolar conference. “We have a
long-term collaboration with them. There is no reason not to
continue to use equipment from them.” The CEO reiterated that a
22-euro per share bid is “fair.”  Gutekunst Holding has a 15 percent stake in the maker of
factory equipment for producing solar cells. Meyer Burger
Technology said yesterday it held 32.38 percent of Roth & Rau
after its offer for the company ended June 3. Roth said he’s
hopeful Meyer Burger will buy more than 50 percent of Roth & Rau
shares by the June 22 end of the extended acceptance period.  “If Meyer Burger stayed below 30 percent they would have
had a lot of trouble,” Roth said in Munich. “I am very hopeful
that we can get in the next two weeks to 50 percent.”  After June 22, if Meyer Burger doesn’t hold 50 percent of
the shares, Hohenstein, Germany-based Roth & Rau may drop to 17
euros a share, he said. Then Meyer Burger will have “the
opportunity to buy shares in the market,” Roth said.  Meyer Burger, the biggest maker of solar-panel-making
equipment, made a 357 million-euro ($509 million) bid for Roth &
Rau on April 11 after acquiring an 11 percent stake. Roth &
Rau’s stock has gained 12 percent since the offer, slipping 25.5
cents, or 1.1 percent, to close at 22.10 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close in  Frankfurt  today. Meyer Burger, based in Baar,
 Switzerland , dropped 0.6 percent to 35.3 francs.  Calls to Gutekunst seeking comment weren’t immediately
returned.  “We are working with Meyer Burger to find a solution with
shareholders, especially Mr. Gutekunst,” Roth said. Roth &
Rau’s third-biggest shareholder, KLK Holdings Ltd., said last
month that it is unconvinced by the takeover offer. A call to
Christoph Ladanyi, a member of KLK’s board of directors, wasn’t
immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  