-- 
Ruble Gains Most in Month to Euro as OPEC Discord Spurs Oil

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-06-09T14:42:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ruble-gains-most-in-month-to-euro-as-opec-discord-spurs-oil.html
The ruble strengthened the most in a
month versus the euro as oil,  Russia ’s chief export earner,
advanced and investors scaled back bets on the pace of interest-
rate increases in  Europe .  Russia’s currency added 0.5 percent to 40.34 per euro at
the 5 p.m. close in Moscow, the biggest gain since May 11. The
ruble was little changed at 27.76 per dollar, leaving it 0.3
percent stronger at 33.421 versus the central bank’s target
dollar-euro basket.  Oil rose for a third day after the Organization for
Petroleum Exporting Countries failed to reach an agreement on
production targets for the first time in at least 20 years and a
report showed U.S. stockpiles decreased last week. Crude for
July delivery gained as much as $1.13 a barrel to $101.87.  “The sharp rise in crude as OPEC failed to decide on
supply issues went right into the ruble basket being sold,”
Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at Swissquote Bank SA
in Geneva, said in response to e-mailed questions today.  The euro weakened against the dollar, reversing earlier
gains, after European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet’s 2012 inflation forecast spurred traders to lower bets
on the pace of further rate increases.  The ruble’s gains against the European currency were “in
line with the global market’s dollar-euro rate move,”
Natalia Orlova, chief economist at Moscow-based  Alfa Bank , said
by e-mail today.  Russia’s central bank probably shifted the so-called
floating corridor it allows the ruble to trade within against
its target basket in May, according to VTB Capital. The range is
probably now 32.25 to 37.25 versus the basket, from 32.45 to
37.45 previously, VTB analysts led by Nikolay Podguzov, head of
fixed-income strategy at VTB Capital, wrote in a client note
dated yesterday.  “While the central bank has indicated that it does not
consider shifting the official corridor, the market may still
play out this scenario,” Alfa’s Orlova said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  