-- 
Rupiah Retreats From Seven-Year High as Central Bank Holds Rate

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-06-09T09:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/rupiah-retreats-from-seven-year-high-as-central-bank-holds-rate.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah retreated from a
seven-year high as policy makers kept  interest rates  unchanged
for a fourth straight meeting.  Bank Indonesia left its  reference rate  at 6.75 percent as a
strengthening currency helped contain inflation in Southeast
Asia’s largest economy. The decision was forecast by all 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The  Federal Reserve  said
yesterday the economy slowed in four of 12 regions as consumers
contended with higher food and fuel prices, and shortages of
parts reduced auto production.  “The rupiah is expected to be in a tight range,” said
Wiling Bolung, head of treasury at ANZ Panin Bank in Jakarta.
The market is “watching the U.S. slowdown” as  Bank Indonesia 
had been expected to keep rates unchanged, he said.  The rupiah declined 0.1 percent to 8,522 per dollar as of
3:50 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency touched 8,499 yesterday, the strongest level since
March 2004.  Consumer prices rose 5.98 percent last month from a year
earlier, less than the 6.16 percent gain in April.  The rupiah advanced 5.8 percent against the dollar in the
past six months, the second-best performance among Asia’s 10
most-traded currencies excluding the yen.  “The continuing trend of rupiah appreciation is in line
with Bank Indonesia efforts to mitigate inflation pressures,
particularly those stemming from imported inflation,” the
central bank said today, adding it will also watch the impact of
currency gains on economic growth.  Ten-year  government bonds  were little changed. The yield on
the 8.25 percent note due in July 2021 held at 7.32 percent,
according to prices at the Inter Dealer Market Association. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  