-- 
Russia RTS Futures Gain as U.S. Stocks Rebound, Oil Rallies

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-06-09T21:20:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/russia-rts-futures-gain-as-u-s-stocks-rebound-oil-rallies.html
Russia ’s RTS index futures rose,
signaling shares in Moscow may extend their gains, as U.S.
stocks climbed for the first time in seven days and oil gained.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
rose 0.3 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s
top oil producer, rose 0.1 percent, while those on OAO Lukoil,
the second-biggest, gained 0.5 percent. Contracts on OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, rose 0.3 percent.  “Oil has strengthened because of OPEC and that helped RTS
stock-index futures,” Yan Gloukhovski, a trader at Alforma
Capital Markets, the New York branch of Russia’s Alfa Bank, said
in a telephone interview. “A rebound in U.S. equities markets
has also helped.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.7 percent to
1,289.00 in  New York  after six straight days of losses, its
longest slump since February 2009. Crude oil rose 1.2 percent to
a one-week high after OPEC failed to reach an agreement on
production targets for the first time in at least 20 years.  The 30-stock Micex Index advanced 1.7 percent to 1,692.34
in Moscow yesterday, rising for a fourth day. Rosneft added 1.6
percent and Gazprom rose 2.4 percent after oil, Russia’s main
export earner, gained. The dollar-denominated RTS Index added
1.6 percent to 1,940.98, also its fourth day of gains.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 2.7 percent yesterday. Lukoil’s
American depositary receipts gained 1.2 percent. Gazprom’s ADRs
rose 2.8 percent.  Metals  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, palladium and aluminum.
Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic output.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
rose 0.7 percent. Crude oil for July delivery increased $1.19 to
settle at $101.93 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
yesterday. Prices are up 37 percent from a year ago.  Ministers from the 12-nation Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries were unable to come to an accord in five
hours of talks in Vienna yesterday. Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-
Naimi said that it was “one of the worst meetings we’ve ever
had.”  Russia isn’t a member of OPEC.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer,  Kuwait , Qatar and
the United Arab Emirates were ready to supply more oil to the
market, al-Naimi said yesterday in Vienna. The four nations
proposed a 1.5-million-barrel-a-day increase.  Libya , Angola, Ecuador,  Algeria ,  Iran  and  Venezuela  were
opposed to higher limits, according to al-Naimi.  Iraq  is exempt
from the targets. The 11 members subject to quotas produced
26.22 million barrels a day last month, 1.375 million more than
pledged, according to Bloomberg News estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  