-- 
Russia Stocks Climb as OPEC ‘Unease’ Lifts Oil Price, U.S. Data

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-06-09T15:22:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/russia-stocks-climb-as-opec-unease-lifts-oil-price-u-s-data.html
Russian stocks advanced to their
highest in more than five weeks as oil gained on OPEC’s failure
to agree on crude quotas boosted prices and after U.S trade
deficit unexpectedly narrowed.  The 30-stock Micex Index jumped 1.7 percent to 1,692.34 by
the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, erasing an earlier loss of as
much as 0.3 percent and climbing for a fourth day. Oil producers
OAO Tatneft and OAO Rosneft rallied 1.9 percent and 1.6 percent,
respectively. OAO Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender, surged
3.5 percent. The dollar-denominated RTS Index added 1.6 percent
to 1,940.98.  Oil rose for a third day in  New York  after OPEC failed to
reach an agreement on production targets for the first time in
at least 20 years and U.S. crude inventories fell more than
analysts forecast. Crude for July delivery was up 0.4 percent at
$101.09 a barrel after a 1.7 percent gain yesterday.  “OPEC’s unease is Russia’s comfort,” Julian Rimmer, a
trader of Russian shares at CF Global Trading, said today in e-
mailed comments.  Stocks extended gains after data today showed the  U.S.
trade deficit  narrowed in April reflecting a plunge in auto and
oil imports combined with record exports. The gap shrank 6.7
percent to $43.7 billion, the lowest since December, the
Commerce Department said.  OAO Uralkali,  Russia ’s largest potash producer, rose to its
highest in two months in Moscow trading after Interfax reported
that owner Suleiman Kerimov may buy control of a state-owned
competitor in Belarus for $15 billion. Uralkali gained as much
as 4.5 percent to 252 rubles, the biggest intraday jump since
May 31, before closing 2 percent higher.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. named eight companies today to its
new Russia Structural Leaders List. OAO Mechel, Eurasia Drilling
Co., Alliance Oil Co., OAO Rosneft and OAO Novatek in the
natural resources industry and OAO Magnit, OAO Cherkizovo and
M.Video in the consumer segment are companies that will continue
to see “industry-leading cash returns,” analysts led by Sergei Arsenyev wrote.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Nicholson at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net  