-- 
Samsonite Said to Cut Maximum Amount Sought in Hong Kong IPO

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-06-09T07:27:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/samsonite-said-to-cut-maximum-amount-sought-in-hong-kong-ipo-1-.html
Samsonite International SA , the
luggage maker backed by London-based CVC Capital Partners Ltd.,
cut the maximum size of a  Hong Kong  initial public offering by
11 percent to about $1.3 billion, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Samsonite narrowed the IPO price range to HK$14.50 to
HK$15.50 a share, from HK$13.50 to $HK17.50 previously, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the information is
private. The final price is scheduled to be set tomorrow,
according to the offering’s prospectus.  The company is competing for investors’ money with Prada
SpA, the Italian luxury-goods maker planning to raise as much as
$2.6 billion in a Hong Kong IPO this month. The narrowed price
range values Samsonite at as much as 19.5 times estimated full-
year earnings, the people said. Prada’s sale will give it a
maximum valuation of 28 times earnings, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  “The revision lower of the IPO price range reflects, in
part, the competition in the IPO market and partly the global
pullback, as markets trend lower,'' said  Andrew Sullivan ,
director of institutional sales trading at OSK Securities Hong
Kong Ltd., in an e-mail.  Companies have struggled to extract the maximum valuation
in IPOs this year as the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index retreated 3.8
percent, dimming the allure of new equity. Casino venture MGM
China Holdings Ltd. is the only company to price a $1 billion-
plus IPO in Hong Kong at the top end of its marketed range since
October, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Prada Demand  Prada received bids for all the shares offered to money
managers on the first day of order taking, three people with
knowledge of the transaction said on June 6. The Milan-based
maker of Miu Miu handbags is scheduled to start trading on June
24, eight days after Samsonite debuts.  Coach Inc. is among other consumer-goods makers seeking
Hong Kong listing to bolster brand awareness in  China , where
rising affluence is bolstering spending on foreign goods. The
101-year old company, which sells luggage under the Samsonite
and American Tourister brand, has said China has the largest
potential for growth.  Mansfield, Massachusetts-based Samsonite aims to boost its
market share in China to as much as 35 percent within five years
from 12.5 percent now, Ramesh Tainwala, the company’s president
for the Asia-Pacific region and the  Middle East , told reporters
in Hong Kong on May 24. Sales in China jumped 50 percent last
year, he said.  ‘Changing Fashions’  “The trouble with Samsonite is that the brand is built on
durability and hence repeat sales are difficult compared with
Prada and Coach, where it’s all about changing fashions,” said
Sullivan.  Existing stock accounts for 82 percent of the 671.2 million
shares on offer by Samsonite, according to a term sheet sent to
investors last month. An outside spokeswoman for Samsonite, who
declined to be identified, said she couldn’t comment.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  are managing the offering. RBS owns
30 percent of the company.  Samsonite was bought by CVC, a private equity firm, for
about $1.7 billion in October 2007. Its U.S. retail division,
Samsonite Co. Stores, in 2009 sought  bankruptcy protection  from
creditors after the financial crisis caused a slump in demand
for travel-related products.  The company started as Shwayder Trunk Manufacturing in
Denver in 1910, with Samson as its first brand. The first
Samsonite-brand suitcase was introduced 29 years later,
according to Hoover’s, Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  