-- 
SAP’s Snabe Says Closer Partnership With HP Would Make Sense

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-06-09T11:25:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/sap-s-snabe-says-closer-linkup-with-hp-on-real-time-analytics-makes-sense.html
SAP AG (SAP)  Co-Chief Executive Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe said it would make sense to cooperate more
closely with  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  on in-memory computing that
allows real-time analytics.  “That is one of the cornerstones and a possible extension
of partnership with HP,” Snabe told journalists on the
sidelines of the World Economic Forum meeting in Vienna today.  SAP’s Hana in-memory computing product, or High-Performance
Analytic Appliance, is designed to speed up analysis of business
data. It comes on servers from companies such as HP,
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  SAP said in April it had a “triple-digit-million-
euro pipeline” for both Hana and for the mobile platform it
developed after acquiring Sybase Inc. last year.  As software is increasingly accessed over the Internet and
workers use more mobile devices, SAP is betting on in-memory
computing and mobile products and services to help it win
business from rivals such as  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  The new products will
account for about a quarter of a projected 20 billion-euro ($29
billion) in sales by 2015, SAP said in May. In 2010, SAP’s
revenue was 12.5 billion euros.  HP Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  wants to deepen
the relationship with SAP, Manager Magazin said last month,
citing an interview with Apotheker, who stepped down as SAP’s
CEO in February last year.  Hana  customers  include the computer maker Lenovo Group Ltd,
and  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL) , the world’s largest toothpaste maker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Vienna via 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt via 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  