-- 
Scene Last Night: SkyBridge, Bonobos at Entrepreneurs Showdown

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-09T16:25:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/scene-last-night-skybridge-bonobos-happybaby-at-entrepreneurs-showdown.html
The phrase “Let’s do it” from a
Black Eyed Peas recording blared last night in the ballroom of
the Marriott Marquis in Times Square. It was cheesy yet fitting
accompaniment for the “Parade of Finalists” at the  New York 
edition of the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year
competition.  Thirty-eight hopeful entrepreneurs walked across the stage
under bright lights, among them Anthony Scaramucci, managing
partner of SkyBridge Capital LLC, Michael Sepso, co-founder of
Major League Gaming Inc., and Andy Dunn, co-founder of Bonobos
Inc., dressed in a flamboyant pair of the company’s pants, as
well as a Bonobos tuxedo jacket (Italian gabardine wool with
polka-dot silk lining) and shirt.  “We want to look good but we don’t like to shop,” said
Dunn in a private moment, explaining why men have gravitated to
the Bonobos website to outfit themselves (short shorts in bright
colors are the look of summer, he added).  Some of the winners were announced before the short ribs
and cake were served, others after. All got to see themselves
memorialized in videos featuring footage of them answering the
phone or working at their computer or giving an employee a pat
on the back, livened up with snippets of loud dance music.  The diversity of the finalists was impressive, reflecting
the diversity of New York, said one of the judges, Robert
Johnston, chief executive of the  Executive Council , which
operates the New York Venture Capital Association.  Part of the fun of the event was meeting the people behind
some clever ideas. Finalist Jeffrey Levy’s company RailWorks
Corp. built the system that tells you when the trains are
arriving on New York City subway platforms. Finalist Alastair
Ong’s GreenSoul Shoes manufactures footwear from recycled
materials. Chaim Indig, co-founder of Phreesia, developed a
tablet that allows patients to enter their information in the
computer system of hospitals and doctor’s offices.  Nine Winners  In the end, only nine people walked away with a trophy and
the chance to compete for the title of World Entrepreneur of the
Year, announced at a ceremony in  Monte Carlo .  “Great ideas usually come from a crisis,” said Scaramucci
in his acceptance speech. He noted that in 2009 he had taken to
calling his company “low bridge, no bridge, or blown-up
bridge.” He went on to found the SkyBridge Alternatives (SALT)
Conference and to acquire some of Citigroup’s hedge-fund units.  The other winners were: Michael Lazerow, who with his wife,
Kass, founded Buddy Media Inc., which helps companies build
their brand on Facebook; Mia and Jason Bauer, founders of Crumbs
Bake Shop Inc.; James D’Addario, whose D’Addario & Co. makes
guitar strings, drum sticks and other music accessories; Shazi
Visram, founder of  HappyBaby , which makes healthy baby foods;
Michael Cassidy, who built Undertone, an  advertising agency ;
Chetan Dube, founder of IPsoft Inc.; Dr. Leonard Schleifer, who
started  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) ; and Mike Narula of
Reliance Communications LLC.  ‘Great Spirit’  “There’s a great spirit tonight. These are all company
builders and they like talking to each other and hearing each
other’s stories,” said Bryan Pearce, the Americas director of
the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year.  Pearce told Dunn he’d be ordering a pair of Bonobos pants
soon, though maybe not in time to wear to the next regional
edition of the awards program, tonight in Austin.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 