-- 
Serbian Central Bank Cuts Two-Week Repurchase Rate by a Half-Point to 12%

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-06-09T14:50:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/serbian-central-bank-cuts-two-week-repurchase-rate-by-a-half-point-to-12-.html
Serbia ’s central bank cut its
benchmark interest rate, the second highest in  Europe , by half a
percentage point amid signals inflation will slow in the coming
months.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije lowered the two-
week repurchase rate to 12 percent, the first cut since May of
last year. Three of 22 economists forecast the move in a
Bloomberg survey, while three others expected a quarter-point
rate reduction and 15 saw no change. One expected a quarter-
point increase.  Policy makers around the world are battling to stem
inflation sparked by high global food and energy prices.
Serbia’s central bank estimates inflation peaked in May or June
and inflationary pressures may subside during the summer as a
result of comparative effects. Economic growth is expected to
accelerate to 4.5 percent in 2012 from 3 percent in 2011, mainly
led by Fiat SpA investment into a new assembly plant.  “The cut in the benchmark interest rate was necessary to
stabilize inflation around the target over the medium term,”
the bank said in a statement on its website.  The dinar advanced 0.5 percent after the rate decision as
investors rushed in to take advantage of higher yields before
the bank lowers borrowing costs further. The currency traded at
97.85 to the euro at 1:34 p.m. in Belgrade, up from 98.25 at
12:05 p.m., according to Bloomberg data.  Dinar Gains  London-based  Barclays Capital  said “the turnaround in the
cycle has been unusually quick” as the “NBS stayed on hold
only for one month before starting to cut rates,” London-based
Barclays Capital said in a note to clients.  The central bank will probably cut its benchmark between
1.5 percentage points to 2  points in the third quarter,
Barclays said, and lowered its three-month forecast for the
dinar to 95 from 101.  The dinar may come under pressure to weaken in the short
term because of the current-account gap, Barclays said. The
scope for the weakening should be offset by the country’s EU
convergence process and a new precautionary loan deal with the
 International Monetary Fund .  High  interest rates  in 2011 have attracted investors to
Serbia, pushing the dinar up 8.4 percent against the euro this
year, turning the currency into world’s top performer in 2011.  Local Debt  “Investors will remain even keener on investing into local
debt as they try to book profits before the new rate cut, which
we don’t view as likely to happen at the next meeting, but the
downward movement in the key rate is a clear scenario now,”
Raiffeisenbank in Belgrade said in a note after the decision.  Consumer prices grew an annual 14.7 percent in April, the
most in 37 months and more than double the limit of the central
bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range. Governor Dejan Soskic was quoted by the Blic newspaper as saying yesterday that
he expects ‘good results’’ in inflation data to be released on
June 13.  The slowdown of inflation in the coming months will mainly
be caused by a “good harvest, weak aggregate demand and
monetary policy measures taken to date,” the bank statement
said.  Vladimir Vuckovic, a member of Serbia’s Fiscal Council,
said the rate “decision is timely and the size of the cut
sufficient, considering that this is only the first step.”  “I hope the government will also follow suit with yields
on its debt,” he added.  A year after its economy grew 1.8 percent following its
worst recession in a decade, Serbia is still struggling to kick
start growth as domestic demand stays weak and industrial output
falters.  In today’s debt auction, the Debt Management Agency
reported demand at 2.59 billion dinars for 2 billion dinars
worth of debt on sale, with average yields inching down to 12.49
percent from 12.79 percent at May 26 auction of the same
maturity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at   acrosby1@bloomberg.net  