-- 
Serbia Strives to Qualify for EU Candidacy in 2011, Djelic Says

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-06-09T14:07:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/serbia-strives-to-qualify-for-eu-candidacy-in-2011-djelic-says.html
Serbia  plans to impress the European
Union and fulfill all conditions in order to be granted the
candidate status by the end of the year and the date for the
start of membership talks, Deputy Premier Bozidar Djelic said.  “I have no doubt that we will fulfill the action plan for
this year,” Djelic said in an interview with Bloomberg News on
the sidelines of the  World Economic Forum  on  Europe  and Central
Asia in Vienna. “Our approach is to make sure that when
December comes and members of the EU sit down to consider our
application, they have everything in hand not only to give us a
candidate status but also to set a date for opening negotiations
on joining the EU.”  Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic ’s administration, which
faces elections next year, is implementing changes to improve
the judicial system and fight corruption and organized crime in
hope of getting a positive assessment from EU Enlargement
Commissioner Stefan Fule on Oct. 12.  Cvetkovic flew to Brussels today for an informal meeting
with Fule and to discuss an updated list of tasks for Belgrade
to qualify for the candidacy by October, state-run Tanjug news
agency said. The European Commission will start preparing the
progress report on Serbia on June 15.  Serbia arrested and handed over former Bosnian Serb general
Ratko Mladic to the Hague in May, clearing one of the main
obstacles to its faster EU progress. The government has pledged
to complete its cooperation with the Hague-based United Nations
War Crimes Tribunal and arrest the last fugitive.  “We will not stop until we complete collaboration with
Hague and find Goran Hadzic,” Djelic said, referring to former
Croatian Serb leader who is still at large.  Serbia must also come to terms with Kosovo, a nation of 2
million mostly ethnic Albanians, which declared independence
from Serbia in February 2008. Kosovo has been recognized by 22
of 27 members of the EU and the U.S.  Negotiators from both countries are expected to tackle the
issues of telecommunications, land registers and freedom of
movement later this month or next.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net 
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  