-- 
Sewer Work May Have Set Off PG&E Pipe Blast

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-06-09T20:44:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/sewer-work-may-have-set-off-pg-e-pipe-blast.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s natural-gas pipeline
explosion in San Bruno last year may have been triggered by a
sewer replacement project done by the city, an independent panel
found.  “The panel believes third-party construction activity
could have played a key role in transforming a fabrication flaw
in the pipeline from a ‘stable’ to an ‘unstable’ threat,
ultimately triggering the incident,” according to a statement
today from the California Public Utilities Commission, which
formed the panel. The sewer work was done in 2008.  The five-member panel didn’t make a finding on the root
cause of the September explosion, which killed eight people and
destroyed 38 homes. A National Transportation Safety Board final
report on what caused the blast will likely be available by
September, agency Chairman Deborah Hersman said yesterday at a
press event in San Bruno.  PG&E froze its dividend this year because of costs
associated with the explosion. The utility, which distributes
gas to 4.3 million customers, said it may spend as much as $1.1
billion this year and next on gas-pipeline inspections,
improvements and other safety work.  The company, based in  San Francisco , said on May 4 that it
had so far incurred pretax costs of $114 million related to the
blast and had set aside $220 million for estimated third-party
liabilities associated with the incident.  ‘Dysfunctional Company Culture’  The panel said its conclusions were based on analysis by
its technical consultant, a review of the NTSB investigation and
a report by the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America,
an industry group.  NTSB investigators have said that PG&E’s pipe had faulty
welds. Keith Holloway, a spokesman for the agency, declined to
comment on the status of the investigation or the California
state panel’s report.  The pipeline rupture was a consequence of weaknesses in
PG&E management, the panel found. PG&E has a “dysfunctional
company culture” with excessive levels of management and an
overemphasis on financial performance, according to the panel.
It recommended “some form of separation” of PG&E’s gas and
electricity businesses to allow for more focus.  “This is damning of PG&E across the board,” Michael Peevey, president of the commission, said at a public meeting
today in San Francisco.  The panel also found that state regulators didn’t have the
resources to monitor the company’s pipeline management system
adequately.  CEO Resignation  Former PG&E Chief Executive Officer Peter Darbee announced
his resignation on April 21 after a “challenging year.” The
company last month named Nick Stavropoulos to lead its gas
business.  PG&E “will move quickly to review the report’s detailed
findings and take further action to improve the safety, quality
and performance of our gas system,” interim CEO Lee Cox said in
a statement.  PG&E rose 4 cents to $41.96 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The company’s shares have fallen 12
percent this year, making it the worst performing member of the
Standard and Poor’s 500 Multi-Utilities Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 