-- 
Shell U.S. Deep-Water Oil Drilling Disputed by NRDC, Environmental Groups

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-06-09T15:51:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/shell-s-u-s-deep-water-oil-drilling-disputed-in-complaint.html
U.S. approval of a  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  oil exploration plan for the deep waters of the  Gulf of
Mexico  is illegal and should be withdrawn, environmental groups
led by the  Natural Resources Defense Council  said in petitions.  The NRDC and Oakland, California-based Earthjustice, in
filings today in the U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta, said the
May 10 action by the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Regulation and Enforcement  violates environmental laws.  Earthjustice’s petition included Gulf Restoration Network,
Florida Wildlife Federation and Sierra Club Inc. The New York-
based NRDC was joined by Defenders of Wildlife and the Center
for Biological Diversity, the group said in an e-mailed
statement.  Shell was first to win approval for its deep-water drilling
plans after passing U.S. environmental reviews adopted following
the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill, triggered by an explosion aboard the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig. The Hague-based Shell was
cleared to drill five exploratory wells in waters as deep as
7,259 feet (2,213 meters), 72 miles off the Louisiana coast.  “It’s unsafe to resume drilling in the Gulf given what
we’ve learned from the Deepwater Horizon incident,” David
Pettit, senior attorney at the NRDC, said in a phone interview.  The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management had no comment, said
Melissa Schwartz, a spokeswoman.  “We will fully assist the government in defending this
plan,”  Bill Tanner , a Shell spokesman, said in an e-mail.  BP’s well exploded on April 20, 2010, killing 11 people,
destroying the rig, and spewing crude for 87 days.  “After decades of responsible offshore drilling operations
in environments around the globe, this approval is further
evidence of Shell’s expertise and confidence in the offshore,”
 Marvin Odum , the president of Shell’s U.S. operations, said on
May 11, following the approval of the plan NRDC is now
disputing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  