-- 
Shiller Says U.S. Home-Price Declines of 10% to 25% ‘Wouldn’t Surprise Me’

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-06-09T15:38:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/shiller-says-u-s-home-price-declines-of-10-to-25-wouldn-t-surprise-me-.html
Robert Shiller , the economist who co-
founded the S&P/Case-Shiller index of U.S. home prices, said a
further decline in property values of 10 percent to 25 percent
in the next five years “wouldn’t surprise me at all.”  “There’s no precedent for this statistically, so no way to
predict,” Shiller said today at a conference hosted by  Standard
& Poor’s  in New York.  U.S. home prices plunged 33 percent in 20 cities through
March from their 2006 peak, reaching their lowest level since
2003, according to a Case-Shiller report on May 31. The decline
signaled a “double dip” as the index fell below its previous
post-housing-bubble low set in April 2009. Prices more than
doubled from 2000 to July 2006.  A backlog of foreclosures poised to hit the market means
prices may stay depressed, dissuading builders from starting new
construction. Unemployment, which rose to 9.1 percent in May,
and stricter lending conditions are signs that any recovery in
housing may take years.  Shiller’s comments paint a more pessimistic possibility for
 home prices  than other forecasts. Additional declines will be
“incremental,”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Executive Officer
Brian T. Moynihan said on June 1.  While it would be a surprise to see prices fall steeply,
it’s possible for homes to lose more value if inflation picks
up,  Karl Case , co-founder of the index, said today.  Real Terms  “You could have flat nominal prices but still have it go
down 20 percent,” Case said during an interview at the
conference. “If  house prices  stabilize, they could still go
down in real terms. If we had inflation, it’d be great, because
it’d mask a 25 percent decline.”  A model for the U.S. may be  Japan , where home prices fell
for 15 years after that country’s real estate bubble burst in
the early 1990s, Shiller said.  “They lost close to two-thirds of their value,” Shiller
said. “Then they went up for one year in 2006 and then they
started going down again.”  Forecasting home prices is impossible because there’s no
historical precedent for the real estate bubble of the 2000s and
the subsequent price drop, Shiller said.  “In real terms, there has never been a bust of this
proportion,” he said. “Even in the Great Depression, home
prices fell nominally approximately almost as much as they did
recently. But that was with all prices falling. So real estate
prices didn’t go down hardly at all during the Depression.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  New York  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  