-- 
Shriram Falls on Concern ICICI to Stop Buying Securitized Loans

-- B y   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 
2011-06-09T09:13:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/shriram-falls-on-concern-icici-to-stop-buying-securitized-loans.html
Shriram Transport Finance Co., an
Indian truck financier, is set for its lowest closing share
price since May 17 on concern that  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the nation’s
largest private lender, has stopped buying securitized loans
from non-banking finance companies.  The stock fell 5.2 percent to 639 rupees at 2:42 p.m. in
Mumbai and is the worst performer on the Bombay Stock Exchange
200 Index today.  ICICI Bank will stop buying bilateral securitized
portfolios of non-banking finance companies, or NBFCs, the
Economic Times  reported  today, citing two unidentified people
with direct knowledge of the matter. Charudatta Deshpande, head
of corporate communications at ICICI Bank, declined to comment.  “Investors may think what will happen if other lenders
also stop buying securitized loans from NBFCs such as Shriram,”
Devam Modi, an analyst at Equirus Securities Pvt. in the western
city of Ahmedabad, said by phone. “There is already a lot of
uncertainty looming over NBFCs about a possible  Reserve Bank  of
India regulation that may include limiting the sale of
securitized loans, and news like this tends to weigh on these
stocks under the circumstances.”  Under Reserve Bank rules, 40 percent of loans from Indian
state-run banks, and 32 percent from private banks, have to go
to so-called priority-sector customers, which includes
agriculture and the retail trade. Lenders buy priority-sector
loans from NBFCs to meet the criteria.  Securitization, or the selling of a loan pool to a lender,
makes up about a third of Shriram Transport’s portfolio, Sanjay
K. Mundra, spokesman for Shriram, said by phone today.  “We haven’t got any communication from ICICI and will be
able to comment only after things are clarified,” Mundra said.
“We don’t know whether this news is right or wrong, but ICICI
is one of the largest buyers of securitized loans from us,” he
said, without providing further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ameya Karve in Mumbai 
 akarve@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 