-- 
Solvay Willing to Engage in More Chemical Deals, Clamadieu Says

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-06-09T22:56:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/solvay-willing-to-engage-in-more-chemical-deals-clamadieu-says.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) , the Belgian chemical
maker buying  Rhodia SA (RHA)  for 3.4 billion euros ($4.9 billion), may
be involved in more acquisitions after completing the deal,
Rhodia Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pierre Clamadieu said.  The takeover is “a first step” in Solvay’s plan to build
a larger chemical company, Clamadieu said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Cranbury,  New Jersey , where Paris-based
Rhodia’s U.S. operations are located.  “The combined entity is willing to take part in the
consolidation trend that we are starting to see rather clearly
in the chemical playing field,” said Clamadieu, who will become
Solvay’s CEO when Christian Jourquin retires next year. “The
company will have a lot of financial flexibility.”  There have been 97 chemical-company takeovers valued at a
combined $21.6 billion announced so far this year, according to
Bloomberg data. Solvay, which is based in Brussels and makes
caustic soda, soda ash and PVC plastic, agreed to buy Rhodia in
April for 31.60 euros a share after being outbid by DuPont Co.
for food-ingredient maker Danisco A/S in January.  Other chemical deals in 2011 include Warren Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Corp.’s bid of about $9 billion for U.S.
additive maker Lubrizol Corp.  Investors owning “way more than” 50 percent of Rhodia
will approve the sale to Solvay, Clamadieu said. At least 95
percent approval will be needed in a subsequent vote to squeeze
out dissident shareholders and delist Rhodia shares, he said.  Rhodia isn’t experiencing a material change in demand from
the first quarter and will reiterate its 2011 earnings forecast
when it reports second-quarter results, he said. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization will be at least
1 billion euros this year, he said. The average estimate of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for 2011 Ebitda of 982.6
million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  