-- 
Somalia’s Rival Political Leaders Agree to Defer Elections By a Year

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-06-09T10:48:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/somalia-s-rival-political-leaders-agree-to-defer-elections-by-a-year.html
Somalia’s president and parliamentary
speaker agreed to defer elections for 12 months to allow more
time to prepare for a political transition, the  United Nations 
said in an e-mailed statement.  Elections for president, speaker of parliament and his
deputies will take place before Aug. 20 next year, according to
an agreement reached today in  Kampala ,  Uganda ’s capital. The
signing by President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed and speaker
Sharif Hassan Sheikh Adan was witnessed by Ugandan leader Yoweri Museveni and the UN  special envoy  for Somalia, Augustine Mahiga.  The agreement, which calls for the appointment of new prime
minister within 30 days and a Cabinet, followed months of
disputes between Somalia’s executive and legislative branches
over when their terms should end and the date for elections. The
government in March extended its term by one year, while
lawmakers decided to give themselves three more years in office.  The UN Security Council threatened cuts in donor aid unless
the squabbling stopped. Somalia has been mired in a civil war
for two decades and hasn’t had a functioning central government
since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. Most of
the southern and central parts of the Horn of African nation
have been seized by the Islamic insurgency movement, al-Shabaab.  The government, backed by African Union troops, has claimed
recent victories against the rebels in Mogadishu, the capital,
and along the border with  Kenya .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 