-- 
South Africa Appoints Zola Tsosti as Eskom Chairman; Kunene to Head Denel

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-09T09:27:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/south-africa-appoints-zola-tsosti-as-eskom-chairman-kunene-to-head-denel.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd.,  South Africa ’s
state power utility, appointed Zola Tsotsi as chairman as the
government moved to reshuffle boards at the companies it
controls.  Tsotsi was named among board members in a list given to
reporters by Cabinet spokesman Jimmy Manyi in Cape Town today.
Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dames  and Finance Director Paul O’Flaherty, listed among board directors on Eskom’s website,
weren’t included.  Current Chairman Mpho Makwana said he was “unaware” of
any move to dismiss him when Bloomberg News called today.
Governance changes were also announced at state-owned defense
contractor Denel Ltd., where Zoli Kunene was named head of the
board. A reorganization can also be expected at state port and
rail operator Transnet SOC Ltd., Manyi told reporters.  Eskom, which supplies about 95 percent of South Africa’s
electricity, is spending about 460 billion rand ($68 billion)
expanding  power plants  to prevent a repeat of a shortage that
shut most of the country’s mines for about five days in January
2008 and caused rolling blackouts nationally.  “We need to ensure we grow our capacity to meet growing
energy demands,” Tsotsi said today by mobile phone. He was head
of business planning at Eskom between 1995 and 2004, and
chairman of the Lesotho Electricity Authority until May. “I’m
up to the task,” he said.  Board member Daniel Dube said he’s “not aware” of any
planned board changes when Bloomberg News reached him by phone
today. Hilary Joffe, a spokeswoman for the Johannesburg-based
company, couldn’t immediately comment by mobile phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ana Monteiro at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 