-- 
South African Manufacturing Growth Unexpectedly Eases to Slowest in Months

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-09T11:50:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/south-african-manufacturing-growth-slows-unexpectedly-to-0-4-in-april.html
South African manufacturing growth
unexpectedly eased to its slowest pace in four months,
increasing the chances that the central bank will keep interest
rates at a 30-year low.  Growth in factory output, which accounts for 15 percent of
the economy, slipped to 0.4 percent in April from a revised 4.9
percent the month before, Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa 
said on its website today. The median estimate of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 5 percent. Output fell a seasonally
adjusted 3.7 percent in the month.  “These numbers really warrant for the current
accommodative monetary policy framework to be maintained for a
while longer,” Shireen Darmalingam, an economist with Standard
Bank Group Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg. “We expect
the  Reserve Bank  to keep rates unchanged until next year.”  The Reserve Bank cut its benchmark interest rate three
times to 5.5 percent last year to help support the recovery in
 Africa ’s largest economy. While manufacturing surged an
annualized 14.5 percent in the first quarter, weaker growth in
vehicle sales and a slip in the purchasing managers’ index
indicate growth may ease.  The jump in manufacturing spurred a 4.8 percent gain in
gross domestic product in the first quarter.  Bad Omen  Today’s figures don’t “bode well for growth,” Darmalingam
said. “We could see a sharp moderation of that stellar growth
we had.”  Manufacturing may also suffer as higher fuel, food and
electricity costs cut into  consumer spending  and global demand
slows, said Chris Gilmour, an analyst with Absa Investments, a
unit of Absa Group Ltd.  “I suspect that manufacturing will take a bit of a beating
in the second half,” Gilmour said by phone from Johannesburg
before the release of the data. “With so much uncertainty ahead
of us, a higher interest-rate environment might be pretty
negative.” The Reserve Bank is unlikely to raise rates until
the first quarter of next year, he said.  South Africa’s purchasing managers’ index declined for a
third consecutive month in May, Kagiso Securities Ltd. said on
June 1, indicating the recovery in manufacturing output may come
under pressure as job losses mount. The sub-index measuring
factory inventories slipped the most, declining to 54.5 in May
from 61.5 the previous month.  Vehicle sales in  South Africa  rose at the slowest pace in
17 months in May, the National Association of Automobile
Manufacturers of South Africa said on June 2.  The high number and timing of South Africa’s public
holidays in April contributed to moderate vehicle sales growth,
Naamsa said on May 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 