-- 
South Africa to Replace Eskom, Transnet, Denel Chairmen, Business Day Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-09T07:22:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/south-africa-to-replace-eskom-transnet-denel-chairmen-business-day-says.html
South African Public Enterprises
Minister Malusi Gigaba plans to fire the chairmen of Eskom
Holdings Ltd., Transnet SOC Ltd. and Denel Pty Ltd., Business
Day reported, without saying how it got the information.  Mpho Makwana, chairman of power utility Eskom, will be
replaced by Zola Tsotsi, chairman of the  Lesotho  Electricity
Authority, the Johannesburg-based newspaper said.  South Africa 
also plans on replacing the electricity company’s entire board
with the exception of Bernie Fanaroff and another unidentified
member, it reported, adding that the country’s Cabinet approved
the changes at its meeting yesterday.  Eskom, which supplies about 95 percent of South Africa’s
electricity, is spending 485 billion ($72 billion) rand to
prevent a repeat of five days of blackouts that brought some of
the country’s biggest gold and platinum mines to a standstill in
January 2008. Transnet is spending 110 billion rand over the
next five years. President  Jacob Zuma  is facing increased
pressure from his labor-union allies to accelerate economic
growth and create work to lower the one-in-four jobless rate.  “This could have a destabilizing effect” on Eskom, Iraj
Abedian, chief executive officer of Pan-African Investment and
Research Services, a Johannesburg-based advisory service, said
by phone. “At a critical time where Eskom is battling to find
its feet and to reestablish its shaken credibility and steady
its capex program, this is quite a blow. Makwana was respected
by Eskom executives.”  Makwana ‘Unaware’  Eskom’s Makwana is “unaware” of his possible dismissal
and plans on serving his full term, which is due to end on March
31, 2013, he said by phone.  “Unless I’m informed of anything different, I plan on
serving out my term,” he said. “I’ve not been informed of
anything. It would be” a surprise.  Mafika Mkwanazi, who chairs ports and rail operator
Transnet, will be invited to Eskom’s board as an ordinary
member, Business Day said. Sibusiso Sibisi, who leads defense
contractor Denel, will be replaced by Zoli Kunene.  Daniel Dube, a non-executive Eskom board member, said
though he was “not aware” of any changes to the body, it was
normal for changes to be made at the company’s annual general
meeting on June 27.  “If the Cabinet feels that they would like to make a
change, they can do so at any time,” Dube said in an interview
on his mobile phone today. “Who am I to question it?” Dube
said his first three-year term ends on June 27.  No Error Margin  Eskom doesn’t have the margin for error to accommodate more
inefficiency, said Cornelis van der Waal, an energy analyst at
 Frost & Sullivan .  “If they do that they have to replace them very quickly
with competent people with intimate knowledge of Eskom and the
industry,” Van der Waal said in an interview from Cape Town.
“The risk to Eskom at this stage is significant, at a time when
it’s doing its damndest to keep the lights on. The reserve
margin is virtually nonexistent.”  While Tsotsi, who Business Day said would be Eskom’s
chairman, may be talented, he may struggle to adapt to the size
of the job in South Africa, coming from smaller neighbor
Lesotho, Van der Waal said. “I shudder to think the scale
differences between Lesotho and South Africa,” he said.  Eskom currently has 40,000 megawatts of capacity, more than
80 percent of which comes from coal-fired plants.  Jimmy Manyi, South Africa’s government spokesman, declined
to comment before a 9:30 a.m. briefing in  Cape Town  today on
yesterday’s Cabinet meeting. Denel spokeswoman Priya Pillay
didn’t answer calls to her mobile phone and didn’t respond to
 text messages .  “The appointment of directors at Transnet is a shareholder
issue,” Transnet spokesman Mboniso Sigonyela said, adding that
he hadn’t read the Business Day article.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  