-- 
South Africa Needs ‘Less Onerous’ Labor Laws, Manuel’s Planning Body Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-09T12:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/south-africa-needs-less-onerous-labor-laws-manuel-s-planning-body-says.html
South Africa  needs “better and less
onerous” labor laws to promote employment in  Africa ’s biggest
economy, the National Planning Commission said in a report to
lawmakers in Cape Town today.  Labor laws entrench high salaries and make it difficult to
punish poor workplace performance, causing employers to avoid
hiring inexperienced workers, the report said. President  Jacob Zuma  has pledged to create 5 million jobs in the next decade to
slash unemployment to 15 percent from 25 percent.  The commission, chaired by former Finance Minister  Trevor Manuel , identified unemployment as one of nine challenges facing
the country, which will be addressed in a plan to be submitted
to the government on Nov. 11. The commission’s mandate from
President Zuma is to produce a long-term development plan for
the country.  “While labor regulations have had several positive
effects, there have also been negative unintended
consequences,” the report said. “Relatively high starting
salaries in some sectors and the disincentive to hire
inexperienced workers are at least part of the explanation for
high youth unemployment.”  Other challenges include uneven public services, low
investment in infrastructure, corruption and poor education and
health systems, Manuel told reporters in  Cape Town  before the
release of the report.  ‘Lousy’ Service  “There are parts of the public service that are actually
quite lousy,” Manuel said.  Political appointments to senior positions in the public
service, together with undue political influence over government
administration, corruption and weak financial management were
among factors undermining service delivery, the report said.  Low levels of investment and efficiency in state-owned
companies also needed to be addressed, the commission said.
Private investment may be needed to improve efficiency at
Transnet Ltd., the state-owned transport company, the report
said.  An energy procurement agency independent from Eskom
Holdings Ltd., the state-owned electricity company, should be a
“critical element” of  energy policy , the report said.  Eskom today appointed Zola Tsotsi as chairman as the
government moved to reshuffle boards at the companies it
controls.  Tsotsi was named among board members in a list given to
reporters by Cabinet spokesman Jimmy Manyi in Cape Town. Chief
Executive Officer  Brian Dames  and Finance Director Paul O’Flaherty, listed among board directors on Eskom’s website,
weren’t included.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ana Monteiro at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 