-- 
Standard & Poor’s Says It’s Too Early to Reassess Sino-Forest Debt Ratings

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-06-09T20:50:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/standard-poor-s-says-it-s-too-early-to-reassess-sino-forest-debt-ratings.html
Standard & Poor’s  Ratings Services
said it won’t reassess  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) ’s credit ratings until
it gets independent verification of a report by Muddy Waters
Research that the Chinese timber company overstated production.  Sino-Forest shares have tumbled 72 percent in Toronto since
Muddy Waters, a firm founded by short seller Carson Block, said
in a report published June 2 that the company’s disclosures of
land holdings don’t match Chinese city records.  “If any major accounting irregularities are identified or
confirmed, the negative impact on the ratings could be
substantial,” Frank Lu, an analyst at S&P in Hong Kong, said
today in a statement.  Sino-Forest has “adequate liquidity” based on an analysis
of the Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest’s
audited financial statements, S&P said. Sino-Forest’s long-term
debt is rated BB, or two levels below investment grade, by S&P.  Moody’s Investors Service put Sino-Forest’s Ba2 corporate
family and senior-unsecured ratings on review June 7 for
possible downgrade.  Sino-Forest rose 23 cents, or 4.7 percent, to C$5.15 at
4:28 p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading.  Sino-Forest said in a June 6 statement that the  Muddy
Waters  report was inaccurate and that the forestry company had
cash and cash equivalents of $1.09 billion as of March 31. Sino-
Forest has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers to assist with its
investigations into the report.  Canadian Probe  “We don’t expect short-term large refinancing risks,” S&P
said.  The Ontario Securities Commission,  Canada ’s main stock
market regulator, said yesterday it’s investigating “matters
related” to Sino-Forest. The company said in a statement it
welcomed the inquiry. The Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of Canada is working with the OSC, Connie Craddock,
a spokeswoman for the market surveillance body, said in a
telephone interview.  Greenheart Group Ltd., which is 64 percent owned by Sino-
Forest, climbed 43 percent, the biggest gain since June 24,
2009, to close at HK$1.47 on the  Hong Kong  stock exchange today.
Greenheart fell 63 percent yesterday after it resumed trading
for the first time since the Muddy Waters report.  Greenheart today provided details on its assets in
Suriname. Muddy Waters said in its report that Greenheart
doesn’t have a business registration in the country.  Regulators and investors have increased their scrutiny of
Chinese companies trading in  North America . The U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission began an investigation in 2010 into the
use of reverse takeovers, where a closely held company acquires
a shell company whose shares already trade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 