-- 
Eisman Planning to Start Own Fund After FrontPoint Departure

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n ,   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-06-09T18:25:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/steve-eisman-said-to-depart-frontpoint-as-his-hedge-funds-are-liquidated.html
Steven Eisman , the investor known for
betting against for-profit schools and subprime mortgages, is
leaving FrontPoint Partners LLC and plans to start his own firm,
according to two people briefed on the matter.  His FrontPoint hedge funds, Financial Horizons and
Financial Services, will be liquidated, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
FrontPoint’s Quant Macro, Strategic Credit, Rockbay and Direct
Lending funds will remain open.  Eisman, who gained prominence after he was profiled by
 Michael Lewis  in his book “The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday
Machine” (W.W. Norton & Co., 2010), returned 81 percent in 2007
in his Financial Horizons Fund, thanks to his subprime mortgage
bet. His larger Financial Services fund has lost about 14
percent over the last 18 months, according to an investor, who
asked not to be named because the information is private.  FrontPoint oversaw $7 billion at the start of November,
before Chip Skowron, a co-portfolio manager of its health-care
portfolio, was alleged by prosecutors to have traded on insider
information. Skowron intends to plead not guilty to charges of
conspiracy,  securities fraud  and obstruction, his lawyer said
April 14.  Clients asked to withdraw money from Greenwich,
Connecticut-based FrontPoint after the allegations and the firm
shut down the health-care funds co-managed by Skowron. Firm-wide
assets fell $4.5 billion by January.  $500 Million  The firm’s Multistrategy Fund, which invested in
FrontPoint’s underlying funds, received redemption requests of
about $500 million for the end of June, meaning some of that
money would be pulled from Eisman’s portfolios, the people said.
The client defections prompted Eisman, 48, to leave, they said.
FrontPoint is closing the Multistrategy Fund.  Assets in Eisman’s funds had already fallen to $750 million
in January from more than $1 billion in 2010. His Financial
Services fund, which invests in the stocks and bonds of
financial services companies, dropped 8.5 percent last year, and
5.3 percent in the first quarter of 2011, the investor said.
Clients who choose to invest in Eisman’s new fund won’t pay a
performance fee until those losses are recouped, the people
said.  Carolyn Sargent, a spokeswoman for Eisman, declined to
comment.  Eisman, who plans to start the new hedge fund with his team
of about a half-dozen employees from FrontPoint, still needs to
hire non-investment professionals to run the firm before he can
open for business, the people said.  FrontPoint provides its portfolio managers with back-
office, marketing and other operational functions, leaving them
to concentrate on their investments.  ITT, Apollo  Eisman last year started shorting, or wagering on declines,
in for-profit education companies including ITT Educational
Services Inc. and Apollo Group Inc. Those two stocks have fallen
about 12 percent and 9 percent, respectively, in the past 12
months.  Even after reaping big gains in the past, Eisman’s recent
losses will make it more difficult for him to raise money, one
of the people said. His gruff and outspoken manner may add to
the challenge.  Eisman once told a Japanese chief executive officer that
his company’s financial statements were the equivalent of toilet
paper, according to Lewis’s book.  “Even on  Wall Street , people think he’s rude and obnoxious
and aggressive,” Valerie Feigen, Eisman’s wife, told the
author.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  