-- 
Sudanese President Gives Army ‘Free Hand’ in Border State, SUNA Reports

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-09T11:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/sudanese-president-gives-army-free-hand-in-border-state-suna-reports.html
Clashes between the armies of
northern and  Southern Sudan  widened in the north’s only oil-
producing state, the  United Nations  said, as President Umar al- Bashir’s ruling party said it gave its troops a “free hand.”  Fighting resumed today for a fifth day in the border state
of Southern Kordofan after artillery fire was used in the
clashes that continued until late yesterday, UN spokesman
Kouider Zerrouk said today by phone from Khartoum, Sudan’s
capital.  The clashes, which started in Kadugli, the state capital,
spread to the towns of Kauda and Talodi, Zerrouk said. The  UN
peacekeeping mission in Sudan , known as UNMIS, sent a company of
Bangladeshi troops to Kadugli to help protect about 7,000
civilians sheltering near the UN compound, he said.  “We urge the parties to give access to UNMIS and the
humanitarian agencies to undertake the necessary assessment and
provide vital assistance,” Zerrouk said.  Fighting on the border between northern  Sudan  and oil-rich
Southern Sudan, which is due to become independent on July 9,
has raised concern about a resumption of the two-decade civil
war that ended with a 2005  peace agreement .  Army Deployment  The state-run  SUNA news agency  reported yesterday that the
Sudanese army is deploying throughout the state after it gained
control of Kadugli. Troops loyal to Southern Sudan’s army in the
state were rebelling against the government in Khartoum with the
support of “outside forces,” SUNA cited top presidential aide
Nafie Ali Nafie as saying.  Under the peace agreement, the northern and southern armies
were due to jointly patrol Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile
states on the northern side of the border and the disputed
region of Abyei. All three areas were key battlegrounds during
the civil war.  Zerrouk said “we believe there were casualties” in the
latest fighting. The figures are still not known, he said.  Clashes on June 5 killed one Sudanese army soldier and
injured seven others, according to Sudanese army spokesman Al-
Sawarmi Khaled. The bodies of four policemen and two civilians
were brought to the Kadugli police hospital after fighting on
June 7, Zerrouk said.  Al-Bashir’s army said last week that southern troops in
Southern Kordofan would be “legitimate targets” if they didn’t
leave the area by June 1.  Border States  As many as 60,000 fighters from the northern border states
of Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile, who fought for the south in
the civil war, are still part of Southern Sudan’s army,
according to Fouad Hikmat, the special adviser on Sudan for the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  The clashes may have broken out when northern forces tried
to disarm members of the Nuba ethnic group in Southern Kordofan
who fought on the side of Southern Sudan in the civil war,
Southern Sudanese army spokesman Philip Aguer said June 7.  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern Sudan, which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels of
oil at independence. The state currently pumps about 115,000
barrels of oil per day, according to Sudan’s minister of state
for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 