-- 
Sudanese Border Clashes Spread, as Southern Army Says North Bombs Village

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-06-09T16:59:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/sudan-clashes-spread-on-disputed-border-as-south-says-north-bombs-village.html
Clashes between the armies of
northern and  Southern Sudan  widened along their disputed border
a month before the south’s independence.  Fighting entered its fifth day in Southern Kordofan state
and spread across the north’s sole oil-producing area, United
Nations spokesman Kouider Zerrouk said. Southern Sudan’s army
said northern planes bombed a village in the south’s neighboring
state of Unity, killing three civilians, including a child.  Clashes along the border have raised concern about a
resumption of the two-decade civil war that ended with a 2005
 peace agreement . While the two sides are still negotiating the
border, President Umar al-Bashir’s Sudanese Armed Forces
occupied the disputed region of Abyei on May 21 after saying
southern forces attacked its soldiers there two days before.  “The borders have not been demarcated and SAF plans to take
some of these areas now,” Southern Sudanese army spokesman
Philip Aguer said today by phone from Juba, the regional
capital. “We have said this is part of a plan by SAF.”  Southern  Sudan  will assume control of about 75 percent of
Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels, the third-
biggest in sub-Saharan  Africa , at independence. The crude is
pumped mainly by China National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd and India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  The bombing in Jaw village, in Pariang county, continued in
the afternoon, Aguer said. The village, where the Southern
Sudanese army has a military base, is close to part of a border
that is disputed with northern Sudan, he said.  Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled’s phone was
switched off when he was called seeking comment.  Southern Kordofan Clashes  In Southern Kordofan, clashes that started in Kadugli, the
state capital, spread to the towns of Kauda and Talodi, Zerrouk
said. The  UN peacekeeping mission in Sudan , known as UNMIS, sent
a company of Bangladeshi troops to Kadugli to help protect more
than 10,000 civilians sheltering near the UN compound, Zerrouk
said.  “We urge the parties to give access to UNMIS and the
humanitarian agencies to undertake the necessary assessment and
provide vital assistance,” he said by phone from Khartoum, the
capital.  The state-run  SUNA news agency  reported yesterday that the
Sudanese army is deploying throughout the state after it gained
control of Kadugli. Troops loyal to Southern Sudan’s army in the
state were rebelling against the government in Khartoum with the
support of “outside forces,” SUNA cited top presidential aide
Nafie Ali Nafie as saying.  Battlegrounds  Under the peace agreement, the northern and southern armies
were due to jointly patrol Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile
states on the northern side of the border and Abyei. All three
areas were key battlegrounds during the civil war and have
ethnic groups loyal to the south, and others that want to be
part of the north.  Clashes on June 5 killed one Sudanese army soldier and
injured seven others, according to Sudanese army spokesman
Khaled. The bodies of four policemen and two civilians were
brought to the Kadugli police hospital after fighting on June 7,
Zerrouk said.  Al-Bashir’s army said last week that southern troops in
Southern Kordofan would be “legitimate targets” if they didn’t
leave the area by June 1.  As many as 60,000 fighters from the northern border states
of Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile, who fought for the south in
the civil war, are still part of Southern Sudan’s army,
according to Fouad Hikmat, the special adviser on Sudan for the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  The clashes may have broken out when northern forces tried
to disarm members of the Nuba ethnic group in Southern Kordofan
who fought on the side of Southern Sudan in the civil war, Aguer
said June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Richmond in Juba at 
 mrichmond10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 