-- 
Supertanker Rates Rise to 2 1/2-Month High as Supply Shrinks

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-06-09T16:39:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/supertanker-rates-rise-to-2-1-2-month-high-as-supply-shrinks.html
The cost of shipping Middle East oil
to  Asia , the world’s busiest route for supertankers, rose to the
highest level in 2 1/2 months as the supply of vessels shrank.  Charter rates for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on
the industry’s benchmark  Saudi Arabia  to Japan route rose 1.3
percent to 58.48 Worldscale points, the  Baltic Exchange  in
London said today. That’s the highest since March 25. Returns
from the route gained 6 percent to $14,355 a day.  The supply of ships for loading later this month “looks
acceptable from an owner’s perspective and we expect rates to be
close to a bottom here,” Wilhelm Gedde-Dahl, an analyst at
Pareto Securities AS in Oslo, said in an e-mailed note today.  VLCCs have cut speeds by 9.6 percent this year to an
average of 10.03 knots as ship fuel prices jumped, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That reduces how many are available
for hire as they take longer to get back to cargo-loading ports.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a metric ton, are revised
annually by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect
changing fuel costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Each flat rate assessment gives owners and oil companies a
starting point for negotiating hire rates without having to
calculate the value of each deal from scratch.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a gauge of crude-oil
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, fell
for an 11th session, declining 0.4 percent to 733 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  