-- 
Swine Flu Variation Emerges With Power to Resist Drugs, Researchers Say

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-06-09T22:44:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/swine-flu-variation-emerges-with-power-to-resist-drugs-researchers-say.html
A novel form of the swine flu virus
that swept the globe in 2009 has emerged in  Australia  and
Singapore, carrying a genetic twist that helps it resist  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) ’s Tamiflu and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Relenza,
researchers said.  More than 10 percent of the infections in Singapore and 30
percent of those in northern Australia tested in early 2011 had
mildly reduced sensitivity to the two drugs that are the
mainstay of influenza treatment, according to a  report  today
from the World Health Organization’s influenza research  group  in
North Melbourne, Australia.  BioCryst Pharmaceuticals Inc. (BCRX) ’s
experimental flu drug peramivir remained an effective treatment
against the virus in laboratory tests, the researchers said.  The new variation of H1N1 mixed with an older form of the
virus in at least one patient, the researchers said. The
infection was extremely resistant to Tamiflu and the individual,
who had a weakened immune system, died of multiple organ
failure. With other flu strains circulating in the U.K. and
elsewhere, there is a risk of future combinations of drug-
resistant virus, they said.  The new variation appears to spread easily among people,
according to the report in the journal  Eurosurveillance . If it
circulates widely, researchers said they are concerned that
other mutations may occur and trigger even greater drug
resistance and more serious illness.  Influenza  is a rapidly evolving virus, and the severity of
the season depends on which strains are circulating and how well
a population has been inoculated. Annual deaths in the U.S.
associated with seasonal flu ranged from 3,349 to 48,614 from
1976 to 2007, according to the  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention . About 90 percent of flu-related deaths are in people
ages 65 or older.  The H1N1 virus was  reported  in more than 214 countries and
caused about 18,450 deaths worldwide through August when the
 World Health Organization  declared an end to the pandemic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  