-- 
U.K. Cuts Subsidized Power Rates to Stem Solar-Farm Boom

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-06-09T13:16:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/u-k-cuts-subsidized-rates-for-solar-power-by-as-much-as-71-.html
The U.K. cut subsidized rates for
electricity from solar panels by as much as 71 percent, trying
to avoid a proliferation of commercial solar farms that would
compete with homes for the funding.  The above-market price paid for power from photovoltaic
panels was reduced to 8.5 pence (14 U.S. cents) from 29.3 pence
for the largest projects, while the smallest rooftop systems for
homes or small businesses were spared cuts, the Department for
Energy and Climate Change said today in a  statement .  The U.K. follows  Spain , Germany and  Italy  in slashing solar
tariffs to reduce costs for consumers and utilities that have to
pay the higher expense of clean energy. Britain, the smallest
market of the group and the latest to introduce subsidies, was
the quickest to backpedal. It announced a review less than a
year after introducing the subsidized rate.  “This announcement today has ripped out the guts of the
solar industry,” Howard Johns, chairman of the Solar Trade
Association, said in a phone interview. “It won’t be long
before the rest of it is chopped dramatically also,” he said,
referring to smaller projects for which tariffs were unchanged.  The revisions take effect on Aug. 1 and were announced
after a consultation that drew more than 500 replies. Japanese
panel-maker Sharp Corp., utility  Good Energy Group Plc (GEGP)  and solar
firm Solarcentury Holdings Ltd. were among companies that said
the review risked killing a nascent industry in Britain.  The installed solar base in the U.K. at the end of 2010 was
71 megawatts, less than 0.5 percent of Germany’s 17,300-megawatt
total, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance figures.  Avoiding Bubble  “Had we not acted urgently to reduce tariffs the whole
feed-in tariff scheme would have been entirely swamped,”
Climate Change Minister Greg Barker said today in a telephone
interview. “If we’d left this unchanged, we could have ended up
with a Spanish-style bubble.”  In Spain, installations plunged to 69 megawatts in 2009
from about 2,800 megawatts in 2008 after incentives were reduced
to stem a surging industry. Barker said he’s looking to change
the U.K. tariffs from a “stop-go” system to one that has
rolling, predictable changes, as in  Germany . Under the German
system, cuts deepen progressively as more projects are built.  While no commercial farms registered to tap the rates last
year, the county of Cornwall, the U.K.’s southernmost, said it
expected a “solar gold rush” because of the planning
applications received. The number of planned solar farms is
“much higher than originally expected,” the government said.  Rooftop Rates  The subsidized prices, known as feed-in tariffs, were
introduced on April 1, 2010, and helped to double solar power
capacity in the U.K. last year. A total of 39,125 installations
with 109 megawatts have registered to receive the payments,
according to figures today on the website of the energy
regulator, Ofgem.  The bands for the different solar tariff levels also
changed. Projects from 50 kilowatts to 150 kilowatts will now
receive 19 pence per kilowatt-hour; those up to 250 kilowatts
will get 15 pence, and plants up to 5 megawatts will receive 8.5
pence. Before, the rates were 31.4 pence for a 10 kilowatt
through 100 kilowatt band, and 29.3 pence for everything larger.  “They’ve set every tariff so low you can’t make any
money,” said Mark Shorrock, chief executive officer of
Cirencester, England-based Low Carbon Solar. “In terms of a
solar industry that’s a generation industry at scale rather than
a lifestyle choice, it’s pretty much dead.”  Jobs Threatened  Shorrock said his company stands to lose more than 5
million pounds ($8.2 million) that had been spent on planning
permission, grid-connection deposits and staff for farms in
several counties. The company is preparing to take legal action
against the government, he said.  Barker said the government had given the industry enough
warning by announcing the review in February.  Johns at the solar association said that most of a
predicted 7,000 new jobs in the U.K. solar industry this year
now won’t be created. Jenny Chase, head of solar analysis at New
Energy Finance, said in an e-mail that smaller projects may be
the next target of cuts.  “Small systems are seeing their own boom,” Chase said.
“Although the numbers here are not yet dangerous, with
installers and developers focusing on the sub 50-kilowatt
segment and modules getting cheaper by the day, growth could be
exponential.”  Biogas Price  Not all the price changes were cuts. The government raised
rates for power generated with anaerobic digestion by as much as
30 percent. Plants up to 250 kilowatts will now receive 14 pence
per kilowatt-hour, and projects from 250 kilowatts to 500
kilowatts will get 13 pence. Previously, all projects up to 500
kilowatts got 11.5 pence. The plants convert household, garden
and farm waste into biogas that can drive a turbine when burned.  Rupert Redesdale, a member of the U.K. House of Lords and
chairman of the Anaerobic Digestion and Biogas Association, said
the new rates still aren’t enough to stimulate the industry.
“Today’s announcement will fail to move us closer to the ‘huge
increase’ in energy from waste through anaerobic digestion which
the Coalition promised,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  