-- 
U.K. Declares Drought in Wheat Area

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-10T06:15:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/u-k-s-east-anglia-driest-in-101-years-enters-official-drought.html
The U.K., the European Union’s
third-biggest wheat producer, declared a drought in the grain-
growing East Anglian region and said other areas are also under
threat after the driest spring on record.  The southeast, southwest, midlands and  Wales  have near-
drought conditions, the Department for Environment, Food and
Rural Affairs said in a report today. Some cereal crops are
facing “irreversible effects,” the government said. East
Anglia accounts for  53 percent  of the U.K.’s sugar-beet output,
17 percent for wheat and 13 percent for barley.  “We may see drought conditions spreading into central
 England  and further east,” the Environment Agency said in a
notice on its website. “Additional formal restrictions on
farmers who spray-irrigate towards the end of June may be
necessary.”  Europe ’s wheat crop, accounting for about a fifth of the
global total, is being threatened by the driest growing season
in more than three decades.  France , the world’s second-biggest
exporter of the grain, is mobilizing the army to help livestock
farmers get feed and restricted water use in 60 of 96 mainland
departments. Drought is also hitting China and parts of the U.S.  Wheat Prices  Wheat on the Chicago Board of Trade, a global benchmark,
averaged $7.93 a bushel this year, on track for the highest
annual average since 2008, the middle of a three-year period
when the U.S. State Department estimates more than 60 food riots
erupted worldwide. World wheat stockpiles are dropping for a
second consecutive year, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
forecast yesterday.  Rainfall in Wales, the U.K.’s south west and eastern areas
got 11 percent to 14 percent of their normal rainfall so far
this month, the Environment Agency said in its notice. Rainfall
in central and northern England is running at 4 percent to 6
percent of normal levels.  “Water companies are confident that supplies are high
enough so that widespread restrictions to the public are
unlikely,” Environment Secretary Caroline Spelman said in a
 statement .  The majority of rivers in south west, central and eastern
England have below-average flows, potentially cutting oxygen
levels for wildlife and increasing the impact of pollution, the
agency said. It declared  drought  in Lincolnshire, Cambridgeshire
and parts of Bedfordshire, Northamptonshire and Norfolk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  