-- 
U.S., U.K., Irish Borrowers Most Pessimistic About Economy, Genworth Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-06-09T02:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/u-s-u-k-irish-borrowers-most-pessimistic-about-economy-genworth-says.html
More than half of U.S., U.K. and
Irish borrowers are pessimistic about their economic outlook and
personal finances, while Indians, Canadians and Australians are
most upbeat, according to a survey by lenders’ mortgage insurer
 Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)   A quarter or less of mortgage borrowers in the U.S., U.K.
and Ireland feel positive about their economies, Richmond,
Virginia-based Genworth said in its first  International Mortgage
Trends Report , released today. In contrast, nearly two thirds of
respondents in  India  were optimistic and less than 30 percent in
Australia and  Canada  were negative, according to the survey of
more than 9,000 current and potential homeowners in the U.S.,
U.K., Canada, India, Ireland,  Italy , Mexico and Australia.  “The rise of the middle class and a strong savings ethic
will mean increasing personal wealth and higher demand for
credit as Indian national prosperity grows,” Genworth said
“The austerity measures introduced in Ireland have clearly had
a negative impact on sentiment,” while rising living expenses
and  oil prices  led to pessimism in the U.K. and high
unemployment and falling house prices weighed on U.S. borrowers.  Ireland is considering selling homes at a discount in an
effort to revive a housing market that has fallen 40 percent
since 2007, while property values in 20 U.S. cities dropped in
March to the lowest level since 2003. On the other side of the
world,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  forecasts  India’s economy  will expand 8.1
percent in the year to March 31, 2012, and Australia is
benefitting from a mining boom that’s keeping the  unemployment
rate  at almost half the U.S.’s and pushing wages higher.  Genworth, which has more than $100 billion in assets,
provides insurance services in more than 25 countries, including
the ones the survey was conducted in, according to its website.  Debt  Borrowers in Ireland are most likely to have trouble
meeting repayments even as property prices decline, primarily
due to falling incomes following austerity measures implemented
last year, Genworth said.  Despite the U.S.’s tough economic climate, more than 80
percent of borrowers expect to easily meet their mortgage
payments over the next year, “suggesting that homebuyers are
slightly more optimistic about their ability to make repayments
than they have been in the past year,” the report said.  The number of U.S. homeowners newly in default declined
about 21 percent in April from a year ago, according to mortgage
insurer Radian Group Inc., and more borrowers have now
permanently lowered their mortgage payments as part of a
government program to prevent foreclosures.  In  Australia , while a fifth of potential first-home buyers
spend more than half of their incomes after tax on debt
repayments, some 45 percent paid more off their mortgages than
required, compared with an average of 26 percent.  Repaying Debt  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments in Australia gained 4.8 percent in April from the
previous month, the most since March 2009, as the central bank
extended a pause in raising  interest rates  and  home prices 
declined in the first quarter by the most since 2008.  “Clearly, while debt is a reality for Australians, there
is a strong desire to pay it down once they have it and
homeowners will do everything they can to meet mortgage
payments,” the report said.  Home affordability is still an obstacle for first-home
buyers in Australia, with nearly three-quarters of respondents
saying prices are too high and more than two-thirds saying high
interest rates are a factor. First-home buyers accounted for
15.8 percent of dwellings that were financed in April, down from
16 percent in March and lower than 16.9 percent a year earlier,
a statistics bureau report showed yesterday.  Affordability  Housing shortages in India and  Mexico  are also contributing
to declines in affordability, with only 6 percent of Indians
saying now is a good time to buy property.  Mumbai home sale registrations fell 30 percent in April
from a year earlier to a 23-month low, as higher interest rates
and rising prices prompted more people to defer purchases and
opt for renting, brokerage Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. said last
month.  In Mexico, the average age at the time of buying the first
home is among the highest among countries surveyed, despite 83
percent of respondents living with family before buying, driven
by a shortage of dwellings, the report said.  “This problem will become a bigger issue over the next 10
years as the homebuying 25-45 year-old population grows,”
Genworth said.  In Ireland and the U.S., more than 60 percent of
respondents said the drop in prices and a high supply of
property mean now is a good time to buy, Genworth said.  In the U.S. in particular, “among first-home buyers who
bought their first home in the last 12 months, the large
majority have coped well and met their mortgage repayments
comfortably,” the report said. “It is encouraging to see that
despite tough economic conditions and an uncertain outlook, many
Americans hold on to the belief that property is a solid
investment vehicle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney on 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  