-- 
U.S. Credit-Default Swaps Benchmark Pares Climb as Stocks Rally

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-06-09T22:16:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/u-s-credit-default-swaps-benchmark-pares-climb-as-stocks-rally.html
The cost of protecting U.S. corporate
bonds from default eased from the highest level since October as
stocks advanced amid record exports and improving  consumer
confidence .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.2 basis point to a
mid-price of 98.2 basis points as of 5:20 p.m. in  New York ,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index declined from an earlier gain of 1.7
basis points as reports showed the trade deficit unexpectedly
narrowed in April and consumer confidence rose last week. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.7 percent to 1,289.  “The downward pressure on risk sentiment has ameliorated
for the moment,” said Kenneth Taubes, the Boston-based manager
of the $4.7 billion Pioneer Strategic Income Fund. “Whatever
slowdown we’ve had seems to be stable at the moment, not getting
worse. The markets have been overemphasizing a double-dip
potential.”  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, climbed in the
morning to the highest level since Oct. 19 after Labor
Department figures showed initial jobless claims unexpectedly
rose last week, increasing 1,000 to 427,000 in the week ended
June 4. Data on June 3 showed employers in May added the fewest
number of workers in eight months and the jobless rate climbed
to 9.1 percent, the highest level this year.  Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index, which rises as
investor confidence improves, increased 0.09 percentage point to
100.06 percent of face value.  Mortgage Debt  The cost to protect against a default by the  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  unit
that guaranteed toxic mortgage debt rose as derivatives tied to
commercial property debt extended their decline. The  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  is putting pressure on the market
through weekly sales of mortgage securities, Taubes said.  The Fed has been selling the $31 billion Maiden Lane II
portfolio piecemeal after rejecting a $15.7 billion bid from AIG
for the entire pool in March. Since then,  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis has deepened and the U.S. recovery has shown signs
of slowing.  The price of a Markit Group CMBX index linked to junior AAA
commercial-mortgage bonds fell to the lowest level since Oct. 4,
losing 1.5 percentage points to 69.4 percent yesterday. Five-
year credit-default swaps on MBIA Insurance Corp. added 1.3
percentage points to 33.9 percent upfront, according to data
provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps on  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , the
Hamilton, Bermuda-based bond insurer, climbed 1 percentage
points to 7.1 percent, the data show.  Insurer Swaps Gain  Default swaps on  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) , the biggest private
U.S. mortgage insurer, added 1.3 percentage points to 8.4. Those
on  Radian Group Inc. (RDN) , the second largest, climbed 0.7 percentage
points to 17.4 percent, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  