-- 
BofA, JPMorgan Penalized by U.S. for Failing to Act on Home Foreclosures

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-06-09T19:12:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/u-s-treasury-penalizes-mortgage-servicers-over-foreclosures.html
The U.S. Treasury Department will
withhold financial incentives from three of the largest mortgage
servicers after they failed to take required steps to prevent
foreclosures under an Obama administration program.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  were found to need “substantial improvement,” the
Treasury said in a report issued today. The banks are being
penalized for failing to meet rules set by the Home Affordable
Modification Program, or HAMP, which pays servicers to lower
monthly mortgage payments for distressed homeowners.  “We don’t have the power to impose fines,” Tim Massad,
acting Treasury Assistant Secretary for Financial Stability,
told reporters. “We have the power to publicize what they’re
doing. We have the power to withhold incentives. That’s what
we’re doing.”  This is the first time the agency has withheld payments for
poor performance. Treasury targeted the servicers in its monthly
scorecard on the administration’s foreclosure prevention
programs, which this month included detailed assessments of the
10 largest mortgage servicers.  A fourth servicing company, Ocwen Loan Servicing LLC, also
was cited for poor performance. The company won’t sacrifice its
fees because it had acquired a large servicing portfolio during
the testing period, the Treasury said.  Homeowners Denied  All four servicers were faulted for miscalculating
borrowers’ income, errors that caused homeowners to be denied
aid. Bank of America also failed to communicate with homeowners,
the Treasury reported.  The penalties were first reported by The  Washington  Post.  Wells Fargo said the Treasury’s assessment “paints an
unfairly negative picture” of the bank’s efforts because it
examined loan modifications that were attempted as far back as
October 2009, when the program was still in development.  “We are formally disputing this with the Treasury,” Wells
spokeswoman Teri Schrettenbrunner said in an interview.  JPMorgan spokesman Patrick Linehan said the bank
“respectfully disagrees with the assessment.”  “We have made significant improvements since the
modifications that Treasury reviewed and continue to work hard
to keep improving our processes and controls,” Linehan said in
an e-mail.  Improvements Needed  Bank of America spokesman  Rick Simon  said the company
continues to meet with Treasury to address concerns. “We
acknowledge improvements must be made in key areas, particularly
those affecting the customer experience,” Simon said in an e-
mail.  Ocwen didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Funded with almost $50 billion in Troubled Asset Relief
Program money, HAMP pays servicers $1,000 for each loan that is
modified and $1,000 a year for three years if the borrower pays
on time. The servicers penalized today received about $24
million in payments last month, Treasury reported.  “Any audit is, by nature, backward looking,” Massad said.
If a servicer demonstrates it has fixed a problem “in a
reasonable time,” the payments will be reinstated, he said.  In its monthly summary of loan modification activity, the
report found that nearly 29,000 homeowners permanently lowered
their monthly mortgage payments in April under HAMP, bringing
the total to 608,615.  More than 7,000 borrowers who had received loan
modifications dropped out of the program in April, bringing the
total number of cancelations to 90,438.  House Republicans  are seeking to end funding for HAMP and
other foreclosure-prevention efforts under the administration’s
Making Home Affordable umbrella, saying they haven’t done enough
to help troubled homeowners.  The program “has been an abysmal failure that has hurt
more homeowners than it has helped,” Representative Patrick McHenry, a North Carolina Republican and co-sponsor of a measure
to end the program, said today in a press release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 