-- 
UBS Madoff Claims Must Wait for Luxembourg Court Ruling

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-09T20:28:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ubs-loses-bid-to-have-french-madoff-investors-suit-dismissed.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  lost its bid to dismiss
outright claims by LuxAlpha Sicav-American Selection Fund’s
French investors, who must wait on related Luxembourg court
cases before their claims can be addressed, a Paris court said.  A commercial court in Paris said in an opinion today that
while their case is admissible, it will wait to issue a final
ruling until the Luxembourg-based LuxAlpha liquidators’ claims
are resolved by judges there.  The suit is one of many over UBS’s role as custodian for
LuxAlpha, which invested 95 percent of its assets with  Bernard Madoff  and is being liquidated. Irving H. Picard, the trustee
liquidating Madoff’s firm, sued the bank for $2.6 billion last
year, claiming UBS aided the fraud partly by setting up feeder
funds like LuxAlpha.  Should Luxembourg courts back local claims against UBS,
“one could deduce at least a partial responsibility by the
defendants in the context of the purportedly inexact
documentation in  France ,” the judges wrote in their decision.  Dominique Gerster, a UBS spokesman, said the Zurich-based
bank welcomes the court’s “overall conclusions.”  March Hearing  UBS lawyer Denis Chemla told the Paris court at a March
hearing that LuxAlpha was created at the request of wealthy
clients who wanted a fund that allowed them to continue
investing with Madoff and that UBS didn’t issue any false
information.  The investors, which include 78 individuals and companies,
asked for repayment for their losses plus 100,000 euros
($145,120) each in damages.  LuxAlpha was dissolved four months after Madoff’s December
2008 arrest. The fund lost 95 percent of about $1.4 billion in
assets. Liquidators for LuxAlpha are suing UBS and Ernst & Young
LLP, which was the fund’s auditor, in Luxembourg.  Madoff pleaded guilty in 2009 to charges related to his
decades-long  Ponzi scheme  and is serving a 150-year sentence in
a U.S. federal prison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  