-- 
UCB Pleads Guilty to Illegal Off-Label Marketing of Epilepsy Drug Keppra

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-09T16:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/ucb-pleads-guilty-to-illegal-off-label-marketing-of-epilepsy-drug-keppra.html
A unit of drugmaker  UCB SA (UCB)  pleaded
guilty in the U.S. to a misdemeanor and will pay more than
$34 million in fines and penalties for the improper marketing of
the epilepsy medicine Keppra.  UCB Inc. admitted today in federal court in Washington that
it promoted Keppra for uses unapproved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration. The plea was accepted by U.S. District Judge
Ricardo Urbina.  UCB Inc.  is a Smyrna, Georgia, unit of Brussels-based UCB
SA. Keppra, with 942 million euros ($1.37 billion) in sales last
year, is the company’s top-selling drug, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The criminal plea was part of a global settlement that the
 Justice Department  reached with UCB, which includes resolution
of a related civil false-claims case, according to a sentencing
memorandum.  “UCB put its pursuit of profits ahead of its obligations
to patients,” Ronald C. Machen Jr., U.S. attorney for the
 District of Columbia , said in an e-mailed statement. “Today’s
guilty plea and UCB’s $34 million payout should remind drug
companies that try to cleverly design off-label marketing
schemes that we will not allow them to compromise  patient
safety .”  UCB admitted that it unlawfully promoted Keppra for use in
treating migraine, a use that was not approved by the FDA,
according to the criminal charge.  Business Plans  UCB prepared business plans that recognized the market for
off-label uses of Kempra “offered a much higher sales potential
than the epilepsy market,” the document states. At the time,
UCB was being outspent by competitors who were aggressively
pursuing off-label business, according to prosecutors.  UCB’s marketing included sponsorship of doctor-paid
“studies,” posters, publications and oral presentations about
the supposed benefits of using Keppra to treat migraines.
Prosecutors said UCB failed to disclose that a 2000 study showed
that Keppra was not effective in preventing migraine.  Christie Madara, a UCB spokeswoman, said the company has
been cooperating with the investigation since 2008 and is
pleased to have the matter resolved. She said the probe focused
on issues that occurred more than six years ago.  The case is U.S. v. UCB Inc., U.S. District Court, District
of Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 