-- 
UN Nuke Agency Sends Syria to Security Council

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-06-09T20:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/un-nuke-agency-sends-syria-to-security-council.html
The U.S. won a divisive vote that
sent  Syria  to the  United Nations Security Council  over an
alleged nuclear-weapon facility destroyed by an Israeli raid in
September 2007.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency’s  35-member board of
governors voted 17-6 today to report Syria to the UN’s top
decision-making body. Eleven countries abstained from voting on
the U.S. and European measure that called Syria a threat to
“international peace and security” and Mongolia was absent.  “We had in the latest IAEA report a conclusion that was
sufficiently robust that we believed we could take action on,”
U.S. IAEA Ambassador Glyn Davies said after the vote. “It is
not appropriate for a country to build a secret nuclear reactor.
It had no civilian purpose.”  The UN nuclear agency concluded on May 24 that Syria was
probably building a surreptitious nuclear reactor. The
government in Damascus stymied IAEA inspections and limited
access to the bombed site for more than three years.
Investigators reported finding traces of modified uranium
particles at the bombed Dair Alzour site that they said may have
been residue from a reactor.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the vote was a
“significant action” to hold Syria accountable for its
attempts to develop nuclear weapons.  ‘Stonewalled’  “Syria has stonewalled and obstructed the efforts of the
IAEA to investigate the nuclear reactor for years, refusing to
provide access to associated sites, personnel and documents in
violation of Syria’s freely-accepted legal obligations,” Carney
said in a statement.  China  and  Russia  led opposition to the measure, which will
give the Security Council leeway to impose sanctions against
Syria. Russia called the IAEA referral “unfair and not
objective,” in a written statement to the board.  “Under current circumstances, there is no need to adopt a
resolution on the Syrian nuclear issue, and even more
unnecessary to refer the issue to the  Security Council ,”
China’s IAEA Ambassador Wang Minzheng said, according to the
state-run news agency Xinhua.  The Security Council referral coincides with a separate
European resolution to punish the embattled regime of Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad. His security forces have killed at
least 1,100 people and detained more than 10,000 since protests
against his government began in mid-March, according to human-
rights groups.  “When you have a situation where the permanent five
members of the Security Council are split, that can make it
tough for countries,” Davies said about the number of nations
that voted against or abstained from voting on the measure.  “It is certainly a new precedent,” Peter Crail, a
Washington-based Arms Control Association analyst, said in an e-
mail response to questions. “Syria doesn’t have very many
friends, and countries may have been more willing to accept
standards of ‘good-enough’ evidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  