-- 
Hungary Raises First-Quarter Economic Growth Figure to 2.5%

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-06-09T10:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/hungary-raises-first-quarter-economic-growth-figure-to-2-5-1-.html
Hungary’s economy expanded faster
than previously estimated in the first quarter, driven by
industrial exports bolstering the country’s emergence from its
worst recession in nearly two decades.  Gross domestic product grew an annual 2.5 percent, compared
with a preliminary 2.4 percent, the fastest pace since the last
quarter of 2006, the Budapest-based  statistics office  said
today. Output grew a seasonally adjusted 0.7 percent from the
previous quarter, matching the preliminary estimate.  The country is looking to the euro region, which buys 60
percent of products made or assembled in the country, including
 Audi AG (NSU)  cars and Nokia Oyj mobile phones, to power its
resurgence after the global financial crisis. Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban , elected on promises to boost growth in eastern
 Europe ’s most indebted nation, cut taxes to boost domestic
demand.  Hungary’s economy may grow “a little less” than the
central bank’s previous forecast of close to 3 percent this
year, Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor told reporters
in Budapest today. First-quarter consumption was “a little
disappointing,” he added.  The forint gained 0.4 percent against the euro this month,
the second best performance among 25 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Hungary’s benchmark BUX stock index fell
0.3 percent by 12:08 p.m. in Budapest, snapping two days of
gains.  “Data shows that despite the personal income tax reduction
households were unwilling to increase spending, and we expect a
recovery in private consumption will be recorded only later this
year,”  Piotr Kalisz , chief economists at Citigroup’s Polish
unit, Bank Handlowy SA in Warsaw, said in an e-mailed note
today. The “very fragile” recovery will prompt the central
bank to keep  interest rates  unchanged this year despite
inflation running “substantially above target, he said.  Policy makers kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at
6 percent for a fourth month in May, arguing that three
increases since November were sufficient to damp inflation.  Hungary’s monthly trade surplus rose to 479 million euros
($701 million) in April from 455.5 million euros a year earlier,
the statistics office said in a separate release today.
Industrial production expanded an annual 9.5 percent after
growing 9.2 percent in March, the statistics office in Budapest
said on June 7 in a preliminary report. The median estimate of
14 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 9.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net 
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  