-- 
UniSource Starts Tucson Plants to Avert Fire-Caused Blackout

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T17:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/unisource-starts-tucson-plants-to-avert-fire-caused-blackout.html
UniSource Energy Corp. (UNS) , owner of the
electric utility in Tucson,  Arizona , started local power plants
to guard against blackouts should a wildfire sever half the
city’s energy supply.  The Wallow fire, which has burned an area twice the size of
 New York  City since May 29, is within 8 miles (13 kilometers) of
high-voltage lines connecting the city to two power plants, Joe
Salkowski, a Tucson Electric Power spokesman, said today in an
interview.  “This is a large fire burning out of control,” Salkowski
said. “This is a real threat and we are preparing as though it
is.”  Although fire won’t incinerate  power lines  or the steel
pylons supporting them, smoke from the forests of drought-dried
ponderosa pine, aspen pine and Douglas fir is thick enough at a
half mile away to cause short-circuits as electricity leaps
between soot particles to the ground, Salkowski said. Power
might have to cut until the threat passes, he said.  El Paso Electric Co. (EE) , supplier of power to an oil refinery
and the U.S. Army’s  Fort Bliss , said yesterday it is seeking
alternative electricity supplies should the fire sever its high-
voltage connection from Palo Verde, the nation’s largest nuclear
generating plant. The fire was 15 miles away from the lines at
5:30 p.m. local time yesterday, the utility owner said in a
 statement . The lines can carry about 633 megawatts, a quarter of
supply.  Blackouts Possible  A loss of Palo Verde’s power to southeastern  New Mexico  and
west Texas may cause scattered blackouts or low voltage that
dims lights with forecast temperatures approaching  99 degrees 
Fahrenheit (37 Celsius), Kent Bayazitoglu, an analyst for Gelber
& Associates, an energy trading and consulting firm based in
Houston, said in a telephone interview.  “It’s a small amount, but it’s an important amount in
these periods of peak electricity demand,” Bayazitoglu said.
“Once you have loss of capacity and very high demand, all you
need is something else, like a power plant to fail.”  Rolling blackouts, or cutting power temporarily to parts of
its service area will be a “last resort” to avoid a wider
blackout for all 271,000 homes and businesses it serves, the El
Paso utility said.  Power shortages in the El Paso area can’t spread into the
rest of  Texas  because no lines connect it to the state’s main
power grid, Dottie Roark, a spokesman for the Electric
Reliability Council of Texas, said today in an e-mail.  Palo Verde  Palo Verde, the largest U.S. nuclear plant, was producing
at its full capacity of 4,005 megawatts this morning, the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission said today in a daily report.  El Paso Electric owns 16 percent of Palo Verde, which is
operated by the Arizona Public Service utility of Phoenix-based
Pinnacle West Capital Corp. Arizona Public Service owns 29
percent of the plant.  Other  owners  include Edison International’s Southern
California Edison with 16 percent, Albuquerque-based utility
owner PNM Resources Inc. with 10 percent, Arizona-owned Salt
River Project with 18 percent, Southern California Public Power
Authority with 6 percent and the Los Angeles Department of Water
and Power with 6 percent.  Power at the Palo Verde switchyard, a Southwest benchmark,
gained $2.78, or 7.7 percent, to $38.83 a megawatt-hour on the
 Intercontinental Exchange  yesterday, the highest price since May
4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 