-- 
Unprofitable Barcelona Plans Reduce Cuts to Meet UEFA Fair-Play Rules

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-06-09T13:42:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/unprofitable-barcelona-plans-reduce-cuts-to-meet-uefa-fair-play-rules.html
European soccer champion Barcelona
plans to cut costs over the next two years to meet so-called
financial fair play rules.  The Catalan team expects to post a 21 million euro ($30.5
million) loss for the fiscal year through June 30, its second
consecutive annual loss, Vice-President Javier Faus said in
comments on the team’s website.  European soccer ruling body UEFA will start auditing clubs’
financial statements from next season, allowing them to cover
losses of up to 45 million euros for the next three campaigns.
The regulations stipulate that losses must be lower in
subsequent seasons with a view to breaking even. Teams face
exclusion from the  Champions League  from the start of the 2014-
15 season if they don’t meet the guidelines.  “We can’t carry on losing money,” Faus said. Our
objective “is to make us the most solvent club in the world in
two or three years.”  Barcelona put aside 45 million euros to spend on player
signings this offseason plus any cash surplus from trading squad
members, Faus said. It has been linked with Arsenal captain Cesc
Fabregas, Villarreal striker Giuseppe Rossi and Udinese winger
Alexis Sanchez in media reports.  It has cut net debt by 16 percent to 364 million euros in
fiscal 2011, Faus said. The club, which is owned by members, is
cutting spending on other sports it funds apart from soccer, El
Pais newspaper reported. They include basketball, handball,
roller hockey and baseball.  Barcelona, which beat  Manchester United  to win the
Champions League final last month, paid out about 110 million
euros in bonuses to players including  Lionel Messi  the last
three seasons for winning titles. The club is “delighted” to
be paying out the bonuses, Faus said.  “It’s the best possible investment,” Faus said.
“Barcelona has never made such a splash around the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Barcelona at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  