-- 
Murdoch’s Sun Can’t Identify Mistress of Ex-RBS CEO Goodwin, Judge Rules

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-06-09T10:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/murdoch-s-sun-can-t-identify-ex-rbs-ceo-goodwin-s-mistress.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s Sun newspaper can’t
identify a woman who had an affair with former Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Chief Executive Officer Fred Goodwin, a judge
ruled.  Justice Michael Tugendhat at the  High Court  in London today
refused to allow the paper to name the woman, but modified a
court order to allow more details about her job description to
be published.  RBS posted the largest loss in U.K. corporate history in
2008 and required a 45 billion-pound ($74 billion) bailout
following its acquisition of ABN Amro Holding NV. Goodwin was
cleared of responsibility in December in a report by the
Financial Services Authority on RBS’s rescue.  The rescue of RBS “may well explain why News Group
consider that articles about Sir  Fred Goodwin  will be of
interest to the public to whom they wish to sell The Sun,”
Tugendhat said in the ruling. “But what is of interest to the
public is not the same as what it is in the public interest to
publish.”  The Sun’s lawyer, Richard Spearman, said at a June 1
hearing that an anonymity order was stifling public debate about
corporate governance at the bank prior to its 2008 bailout. Hugh Tomlinson, the lawyer representing the woman, said at the same
hearing that there was no need to change the order because there
isn’t any evidence the affair contributed to the collapse of
RBS.  Following today’s ruling, Tomlinson said he planned to
challenge the judgment at the Court of Appeal. Tugendhat said
the Sun shouldn’t publish the woman’s job description for 14
days to allow time for the appeal to be filed.  Privacy Injunctions  The court order in the case is one of dozens of so-called
super injunctions or privacy injunctions that ban newspapers
from printing stories about people’s sex lives. While lawmakers
have taken to the floor of the House of Commons to skirt the
rulings, users of Twitter Inc.’s social-networking website have
posted names of celebrities protected by the injunctions.  “The purpose of this order is not to keep a secret but to
prevent intrusion and distress,” Tugendhat said today.  Goodwin’s injunction was initially disclosed in March by
John Hemming, a Liberal Democrat member of Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Lumley in  London  at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  