-- 
Used-Car Values Beat U.S. Home, Stock Prices: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/used-car-values-beat-u-s-home-stock-prices-chart-of-the-day.html
Americans dealing with plunging home
values and stock-market swings can take some comfort in knowing
their used cars and trucks are likely to fetch record prices.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the Manheim Used Vehicle
Value Index, derived from wholesale prices, with the Standard &
Poor’s/Case-Shiller 20-city housing index and the  S&P 500  Index
for the five years ended in May.  Manheim Consulting’s index, adjusted for changes in the mix
and mileage of used vehicles along with seasonal sales patterns,
gained 13 percent in the five-year period. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index dropped 33 percent, while the S&P 500 tumbled as much as
47 percent before rallying. Last month’s reading for the used-
car and truck gauge was the highest since data began in 1995.  “Pricing is being driven in part by rising demand at
auction from franchise dealers” responding to relatively low
inventories of new cars and trucks, Ryan Brinkman, an analyst at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote yesterday in a report.  Copart Inc. (CPRT)  and  KAR Auction Services Inc. (KAR)  are among the
beneficiaries of price increases, he wrote, because both auto-
auction companies receive a percentage of the sale price on the
vehicles they handle. Brinkman has a “buy” rating on Copart
and a “neutral” rating on KAR.  Higher prices are a double-edged sword for  CarMax Inc. (KMX) , the
largest U.S. seller of used vehicles, he wrote. While they bode
well for the company’s wholesale and finance units, they may
hurt earnings at its dealerships. The dealers generate about
two-thirds of gross profit at CarMax, also rated “neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  