-- 
TV Networks Book $8.7 Billion in Ads as U.S. Economy Limits Gain

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-10T21:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/tv-networks-book-8-7-billion-in-ads-as-u-s-economic-concerns-limit-gain.html
The biggest U.S. TV networks locked
in about $8.7 billion in advertising commitments for the season
that starts in September, an 8.1 percent increase that would
have been bigger without signs of a weakening in the economy.  CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the network with the largest overall
audience, commanded the highest rate increase, averaging 13
percent to 15 percent, said a person familiar with the results.
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and News Corp.’s Fox
raised prices from 9 percent to 11 percent, according to people
who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  The advertising market was the best in years, said  Michael Morris , an analyst with Davenport & Co. in Richmond, Virginia.
The results met his expectations and would have exceeded them if
not for economic reports of rising unemployment and concern over
housing prices that spooked advertisers in recent weeks.  “In general, the networks asked for the moon and they got
very healthy increases,” Morris said. “It just wasn’t ahead of
expectations.”  Overall sales rose from about $8.05 billion last year,
based on totals provided by people familiar with each network’s
results. Advertisers make commitments ahead of each television
season, setting a benchmark for rates. The pledges can be
altered based on factors including schedule shifts and options
advertisers can exercise to pull back on spending.  CBS was said to receive $2.65 billion in prime-time
commitments, up from about $2.5 billion last year. ABC’s haul
increased to about $2.4 billion from $2.2 billion, and NBC took
in about $100 million more than last year’s $1.6 billion. The
network had fewer slots available for upfront sales this time
because it will carry the 2012 Olympics from  London .  Stronger Footing  Fox, which programs two hours of prime time each weeknight,
a third than its rivals, was said to receive $1.95 billion in
commitments, up from $1.75 billion. The network, the leader in
the 18-49 age group advertisers target, finished its sales last
week.  Advertisers are on stronger footing than last year, said
 David Bank , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  New York .  “The networks exceeded expectations, especially CBS, from
what the Street expected a month or two ago,” Bank said. “And
they achieved these increases in a very fragile macro-economic
environment, making it even more impressive.”  Sluggish Economy  Home prices in 20 U.S. cities dropped in March to the
lowest level since 2003, according to the S&P Case-Shiller Index
report on May 31, a sign that housing remains mired in its slump
almost two years into the economic recovery. The U.S. jobless
rate rose to 9.1 percent in April from 9 percent, Labor
Department data showed last week.  “The macro environment showed signs of getting weaker, and
I believe advertisers were coming back saying, ‘We’re not going
to overpay,’” Morris said.  The networks also risk losing viewers if the National
Football League and the National Basketball Association can’t
resolve contract disputes with their players that threaten to
cancel their coming seasons. While games air mostly outside of
prime time, the networks rely on them to promote their
entertainment lineup to younger, male viewers.  CBS, the New York-based broadcaster controlled by Chairman
 Sumner Redstone , fell 51 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $26.20 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Disney,
based in Burbank, California, dropped 87 cents to $38.50.  News Corp. (NWSA) , also based in New York and controlled by Rupert Murdoch, dropped 42 cents to $16.38 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Philadelphia-based Comcast, which acquired control of NBC
Universal in January from  General Electric Co. (GE) , fell 42 cents,
or 1.7 percent, to $23.89.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  