-- 
Venice Sinks Amid Monster Cruise Ships, Kitchen Ads: Manuela Hoelterhoff

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-06-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/venice-s-future-looks-wet-dodgy-perilous-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
As I talk to Anna Somers Cocks on a
terrace overlooking a trio of 16th-century churches by Andrea
Palladio, a cruise ship the size of a  New York  City block floats
surreally through the Giudecca Canal right in front of us.  So big are these ships, they could serve Moby Dick for
lunch in one sitting as they slowly move toward the Lido and
beyond.  A few passengers wave boisterously in our direction,
without falling overboard, however. Others shoot hoops in the
glassed-in basketball court glittering high above the deck.  Somers Cocks is chairman of British charity  Venice in Peril 
and the editorial founder of the Art Newspaper, an influential
monthly covering the visual arts.  We were both in Venice to attend the Biennale, where she
presided over “Real Venice,” an exhibition of photographs
designed to raise money for a town that has too much water.  The show, featuring donated photographs by such prominent
artists as Candida Hofer, Philip-Lorca diCorcia and Matthias
Schaller, is on view at the basilica of San Giorgio Maggiore,
which just then was obscured by the monster boat.  Scary Thought  Hoelterhoff: That’s one scary sight. If that tug leading it
gives out?  Somers Cocks: Goodbye, San Giorgio! The motors are idling,
but, even so, these ships displace a vast amount of water into
the surrounding canals, which then rushes out. It’s hard to
think this doesn’t affect the foundations of the buildings.  Hoelterhoff: I have never seen so many people stepping over
each other in St. Mark’s Square. What’s the latest statistic on
annual visitors?  Somers Cocks:  Venice  has 17.5 million visitors, counting
 cruise ships . But only about four million actually sleep in
Venice. The rest come for the day or stay on the boats and spend
little money.  Hoelterhoff: Maybe Venice could charge admission like
Disneyland?  Somers Cocks: It’s entirely doable for groups, which should
have to book for a certain day. There are about seven entry
points into Venice.  There should be a charge which would go entirely toward
financing its protection against the water.  Hoelterhoff: So is the city still sinking?  Still Sinking  Somers Cocks: The mean water level is about 11 inches
higher than it was in 1897, when they started measuring from a
fixed point by the Punta della Dogana.  This is partly due to a rise in water level and partly
because the city is sinking an average of 2 inches per century.
The buildings are all on stone bases, and on top of that is
brick, which absorbs water. The damp has now risen to the third
floor in some instances. The bricks are crumbling and the iron
tie rods holding together the walls are beginning to fail.  The 1,000-year-old mosaics in the entrance of St. Mark’s
are falling off because of the damp.  We are in a situation that is completely unprecedented and
the water is going to keep rising.  Hoelterhoff: But I thought billions of euros are being
spent on protecting Venice from flooding -- there are those MOSE
contraptions that can close the mouths of the lagoon.  Really Sickly  Somers Cocks: Think of Venice as an old, sick patient with
fever spikes -- that’s the acqua alta, the exceptional high
tides. By 2014, MOSE will be in place at a cost of five billion
euros and you should not have to wear gumboots any more.  But that doesn’t cure the chronic disease, the rising water
level.  Hoelterhoff: I’m glad Lord Byron wasn’t with me this
morning when I looked at his Bridge of Sighs and saw it covered
with a plug for kitchens. There was another ad on the Doge’s
Palace.  There’s got to be a better way to raise money than to
deface the monuments people are coming to see.  Somers Cocks: They are outrageous! Venice in Peril and the
world’s top museum directors appealed to the ministry of
culture. The mayor just denounced us. “You are stupid,” he
said. “You don’t understand our problems.”  He suggested people buy picture books if they want to see
the buildings without ads.  Aria Dell’Acqua  Hoelterhoff: I once heard your riff on the Venetian water
bureaucracy. Could you repeat it?  Somers Cocks: The canals are the responsibility of the city
council, except for the one that goes through the Guidecca, a
native deep-water canal, which is the responsibility of the port
authority, a quasi-autonomous state body.  The overall health of the lagoon is in the hands of the
magistrato alle acque.  The water coming down into the lagoon is the responsibility
of the regional government of the Veneto.  Another body does the tides and weather forecasts.  Add to that the soprintendenza of architecture, a state
body, which supervises important historical buildings, while the
rest are overseen by the city council.  All respond to the “big committee” consisting of the
prime minister, various other ministers, the mayors of Venice
and Chioggia, and the president of the Veneto region and some
other people.  Hoelterhoff: I get the sense they don’t meet regularly.  Somers Cocks: As the Italians joke: whenever the Pope dies.  The photographs in “Real Venice” are for sale, entirely
for the benefit of Venice in Peril. “The Venice Report,” a
study prepared by Venice in Peril and  Cambridge University , is
available on the website, veniceinperil.org.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark Beech at
   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 