-- 
Vietnam Should Focus on Inflation: World Bank

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-09T00:24:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/vietnam-should-focus-on-inflation-world-bank.html
Vietnam’s government should maintain
a tight monetary and fiscal policy, including higher  interest
rates  and tougher credit, until the currently “intolerable”
inflation rate is less than 10 percent, the World Bank said.  Vietnamese inflation reached 19.78 percent in May, the
highest since December 2008. The government said on June 3 it’s
targeting 15 percent inflation this year, up from a previous
projection of 11.75 percent. Foreign-exchange reserves at the
end of 2010 had declined to cover about 1.4 months of imports,
 according to  the  International Monetary Fund .  The government’s actions since February show a willingness
to accept slower economic growth to ease a period of “severe”
macroeconomic instability, the World Bank said in a report
prepared for a meeting in the central Vietnamese town of Ha Tinh.
While the dong has stabilized and foreign reserves have started
to climb, the “hard-earned gains of the past three months” can
still be easily reversed, according to the global lender.  Vietnam’s “‘protecting growth at any cost’ approach to
monetary and fiscal policies has been counterproductive, as it
has produced higher inflation and greater macroeconomic
instability without much growth,” wrote Deepak Mishra and Viet Tuan Dinh of the  World Bank  office in Hanoi.  The new policies should be kept in place until inflation
“is reduced to a stable, single-digit rate,” Mishra and Dinh
wrote. The policies should also be maintained until “the level
of international reserves is adequate to finance at least 2.5
months of prospective imports,” the World Bank said, without
giving a current level of reserves.  Slowing Growth  Vietnam’s growth rate will probably slow to “slightly
under” 6 percent this year from 6.8 percent in 2010, while
inflation should peak in the second quarter and fall to about 15
percent by the end of the year, the World Bank said.  “The authorities need to remain vigilant against premature
withdrawal of stabilization measures,” wrote Mishra and Dinh.
“With growth expected to slow down in 2011, there will be
demands from various quarters to relax monetary and fiscal
policies.”  Economic growth in “2012 is poised to see further
improvements, though without some bold and decisive actions on
structural fronts, we don’t see  Vietnam  returning to its pre-
crisis heydays of growth in the near to medium-term.”  Vietnam’s gross domestic product expanded 8.5 percent in
2007, the fastest growth since 1996.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ha Tinh, Vietnam. Editors: Lars Klemming,
Stephanie Phang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ha Tinh, Vietnam at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  