-- 
Vietnam Dong Still Faces Concern It Will Weaken, IMF Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-09T10:56:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/vietnam-dong-still-faces-concern-it-will-weaken-imf-says-1-.html
There is still concern the Vietnamese
dong may weaken, even after the stabilization of the country’s
foreign-exchange market and an increase in reserves, the
 International Monetary Fund  said today.  The Vietnamese currency has benefited recently from a
tighter monetary policy as well as from administrative measures
to curb trading in gold and foreign exchange outside the banking
system, the IMF said in  a report . Still, “expectations the dong
will again come under pressure remain entrenched” in part due
to concern over whether the government is willing to maintain
its current policy stance, the Washington-based lender said.  “In many quarters, the current stability of the dong is
still seen as just a temporary phenomenon,” Benedict Bingham,
the IMF’s senior resident representative in Vietnam, said at a
conference in the central Vietnamese town of Ha Tinh.  The dong weakened 0.1 percent to 20,555 per dollar as of
3:02 p.m. in Hanoi. The currency was devalued by a record 7
percent in February, the fourth one-off reduction in 15 months.
Since then, it has strengthened 1.6 percent against the dollar.  The central bank must address concerns over whether it will
be able to sustain its current monetary policy course, while the
government faces questions over whether it is “truly
committed” to reducing its fiscal deficit, and on its strategy
for dealing with “vulnerabilities in the corporate and banking
sector,” Bingham said.  Answering Questions  “Until these three questions are answered, risk premia on
Vietnamese assets and particularly dong assets will remain
high,” he said.  Vietnam’s foreign-exchange reserves increased by $900
million in May to $13.5 billion, the IMF said in the report. The
reserves now cover about 1.4 months of imports, according to
Bingham, the same ratio as at the end of last year. The
government should aim to build reserves to finance at least 2.5
months of imports, the  World Bank  said today in a report
released at the meeting.  The government is targeting foreign exchange reserves next
year to cover about 12 weeks of imports, up from about eight
weeks now, said Deputy Minister of Planning & Investment Cao Viet Sinh, who estimated Vietnam’s foreign reserves currently at
$13.5 billion to $14 billion. Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Sinh Hung told the meeting that the country had increased foreign-
exchange reserves by almost $2 billion in “the past few
months.”  The country aims to increase the reserves figure to 16
weeks worth of imports “in a few years,” said Sinh, speaking
to journalists today in Ha Tinh.  The 16-week target is “high” and “has to be long term,”
Sinh said. “We need to have a time frame to buy” foreign
currency, he said.  Reserve Replenishment  The dong is now trading “comfortably within the official
 exchange rate  band,” and enough appreciation pressure is being
generated to allow the  State Bank  of Vietnam to start
replenishing its foreign-exchange reserves, the Washington-based
lender said.  The exchange rate will be kept at a “stable, reasonable”
level this year, Deputy Prime Minister Hung said.  “The stability in the foreign-exchange market has helped
ease offshore risk premia, with Vietnam’s sovereign spreads and
credit-default swaps narrowing by around 100 basis points from a
peak of over 400 basis points in February,” the IMF said.  Still, Vietnam’s central bank will probably have to further
increase its policy rates, Bingham said. The bank’s repurchase
rate has increased to 15 percent now from 10 percent at the
beginning of the year, while the bank’s refinancing rate has
climbed to 14 percent from 9 percent.  Vietnam ’s inflation rate
in May reached 19.78 percent, the highest since 2008.  “The process of stabilizing the economy will take time,”
Bingham said. It will “not be a three-month exercise.”  --Jason Folkmanis and Diep Ngoc Pham in Ha Tinh, Vietnam.
Editors: Andrew Janes, James Regan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ha Tinh, Vietnam at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net  or
Diep Ngoc Pham in Ha Tinh, Vietnam at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  