-- 
Vietnam’s Bonds Fall as Government Says Inflation May Quicken

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-09T09:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/vietnam-s-bonds-fall-as-government-says-inflation-may-quicken.html
Vietnam ’s five-year bonds dropped,
with yields rising the most since November, after a central bank
official said gains in consumer prices may quicken. The dong was
little changed.  The inflation rate may continue to rise,  State Bank  of
Vietnam Deputy Governor Nguyen Van Binh said in remarks prepared
for delivery at a conference in the central province of Ha Tinh
today. Prices have been driven up by “the loose monetary and
fiscal policies put in place over the past,” Binh said, citing
the previous desire to “encourage economic growth.”  The yield on the five-year notes jumped 29 basis points,
the biggest one-day increase since Nov. 10, to 12.98 percent,
according to a daily fixing from banks compiled by Bloomberg.
The rate is at its highest level since November 2008. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Consumer prices rose 19.78 percent in May from a year
earlier, compared with 17.51 percent in April, according to the
General Statistics Office in Hanoi May 24. That’s the quickest
pace since December 2008.  The government should maintain a tight monetary and fiscal
policy, including higher  interest rates  and tougher credit,
until the currently “intolerable” inflation rate is less than
10 percent, the  World Bank  said in a report released at the
conference today.  Bill Sales  Vietnam’s central bank is willing to issue treasury bills
to withdraw any surplus funds from the banking system in order
to contain inflation, the central bank’s Binh said. Cash at
banks has improved considerably and will continue to do so in
the coming months, he said.  Vietnam’s State Treasury is offering 1.5 trillion dong
($92.9 million) each of three- and five-year bonds today at the
Hanoi Stock Exchange, according to a statement on the bourse’s
website.  The dong traded at 20,555 per dollar as of 3:30 p.m. in
Hanoi, compared with 20,565 yesterday, according to data from
banks compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank fixed the
 reference rate  at 20,623, unchanged from yesterday, according to
its website. The currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on
either side of that rate.  The dong’s stability is seen by many as temporary, Benedict Bingham, the International Monetary Fund’s senior resident
representative in Vietnam, said today at the conference in Ha
Tinh city.  --Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen. With assistance from Jason Folkmanis and
Diep Pham in Ha Tinh. Editors: Simon Harvey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 