-- 
Voters in Weiner’s District Want Him to Stay in House, Poll Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-06-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/weiner-s-constituents-want-him-to-remain-following-sex-scandal-poll-finds.html
More than half of U.S.
Representative Anthony Weiner’s constituents want him to remain
in office even though the married lawmaker has admitted sending
inappropriate photos and messages to women he met online,
according to a poll released yesterday.  A survey by the  Marist College Institute for Public Opinion 
and  NY1 , a New York City television news station, found that 56
percent of registered voters in Weiner’s district say he
shouldn’t resign, while 33 percent want him to quit.  Thirty percent of  9th Congressional District  voters said
they would definitely support the New York Democrat if he ran
for re-election in 2012, and 31 percent said they would
definitely vote against him.  The constituents in Weiner’s district, which includes parts
of Brooklyn and Queens, are “still in his corner on the
question of resignation,” said  Lee Miringoff , director of the
Poughkeepsie, New York-based polling institute. “As for his re-
election prospects, that’s still very much up in the air.”  The scandal was a lapse in personal judgment, according to
46 percent of the adults polled. Ten percent said the scandal
raises questions about Weiner’s professional judgment, and 29
percent said they now question Weiner’s personal or professional
judgment.  Weiner’s actions were “unethical but not illegal,”
according to 73 percent of those polled. His actions were
illegal, 11 percent said, and 9 percent said they see nothing
wrong with what he did.  Calls for Resignation  The 46-year-old lawmaker, who married Huma Abedin, a top
aide to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , less than a year
ago, apologized for the messages at a New York City news
conference on June 7. His admission drew a request for a  House
Ethics Committee  investigation by House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California  and calls for his resignation from
Republicans and at least six congressional Democrats.  Weiner has been one of the Democrats’ leading voices
attacking Republican positions on health care, with camera-ready
sound bites that garnered as many as 1 million hits on  YouTube .
Registered voters in Weiner’s district are divided on how
effective he can be if he remains in office, with 48 percent
saying he can continue to be effective and 43 percent saying
they don’t believe he can.  The telephone survey of 512 adults was conducted June 8 and
has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.
The poll included 411 registered voters, giving those results a
margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  