-- 
Wholesale April Inventories Increase Less Than Expected on Auto Stockpiles

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-09T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/wholesale-april-inventories-increase-less-than-expected-on-auto-stockpiles.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
less than forecast in April, restrained by the biggest drop in
auto stockpiles in more than a year.  The 0.8 percent increase in inventories compared with a 1
percent gain median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and
followed a revised 1.3 percent increase in March that was larger
than initially estimated, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington. Sales increased 0.3 percent in April after
climbing 3 percent the prior month.  The slowdown in demand may prompt wholesalers to keep a
tight rein on stockpiles, a sign orders to producers will
diminish as companies assess the expansion’s durability. Auto
inventories decreased by 1.3 percent, the biggest decline since
December 2009, which may reflect the influence of the earthquake
and tsunami in  Japan .  “They’re just trying to keep inventories at the wholesale
level as lean as possible,”  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at
IHS Global Insight Inc. in Lexington,  Massachusetts , said before
the report. “The trend is for these inventories to become
smaller and smaller relative to total sales.”  The median projection was based on a survey of 32
economists. Estimates ranged from an increase of 0.5 percent to
1.5 percent. The March reading was revised from a previously
reported 1.1 percent increase.  Other reports today showed the trade deficit unexpectedly
narrowed in April, reflecting a plunge in auto and oil imports
combined with record exports, jobless claims rose last week and
consumer comfort improved.  Trade Gap  Shrinks  The trade gap shrank 6.7 percent to $43.7 billion, the lowest
since December, Commerce Department figures showed. Purchases of
goods from Japan dropped by a record $3 billion in the aftermath
of the earthquake and tsunami.  Applications for unemployment insurance benefits increased
by 1,000 to 427,000 in the week ended June 4, Labor Department
data showed.  Consumer confidence  rose last week for the third consecutive
time as lower gasoline prices lifted Americans’ outlook on their
finances. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to minus
45.9 in the period to June 5, the best showing since the end of
April, from the prior week’s minus 47.1. Across income groups,
sentiment improved the most among households making less than
$50,000 a year.  Durable Goods  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 0.8 percent in April, led by
metals, furniture and electrical equipment, today’s report
showed. Demand for durable goods fell 0.6 percent, also led by
metals and furniture, indicating some of the buildup in
stockpiles for those categories was unintentional.  The value of unsold non-durable goods inventories also
increased 0.8 percent as purchases climbed 0.9 percent.  At the current sales pace, wholesalers had enough goods on
hand to last 1.14 months in April, close to the 1.13 months
reached in March.  Inventory rebuilding, a major driver of the early stages of
the economic recovery, sped up in the first quarter, contributing
1.2 percentage points to gross domestic product, according to the
Commerce Department data.  “We’re cautiously optimistic about the second quarter and
we will continue to manage expenses in inventory
conservatively,” Diane Neal, chief executive officer of Limited
Brands Inc.’s Bath & Body Works chain, said during a May 19 call
with analysts. The fragrance and soap business reported sales
rose 4 percent in May at stores open more than a year, compared
with the 7 percent analyst estimate.  Raising Prices  More expensive cotton, oil and labor in  Asia  have forced
some chains to pass costs on to consumer, straining demand.
Limited, which also operates the Victoria’s Secret chain, posted
a gain of 6 percent in same-store sales, missing the 7.4 percent
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Retail Metrics Inc.
The Columbus, Ohio-based company had topped forecasts each month
since at least the beginning of 2010.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, grew 1.3 percent in April, the Commerce Department
said June 2. Retail stockpiles, which make up the rest, will be
included in the June 14 business inventories report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  