-- 
Will Peru’s Humala Be the Next Chavez or the Next Lula?: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/will-peru-s-humala-be-the-next-chavez-or-the-next-lula-view.html
We now know that Ollanta
Humala will be the next president of  Peru . The question
is which Humala will take office: the Latin American
nationalist who in a previous campaign expressed
solidarity with Venezuela’s  Hugo Chavez , or the
candidate of 2011 who distanced himself from Chavez and
promised to respect democracy and avoid what his
running mate Marisol Espinoza called “authoritarian”
economics.  Since the June 5 election, Humala’s team has tried
to reinforce the image of moderation, but investors in
the  Lima  Stock Exchange appear unsure. On June 6
trading had to be suspended after shares dropped 12.5
percent.  The uncertainty is not confined to markets. Ask
Peruvians how their country did during the last decade
and you will get sharply different answers depending on
whom you ask.  Those of European or mixed ancestry living in the
capital of Lima and the comparatively wealthy coastal
areas will likely note that, under the prudent
stewardship of President  Alan Garcia , Peru’s economy
grew by 8.8 percent in 2010 with low inflation.  But Peruvians in the Andean highlands and urban
slums, many of whom are of indigenous ancestry, will
tell a different story. They will point out that a
third of their countrymen live below the poverty line
and that Garcia’s refusal to raise social spending
meant that they saw little tangible improvement in
their lives.  The Chavez Path  Humala has said that Peru’s mineral wealth -- in
copper, silver, zinc and gold -- should become an
engine for social inclusion. We hope he will follow not
the Chavez path but the one set by moderate Latin
American leftists such as former Brazilian President
Luiz Inacio Lula de Silva, who was able to lift
millions of Brazilians out of poverty by supporting
business while increasing social spending.  Peruvians, and the world, will get the first clues
as to Humala’s direction when he names his economic
team. It will be a hopeful sign if, as reported
yesterday by Bloomberg News, Humala offers the finance
and trade ministry posts to respected officials from a
previous free market government.  Another indication will be whether the new
president keeps Peru in the Acuerdo del Pacifico, a
group that promotes trade with Asia and includes
conservative-leaning nations such as Chile, Colombia
and Mexico, or if he joins ALBA, an anti-American bloc
led by Chavez’s  Venezuela  that also includes Nicaragua,
El Salvador and Ecuador  These decisions, more than any rhetoric, will tell
Peruvians, and Peru’s hemispheric neighbors, what to
expect from Humala.  Washington ’s message can be straightforward. To the
extent that Humala stays on the democratic course and
chooses not to emulate Chavez’s strong-arm actions,
U.S. support will continue and grow.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 