-- 
World’s Smallest Hedge Funds Increase Assets as Investors Seek ‘New Blood’

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-06-09T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/world-s-smallest-hedge-funds-increase-assets-as-investors-seek-new-blood-.html
The world’s smallest hedge funds
struggled to raise money in 2010. This year, investors want in.  Funds managing less than $5 billion increased assets by
$16.3 billion in the first quarter after adding $10.7 billion of
new money in the whole of 2010, according to estimates from
 Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Firms with $500 million to $1 billion
of assets had the biggest reversal of fortune, bringing in $4.7
billion in the first three months of the year after $2.8 billion
of net outflows in 2010.  “Investors are looking for new talent and new blood,”
said Dominic Freemantle, a London-based managing director at
Morgan Stanley who helps the firms attract money. “We are
definitely starting to see some of the small and mid-sized
managers raise decent assets.”  Clients who sought stability in big hedge funds after the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  roiled markets three
years ago are increasingly looking at smaller firms in a search
for better investment returns, clients and consultants say.
Smaller firms are also seeking investors at a time when some of
the biggest hedge funds have stopped taking money, said Craig
Stevenson, a senior investment consultant at Towers Watson & Co.
in London.  “The inflows have to go somewhere,” said Stevenson, who
helps pick hedge funds for pension funds and other clients that
oversee about $20 billion. “People are less concerned about
firm risk and business risk.”  Saba, Pelham  Firms that have attracted capital include Saba Capital
Management LP, the fund started by former Deutsche Bank AG
credit trader Boaz Weinstein, Hutchin Hill Capital LP and Pelham
Capital Management LP.  Smaller funds have the potential to outperform in the
months ahead as markets react to  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis,
inflation and the end of a program initiated by the U.S. Federal
Reserve to buy $600 million of Treasuries, said Saleem Siddiqi,
a London-based partner at Tapestry Asset Management LLP.  “There are a lot of unknowns on the radar screen,” said
Siddiqi, whose company tailors hedge-fund holdings for
institutional investors. “Being nimble is imperative to
navigate these choppy waters.”  Size shouldn’t be an obstacle to raising money if managers
can show they’ve produced good returns for two to three years
and posses a “strong pedigree,” meaning they’ve previously
been a trader at a Wall Street investment bank or well-known
hedge fund, said hedge-fund investor Henrik Molin, head of
development at Frey Quantitative Strategies Ltd. in  London .  Hutchin Hill  Weinstein started New York-based Saba in 2009 with $150
million. The fund, which posted an investment gain of 11 percent
in 2010, now oversees $3 billion, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
Saba is a private firm.  Assets at Hutchin Hill have jumped to $1.5 billion from
$350 million after the New York-based hedge fund began to take
money from new clients last year, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Neil Chriss, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader who
later managed a portfolio at SAC Capital Management LLC, started
Hutchin Hill in 2008 with $300 million from Renaissance
Technologies Corp. founder James Simons. Hutchin Hill, which
trades stocks and bonds, gained 7 percent last year after rising
17 percent in 2009, according to an investor.  Ross Turner founded Pelham in 2007 after leaving Lansdowne
Partners Ltd., a $16 billion hedge fund based in London that
bets on rising and falling stocks. Pelham’s assets have
increased to $1.7 billion from $57 million, investors say. The
London-based firm rose 13.5 percent in 2010 after gaining 26.7
percent in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Definitely Easier’  “It’s definitely easier to raise money than it was two
years ago,” Turner, 33, said. “It’s still difficult, but you
will find interest if you have the right product.”  Saba’s Weinstein and Hutchin Hill’s Chriss declined to
comment.  Hedge funds on average rose 8 percent in 2010 and 9 percent
in 2009, Bloomberg data show. The smallest hedge funds, those
with less than $100 million of assets, reaped an annualized
average gain of 13.5 percent from 1996 to 2009, according to a
September study of more than 4,000 firms by  PerTrac Financial
Solutions . Firms managing between $100 million and $500 million
returned 10.7 percent a year on average over the same period.
Those with more than $500 million increased 9.8 percent, the New
York-based investment-software company said.  Favorable Terms  One attraction of smaller firms is that they will sometimes
accept money on terms that are more favorable to investors, said
Jeff Majit, head of European hedge-fund investments for New
York-based Neuberger Berman Group LLC. Hedge funds typically
charge investors 2 percent of assets under management to cover
performance costs and 20 percent of any profits.  “We’ve had more success getting discounts on management
fees, discounts on incentive fees and full portfolio
transparency with emerging managers,” said London-based Majit,
who’s firm allocates about $4 billion to hedge funds.  Bigger firms that are considering closing funds to new
investors include  Steve Cohen ’s SAC Capital Management LLC. The
$14 billion Stamford, Connecticut-based company told clients
last month it may stop accepting money into the firm’s largest
fund to ensure returns remain high.  Daniel Loeb ’s Third Point
LLC, the New York-based firm that oversees more than $5 billion,
plans to close its funds to new investments.  Och-Ziff Funds  Too be sure, many big firms remain open. These funds have
the capacity to absorb the multimillion-dollar checks written by
sovereign-wealth funds, pension funds and endowments and they
are still attracting most of the money coming into the industry.  Inflows from clients and  investment performance  have added
$2.4 billion to  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) ’s funds
this year, increasing the New York-based firm’s assets to $30
billion at the end of May, according to filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Firms such as Och-Ziff that manage more than $5 billion got
half of the $32.5 billion raised by hedge funds in the first
quarter, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research. The
biggest hedge funds received 80 percent of the $55.5 billion
investors added to the industry in 2010.  The inflows mark a turning point from 2008 and 2009, when
hedge funds of all sizes experienced outflows of $285.6 billion.
The redemptions were a consequence of 2008, when the industry
lost 19 percent of investors’ money on average and a record
1,471 firms went out of business.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  