-- 
Yale Composer Lopez Wins Broadway Gamble With ‘Book of Mormon’

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/yale-composer-lopez-wins-broadway-gamble-with-book-of-mormon-.html
When Robert Lopez graduated from Yale
College in 1997 with a degree in English, he moved back in with
his parents in  Greenwich Village  and stayed for four years. To
finance his musical-theater writing, he worked as a temp at drug
maker  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , among other gigs, during what he amiably
calls “one big, dumb, idiotic crapshoot.”  Judging by the $980 tickets on eBay Inc.’s online market
 StubHub  for his hit Broadway show, “ The Book of Mormon ,” the
wager paid off handsomely.  An exuberant, often tasteless satire about missionaries in
 Africa , “Mormon” is a favorite to win the  Tony Award  on Sunday
for best musical. It’s also nominated in 13 other categories,
including book and score. The book, music and lyrics are by
Lopez, collaborating with the “South Park” team of Trey Parker
and Matt Stone.  It wouldn’t be Lopez’s first trip to the Tony podium. In
2004, he picked up the award for best score to “ Avenue Q ,” a
musical comedy about college graduates, portrayed by actors and
puppets, struggling to find love and purpose in the big city.
The show ran six years on Broadway before moving back to off-
Broadway, where it remains today.  The soft-spoken 36-year-old now belongs to an elite group
of Broadway’s most commercially and critically acclaimed
artists. We met over drinks last week on New York’s Upper West
Side, just after he’d given the commencement address at  Hunter
College .  ‘Really Insane’  “There is a part of me that really is insane,” he told
the Hunter graduates. “Insanely obsessed with musical theater
... Every shower I stand there, wasting water, coming up with
jokes about Mormons, or new ways for puppets to have sex.”  Tim Sanford, artistic director of  Playwrights Horizons ,
where Lopez interned after Yale, said, “There is an innocence
to his voice and music and yet he has a wicked sense of humor.
It’s a paradox that makes his music deliciously consumable and
speaks to our sensibility.”  Lopez said he never learned a marketable skill, to insure
extra dedication to composing. He began writing songs at seven
and musical-theater songs at 11. After Yale, he enrolled in the
 BMI Lehman Engel Musical Theatre Workshop , a legendary  New York 
talent incubator. There he began working on “Avenue Q” with
Jeff Marx. BMI gave him, among other gifts, a vocabulary for how
musicals are structured, Lopez said, and a way to discuss and
analyze them.  ‘South Park’ Connection  The collaboration with Marx ended after the show, Lopez
said, declining to say why. The challenge of repeating his
“Avenue Q” success, he said, was daunting. But he’d long
admired Parker and Stone, whom he finally met when they saw
“Avenue Q.”  The three convened roughly every six months, mostly at
Parker’s home in the Brentwood section of  Los Angeles , when
Parker and Stone had a break from the series.  Josh Gad, who plays second-banana missionary Elder
Cunningham, said the first number he heard was “Hasa Diga
Eebowai.” The feel-good song could’ve been cut from  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s “The  Lion King ,” were it not for the obscene references
to the deity.  “It was difficult for me to imagine that a song with such
choice words about God would be a commercial success,” Gad
said. “I certainly didn’t know it would be the behemoth it has
become.”  No Going Back  Lopez said he enjoys writing and fine-tuning musicals more
than promoting them. Visiting a finished work can also be tough.  “You know the show inside and out, you’ve laughed at all
the jokes that you’re going to laugh at,” he said. “You’re
listening to the audience and you start to measure the
responses. You get a little bit neurotic.”  Lopez has been working with his wife, composer-lyricist
Kristen Anderson-Lopez, on “Up Here,” a romantic musical about
an introverted fellow who struggles to express himself. Replete
with aerial stunts, Lopez described it as Cirque du Soleil meets
“Annie Hall.” Their previous collaborations include a stage
version of the 2003 animated film “Finding Nemo” at Walt
Disney World in  Orlando ,  Florida , and two daughters, ages six
and two. They live in  Brooklyn .  Although participating in the theater awards circuit
doesn’t come naturally, he said, he’s gotten a kick out of his
success.  “You have to pinch yourself,” Lopez said. “It’s exactly
what I always wanted. But it’s hard to open yourself up to the
joy of it when you’re a critical perfectionist. It’s hard to
switch to party time.”  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 