-- 
Zoran-CSR Shareholder Hell Intensifies as Nokia Fades: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-06-09T20:24:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/zoran-csr-shareholder-hell-intensifies-as-nokia-fades-real-m-a.html
After losing almost $1 billion in
 shareholder value  in the past five years,  Zoran Corp. (ZRAN)  may reward
owners by selling itself at less than 66 cents on the dollar.  Zoran, which makes semiconductors used in digital cameras
and  DVD players , has fallen 16 percent through yesterday since
 CSR Plc (CSR)  agreed to buy the company in February. CSR may now ask
for a lower price after Sunnyvale, California-based Zoran fell
two dollars below the per-share offer of $9.90, according to
Jefferies Group Inc. The deal is already valued at a 34 percent
discount to Zoran’s sales, the cheapest all-stock takeover in
the industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Levy Gerzberg is trying to sell
Zoran after costing investors 71 percent of their money since
May 2006. The deal would help fend off activist Ramius LLC,
which ousted three directors in March and said the sale may
undervalue the company. CSR, facing a profit slump after  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V)  cut its sales forecast, is now buying a company that’s lost
money in seven of the past 10 years and projected a drop in
revenue after Cisco Systems Inc. discontinued its Flip video
camera. Since making the offer, CSR has slid 25 percent.  “It doesn’t look like Zoran has many options here,” said
Daniel Amir, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets LLC in  San
Francisco . “But putting two failing businesses together doesn’t
necessarily make it a good business. It’s two good end-markets,
but it just happens to be two companies that have been
struggling within those markets.”  Takeover Terms  Bonnie McBride, a spokeswoman at Zoran, declined to
comment. James Melville-Ross, a London-based spokesman for CSR,
reiterated the company’s statement May 9 that it was evaluating
the implications of Zoran’s guidance.  Zoran’s holders will receive American depositary receipts
representing 1.85 shares of CSR and own 35 percent of the
combined entity after the takeover, based on the terms of the
agreement dated Feb. 21. The $13.03 per-share bid was 40 percent
higher than Zoran’s price on the last trading day before the
announcement, according to the release.  Shares of CSR fell 9.7 percent on the day the deal was made
public and have since dropped to a more than five-month low of
326.1 pence yesterday. That’s pushed the value of buying Zoran
to about 0.66 times Zoran’s sales of $357 million last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At the time the deal was struck, Zoran was valued at 1.02
times its revenue, which had already made it the cheapest all-
stock takeover of any chip-related electronic components maker
over $100 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg that
excludes targets that were majority owned by their acquirers.  ‘A Cheap Deal’  Zoran has also declined, with the shares dropping to $7.82
yesterday, or 21 percent below CSR’s offer.  With the deal expected to close at the end of the month,
the gap is now the widest of any pending takeover in the U.S. on
an annualized basis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
indicating to arbitragers that CSR will try to get a lower price
or terminate the deal.  Today, Zoran fell 1.9 percent to $7.67, while CSR declined
3.4 percent to 315.1 pence, the lowest since November.  “A cheap deal is not necessarily a good deal,” said
 Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion as chairman
of Holland & Co. in New York and was a general partner at
private equity firm Blackstone Group LP. “This doesn’t appear
to be a good deal for either the buyer or the seller.”  Schroders Plc, CSR’s biggest shareholder, said the deal
price must be lowered, according to DealReporter last month.
Andy Brough, an executive director at London-based Schroders,
declined to comment yesterday.  Proxy Fight  Gerzberg is turning to CSR after losing about $981 million
for shareholders since Zoran’s equity reached a high of $1.37
billion in May 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The drop led  Ramius , New York-based Cowen Group Inc.’s
alternative asset management unit and one of Zoran’s biggest
investors, to try to gain control of the company by replacing
its directors.  Ramius, which owns about 9.3 percent of Zoran’s shares,
sent a letter to shareholders on Feb. 1 urging them to replace
six board members with its own nominees. On March 4, it
successfully ousted and replaced three members, winning a three-
month proxy fight. Ramius declined to comment.  While closing the deal would help Gerzberg prevent Ramius
from gaining more board seats at its next general shareholder
meeting, Ramius may balk at the falling price, according to
Curtis Watkins, an analyst at New York-based Water Island
Capital LLC, which oversees the $2.2 billion Arbitrage Fund and
owns about 1.2 million Zoran shares. Gerzberg is set to become a
non-executive director for CSR once the takeover is completed.  ‘Even Worse’  “You’ve got an already bad deal in that sense, and then
you’ve got CSR getting hit even more, which is making an even
worse deal,” Watkins said. “It’s going to make it harder for
Zoran shareholders and Ramius to stomach that sort of a price.
Now that Ramius has three board members on, they’re sort of
forced to deal with it.”  CSR, which designs chips and software for Bluetooth-enabled
devices, is buying a company that makes the processors used in
video recorders and digital televisions. Shares of both
companies declined in the past year as CSR’s bigger rivals such
as Irvine, California-based  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and MediaTek Inc. in
Hsinchu,  Taiwan , offered lower prices, while sales at Zoran’s
digital TV unit fell 39 percent, Lazard’s Amir said.  Zoran also said in its May 9 earnings statement that  San
Jose , California-based Cisco’s decision in April to end its Flip
unit will “negatively impact” sales for the rest of the year.  Flip Camera  Cisco’s Flip accounted for about $10 million of Zoran’s
digital camera revenue each quarter, according to an estimate by
Amir. That’s equal to 12 percent of its total sales in the first
three months of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Zoran predicted lower second-quarter sales and analysts
have projected annual losses this year and next, the data show.  “The market is marking down the deal price,” said  Lee Simpson , an analyst at Jefferies in  London . “CSR has made some
remarks that they might want to renegotiate the price. They have
enough leverage to renegotiate or even walk away.”  While CSR expects cost savings of about $50 million, per-
share earnings may fall 24 percent this year, the data show.  Nick James, a London-based analyst at Numis Securities
Ltd., cut his profit estimate this month on concern that Espoo,
Finland-based Nokia and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  of Waterloo,
Ontario -- two of CSR’s biggest customers -- may be hurt by
slowing sales.  Nokia last week scrapped its full-year sales and margin
forecasts for handsets and services, and said revenue at the
unit would fall “substantially” short of its projected range
this quarter. Analysts project Research In Motion, maker of the
Blackberry smartphone, will have its slowest two-year stretch of
sales growth since at least 1996, Bloomberg data show.  Buying Zoran may not help shareholders of either company
recoup their losses, according to  Keith Wirtz , who helps oversee
$18 billion as chief investment officer for Fifth Third Asset
Management in Cincinnati.  “Given the fact that both companies are struggling, I
would worry that the combination of two weak companies might not
translate into one great company,” said Wirtz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net  