-- 
Zuma Takes Aim at Eskom, Transnet to Increase Confidence in South Africa

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-06-10T13:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-09/zuma-takes-aim-at-eskom-and-transnet-to-boost-confidence-in-south-africa.html
South Africa  replaced the chairman
and most of the board of state-owned power utility Eskom
Holdings Ltd. and plans a similar reorganization at its rail and
ports operation as their capacity constraints hampered
investment.  The government named Zola Tsotsi, the head of the power
authority in neighboring  Lesotho , as chairman of Eskom and
replaced all but two of the company’s board members, Cabinet
spokesman Jimmy Manyi said in Cape Town yesterday, without
giving reasons. A new chairman was also appointed at defense
company,  Denel Ltd. , and a reorganization can be expected at
Transnet SOC Ltd., Manyi said.  State-owned companies have “not got any credibility,
they’ve not inspired confidence in the business community” for
the past six years, said Iraj Abedian, chief executive officer
at Johannesburg-based Pan-African Investment and Research
Services. “The undertone here is that President  Jacob Zuma  is
saying, ‘If you don’t deliver, I sack you.’”  Eskom, which supplies about 95 percent of South  Africa ’s
electricity, is spending 485 billion rand ($72 billion) to build
 power plants  and prevent a repeat of shortages that shut the
country’s biggest gold and platinum mines for about five days in
January 2008. The government prohibited Eskom from expanding for
four years until 2004 in a failed bid to attract private
investment into the power industry.  Power Outages  A lack of generating capacity may have cost Africa’s
largest economy investment. Rio Tinto Group scrapped an aluminum
smelter project in 2009 and BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
largest mining company, partially closed its Bayside aluminum
smelter in 2008 because of power shortages.  Several residential neighborhoods in northern Johannesburg
were without power today because of technical faults, Sol
Mosolo, a spokesman for electricity distributor City Power, said
in a phone interview.  “This is a decision that comes right from the top,” said
Susan Booysen, a political analyst at the University of
Witwatersrand in Johannesburg. “In Zuma, there is more of a
willingness to reshuffle at the top if there’s under-
performance. However, the proof is in the pudding.”  In October, Zuma fired seven ministers, including Barbara Hogan, who was in charge of public enterprises, naming Malusi Gigaba as her replacement.  The changes at Eskom are meant to “rejuvenate and
strengthen” the utility and make it more focused on
development, Gigaba said in an e-mailed statement today. This
will require “a degree of active participation” from
government in their policy, planning, strategic direction and
oversight, he said.  ‘Entirely Unexpected’  The Eskom action took the  mining industry  and labor unions
by surprise, raising concern that it would be disruptive to the
utility. South Africa’s Chamber of Mines said in a statement
yesterday that it does “not understand the logic” of the
action and will approach Gigaba for reasons.  “It’s entirely unexpected,” said Mike Rossouw, head of
the Energy Intensive Users Group, which represents Eskom’s
largest customers, such as  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. “Is this a hard-nosed attempt to sweep clean, or
are there any other reasons? One wants to have stability.”  Zuma, whose ruling  African National Congress  lost support
in last month’s municipal elections, has pledged to create 5
million jobs in the next decade to slash a 25 percent
unemployment rate. To do that, the economy needs to expand 7
percent a year, according to government estimates. The economy
grew 2.8 percent in 2010 and is forecast by the central bank to
expand 3.6 percent this year.  Transnet  Transnet didn’t have a permanent chief executive officer
for almost two years until Brian Molefe was appointed to the
position in February. The utility is spending 110 billion rand
over the next five years to expand rail and ports capacity and
ease constraints on coal, manganese and iron ore exports.  Richards Bay Coal Terminal, Africa’s biggest coal export
facility, said on May 30 it won’t expand further until South
Africa’s rail network allows it to use all of its current
capacity. While RBCT is capable of shipping 91 million metric
tons of coal a year, it exported 63.4 million tons last year,
Chief Executive Officer Raymond Chirwa said.  The performance of state-owned companies was among factors
inhibiting growth and development in South Africa, the National
Planning Commission said in a report to lawmakers in  Cape Town 
yesterday. The companies need more investment and greater focus
on efficiency, according to the commission, which is led by
former finance minister  Trevor Manuel .  “Levels of efficiency in delivery of these services have
been lower than they should be,” commission member Anton
Eberhard told reporters in Cape Town. “That led us to think
about the governance of these bodies and whether there should be
changes in those governance structures. That certainly will be
part of our discussions in future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  