-- Maesrk Says China’s Consumption Focus to Help Shipping
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2013-03-28T08:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/maersk-says-china-effort-to-boost-consumption-will-help-shipping.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , owner of
the world’s biggest container shipping line, said  China ’s
efforts to boost domestic consumption and pare reliance on
exports will help carriers as imports into the country may gain.  “With the new leadership coming and focusing on slightly
different things, we will have more focus on domestic
consumption, boosting the living standards of the Chinese
population,” Chief Executive Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen
said in an interview. “It will create great opportunities for
companies like us because imports will increase.”  Demand for toys, electronics and clothing in  North America 
and  Europe  helped China become the world’s biggest exporter in
2009, boosting business for container lines. Policy makers in
the world’s most-populous country are now trying to push the
economy toward a more consumption-focused development path in
their bid to boost growth.  “Increasing imports into  Asia  means that fewer container
boxes will be moved empty, generating revenue for shipping
lines,” said Shin Ji Yoon, an analyst at KTB Securities Co. in
 Seoul . “There has always been an imbalance in trade, where
containers leave Asia full but return empty.”  Imports into China may expand faster than exports this year
in percentage terms, Copenhagen-based Maersk said in an e-mail.
The country’s imports by containers currently include basic
industrial raw materials, electrical components and footwear.  Chinese Ports  Maersk has also invested in Chinese port terminals as it
seeks to benefit from the nation’s trade. The company currently
has investments in seven ports in China, including Shanghai and
Guangzhou, through its terminal operating unit  APM Terminals .
The company in June said it signed a $673 million deal with the
Ningbo Port Group to jointly invest and operate berths.  APM is planning to raise its stake in the venture to 33
percent from 25 percent because of the terminal’s potential, the
company said. The new facility will be completed by 2014. Ningbo
is China’s third-largest container port city after Shanghai and
Shenzhen, handling 16.8 million 20-foot containers last year,
according to  Alphaliner .  “Terminal investments are a key focus for us,” Andersen
said in Singapore yesterday. “We’re constantly following the
opportunity. We want to invest in countries that really grow.”  Andersen said trade between Asia and Europe, the world’s
busiest lane, will remain weak this year because of overcapacity
and economic downturn in Europe. At the same time, demand for
cargoes to the U.S. is picking up. Intra-Asia trade and
shipments to other  emerging markets , including  Africa  and  South
America , are also expected to grow this year, he said.  Rates Increase  Maersk is seeking to raise rates to Europe from Asia by
$500 per 20-foot box starting  April 15 , after a $600 per
container increase it sought a month earlier. Hanjin Shipping
Co.,  South Korea ’s biggest, is also looking at a similar
increase next month.  Maersk Line, the container shipping unit, said in February
that profit this year will be higher than the $461 million
reached in 2012 as the company cuts costs and global container
demand growth increases.  Maersk will take delivery of the world’s biggest container
ship in June for trade between Asia and Europe. The company,
which ordered a total 20 of these vessels dubbed the Triple-Es,
will receive four more this year.  Triple-Es  CMA CGM SA , the world’s third-largest container shipping
company, currently operates the  biggest vessel  that can carry
16,000 boxes.  The  Triple-E ships , which will have rounded hulls, will
have a fuel-efficient two-engine setup that’s too wide for
current ships. It will also recover cargo capacity that is lost
with tapered hulls, letting the ships carry 16 percent more
boxes than vessels only a few meters smaller.  Combined with other technologies, the ships will use about
35 percent less fuel per box than vessels now used on Asia-
Europe routes and produce around 50 percent less carbon
emissions, according to Maersk.  “It’s part of our overall drive to reduce costs and it’s
also part of our drive to reduce CO2 emissions,” Andersen said.
“The Triple-Es will be the largest we will see for a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  