-- AIG Sets Bonus Plan to Reward Executives After Repaying Bailout
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-03-27T22:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/aig-sets-bonus-plan-to-reward-executives-after-repaying-bailout.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
adopted incentive plans for employees to reward top performers
after the insurer exited a U.S. bailout last year.  The 2013 long-term incentive plan provides for performance
share units based on achievements in a three-year period ending
Dec. 31, 2015, the New York-based company said late yesterday in
a regulatory filing. Participants, including “officers and key
employees,” can earn a maximum 150 percent of their target
award based on an evaluation.  AIG Chairman  Steve Miller  has pledged to reward managers
who helped the insurer repay its $182.3 billion rescue. The U.S.
Treasury Department imposed compensation restrictions on top
executives at firms that received bailouts amid the 2008
financial crisis. AIG was freed from those limits in December
when the U.S. sold its last shares in the insurer.  “You need to put a carrot out in front of people to get
them to perform at their very best,” Miller said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television in January. “They’ve
performed miracles without it, but we think they can do even
better if we can put in the right tailored comp program.”  The insurer didn’t identify which employees will
participate in the long-term incentive plan. Jon Diat, a
spokesman for the company, declined to comment on the filing.  AIG was faulted in 2009 for paying retention bonuses to
employees including members of the Financial Products unit that
oversaw derivative bets that nearly shuttered the firm. Staff at
the derivatives unit got more than $400 million in incentive
payments after the rescue.  Employee Motivation  Government restrictions on pay practices harmed AIG’s
ability to attract, retain and motivate employees, the company
said in a regulatory filing last year. Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Benmosche , 68, who took over at the firm in 2009, has
said AIG employees who performed their jobs capably suffered
when the stock price plunged in 2008.  Kenneth Feinberg , who oversaw pay at seven bailout
recipients for Treasury, said in September that the limits
didn’t put AIG at a competitive disadvantage.  AIG also established a policy to claw back incentive pay
from executives who harm the company’s finances or reputation,
according to the filing. A separate short-term incentive policy
was established to reward most employees, the filing shows.  AIG rose 8.4 percent this year through yesterday, trailing
the 9.6 percent gain on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  