-- Air China, China Southern Profits Decline on Currency, Fuel
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-03-27T12:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/air-china-china-southern-profits-decline-on-currency-fuel-2-.html
China’s three biggest airlines
reported a second straight decline in annual profits as they
struggled with currency fluctuations and fuel costs amid a
slower economic growth.  Air China Ltd. (753) ,  Asia ’s biggest carrier by market value,
said yesterday that net income in 2012 fell 35 percent because
of higher expenses and a smaller gain from its stake in  Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)   China Eastern (670)  Airlines Corp. and  China
Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  also reported lower profits.  The uncertain global economic outlook and higher fuel costs
led to greater operational difficulties for the industry last
year, Air China said. The carriers said they expect domestic
demand to rebound in 2013 as China’s growth may accelerate under
the new leadership after the weakest expansion in 13 years.  “China’s big three carriers were all affected by currency
last year,” Zhou Meng, a Shanghai-based analyst at Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co., said. “But they are fortunate to count
on the domestic market.”  Air China, based in Beijing, rose 4.2 percent to HK$7 in
Hong Kong trading today. China Southern advanced 0.2 percent
while  China Eastern  gained 1.2 percent.  Japan Tension  All the three airlines said their foreign exchange gains
slumped more than 90 percent in 2012 because of the yuan’s
slower appreciation against the dollar compared with a year
earlier. Chinese carriers benefit from a stronger local currency
as it pares the repatriated value of dollar-denominated debts
used to buy planes and fuel overseas.  They were also hurt by a territorial dispute between China
and  Japan  since tension intensified in September. China Eastern
sees no signs of recovery in  travel demand  between the two
countries at present, Ma Xulun, its vice chairman told reporters
in Hong Kong today. Both China Eastern and Air China have cut
capacity and still fill only 63 to 68 percent seats on China-
Japan routes, trailing their average levels.  “ China  is still the market with the biggest potential in
the world,” Air China said in its statement. “At the moment,
China’s economic growth is still relatively high.”  The nation’s growth will probably accelerate this year and
next as the world’s second-biggest economy weathers a fragile
global recovery, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. Expansion may reach 8.5 percent
this year and 8.9 percent in 2014, the OECD said on March 22.  The economy expanded 7.9 percent in the final three months
of last year, the first acceleration in two years. Full-year
growth of 7.8 percent was the least since 1999.  Jetstar Hong Kong  Air China’s net income fell to 4.64 billion  yuan  ($746
million), under international accounting standards, from 7.08
billion yuan a year earlier, the carrier said. That compares
with the 4.24 billion-yuan average profit estimate of 10
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  China Eastern, which is setting up a budget carrier in Hong
Kong with  Qantas Airways Ltd (QAN) ’s Jetstar Group, said it is
“open” to bring local investor into the equally-owned venture
as it is waiting for Hong Kong government’s approval for an
operation license, Ma said.  The budget airline, called Jetstar Hong Kong, is targeting
its first flights by the end of this year with two Airbus SAS
A320s, he said. By comparison, China Eastern said earlier it
expects the carrier to start flying in June with three A320s.  Cathay Stake  Air China’s income from its stake of about 30 percent in
Cathay plunged 91 percent to 88 million yuan after the Hong Kong
carrier suffered  an 83 percent plunge  in annual profit. Cathay
also holds about a 19.3 percent stake in the Chinese carrier.  China Eastern, the nation’s second-biggest carrier by
passengers, said profit declined to 2.95 billion yuan, trailing
the 3.20 billion-yuan average profit estimated by 13 analysts.
Net income at China Southern was 2.62 billion yuan, compared
with the average estimate of 2.78 billion yuan in a Bloomberg
survey of nine analysts.  The yuan  reference rate  climbed 0.3 percent against the
dollar last year, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. That compares with a 5.1 percent jump in 2011.  Air China said fuel costs rose 2.7 percent last year,
according to the H.K. filing. China Southern’s spending on fuel
jumped 14.5 percent while China Eastern had a 2.2 percent
increase.  Air China filled 80.4 percent of seats last year, 1.06
percentage points lower than a year earlier, as capacity growth
outpaced travel demand. Passenger yield, a measure of average
airfare, fell 1.47 percent, according to the company statement.
China Southern’s passenger yield dropped 1.5 percent.  A380s  Air China is still in talks with China Southern to
cooperate on flying A380s from Beijing to Paris, Air China
chairman Wang Changshun told reporters today. It had proposed to
lease two of the five A380s China Southern runs, Wang said.  China Southern missed a target date for introducing the
A380 on international flights from Beijing at the end of
October, prolonging a more than yearlong struggle to gain access
to slots in the nation’s capital. The company said in August it
was in talks with Air China about the partnership.  China Southern mainly deploys A380s on domestic routes at
present, after failing to win approval for flying the superjumbo
for overseas services from Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  