-- Al-Shabaab Operative Gets Prison for Helping Terror Group
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-27T22:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/al-shabaab-associate-gets-111-month-term-for-aiding-group.html
An Eritrean man who admitted to
receiving military training and aiding the al-Shabaab terrorist
organization in Somalia was sentenced by a federal judge in
 Manhattan  to nine years and three months in prison.  Mohamed Ibrahim Ahmed, 38, who pleaded guilty in June to
two counts of conspiracy, faced as long as 10 years in prison
under nonbinding U.S. sentencing guidelines.  Ahmed, an Eritrean native who moved to  Sweden  as a child
before going to Somalia, was arrested in  Nigeria  in 2009 and
brought to the U.S. the following year, prosecutors said.  He admitted to contributing about 3,000 euros ($3,835) to
al-Shabaab and was trained to make and detonate bombs while he
was in Somalia, prosecutors said.  Al-Shabaab seeks to destabilize the Somali government and
drive foreign troops out of the country, the U.S. said. The
group has recruited foreign fighters, including some from the
U.S., according to federal prosecutors.  Assistant U.S. attorneys Benjamin Naftalis and John Cronan
said that when Ahmed was taken into U.S. custody and interviewed
by  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents, he admitted he wanted
to “make jihad.”  Prosecutors said Nigerian authorities found a copy of an
al-Qaeda training manual in the room where Ahmed had been
staying before his arrest. Stamps on his passport confirmed he
had traveled from Sweden to  Africa  via  Iran  “in order to wage
deadly jihad.”  ‘Foreign Occupation’  Sabrina Shroff, a lawyer for Ahmed, said her client didn’t
deserve the 10-year prison term sought by the U.S. because he
never engaged in terrorist acts against the U.S. and never
intended to do so.  “He sought training in order to participate in a military
struggle against foreign occupation in his African homeland,”
Shroff said in court papers.  Shroff said her client never joined any fighting on behalf
of al-Shabaab. She said others convicted of aiding the group
have been sentenced to terms shorter than the 10-year term the
U.S. had sought.  The case is U.S. v. Ahmed, 10-00131, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  