-- Allianz Buys Turkish Insurer Yapi for $879 Million
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-03-27T13:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/allianz-buys-turkey-s-yapi-kredi-sigorta-for-879-million.html
Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest
insurer, bought Turkey’s  Yapi Kredi Sigorta AS (YKSGR)  for 684 million
euros ($879 million), seeking to expand in faster-growing
 emerging markets  as the debt crisis abated.  Allianz agreed to buy the company from Turkish bank  Yapi &
Kredi Bankasi AS (YKBNK) , it said in an e-mailed statement today.
Munich-based Allianz said the deal will make it the country’s
largest insurer and will provide access to Yapi & Kredi’s 928
banking branches for its products over the next 15 years.  The world’s insurance firms are competing for premiums in
developing economies as the expansion in traditional markets
slows. Turkey is forecast by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development to grow 4.1 percent this year as the
euro area contracts 0.1 percent. Paris-based  Axa SA (CS)  agreed last
year to purchase  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s general insurance
businesses in  Mexico ,  Hong Kong  and  Singapore .  “We’ve now seen Allianz and Axa dip their toes into small
bolt-on deals in emerging markets in recent months, suggesting
that the larger conglomerates are becoming more comfortable that
the worst of the crisis is over,” Shailesh Raikundlia, an
analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in London, said in an
e-mailed report to clients. “Allianz’s model is very
underweight emerging markets.”  The agreement means Allianz will displace Axa as Turkey’s
biggest insurance company in an industry where premiums grew 16
percent to 17.1 billion liras ($9.4 billion) in 2012, according
to figures published by the Insurance Association of Turkey.  ‘Unique Opportunity’  European insurers including Allianz are benefiting from a
recovery in financial markets and higher prices for some of
their products. Net income at Allianz was 5.49 billion euros in
2012, almost double the 2.8 billion euros it reported for 2011.  “Turkey is one of the fastest growing insurance markets
worldwide,” Allianz board member Oliver Baete said. The
transaction “is a unique opportunity to move into a market-
leading position in one of  Europe ’s key growth markets,” he
said.  Allianz fell 3.1 percent to 105 euros at 1:21 p.m. in
 Frankfurt . The main  Stoxx 600 Insurance index  dropped 1.9
percent.  Yapi Kredi Sigorta slumped 18 percent to 17.60 liras in
Istanbul, the biggest decline in more than a decade. The deal
had valued the 93.9 percent stake that Allianz is buying at 23
percent below yesterday’s share price-based valuation of $1.14
billion. Allianz said it will conduct a mandatory offer for
remaining stock after the transaction is complete.  Market Share  Allianz, which ranked third among insurers in Turkey last
year with a 7.3 percent market share, will increase its coverage
to about 15 percent through the acquisition, according to data
from the Insurance Association of Turkey. Axa controlled 12
percent of the market and local firm  Anadolu Anonim Turk Sigorta
Sirketi (ANSGR)  11 percent, the data showed.  The agreement also means Allianz acquires 80 percent of
life insurance and pensions provider Yapi Kredi Emeklilik AS,
with Yapi & Kredi Bankasi keeping 20 percent, Allianz said.  Turkey’s population is expected to become larger than
Germany’s by the end of 2014, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau. The 99 percent-Muslim nation may have almost 82 million
people, overtaking Germany’s 81 million, the bureau said.  The government is also increasing cash incentives for
citizens to take out private pensions, introducing legislation
this year that raised its contribution.  Health Cover  Yapi Kredi Sigorta increased its premiums 26 percent to
1.23 billion liras last year. Health insurance accounted for 507
million liras, making it the market leader with a 23 percent
share.  Allianz offers health, property insurance, life insurance
and pensions in  Turkey  with primary business lines being auto
and health, according to its annual report.  The German firm’s share of health insurance premiums will
expand to more than 38 percent after the acquisition, according
to the insurance association’s figures. Acibadem Saglik & Hayat
ranked second last year with 10 percent, the data showed.  The agreement to buy Yapi Kredi Sigorta requires the
approval of Turkey’s antitrust regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  