-- American Realty Increases Its Bid for Cole Credit
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-03-27T15:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/american-realty-increases-its-bid-for-cole-credit.html
American Realty Capital Properties
Inc. (ARCP)  raised its bid for Cole Credit Property Trust III Inc. to
about $6.7 billion as it seeks to create one of the biggest real
estate investment trusts that leases space to single tenants.  American Realty today offered $12.50 a share in cash or
0.80 a share of its common stock for each share of Cole Credit,
a Phoenix-based nontraded REIT. Cole rejected American Realty’s
initial offer of $12 a share, saying it undervalued the company.  Cole Credit, owner of more than 900 mostly single-tenant
office, retail and industrial properties, is trying to fend off
American Realty and purchase its sponsor, Cole Holdings Corp.,
with plans to go public after the merger. The previous bid by
American Realty undervalued the company by as much as 22
percent, Cole Holdings Chairman Christopher Cole and Chief
Executive Officer Marc Nemer said March 25 in a letter to the
company’s business partners.  American Realty revised its bid to include the acquisition
of Cole Holdings and take into account property data suggesting
increased value for Cole Credit, the New York-based company said
today in a letter to Cole Credit’s board. The new bid is valued
at about $9.7 billion, including the assumption of debt. Under
the stock-payment plan, American Realty guaranteed to pay at
least $13.59 for each Cole Credit share.  The proposal “is a full and fair offer and well within the
valuation you ascribed to CCPT III and Cole Holdings in your
March 25 filing, but without all the attendant risks of a
proposed listing on uncertain terms and timing,” American
Realty said in the letter.  Meaghan Repko, a spokeswoman for Cole with Joele Frank,
Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher, said she couldn’t immediately comment
on the offer.  Cole Holdings, based in Phoenix, manages more than 76
million square feet (7 million square meters) of properties.
Cole Credit said it expects to complete the purchase by the end
of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  