-- AMR, US Airways Merger Hits Hurdle in Court on Horton Pay
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-27T17:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/amr-us-airways-merger-hits-hurdle-in-court-on-horton-pay.html
American Airlines Chief Executive
Officer Tom Horton’s $20 million severance is holding up the
airline’s bid to win court approval for its merger with  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in Manhattan today
questioned American’s request now for approval of the severance
package, which has drawn opposition from the U.S. government’s
bankruptcy watchdog.  Lane asked at a court hearing why the severance approval
shouldn’t be put off until later, when American parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) 
seeks court approval for its bankruptcy reorganization plan.  “Why can’t it and why shouldn’t it be in the plan as
opposed to here?” the judge said.  American, based in Fort Worth, Texas, is in court to ask
Lane to approve its planned merger with US Airways. The merger
won’t be completed until AMR’s bankruptcy plan is approved,
which should occur in about six months, Stephen Karotkin, an
attorney for the company, said in court.  US Airways  CEO Doug Parker will run the new company and
Horton will become chairman. Horton’s $19.9 million severance,
which would be paid half in cash and half in stock of the
combined company, is part of American’s request for approval of
the merger.  The U.S. Trustee, which monitors bankruptcy proceedings,
calls the severance a “golden parachute” and argues it
violates bankruptcy laws. American defends the package, saying
it is conditioned on the merger closing and will be paid by the
new company and not AMR.  The case is in re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  