-- Amtrak Asks U.S. for $2.1 Billion to Buy Trains
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-03-28T23:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/amtrak-asks-u-s-for-2-1-billion-to-buy-trains-improve-tracks.html
(Corrects year-earlier loss in 11th paragraph of article
published March 27.)  Amtrak , the U.S. intercity
passenger railroad supported by taxpayers, asked Congress to
more than double its  capital budget  so it can buy more trains
and improve infrastructure.  Amtrak , in a letter today to Vice President  Joe Biden  and
House Speaker  John Boehner , asked for $2.1 billion in U.S. funds
for its capital budget and $212 million for debt service for the
2014 fiscal year. In the 2013 fiscal year, Amtrak is receiving
$905 million for those expenses.  “If we truly want to realize our vision of what rail can
offer America, in terms of real mobility improvements and
rational modal choices, policy decisions must be made and
funding provided to match them,” Amtrak Chief Executive Officer
Joseph Boardman said in a statement. “These are big decisions,
and will require bold thinking, but they will deliver value for
the money.”  While Amtrak gets U.S. aid every year, this request comes
as its authority from Congress to operate is due to expire in
September. Amtrak is looking for more money in legislation to
expand service and increase speeds between  Washington  and
Boston, where its share of the rail-air market has doubled in
the past decade. The subsidies have been criticized by some
congressional Republicans.  “Only in America could we pour more taxpayer dollars into
a Soviet-style passenger rail system,” Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican who previously headed the House
transportation committee, said today in an e-mailed statement.  The Washington-based railroad reduced its request for
operating assistance by 16 percent after recording its smallest
annual loss in 38 years.  No Profit  Amtrak is seeking $373 million in operating support,
compared with the $443 million it’s getting this year.  The railroad, created in 1971 to take over money-losing
passenger operations from freight carriers, has never made an
annual profit.  Amtrak has said it wants to expand its Acela fleet serving
the U.S. Northeast and replace the 20 existing Acelas, which
were built by  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  of Montreal and Alstom SA, based
in Levallois-Perret,  France . It also plans to upgrade its
wireless  Internet service , or Wi-Fi, to faster 4G technology on
its trains.  California Acelas  The railroad said in January it will work with  California ,
the only U.S. state planning to begin construction on a high-
speed rail project this year, to buy Acela equipment. In
January, it began asking companies for information on building
as many as 60 trains to add units on the Northeast Corridor,
replace Acelas and buy equipment for California. It hasn’t said
from whom it will buy those trains.  After automatic budget cuts, Amtrak is getting $1.3 billion
in taxpayer money for fiscal 2013, Amtrak spokesman  Steve Kulm 
said. That’s less than the $1.4 billion the railroad received
the previous year.  Amtrak says its share of the rail-air market between
Washington and New York has risen to 76 percent from 69 percent
in  2010  and 37 percent before the Acela began service. The
comparison doesn’t include buses, the fastest growing mode of
U.S. transportation. Ridership throughout the Amtrak system rose
3.5 percent in the year that ended Sept. 30 to a record 31.2
million passengers.  The Washington-based railroad said Jan. 10 that its cash
operating loss for the year ended Sept. 30 fell to $361 million,
the lowest since 1975, from $446 million in the previous 12
months.  The  Brookings Institution , in a  report  issued this month,
found 83 percent of passengers ride Amtrak routes of less than
400 miles. The Washington-based public policy group suggested
Amtrak share costs for money-losing long-distance routes of more
than 750 miles with states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  