-- Amtrak Reduces U.S. Subsidy Request After Loss Narrows
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-03-28T23:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/amtrak-reduces-u-s-operating-aid-request-after-smaller-loss.html
(Corrects year-earlier loss in 11th paragraph in article
published March 27.)  Amtrak , the U.S. intercity
passenger railroad supported by taxpayers, today will ask
Congress for 16 percent less in operating assistance for next
year after recording its smallest annual loss in 38 years.  Amtrak  will seek $373 million in operating support,
compared with the $443 million it’s getting this year. It didn’t
specify how much it will seek for capital improvements. The
Washington-based railroad will submit to Congress today its
budget request for its 2014 fiscal year, said  Steve Kulm , a
spokesman.  While Amtrak gets U.S. aid every year, its request comes as
its authority from Congress to operate is due to expire in
September. Amtrak is looking for more money in legislation to
expand service and increase speeds between  Washington  and
Boston, where it’s doubled its share of the rail-air market in
the past decade, while its subsidies have been criticized by
some congressional Republicans.  “Only in America could we pour more taxpayer dollars into
a Soviet-style passenger rail system,” Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican who previously headed the House
transportation committee, said today in an e-mailed statement.  The railroad, created in 1971 to take over money-losing
passenger operations from freight carriers, has never made an
annual profit.  Replacing Acela  Amtrak has said it wants to expand its Acela fleet serving
the U.S. Northeast and replace the 20 existing Acelas, which
were built by  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  of Montreal and Alstom SA, based
in Levallois-Perret,  France . It also plans to upgrade its
wireless  Internet service , or Wi-Fi, to faster 4G technology on
its trains.  The railroad said in January it will work with  California ,
the only U.S. state planning to being construction on a high-
speed rail project this year, to buy Acela equipment. In
January, it began asking companies for information on building
as many as 60 trains to add units on the Northeast Corridor,
replace Acelas and buy equipment for California. It hasn’t said
from whom it will buy those trains.  After automatic budget cuts, Amtrak is getting $1.3 billion
in taxpayer money for fiscal 2013, with $905 million of that
going to  capital costs  and debt service, Kulm said. That’s less
than the $1.4 billion the railroad received the previous year.  “The highest imperative of passenger rail legislation
should be to provide dedicated, multiyear operating and capital
funding to support existing intercity passenger rail services
and assets, and the development of new ones,” Amtrak Chief
Executive Officer Joseph Boardman said in a statement.  Market Share  Amtrak says its share of the rail-air market between
Washington and  New York  has risen to 76 percent from 69 percent
in  2010  and 37 percent before the Acela began service. The
comparison doesn’t include buses, the fastest growing mode of
U.S. transportation. Ridership throughout the Amtrak system rose
3.5 percent in the year that ended Sept. 30 to a record 31.2
million passengers.  The Washington-based railroad said Jan. 10 that its cash
operating loss for the year ended Sept. 30 fell to $361 million,
the lowest since 1975, from $446 million in the previous 12
months.  The  Brookings Institution , in a  report  issued this month,
found 83 percent of passengers ride Amtrak routes of less than
400 miles. The Washington-based public policy group suggested
Amtrak share costs for money-losing long-distance routes of more
than 750 miles with states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  