-- Arizona Election Maps Said to Dilute Republican Votes
-- B y   W i l l i a m   H e r m a n n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-03-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/arizona-election-maps-said-to-dilute-republican-votes.html
A  Republican Party  consultant
testified at a trial over Arizona’s election redistricting that
the state’s redrawn maps were the result of a “deliberate
policy of underpopulating some districts” to benefit Democrats.  Republican voters, in the federal court trial in Phoenix,
accuse the state’s Independent Redistricting Commission of “a
pattern of discriminatory intent” by concentrating Republicans
in  districts  that exceed the average population while leaving
Democrats with pluralities in a disproportionately large number
of underpopulated districts.  “What you saw manifested is that all of the potential
voters in districts overpopulated have had their votes diluted
and potential voters in underpopulated districts have had their
votes enhanced,” Thomas Hofeller, testifying for opponents of
the plan, said yesterday.  Hofeller, a redistricting consultant for the  Republican
National Committee , said that the five most underpopulated
districts were what he called Hispanic districts. That would be
consistent with an attempt to under-populate Hispanic districts,
and it wouldn’t be a logical outcome if it hadn’t been a goal
to under-populate them, he said.  ‘Dark Art’  Colin F. Campbell, a lawyer representing the commission,
cross-examined Hofeller regarding a magazine article that
characterized him as “a master of the dark art of
gerrymandering for the Republican Party.”  Campbell also referred to the controversy that resulted
from Hofeller’s work in helping North Carolina Republicans
redraw that state’s districts, a controversy centering on black
districts being heavily overpopulated.  Hofeller said under cross-examination by Campbell that he
didn’t think that the only explanation why a heavily Native
American district in northern  Arizona  was underpopulated was to
aid the Democrats.  In his March 25 opening statement to the three-judge panel
that will decide the trial, Campbell said the commission “had
to protect the ability of minority populations to elect
candidates of their choice,” and acted accordingly in their
map-making.  He said the commission’s map-making sought to protect the
voting rights of “Hispanic and Native American populations”
throughout the state.  Voting Strength  Redistricting is intended to ensure members of the U.S.
House of Representatives and state legislatures represent
roughly equal size populations. Yet from the first Congress,
party leaders began exploiting the map-making exercise by
weakening the voting strength of some groups to gain partisan
advantage, a practice known as gerrymandering.  Arizona has 30 members in its Senate and 60 members in its
 House of Representatives ; each district is represented by one
senator and two house members.  Under the redistricting plan completed last year, 16 of the
17 legislative districts with a Republican plurality -- more
registered Republican voters than any voters registered with
another party -- exceed the ideal population of 213,067,
according to the plaintiffs in the case.  Only two of the districts with a Democratic plurality
exceed the ideal population, they said.  The case is Harris v. Arizona Independent Redistricting
Commission, 12-cv-00894, U.S. District Court, District of
Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Hermann in Phoenix federal court at  aphoto61@cox.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  