-- LaSalle Investment Said to Plan Sale of Japanese Warehouses
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-03-27T07:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/lasalle-investment-said-to-plan-sale-of-japanese-warehouses.html
LaSalle Investment Management , with
about $48 billion in property assets, plans to sell a portfolio
of warehouses in  Japan , according to four people familiar with
the matter.  The portfolio consists of nine storage buildings that at
least one potential bidder values at as much as 85 billion yen
($902 million), said two of the people, who asked not to be
named because the information is private. The properties are in
Tokyo and  Osaka , one of the people said.  Japan’s distribution centers are rebounding from record
high vacancies in 2009 amid increased demand for modern storage
facilities, according to broker CBRE Group Inc. Industrial
spaces returned 6 percent on average for the year ended October,
more than double that for office buildings, according to London-
based Investment Property Databank Ltd.  Nazumi Sento, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for LaSalle at Arex
Corp., a public relations company, declined to comment.  The vacancy rate in warehouses in  Tokyo  has declined to 3.7
percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 from a peak of 20 percent
in September 2009, according to CBRE. The asking rents for
logistic properties rose to 6,140 yen per tsubo in the second
half of last year, the highest since at least 2005, CBRE said.
One tsubo, a standard measure of property area in Japan, is 3.3
square meters, or 35.5 square feet.  REIT IPOs  Japan’s distribution centers are drawing investors in the
stock markets as well.  Nippon Prologis REIT Inc. (3283) , a real estate investment trust
set up by the world’s largest owner of industrial buildings,
raised 100.3 billion yen through an initial public offering. The
shares, which started to trade on Feb. 14, have risen 48 percent
since then.  The IPO followed that of competitor  Global Logistic
Properties Ltd. (GLP) , partly-owned by the  Government of Singapore 
Investment Corp., which raised about $1.3 billion in December
also through initial public offering.  GLP J-REIT (3281)  has gained 58
percent since debut.  LaSalle Investment is a wholly owned subsidiary of Chicago-
based real estate company  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , according to
the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  