-- Aston Villa’s Lambert Opposes Benteke Sale to City: Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-27T11:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/aston-villa-s-lambert-opposes-benteke-sale-to-city-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  No Sale  Aston Villa manager  Paul Lambert  has demanded that the
team’s top scorer Christian Benteke should not be sold to
 Manchester City , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Benteke, in his first season at Villa, has been the team’s
main hope of fighting relegation, scoring 13 league goals since
joining from Genk in Belgium. He’s attracted interest from
 Italy ’s Fiorentina and City, the Mirror said.  Lambert has told team officials and American owner  Randy Lerner  that Benteke must stay on as he attempts to move the team
higher up the league, the newspaper reported. Villa is currently
one place outside the relegation zone.  Aguero Return  Manchester City striker  Sergio Aguero  is close to returning
after a month out through injury, the  Daily Mail reported .  Aguero has been recuperating at home in  Argentina  after
damaging his knee in a Premier League win over Chelsea and may
return against Newcastle in three days, the Mail said.  City is 15 points behind league leader  Manchester United .  Referee Demoted  Premier League referee Mark Halsey has been demoted to
third-tier League One this week after failing to spot a “horror
tackle” in the March 17 game between Wigan and Newcastle,  the
Express  reported.  Halsey waved play on after missing a lunge by Wigan
midfielder Callum McManaman that caught Newcastle’s Massadio
Haidara above the knee and saw the defender taken off on a
stretcher.  Halsey will take charge of Coventry City’s match with
Doncaster in two days. The Football Association said its rules
prevented retrospective action to be taken against McManaman.  One More Try  Liverpool will try once more to convince Blackpool to
allow former Reds winger Thomas Ince to return to Anfield,  the
Sun  reported.  Liverpool sold Ince to Blackpool 18 months ago after the
21-year-old came through its youth academy. Ince has excelled at
second-tier Blackpool and has just been named the Football
League’s best young player.  Blackpool prevented Ince’s return to Liverpool in January
by refusing to lower its 6 million-pound ($9 million) valuation,
 the Sun said . Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  believes his
team’s 4 million-pound offer will be enough when the transfer
window reopens, the newspaper added.  Another player on Liverpool’s radar is 16-year-old
Barcelona youth team winger Sergi Canos, according to the
Mirror.  The right-sided player has yet to sign a long-term contract
with Barcelona, and Liverpool is trying to tempt him with a
bigger offer, the newspaper said  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  