-- Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Fall Versus Yen Amid Italy, Cyprus Concerns
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-03-28T05:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/aussie-kiwi-dollars-hold-losses-as-italy-cyprus-sap-risk-rally.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars fell for a second day against the yen and sovereign
bonds rose as Italy’s inability to form a government and
Cyprus’s bailout damped demand for riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie also weakened versus the dollar as
Chinese stocks slid the most in three weeks. Both South Pacific
nations count  China  as their biggest trading partner. Financial
markets in countries including the U.S., U.K. and  Australia  will
be shut tomorrow for Good Friday.  “The euro zone is like a factory of bad news and worry, so
there’s always going to be a new product to buy,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based senior foreign-exchange strategist at
Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotiabank unit. “When equity markets
soften as they did overnight, and in markets today we’ve got
China taking a hit, we’re going to see Aussie and kiwi suffer a
bit more.”  The Australian dollar dropped 0.5 percent to 98.15 yen as
of 4:41 p.m. in Sydney and fell 0.2 percent to $1.0427. New
Zealand’s currency slid 0.3 percent to 78.76 yen and was little
changed at 83.67 U.S. cents.  Australia’s 10-year bond  yield  decreased 10 basis points,
or 0.1 percentage point, to 3.42 percent. The rate on similar-
maturity securities in New Zealand fell 10 basis points to 3.49
percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks sank 2.5 percent,
the most since March 4, as the government signaled that it will
take steps this year to loosen state control over interest rates
and the  yuan . The broader MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.8
percent.  Cyprus, Italy  Investors favored the safest assets before Cyprus’s banks
open their doors to customers today for the first time in almost
two weeks, with new rules curbing access to cash. Lenders in
Cyprus have been closed since March 16, when the European Union
presented a plan to force losses on depositors in exchange for a
bailout.  The leaders of Italy’s Five Star Movement said they will
not form a coalition government with Pier Luigi Bersani, the
head of the Democratic Party. Bersani won a majority in the
lower house of  Italy ’s parliament last month. He needs
additional support in the Senate to form a viable government.  “Cyprus and Italy are still in the background, so the
topside is limited,” said Alex Sinton, director for
institutional foreign exchange in Auckland at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “Aussie is probably not going to go
through $1.0480.”  The currency will find buyers toward $1.0410 while the kiwi
will be supported near 83.30 U.S. cents, he said.  The Aussie was little changed after Australia’s statistics
bureau said private sector credit rose 0.2 percent in February
from January, compared with the median forecast of a 0.3 percent
gain in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Total lending
climbed 3.4 percent from a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  