-- Australian Households Building Mortgage ‘Buffers,’ RBA Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-27T00:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/australian-households-building-mortgage-buffers-rba-says-1-.html
Australian households are building
mortgage “buffers” to help them withstand temporary
 unemployment  or lower income, the central bank said, adding that
tensions in Cyprus highlight global vulnerabilities.  Australian home-owners have repaid ahead of time about 20
months worth of scheduled loan payments, the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  said in its semiannual  financial stability  review
released in Sydney today. “Household indebtedness and gearing
are still around historically high levels though, so from the
perspective of their financial resilience it would be preferable
if households maintained this more prudent behavior.”  Australia’s household debt-to-income ratio stands at 148
percent, compared with a record 153 percent in late 2006, RBA
data show. That’s higher than the 133 percent Americans
accumulated at the peak of the U.S. subprime mortgage boom,
according to the Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco .  The RBA said that while global financial conditions have
improved “significantly” since its last review, renewed market
tensions over the  crisis in Cyprus  highlight the political,
social and economic challenges of resolving “pervasive” fiscal
and banking problems.  “It is too early to say whether the improved  market
sentiment  over the past six months is the beginning of a
sustained recovery, or merely a temporary upswing,” the central
bank said. “Much will depend on the European authorities’
ability to implement the policy actions needed to restore
confidence.”  Cyprus on March 25 dodged a disorderly sovereign default
and unprecedented exit from the euro by bowing to demands from
creditors to shrink its banking system in exchange for 10
billion euros ($13 billion) of aid.  Rate Cuts  The RBA lowered borrowing costs by 175 basis points in the
14 months through December, matching a half-century low of 3
percent, to help offset the drag on the economy from a high
currency and to boost industries including construction as
mining investment is predicted to crest this year. It kept rates
unchanged at the first two meetings this year.  The Australian dollar was little changed at $1.0477 as of
11:38 a.m. in Sydney, from $1.0485 yesterday in  New York , when
it reached a two-month high of $1.0497.  The central bank said today that household  credit growth 
has been slower in the past five years -- at an average annual
rate of about 5 1/2 percent -- than in the 20 years prior. It
said weaker demand for loans can pressure banks to compete
harder to maintain revenue growth.  “From a risk management perspective, it is important that
banks do not respond by imprudently loosening their lending
standards,” the central bank said. “The available evidence
suggests this is not occurring at this stage.”  Four Pillars  Commonwealth Bank (CBA)  of Australia,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  -- named the so-called four pillar lenders
for a law that prevents them from buying each other -- reported
A$11 billion combined profit for their latest six-month results,
little changed from the previous half, the RBA said.  Moderate Demand  “With domestic demand for credit likely to remain moderate
in coming years, banks are increasingly pursuing other
strategies to underpin their profit growth over the medium term,
such as efficiency improvements and expansion in the Asian
region,” the RBA said.  Australians’  savings rate  held above 10 percent of
disposable income in the nine months through December, compared
with minus 0.1 percent in the first quarter of 2006.  Since the implosion of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the
Australian banking system has increased capital levels, cut its
reliance on wholesale bond markets, and made greater use of
deposits as a source of funding.  “Changes in the composition of the Australian banks’
funding over the past few years have left them in a better
position to cope with disruptions to funding markets,” the RBA
said. Lenders are also in a “good position” to meet Basel III
capital requirements that began to be introduced in Australia
this year, the RBA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  