-- Australian Homebuyer Confidence Hits Lowest Since 2008
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-03-27T01:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/australian-homebuyer-confidence-lowest-since-2008-genworth-says.html
Australian homebuyer confidence
fell to the lowest level since 2008 as concerns about  job
security  outweighed historically low  interest rates  and improved
affordability, according to  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)   The bi-annual Genworth Homebuyer Confidence Index declined
to 93.4 in March from 98.4 in September, the Richmond, Virginia-
based insurer, which provides lenders’ mortgage insurance in
 Australia , said in an e-mailed release today. The proportion of
borrowers who expect to face difficulties repaying their home
loans in the next year rose to 27 percent this month from 19
percent in September, it said.  While Australian employers added the most  jobs  in almost 13
years in February and the economy expanded 3.6 percent in 2012,
business confidence and home-loan approvals declined,
illustrating continuing concerns about the nation’s economic
outlook.  Home prices  across Australia’s eight state and
territory capitals rose 0.3 percent in February from a month
earlier, the RP Data-Rismark  home value index  showed.  “Australian consumers are viewing the housing market with
caution, due to a reduced willingness to take on debt in favor
of paying off existing debt,” Bridget Sakr, Sydney-based chief
commercial officer at Genworth, said in the release. “While
both aspiring and current homeowners are concerned about job
security, recent Australian Bureau of Statistics data shows that
forecasts of rising unemployment have failed to materialize.”  First-home buyers were the most pessimistic, with the
Genworth index falling to 85.9 in March from 98.5 in September,
and 41 percent of recent purchasers expecting difficulties
repaying their mortgages over the next year, up from 18 percent
six months ago.  New South Wales state, with the most indebted homeowners,
had the largest decrease in confidence with a 5.7 percent drop
since September, Genworth said. About 31 percent of borrowers
spend more than half their incomes servicing debt, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  