-- Australia’s Ascalon Buys Stake in Singapore Hedge Fund RV
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-03-27T09:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/australia-s-ascalon-buys-stake-in-singapore-hedge-fund-rv-1-.html
Ascalon Capital Managers Ltd., a
company owned by  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  that invests in hedge-
fund managers, bought a 30 percent stake in Singapore-based RV
Capital Management Pvt as it expands its Asian investments.  The acquisition includes an investment in RV Capital’s
flagship  Asia  Opportunity Fund, which bets on rising and falling
securities in the region’s rates, credit and foreign exchange
markets, Ascalon said in an e-mailed statement.  The latest investment was Ascalon’s third in Asia, where
the shrinkage of funds of  hedge funds  has left its predominantly
small managers starving for capital. Almost 54 percent of Asian
hedge funds oversee less than $50 million of assets, according
to Singapore-based Eurekahedge Pte, making them too small to
attract capital from international institutions which prefer
larger managers.  “RV Capital is led by experienced investors who have
operated at the highest level for many years,” Chuak Chan, Hong
Kong-based chief executive officer of Ascalon, said in the
statement. “We believe RV Capital is poised for strong future
growth.”  Asia Expansion  Ascalon opened an office in  Hong Kong  in 2011, expanding to
take advantage of the region’s economic growth. It last year
took a 30 percent equity stake in Singapore-based Canning Park
Capital, a long-short equity fund started in July 2010. That
added to a 35 percent stake in Hong Kong-based Athos Capital
Ltd., an event-driven hedge fund manager and its first
investment in the region in December 2011.  RV Capital was set up in 2011 by Ranodeb Roy and Vickram Mangalgiri, according to the statement. The Ascalon investment
took its assets to $50 million, Roy said in a telephone
interview from  Singapore , declining to give the monetary value
of the Ascalon investment.  RV Capital’s macro hedge fund  returned  21 percent last year
and 5.2 percent in the first two months this year, according to
an investor newsletter. It outperformed the Eurekahedge Asia
Macro Hedge Fund Index, which gained 4 percent last year and 2
percent in the first two months this year.  Roy was once Asia-Pacific head of fixed-income at  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  where his responsibilities also included rates, foreign
exchange, structured credit and special situations, according to
the statement. Mangalgiri worked in jobs including asset
management, trading, structuring and risk management at
organizations including Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s largest bond fund better known as PIMCO,
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  