-- Banro Declines After Increasing Share Sale Plans: Toronto Mover
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-03-27T15:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/banro-declines-after-increasing-share-sale-plans-toronto-mover.html
Banro Corp. (BAA) , a Canadian miner of
gold in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, tumbled after the
company said it plans to raise as much as $100 million by
selling shares.  Banro dropped 9 percent to C$1.80 at 10:49 a.m. in Toronto
after earlier declining 12 percent, the most intraday since
March 7. Banro has  fallen  35 percent this year and is the fifth-
worst performer in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  The Toronto-based company plans to sell $30 million of
gold-linked preferred shares to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s World Mining
Trust, Banro said in a filing yesterday. It also plans to sell
$70 million in common and preferred shares.  The proceeds will be used to develop the company’s Namoya
project and other general expenses, Banro said. The financings
replace previously announced plans to raise $40 million to $60
million by selling preferred shares to BlackRock, Banro said.  “The larger financing and dilutive common share component
raise concerns regarding cost overruns at Namoya and near-term
operational performance at Twangiza,” the company’s operating
mine, Andrew Breichmanas, a London-based analyst at BMO Capital
Markets, said in a note today.  Banro dropped 22 percent on March 7, the day after it
announced  John Clarke , a Banro director, would become interim
chief executive officer, replacing CEO Simon Village. The start
of production at Namoya has been delayed and the construction
cost overrun is estimated at 15 percent because of unseasonably
heavy rains, Banro said March 7.  Banro also today reported fourth-quarter net income of
$5.87 million, or 3 cents a share, compared with a net loss of
$2.88 million, or 2 cents, a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  