-- Barclays Offers CoCos as BOE Says Banks Lack $38 Billion Capital
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-03-27T11:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/barclays-offers-cocos-as-boe-says-banks-lack-38-billion-capital.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  is marketing a sale of
contingent convertible notes as the  Bank of England  said U.K.
lenders face a capital shortfall of at least 25 billion pounds
($38 billion).  Britain’s second-largest bank by assets is arranging
investor meetings for an issue of so-called CoCos, which convert
to equity or are written off once an issuer’s capital ratios
fall below a preset level. Barclays said yesterday it wants to
redeem as much as $1 billion of subordinated bonds that can also
count as capital.  British lenders face losses on loans that may exceed
provisions by 30 billion pounds, while future conduct costs
could be 10 billion pounds more than banks expect, the BOE said
today. An examination by the Financial Services Authority showed
lenders underestimated assets weighted for risk by 170 billion
pounds, leading to a 12 billion-pound capital shortfall.  “Barclays is reasonably well capitalized compared to its
U.K. and European competitors,” said Paul Smillie, a Singapore-
based banking analyst at Threadneedle Asset Management, which
oversees about $45 billion of fixed-income securities. “If this
issuance helps to open up a market for contingent capital
instruments from the British banks, then it will make it easier
for them to issue more in the future.”  Barclays sold $3 billion of 10-year contingent capital
notes in November. Buyers will lose all their money if the bank
incurs losses that reduce its so-called core Tier 1 equity to 7
percent or lower of risk weighted assets.  Bonds designed to absorb losses before a lender collapses
are a product of the 2008 financial-sector crisis, when debt
investors were made good while banks had to be propped up by
governments to prevent contagion to the wider economy.  Phillippa-Jane Vermoter, a Barclays spokeswoman in  London ,
declined to comment on the bond sale.  Barclays will act as global bookrunner for the deal while
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, BNP Paribas SA, Morgan Stanley
and  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  will act as joint bookrunners,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  