-- Batista’s OSX Said to Cancel Bond Sale After Market Rout
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-03-27T22:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/batista-s-osx-said-to-cancel-note-sale-after-bond-market-rout.html
OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the shipbuilder
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , shelved plans to sell
debt abroad as a rout in its stock and bonds deepens, according
to a memo from underwriters obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “Extraordinary volatility” in bonds from OSX and
Batista’s oil producer  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) 
caused the cancellation, Pareto Securities said in the message.
OSX originally planned to sell $265 million of one-year secured
notes in a transaction managed by Pareto, a person familiar with
the offering who asked not to be identified said March 15. An
official at the Rio de Janeiro-based shipbuilder declined to
comment today.  Shares and bonds issued by Batista-controlled companies
have been sinking on concern that the businesses are losing
access to financing needed to carry out investment plans. His
six publicly traded companies posted a combined net loss of 1.68
billion reais ($835 million) in the first nine months of last
year amid missed project targets and rising costs.  “Eike’s situation is getting more complicated,” Marco Aurelio de Sa, the head of fixed-income trading at  Credit
Agricole ’s Miami brokerage, said in a telephone interview. “The
market is questioning” OGX’s ability to repay debt given the
fourth-quarter results the company announced yesterday.  The producer lost 296 million reais in the fourth quarter.  Staale Hellesjo, a Pareto official based in  Rio de Janeiro ,
didn’t return calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Offshore Oil  Yields on OSX’s $500 million of 9.25 percent secured bonds
due March 2015 rose 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point,
to a record 11.11 percent today and have jumped 1.93 percentage
points in the past week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. OSX  shares  have plunged 75 percent in the past year.  Batista’s shipbuilding unit was raising money for the
construction of an offshore production and storage vessel for
OGX, his biggest holding. The oil producer’s $2.56 billion of
notes due 2018 have lost 16 percent this year.  OGX will cut volume estimates for its only producing field
after missing output targets, the company said in an earnings
report yesterday. The first two wells at the Tubarao Azul field
are producing a little less than 10,000 barrels a day. The
company originally planned to pump as much as 20,000 barrels a
day at each well.  Batista’s personal wealth has fallen almost $26 billion in
the past year as the market value of his companies sank. The
billionaire said in March 23 posts on his Twitter account that
“rumors and gossip are the tools of short sellers” who will be
“caught with their pants down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  