-- Batista’s OGX Will Cut Size of Oil Field After Missing Target
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-03-27T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/batista-s-ogx-will-cut-size-of-oil-field-after-missing-target.html
OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes
SA , the Rio de Janeiro-based oil producer controlled by
billionaire  Eike Batista , will cut the size of its only
producing oil field after missing production targets.  OGX, which has plunged 85 percent over the past year, is
“stabilizing” output at its third well at the Tubarao Azul
field in the Campos Basin after encountering more complicated
geology than it was expecting, Chief Executive Officer Luiz Carneiro said in an earnings report. The first two wells at the
field off the coast of  Brazil ’s Rio state are producing a little
less than 10,000 barrels a day, he said.  Batista’s personal wealth has fallen almost $26 billion in
the past year as the market value of OGX and his other
commodities and logistics companies sank.  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) ,
Batista’s shipbuilder that depends on OGX to rent its production
vessels, is down 74 percent in the past year.  “We continue completely concentrated on optimizing the
total recoverable volumes at the field in line with the best
industry practices, but we also recognize that the estimate of
total recoverable volumes should be reduced,” Carneiro said.  OGX estimated Tubarao Azul’s recoverable volumes at 110
million barrels in a March 11 presentation. It didn’t offer a
new estimate in the earnings report. The company originally
planned to pump as much as 20,000 barrels a day at each well at
Tubarao Azul and began scaling back estimates after production
missed targets.  OGX increased its planned 2013 investments 8.3 percent to
$1.3 billion after it bought a stake in the Atlanta and Oliva
oil fields in November. It had $1.66 billion in cash at the end
of 2012, down from $2.86 billion a year earlier, it said.  The company reported a 286 million reais ($142 million)
loss in the fourth quarter, less than the 303 million reais
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of two analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  