-- Baucus Proves Democrat Foil Bowing to Montana on Revenues
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-03-27T16:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/baucus-proves-democrat-foil-bowing-to-montana-on-revenues.html
Just one Senate Democrat opposed
the party’s majority on the estate tax, a medical-device tax, a
possible carbon tax, online sales taxes and the revenue-raising
budget plan. He’s the senator in charge of  tax policy :  Max Baucus  of  Montana .  Baucus, who is up for re-election next year in a state that
President  Barack Obama  lost by 13 percentage points in 2012, has
been confounding fellow Democrats with a willingness to
cooperate with Republicans on taxes. Baucus’s separation from
his party’s push to raise $975 billion in taxes will make it
tougher for Democrats to generate that much revenue.  The 71-year-old Baucus, who has been in the Senate for 48
percent of his life, has survived six terms by hewing to home-
state interests and taking a cautious approach to potentially
divisive social and fiscal issues. The non-binding budget votes
last week again showed Baucus as a man apart from his caucus.  “Not the first time that that has occurred,”  Jim Messina ,
who was Baucus’s chief of staff from 2005 to 2008, said
yesterday in an interview at a Bloomberg Government luncheon in
Washington. Messina is now chairman of Organizing for Action,
the non-profit group organized after Obama’s re-election
campaign to press his agenda.  Baucus has been the top Democrat on the Finance Committee
since 2001, giving him a primacy on fiscal policy that has
sometimes bothered party leaders and activists who would prefer
higher taxes and a more consistent voice representing the
majority of Democrats.  Carried Interest  He has called for rewriting the tax code without being
specific about which companies and individuals should pay more.
He has supported higher taxes on private equity managers’
carried interest and suggested changing tax rules for municipal
bonds so top earners don’t receive bigger benefits than others.  In a photo of President George W. Bush signing income tax
cuts into law in 2001, there’s Baucus, grinning over his
shoulder at a proposal most Democrats derided.  “Republicans view him as a good partner and someone they
can work with,” said  Dean Zerbe , a former Republican aide on
the Finance Committee. “It probably doesn’t help him in his own
Democratic caucus to hear that.”  Then again, when Obama signed the health-care law in 2010,
Baucus -- the bill’s author -- looked on proudly. Democrats
criticized Baucus during the bill’s consideration for spending
too long courting Republican votes. Still, he managed to
shepherd a bill into law that satisfied a long-term Democratic
goal of expanding access to  health insurance .  ‘Mixed Bag’  Baucus’s record is a “mixed bag,” including his votes to
let the Bush tax cuts expire for top earners and to repeal the
estate tax, said Steve Wamhoff, legislative director for
Citizens for Tax Justice, a Washington group that favors higher
taxes.  “He’s lagging behind the American people” and their
continued support for higher taxes even after rates rose for top
earners in January, Wamhoff said. “We need revenue right now to
pay for public investment and I think we need a chairman of the
tax-writing committee that’s caught up with that.”  Baucus has carved out a role as a centrist in a state where
Democrats can succeed with populist messages, said  David Parker ,
associate professor of political science at Montana State
University in Bozeman.  Baucus’s positions on the Senate budget plan and related
amendments demonstrate that marshaling 60 votes needed to back a
$975 billion tax increase in binding legislation will be
difficult if not impossible.  Democratic Votes  Democrats control 55 votes in the 100-member Senate. The
budget passed 50-49 March 23, with Democrats Baucus,  Mark Begich 
of Alaska,  Kay Hagan  of  North Carolina  and  Mark Pryor  of
Arkansas voting no. All are up for re-election next year.  Frank Lautenberg  of  New Jersey , who is retiring after the 2014
election, was absent.  Baucus, who has been in office longer than all except two
other senators, was disappointed at the lack of middle ground
between Republican budget alternatives and the Democratic
leadership’s plans, said Sean Neary, a spokesman for Baucus.  “Neither the House plan nor the Senate plan offered a
sensible compromise,” Neary said in an e-mail.  The senator’s votes also signal that he’ll have an eye on
his 2014 re-election campaign as he works on a rewrite of the
U.S.  tax code  and leads a committee that includes 12 other
Democrats who supported the budget plan and none who opposed it.  Bipartisan Meetings  Baucus has begun a series of closed-door bipartisan
meetings on rewriting the tax code. For now, the panel has set
aside the contentious question of whether the changes would
raise more money.  Baucus will be involved in the tax overhaul and the recent
votes won’t change that, Messina said.  Republicans recognize the difficulties Baucus has in
Montana and within his party, making him a barometer for the
ideological middle of the Senate, said Zerbe, now a national
managing director at Alliantgroup LP, a tax advisory firm.  “Republicans will view him as an honest voice of what’s
possible for the Democrats, at least part of the Democratic
caucus, to go along with,” he said.  Baucus will face Montana voters next year for the first
time since the health law was enacted. Champ Edmunds, a
Republican state representative, and Corey Stapleton, a former
Republican state senator, have said they’ll run.  Prolific Fundraiser  Baucus, a prolific fundraiser, had $3.6 million in his
campaign account as of the end of 2012, according to the most
recent data available from the  Federal Election Commission .  He has a history of winning even as his state has voted for
Republicans for president. Baucus won re-election to the Senate
in 1984, 1996 and 2008, all years in which the Democratic
presidential candidate lost in Montana. Baucus is the only
sitting U.S. senator who has won three times while his party’s
presidential nominee has lost.  Republicans will try to link Baucus to the health-care law
and the 2009 stimulus law, Parker said. They’ll have a better
argument against the Finance Committee chairman than they did
last year, when Democratic Senator Jon Tester of Montana won a
second term by fewer than 4 percentage points.  On the estate tax, an issue that’s important to the state’s
ranchers, Baucus supported an amendment calling for repeal
without replacing the lost revenue with other taxes. On that, he
was joined only by only one other Democrat, Senator  Joe Manchin 
of  West Virginia .  Montana Interests  Several of Baucus’s votes against Democratic positions were
defensive, protecting home-state interests or the health-care
overhaul he maneuvered through the Finance Committee in 2009.  On the medical-device tax, he was less business-friendly
than most Democrats, rejecting a proposal to eliminate the 2.3
percent excise tax opposed by companies such as  Zimmer Holdings
Inc. (ZMH)  and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)   The tax, expected to raise about $30 billion over the next
decade, was included in the health-care law. The amendment
supporting the tax’s repeal passed 79-20.  With online sales taxes, Baucus opposed a nonbinding
provision that would allow states to collect taxes from out-of-
state retailers. He warned of a “clear infringement on states’
rights” and a usurpation of his committee’s jurisdiction.  Sales Tax  Montana is one of five states without a  sales tax , meaning
that the law could impose a burden on Montana retailers without
providing a benefit for the state government. The amendment was
adopted 75-24, and Baucus voted no, along with five of the other
eight Democrats from states without sales taxes.  Parker said Baucus will be helped by a lack of Republican
challengers who can raise enough money to challenge him.  “Until you’ve got someone that can prove they can play,”
Parker said, “I don’t see any sense right now that he could be
defeated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  