-- Bellzone Sinks to Record-Low After Cutting Outlook: London Mover
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-03-27T11:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/bellzone-sinks-to-record-low-after-cutting-outlook-london-mover.html
Bellzone Mining Plc (BZM) , an  iron-ore 
producer in  Guinea  that sells to  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ,
slumped to a record low in London trading after trimming an
output forecast at its Forecariah mine in the African nation.  The  shares  dropped as much as 49 percent to 5.86 pence, the
lowest price since starting to trade in April 2010, and were
down 39 percent at 11:36 a.m. London time. Trading volumes were
already more than eight times the three-month daily average.  Bellzone cut its production forecast at Forecariah after
revising ore estimates earlier this year. Output will be 800,000
to 1 million metric tons in 2013, down from an earlier target of
3 million to 4 million tons, Bellzone said today in a statement.
Production next year and in 2015 will be about 1 million tons.  The revision is “balanced” and “resets the expectations
at Forecariah,” Chief Executive Officer Glenn Baldwin said by
phone from London. Bellzone shares have dropped 50 percent this
year, valuing the company at 51.9 million pounds ($78.4
million), as slowing iron-ore demand weighs on prices.  The price of iron ore delivered to  China , the biggest
buyer, has declined 14 percent in the past five weeks from its
high for the year. Bellzone shipped its first ore from
Forecariah, a 50-50 venture with China International Fund, in
December and plans a second project in Guinea that it has
previously said will cost an estimated $4.4 billion.  Little Confidence  Today’s statement “is going to give little confidence in
the prospects for the company,” said  John Meyer , an analyst at
London-based broker and adviser SP Angel Corporate Finance LLP.
The cut “would suggest that the project is marginal at this
stage til costs can come down,” while shipments may be “barely
profitable” at current prices, he said.  Bellzone attributed the lower forecast to the “limited
quantity” of estimated resources at Forecariah that can be
exported without being refined, known as direct shipping ore, or
DSO. In January the company revised the estimated DSO resource
at the mine to 3.2 million tons.  Bellzone will continue to explore for additional DSO
resources, according to Baldwin, who said existing
infrastructure can support production above 1 million tons. The
company is “realizing good prices” for its sales, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  