-- Billionaire Usmanov Weighs Television IPO After Mail.Ru, MegaFon
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-03-27T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/billionaire-usmanov-weighs-television-ipo-after-mail-ru-megafon.html
Billionaire  Alisher Usmanov  is
considering an initial public offering of his broadcaster  UTH
Russia  after recent share sales in Internet company Mail.ru
Group Ltd. and mobile-phone operator OAO Megafon.  UTH targets a valuation of as much as $1 billion as it
plans to reach operating income before depreciation and
amortization of $100 million “within several years” by
developing more efficient content and increasing audiences,
Chief Executive Officer Andrey Dimitrov said in an interview in
Moscow. It may hold an IPO in the next two years, he said.  UTH runs three television channels in  Russia , including
Disney Channel, which is 49 percent owned by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) 
UTH, co-owned by MegaFon CEO Ivan Tavrin, also operates
entertainment Channel U and music channel Muz-TV, which will get
national coverage next year.  UTH increased revenue 15 percent last year to the
equivalent of $144 million. In the next couple of years, it
plans to grow “faster than the Russian television market, which
will probably advance by about 10 percent a year,” Dimitrov
said. UTH would use the proceeds from an IPO to fund growth and
raise cash for current investor, Dimitrov said.  Disney may have paid about $300 million to acquire its UTH
stake in 2011, Kommersant  reported  at the time.  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , Russia’s only traded television operator,
has a market value of $1.85 billion, or 7.2 times its adjusted
Oibda. CTC, part-owned by Sweden’s  Modern Times Group AB (MTGB) , has
fallen about 16 percent from its 2006 IPO price of $14.  “Many television channels in Russia, especially state-run,
are spending millions of dollars to boost audience shares,
ignoring profitability,” Dimitrov said. “We are different. Our
management’s primary focus is on efficiency, we are constantly
looking for good content at lower cost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  