-- Blackstone’s Cohen Must Answer Queries in McCourt Divorce
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-27T20:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/blackstone-s-cohen-must-answer-queries-in-mccourt-divorce.html
A  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  senior
managing director was ordered to answer written questions in
litigation over a divorce settlement between former  Los Angeles 
Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  and his ex-wife Jamie McCourt.  Jamie McCourt last week filed a third petition in  New York 
State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  seeking an order requiring
Blackstone Advisory Partners LP and the executive, Peter Cohen,
to sit for depositions in the case. Justice Jeffrey K. Oing in
Manhattan today ordered Cohen to respond to no more than 25
written inquiries by March 29.  “I don’t want a fourth one coming in while I’m on
vacation,” Oing said during a hearing.  “Enough is enough and
I want to get everyone off the merry-go-round.”  Jamie McCourt in September filed a request in California
state court in Los Angeles claiming her $131 million divorce
settlement, reached about eight months earlier, was based on
fraud and should be set aside.  Jamie McCourt says her former husband claimed the value of
his assets were less than $300 million, while the $2.15 billion
sale of the Dodgers in March 2012 left him with $1.7 billion.
She wants to question Cohen and Blackstone, who advised the
Dodgers on the sale, to learn more about “the extent of
information Frank knew about the market value of the Dodger
assets and when he knew it.”  Purchase Price  Cohen told Forbes Magazine that the $2.15 billion purchase
price for the Dodgers wasn’t “more than he anticipated on day
one,” according to the petition.  “At his deposition, Frank denied that Cohen gave him
information as to the likely or possible value or price or bids
that he could expect or obtain for the Dodger assets,” Jamie
McCourt said in the petition. “Upon information and belief such
statements were not correct or accurate.  ‘‘By reason of the foregoing, the testimony of Cohen and
Blackstone are clearly pertinent and relevant in order to
determine the truthfulness of Frank’s denials and the
information that was or made available to him at the time.’’  The California court has granted permission to take the
depositions of Blackstone and Cohen, yet Cohen isn’t a resident
of the state and can’t be subpoenaed to appear at an evidentiary
hearing scheduled for April 15 to set aside the settlement,
according to the petition.  Testimony taken from Cohen in New York can be used at the
evidentiary hearing, Jamie McCourt’s lawyers said in the
petition.  Oing in January blocked subpoenas against Blackstone and
Cohen, saying they were premature.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for
Blackstone, declined to comment on today’s order in an e-mail.  The case is In the matter of the application of Jamie
McCourt, 651046/2013, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  