-- BlackRock Buying Japan Small Firms on Bigger Free-Trade Dividend
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-03-27T15:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/blackrock-buying-japan-small-firms-on-bigger-free-trade-dividend.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s No. 1
asset manager, is betting free trade will help Japan’s  smaller
companies  outperform their larger counterparts, which will see
gains taper off as the yen stabilizes.  The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average of the country’s biggest
companies will add a further 20 percent by March 31, 2014, as
Japan’s currency settles at 95-100 to the dollar, said Shinichi Kawano, Chief Investment Officer for BlackRock Japan Co. Smaller
agriculture and medical companies are also poised to benefit if
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe can push through reforms such as
signing up to the Trans-Pacific Partnership after upper house
elections in July, he said.  “I’ve been in the industry for over 20 years, and this is
the most bullish I’ve ever been,” Kawano said in a Mar. 21
interview. “The most interesting stocks are small- to mid- cap
companies as they have more room to grow. We may see the market
architecture change as smaller companies with great ideas become
leaders while unprofitable large cap stocks fade away.” The
 Jasdaq Index (JSDA)  of 912 smaller Japanese companies has surged 50
percent in  Osaka  since Nov. 14 when elections were announced
that swept ruling  Liberal Democratic Party  into power. The
gauge, which reached its highest level in five years on March
21, is outperforming the Topix Index, which tracks the nation’s
biggest 1,697 listed shares, and the Nikkei 225, which is up 44
percent in the same time.  Companies on the Jasdaq trade at  19 times  estimated
earnings, compared with 22 times for the Topix and 24 for the
Nikkei 225, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Valuations aren’t very expensive,” said Kawano. “The
market hasn’t fully taken into consideration the currency yet.”  Fund Manager  Kawano helps manage the  BlackRock Global Funds Japan Small
& Mid-Cap Opportunities Fund (BGFSMDY) , which has 18 billion yen ($191
million) in assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
fund has returned 17 percent this year, the data show. The
Jasdaq is up 41 percent.  The fund’s top holdings include Asahi Intecc Co., which
makes medical tools and has surged 103 percent since mid-
November, and  Tsukui Corp. (2398) , Japan’s No. 1 operator of nursing
homes, up 50 percent since Nov. 14 after increasing its profit
forecast by 26 percent. BlackRock had $3.79 trillion in assets
globally at the end of 2012, according to its website.  Abe announced on March 15 that Japan will join negotiations
on the U.S.-led TPP trade accord with 11 other member states.
The country has also entered free trade talks with the European
Union and  China  and  South Korea .  Vegetable Producers  While agricultural companies have resisted free-trade
negotiations, Kawano says the sector may benefit as wealthy
consumers overseas gain access to Japanese produce, prized for
high quality and safety. He declined to name any companies.  The  Topix Fishery, Agriculture & Forestry Index (TPX)  has lagged
other industries on the country’s broadest gauge, rising 28
percent since Nov. 14. That’s the fourth lowest return of the 33
groups.  Japan ’s participation the TPP would boost gross-domestic
product by 0.66 of a percentage point or 3.2 trillion yen ($34
billion) if it abolished all tariffs, according to a government
statement on March 15. Almost two-thirds of Japanese voters
support joining the trade talks, according to polls from the
Mainichi newspaper and the Yomiuri newspaper.  “There is risk; risk that Abe may fail to persuade the
people, and the agricultural society have made negative
campaigns against the TPP,” Kawano said. “But I think the
agricultural society understand that we have to do it.”  Extra Budget  Abe’s government unveiled a 10.3 trillion yen spending plan
in January while the premier convinced the  Bank of Japan  to
double its inflation target to 2 percent. Expectations that Abe
can force the BOJ to bring forward plans for unlimited asset
purchases have helped send the yen plunging 18 percent against
the dollar since November, boosting the overseas earnings
outlook for the nation’s exporters.  As part of his reform agenda, Abe has also proposed
relaxing protections for  lifetime employment , making it easier
to hire and fire people, as well as abolishing a law barring the
online sale of drugs.  “Actual growth will come from the relaxation of
regulations,” Kawano said. “There are many great smaller
companies in Japan that are like a seed under the ground, and
weird Japanese regulations are stamping on them and stopping
them from growing.”  Kawano began his career in 1990 at Dai-Ichi Securities Co.,
a Japanese brokerage that merged with Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. in 2000. He joined BlackRock in 2001,
becoming manager of Asia Pacific’s risk and quantitative
analysis before taking on his current role, according to his
biography.  “Japan doesn’t get many chances like this,” said Kawano,
who started his career in 1990 at  “If they fail to grab this
chance, then there isn’t going to be much hope left for Japan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  