-- BMW, Audi, Mercedes Bring More Diesels to U.S. Market
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-03-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/bmw-audi-bring-more-diesels-to-u-s-as-demand-rises.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand,
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, are
expanding diesel lineups in the U.S. as consumers are drawn by
the performance and as a way to counter rising gasoline prices.  BMW is introducing diesel versions of its 3 Series and 5
Series this year, Ludwig Willisch, the company’s chief executive
officer for North America, said in an interview yesterday at the
 New York auto show . BMW plans to offer diesel engines in almost
all its model lines in the next five years, he said.  Audi, which sells diesel versions of the A3 hatchback, A8
sedan and Q7 sport-utility vehicle, will introduce diesel
variants of the 2014-model A6 and A7 sedans and Q5 SUV, Scott Keogh, the automaker’s U.S. chief, said in an interview.  Makers of luxury vehicles, like other automakers, are under
U.S. regulatory pressure to double their corporate average fuel
economy, known as CAFE, to 54.5 miles (88 kilometers) per gallon
by 2025.  “As luxury and non-luxury manufacturers struggle to reach
mileage standards, diesel has emerged as one of the preferred
technologies,” Alec Gutierrez, senior analyst at Kelley Blue
Book, said in an interview. “Especially in luxury cars where
customers don’t want to sacrifice performance and hybrids
haven’t taken off.”  ‘Convincing Proposition’  BMW, based in Munich, is expanding the lineup based on
sales of the diesel version of its X5 SUV, currently the only
model for which it offers a diesel engine, Willisch said. Every
fourth X5 sold in the U.S. is a diesel, and when gasoline prices
spike, that can increase to every third, he said.  “It is a very convincing proposition and I don’t know why
it shouldn’t work in the U.S.,” Willisch said. “It’s range,
fuel economy, torque. That all is superior to a gas engine.”  About half the A3 hatchbacks  Audi (NSU)  sells in the U.S. and
about 36 percent of the Q7 are diesels while take rates for the
sedans should be closer to 15 percent, Keogh said.  “We see that as being very successful and that’s why we’re
bringing more of them,” Keogh said. Audi is based in
Ingolstadt,  Germany , while Volkswagen is based in Wolfsburg.  Mercedes offers a diesel option on its SUVs as well as the
E-Class and S-Class sedans. It’s adding a four-cylinder diesel
engine this year and plans to eventually add a diesel variant
for the C-Class, Steve Cannon, chief executive officer of
Mercedes-Benz USA, said in an interview.  “As we move to 2025, diesels help us,” he said. “We are
slowly but logically expanding our product lineup in diesels.
With this next move, we think we’re there.” Daimler is based in
Stuttgart, Germany.  Diesels permit luxury buyers to obtain 25 percent to
30 percent better fuel efficiency while maintaining power and
performance, said  Rebecca Lindland , an automotive consultant
with Rebel Three Media & Consultants in Cos Cob,  Connecticut .  “There’s only so much downsizing a luxury buyer is going
to tolerate,” Lindland said. “You want me to spend $40,000 on
a three-cylinder engine when I can spend $40,000 on a diesel?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  