-- BofA Said to Ask Mortgage-Bond Buyers to Take Debt in Packages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-27T20:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/bofa-said-to-ask-mortgage-bond-buyers-to-take-debt-in-packages.html
Investors seeking to buy higher
yielding, riskier slices of home-loan bonds sold yesterday by
 EverBank Financial Corp. (EVER)  were told they’d have a better shot if
they also purchased some of the AAA rated classes, showing
weaker demand for the top-ranked debt.  Bank of America Corp . and Barclays Plc, the underwriters of
the deal, pushed investors to purchase the debt in a package as
relative yields widen on AAA portions of securities tied to new
mortgages without government backing, according to two people
familiar with the discussions who asked not to be identified
because the negotiations were private.  Greater demand for junior-ranked debt signals some
investors are willing to take on the risk of homeowners
defaulting on larger mortgages for higher returns. At the same
time, rising spreads on the AAA debt as issuance accelerates may
hamper the pace at which the U.S. government can scale back its
role as it seeks to reduce the influence of mortgage guarantors
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  “It’s important because the bulk of a deal is the AAAs,”
 Scott Buchta , head of fixed-income strategy at New York-based
brokerage Brean Capital LLC, said today in a telephone
interview. The prices of those securities may most help
determine when it will make sense to package loans into private
securitizations as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac increase their
bond-guarantee fees, he said.  ‘Insanely Expensive’  Spreads on the top-ranked debt, which reflect risks
including the pace at which homeowners repay their mortgages,
had been narrowing through earlier this year.  Scott Simon , who
heads mortgage-bond investing at Pacific Investment Management
Co., called the securities “insanely expensive” last month.  Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, and
Brandon Ashcraft of Barclays, both in  New York , declined to
comment on the transaction, as did  Michael Cosgrove , a spokesman
for Jacksonville, Florida-based EverBank.  The EverBank transaction included $207.6 million of top-
rated, 2.5 percent securities sold at 100.6 cents on the dollar,
a person familiar with the offering said yesterday. The debt was
said to yield 1.45 percentage points more than benchmark swap
rates.  In January,  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  sold $619.2 million of
similar AAA securities with spreads said to be 0.97 percentage
point. The spreads reflect so-called pricing speeds, or the
lifetime pace of prepayments estimated by the sellers of the
bonds as homeowners refinance, move or default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  