-- Boris Berezovsky Wasn’t Larger Than Life After All
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-03-27T14:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/boris-berezovsky-wasn-t-larger-than-life-after-all.html
Boris Berezovsky  was often
portrayed as a ruthless mathematician who stayed several chess
moves ahead of his opponents. He dutifully acted the part,
 saying  famously in a 1997 interview, “I have never built an
unreliable system.”  The real Berezovsky, however, was an accomplished
communicator, actor and mythmaker rather than an evil
mastermind. Even his death is something out of a mystery novel.  Once considered a multibillionaire kingmaker who helped
Vladimir Putin rise from bureaucratic obscurity to supreme
power, Berezovsky  died  March 23 in a U.K. mansion that belonged
to his ex-wife. He was 67, broke and alone.  Police say the cause of his death is “consistent with
hanging.” The  Guardian newspaper  has reported that people close
to Berezovsky were  talking  about a scarf found next to his body,
which was on a bathroom floor. Did he die by his own hand, or
was he murdered? This Berezovsky-style intrigue will unfold in
his absence.  He was never particularly successful as a businessman. In
late 1996, at the height of his influence, the daily newspaper
Kommersant  quoted  a longtime business partner as saying, “Boris
is a zero as a manager or, God forbid, execution guy. None of
his projects has ever reached a high level.” While “the day-to-day detail disgusts him,” the partner said, “he has no equal in
one thing: ramming though his ideas.”  Failed Businesses  The list of Berezovsky’s recorded business ventures was far
from impressive. The car dealership LogoVaz, which made him a
millionaire, lost out in the fierce competition of the 1990s. He
advertised heavily for small investors in a nebulous project to
build a Russian “people’s car,” but it never got off the ground.
He invested in the TV channel ORT, yet it hardly made any money
while he was its de-facto controlling shareholder.  At the time, Berezovsky was considered a genius at
“privatizing the management” -- corrupting the managers of a
state-owned company so they would milk it for him, diverting the
 cash flow  to his businesses. Such schemes were, of course,
always unofficial, as were his alleged big investments.  It isn’t clear how much money Berezovsky ever had because
all we know about his assets is based on what Berezovsky said
himself. He repeatedly claimed, for instance, that he owned a
stake in Sibneft, an  oil company  created from state assets as a
result of his tireless lobbying efforts. Yet  Roman Abramovich ,
the owner of record, has denied since the 1990s that Berezovsky
had a stake. Similarly, Berezovsky claimed he owned part of the
aluminum giant Rusal (now  United Co. (486)  Rusal), yet this was never
recorded, either.  In 2007, Berezovsky  sued  Abramovich for $5.6 billion,
claiming Abramovich had coerced him into selling both stakes
cheaply when Berezovsky fled Russia after a falling-out with
Putin in 2000. Last year, a court in London  ruled  on the case,
issuing a scathing denunciation of Berezovsky’s claims.
Abramovich managed to prove he had never bought any stakes from
Berezovsky but instead paid him off for political protection.  So it was with Berezovsky’s political claims, too. In 1996,
he told the Financial Times that Russia was ruled by an
oligarchy of seven bankers controlling 50 percent of the gross
domestic product and that he was one of the seven. It was after
that famous interview that Russian tycoons came to be called
oligarchs.  President  Boris Yeltsin  had indeed rewarded a group of
tycoons for helping his 1996 re-election drive by letting them
buy state assets at bargain prices. Yet the claim that the
bankers ran the nation was never really corroborated. Berezovsky
told a compelling story, and everyone believed him, yet even
before Yeltsin ceded power to Putin, the first two of the seven
“oligarchs” went broke in the 1998 financial crisis. Had they
really been Russia’s rulers, this would never have been allowed.  Putin Ties  Later, Berezovsky claimed he had “invented” Putin by
advising Yeltsin on the succession and using his media firepower
to help Putin. But again, we heard that story only from
Berezovsky himself.  Even before forcing Berezovsky out of the country, Putin
never admitted he owed anything to the alleged power broker. In
“First Person,” a  book  published before his 2000 presidential
victory, Putin said he met with Berezovsky not every month, as
the latter claimed, but less frequently and that he met with
many other businessmen, too. “He has a lively mind and a lot of
suggestions,” Putin said of Berezovsky, but the suggestions
“have been unrealistic and inefficient.”  Putin later proved he had no special relationship with
Berezovsky when law-enforcement agencies went after the former
oligarch for his “management privatization” scheme at Aeroflot,
the Russian airline. Berezovsky escaped to France and eventually
to the U.K.  His publicity efforts, in the end, were more impressive
than his actual achievements. He managed to monetize his
connections, but he was easy to wipe out because of the murky
nature of his business. “The main thing that prevents us from
considering Berezovsky a successful manipulator is that he
proved rather easy to beat,”  wrote  columnist Kirill Rogov this
week on Colta.ru.  In his  London  years, Berezovsky at first made headlines by
criticizing Putin and offering to finance his overthrow. He
never lost hope that someday he would return to his old
playground, Moscow.  “I have been here for 10 years, and once every three months
I would hear from him that in three months’ time we’d be going
back to Russia,” a fellow exile and close associate, Yuli Dubov,
 told  lenta.ru. “The last time he named a date was last spring,
but I don’t remember what it was.”  Years went by, Putin was still in power, and Berezovsky was
bleeding money. He was spending heavily on a lavish lifestyle
and utopian political projects. He had to pay an enormous
divorce settlement, as well as Abramovich’s legal expenses of
$100 million after the failed lawsuit.  Emigre’s Loneliness  In his last interview, he  told  the Russian edition of
Forbes magazine, “I have underestimated the fact that  Russia  is
so dear to me that I cannot be an emigre.” He had “lost the
meaning of life,” he said. “I am 67 years old and don’t know
what to do next.”  That may have been more play-acting on his part, another
dramatic gesture. But he died two days after the interview, and
now these words are part of his legend.  Berezovsky succeeded in making himself a symbol of Russia’s
lawless, tumultuous 1990s, even though other people made more
money then and managed to hold on to it. Legends don’t
necessarily require legitimacy. Charisma is sometimes enough.
Berezovsky had enough of that to spare.  TV journalist Sergei Dorenko, who once helped Berezovsky
run a smear campaign against his rivals,  eulogized  him: “We
argued for hours. ... Now that he is dead, I don’t argue with
death, I accept things as they are, but what I really regret is
not having one last conversation with him. About Russia: We
never talked about anything else.”  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is the Moscow
and Kiev correspondent for World View. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Leonid Bershidsky at  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 