-- Santander Capital Pledge Stirs Debate as Bank Trails Peers
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-03-28T16:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/botin-s-capital-pledge-leaves-santander-trailing-european-peers.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  Chairman  Emilio Botin ’s pledge to boost capital has stirred the debate over the
financial strength of  Spain ’s largest bank instead of ending it.  Santander would have a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure
of financial strength, of 8 percent at the end of this year if
Basel III rules were fully imposed, Botin told the annual
general meeting on March 22. That’s a lower ratio than all eight
European banks, such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Santander considers
to be its peers when setting executive pay.  “Santander’s management has consistently held a more
optimistic view of their core capital than most of the market,”
said Matthew Williams, a Paris-based analyst at Carmignac
Gestion, which manages Santander bonds and stock. “Would we be
happy if they had 5 to 10 billion euros of additional capital?
Of course we would.”  The need to raise capital buffers has already forced
Santander to sacrifice future earnings by selling profitable
businesses such as a stake in a Mexican bank last year. It also
sold its Colombian bank in 2011 for more than $1 billion in a
deal that followed sales of stakes in its Brazilian bank and its
U.S. auto-loans business.  An official for Santander near  Madrid , who asked not to be
identified by name, declined to comment by telephone.  Selling Assets  Carlos Berastain, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Madrid,
wrote in a report dated March 21 the bank may have already run
out of options to bolster capital.  “They’ve said they can get to 8 percent in 2013 and in the
European context that looks quite weak,” said Benjie Creelan- Sandford, a London-based  analyst  at Macquarie Bank Ltd., with an
underperform rating. “Up to now, they’ve taken the approach of
selling off assets to raise capital and perhaps they are running
out of big ticket items that they can sell.”  Santander closed at 5.24 euros in Madrid, up 0.2 percent on
the day. The shares have dropped 14 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 55.2 billion euros.  Santander Chief Financial Officer Jose Antonio Alvarez has
signaled confidence in the capital position, saying in a
presentation to analysts last week that the bank has a
“comfortable” position under Basel III rules.  “What we’re talking about is a theoretical number if Basel
III were fully implemented,” said Carlos Joaquim Peixoto, an
analyst at  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  in Oporto,  Portugal , with a buy rating.
“I don’t tend to think it’s a major concern.”  Capital Rules  The capital rules -- scheduled to be fully implemented
globally by 2019 -- will set the minimum core capital for banks
at 4.5 percent of their assets, weighted for risk. So-called
systemically important banks must maintain capital ratios of
between 8.5 percent and 10 percent.  Santander’s estimate for a core capital ratio under Basel
III compares with more than 15 percent for  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , more
than 10 percent for HSBC and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and more than 9
percent for  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-
biggest bank, according to estimates for 2013 by Nomura Holdings
Inc.  Germany ’s Deutsche Bank is targeting a core Tier 1 ratio of
8.5 percent by the end of this month.  The banks are all part of a comparison group of eight
European financial institutions used to set pay.  Deutsche Bank  “By saying your capital ratio is 8 percent under Basel
III, you are basically putting yourself on par with Deutsche,”
said  Simon Maughan , a financial strategist at Olivetree
Securities Ltd. in  London . “In terms of comparison, maybe
that’s not really where you want to be.”  The Spanish lender is trailing European competitors in
raising capital buffers after the country’s real estate collapse
sparked an economic slump and pushed up loan losses. Santander
allocated 18.8 billion euros to cover provisions and writedowns
across its whole business in 2012.  “Basel III has wrongly shifted the priorities of banks to
the amount of capital they hold,” said Cato Stonex, a partner
at Taube Hodson Stonex Partners LLP in London, which holds
Santander shares. “It’s much more important for banks to focus
on the quality of assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  