-- Bovespa Index Advances as PDG Leads Homebuilder Higher
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-03-27T21:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/bovespa-index-advances-as-pdg-leads-homebuilder-higher.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index rose to a one-
week high as homebuilder  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes (PDGR3)  rallied amid speculation earlier losses were
excessive given a positive outlook for its business.  PDG jumped the most since January.  OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , the  oil company  controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , gained after posting a net loss in the fourth quarter
that was less than analysts had forecast. Marfrig Alimentos SA
dropped ahead of its earnings release after the market close
today.  The Bovespa climbed 0.7 percent to 56,034.29 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo. Forty stocks rose on the gauge while 28
dropped. The real gained 0.3 percent to 2.0110 per dollar after
the central bank intervened to stem declines.  “Trading near 55,000, the Bovespa is cheap,” Rodolfo Amstalden, an analyst at consulting firm Empiricus Research,
said by phone from Sao Paulo. “PDG reported awful earnings in
the fourth quarter, but investors may be buying now thinking
about the long-term perspectives for the company. Looking at the
next 18 to 24 months, the outlook for the industry as a whole,
PDG included, is positive.”  PDG Realty gained 5.4 percent to 3.13 reais. The stock
earlier tumbled as much as 4.4 percent after it reported an
unexpected net loss of 1.79 billion reais in the fourth quarter.
PDG officials informed analysts of their plans to reduce costs
during a conference call today to discuss their fourth-quarter
loss.  “We don’t want to look back to the past anymore,” Carlos
Piani, PDG’s chief executive officer, said in a phone interview
from  Sao Paulo . “Our objective is to be geographically smaller,
focusing on the areas that have the best potentials.” Piani
didn’t provide details on which expenses will be reduced.  OGX Gains  OGX, the worst-performing stock this year on the Bovespa
index, gained 3.9 percent to 2.39 reais. The company posted a
 net loss  of 264.3 million reais in the three months ending in
December, which compares with the average estimate for a loss of
302.5 million among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Marfrig slumped 2.7 percent to 8.90 reais.  Gains on the Bovespa were limited as commodity producers
Cia.  Siderurgica Nacional (CSNA3)  SA and MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA
fell. Stocks in the U.S. declined as the leader of Italy’s
 Democratic Party  ruled out the possibility of a broad coalition
government, while Cyprus’s banks planned to open for six hours
tomorrow with capital restrictions in place after shutting for
almost two weeks.  “Political problems in Italy are making global investors
more cautious,” Fernando Goes, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based
brokerage Clear Corretora, said in a telephone interview.  CSN, as Cia. Siderurgica is known, fell 1.1 percent to 9.09
reais. MMX dropped 2.5 percent to 2.32 reais.  Trading Volume  The Bovespa has retreated 11 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb  Brazil ’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia , India and China
has lost 6.4 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.4 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.8 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 5.74 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.59 billion reais this year
through March 25, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  