-- BP Ignored Halliburton Blowout Risk Warning, Witness Says
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-03-27T18:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/bp-ignored-halliburton-advice-on-well-witness-says-correct-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  was warned days before its
 Gulf of Mexico  well exploded that its decision to forgo 15
stabilizers meant the effort to seal gas leaks with cement could
result in an increased blowout risk called “channeling,” a
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  witness testified.  Nathaniel Chaisson, Halliburton’s cementing services
coordinator, testified today in New Orleans federal court as
part of a trial to determine fault for the disaster. Chaisson
said he reminded BP’s well-site leader and drilling engineer
that his company recommended 21 stabilizers to center the drill
pipe in the well.  Chaisson said BP told him on April 16, 2010, four days
before the blast, that there would only be six stabilizers, also
known as centralizers. Jesse Gagliano, a Halliburton engineer,
advised BP five days before the explosion that the well had a
“severe risk” of natural gas leaks with only six of the
devices, which could lead to an explosive blowout, according to
court filings.  “They simply informed me that that decision has been made
not to run the 15 additional centralizers,” Chaisson testified
of his conversation with BP personnel. Asked for his response,
he said, “I informed them that without the additional 15
centralizers the job would result in channeling.”  11 Killed  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig killed 11 workers and spilled more than 4 million
barrels of oil into the Gulf of  Mexico , the largest offshore  oil
spill  in U.S. history. The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP, owner of the Macondo well; Houston-
based Halliburton; and Vernier, Switzerland-based  Transocean (RIG) ,
the owner of the Deepwater Horizon.  The trial over liability for the blowout and spill began
Feb. 25. U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  will determine
responsibility for the disaster and whether one or more of the
companies acted with willful or wanton misconduct or reckless
indifference -- the legal requirement for establishing gross
negligence.  For BP, a finding of gross negligence would mean the
company might be liable to the U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion
in Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified punitive
damages to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5 billion
settlement the company reached with most private-party
plaintiffs last year.  Transocean, Halliburton  Transocean and Halliburton could be held liable for
punitive damages for all plaintiffs if the companies are found
to have handled their duties on the rig in a grossly negligent
manner.  Lawyers for U.S. and spill victims have argued BP was over
budget and behind schedule on the deep-water Macondo well off
the  Louisiana  coast, prompting the  oil company  to cut corners
and ignore safety tests showing the well was unstable.  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
that Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation and not adequately training its crew to handle
crisis situations.  Chaisson, the Halliburton witness, testified he told BP he
was concerned about the number of centralizers. He said under
cross-examination today that he didn’t consider this a safety
problem.  “No, this was not a safety issue,” he told Mike Brock, a
lawyer for BP.  Chaisson said he didn’t raise any objections to the six
centralizers beyond referring to the channeling prospect. He
also testified he didn’t recall citing the centralizer issue in
his April 21, 2010, post-cement job report.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  