-- Brazilian Real Rises as Central Bank Intervenes to Stem Declines
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-03-27T21:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/brazil-swap-rates-fall-on-rousseff-s-inflation-view-real-drops.html
Brazil ’s real rose for the first
time in seven days after the central bank announced an offering
of foreign-exchange swaps to limit the currency’s decline.  The real climbed 0.3 percent to 2.0110 per dollar, the most
in two weeks, after dropping 0.5 percent. The central bank sold
all of the 20,000 currency swap contracts it offered for $995
million in its first intervention since it auctioned reverse
currency swaps on March 11 to weaken the currency.  President Dilma Rousseff criticized policies that sacrifice
growth at a summit in Durban, South Africa, spurring speculation
policy makers will push back a projected increase in borrowing
costs. The real pared its decline in March to 1.6 percent, still
the biggest among major Latin America currencies.  “They don’t want the real to drop further due to inflation
concern,”  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin America foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia, said in a phone interview
from Toronto. “Rousseff said she does not agree with policies
that hurt growth, so her bias would probably be to use the real
to avoid rate hikes as much as possible.”  Rousseff told reporters today at a summit of the so-called
BRIC nations in Durban, South Africa, that she doesn’t agree
with anti-inflation policies that sacrifice growth.  “Killing the patient instead of curing the disease is a
bit complicated,” she said. “Am I going to put an end to
growth? That’s an outdated policy.” She later said on her blog
that inflation control is a permanent objective.  Leaders from Brazil,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and South Africa
approved at the annual summit a $100 billion fund to combat
currency crises.  Fitch View  Fitch Ratings said in a report today that a “continued and
more prolonged” slowdown in Brazil combined with an
expansionary fiscal stance may hinder government debt reduction.
The company rates Brazil at BBB, the second-lowest level of
investment grade.  The real fell yesterday for a sixth day in the longest
stretch of losses in 2013 as Deputy Finance Minister Nelson Barbosa told reporters in Brasilia that the currency’s
volatility is too low to have an impact on inflation.  The central bank has swung between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by preventing
excessive gains. The real closed at a 10-month high of 1.9442
per dollar on March 8 before the central bank intervened on
March 11 to weaken it.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said last week
that policy makers were ready to step into the foreign-exchange
market to avoid excessive volatility.  Inflation Report  Swap rates dropped today as the Getulio Vargas Foundation
reported that its IGP-M index of producer, construction and
consumer prices climbed 0.21 percent from Feb. 21 to March 20.
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
the gauge to match the prior 0.29 percent increase.  “IGP-M was lower than expected,”  Luciano Rostagno , the
chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA in Sao Paulo, said
in a telephone interview.  Swap rates on contracts due in January 2015 dropped seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 8.45 percent today.
They have risen 74 basis points in the first quarter while the
real has appreciated two percent.  Bank Minutes  Minutes of the central bank’s March 5-6 meeting indicated
that an increase in the target lending  rate  from a record low
7.25 percent wasn’t imminent as policy makers said “a cautious
management of monetary policy” was needed. The monetary policy
committee will next meet April 16-17 and May 28-29.  The central bank said in a statement today that it is
keeping the long-term reference rate, a benchmark used by the
state development bank, at a record low 5 percent until June 30.  The Treasury reported a central government primary budget
deficit of 6.4 billion reais for February. The median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a surplus of 1.7
billion reais. Tax collection was unusually low in February and
will increase as the economy strengthens, Treasury Secretary
Arno Augustin told reporters in Brasilia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  