-- BRICS Approve Currency Fund as Bank Start-Up Stalls
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d ,   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-03-27T15:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/brics-approve-currency-fund-as-bank-start-up-stalls.html
Leaders from  Brazil , Russia, India,
 China  and South Africa approved a $100 billion fund to combat
currency crises, while failing to reach agreement on financing
for a development bank.  China may provide the bulk of the funding for the foreign-
currency pool, Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said in
an interview today in Durban, South Africa. Negotiators are
considering proposals for China to contribute $41 billion,
Brazil, Russia and India to provide $18 billion each and South
Africa $5 billion, he said.  “The establishment of a self-managed contingent reserve
arrangement would have a positive precautionary effect, help
BRICS countries forestall short-term liquidity pressures,
provide mutual support and further strengthen financial
stability,” South African President Jacob Zuma said after
leaders from the five nations met in Durban.  The BRICS countries, which have 43 percent of the world’s
population and total foreign-currency reserves of $4.4 trillion,
are seeking greater financial sway to match their rising
economic power.  Emerging markets  from Brazil to  Turkey  have been hit by
currency swings as interest rates near zero in the U.S.,  Japan 
and  Europe  fueled foreign investors’ appetite for higher-
yielding assets. Brazil’s real has gained 1.9 percent against
the dollar this year, while South Africa’s rand has slumped 8.8
percent.  Asia Fund  Officials didn’t provide details today on how the currency
fund will operate. In October, Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said the pool will be modeled on the Chiang Mai
Initiative, which gives Japan, China, South Korea and 10
southeast Asian nations access to $240 billion of emergency
liquidity to shield the region from global financial shocks.  While leaders agreed that a development bank was “feasible
and viable,” they failed to provide detail on how it would be
funded. The BRICS nations have been studying the viability of
the bank for a year. In the run-up to the summit, officials from
Brazil and  Russia  indicated each country could contribute $10
billion.  “We have reached broad consensus,” said Chinese President
Xi Jinping said at the summit closing. The agreement on the
banks and currency reserve arrangement “will further unlock
potential cooperation. BRICS cooperation will help stabilize
global economic governance.”  Substitute Funds  India proposed the bank a year ago amid criticism from
developing nations that the World Bank and International
Monetary Fund aren’t doing enough to address underdevelopment
and Western nations have too much say over their management.  Any new institution is unlikely to achieve much in the near
term, said Andrew Kenningham, an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London .  “It will not be easy to reach agreement on the bank’s
capital contributions and governance structure,” he said in e-
mailed comments yesterday. “If and when it gets up and running,
it may simply duplicate or substitute for funds led by the
Chinese Development Bank.”  Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman Jim O’Neill coined
the BRIC term in 2001 to describe the four emerging powers he
estimated would equal the U.S. in joint economic output by 2020.
Brazil, Russia,  India  and China held their first summit four
years ago and invited South Africa to join their ranks in
December 2010.  Foreign Inflows  Trade within the group surged to $282 billion last year
from $27 billion in 2002 and may reach $500 billion by 2015,
according to data from Brazil’s government. Foreign direct
investment into the nations reached $263 billion last year,
accounting for 20 percent of global foreign direct investment
flows, up from 6 percent in 2000, the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development said on its website March 25.  Views differed among BRICS representatives on the total
capital for the development bank, with India favoring $50
billion, South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told
reporters in Durban. There also wasn’t agreement on voting
rights and the share structure, he said.  “A bank like this isn’t established overnight,” Gordhan
said. “The fact that in one year you can initiate an idea and
get it to a point where you’ve got five different countries
saying let’s establish it and having established its feasibility
and viability is phenomenal progress which you rarely see around
the world.”  Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov was more
circumspect about the bank, saying it will take some time before
it’s created.  “We don’t have disagreements, we have different
approaches,” he told reporters in Durban. “It is early to take
a formal decision to create the bank now. The devil is always in
the detail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  