-- BRICS Nations Make Headway in Push for More Global Clout
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d ,   M i k e   C o h e n ,   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-03-27T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/brics-nations-make-headway-in-push-for-more-global-clout.html
After five years of meetings, the
BRICS emerging-market nations made some headway in their push
for more sway in the global financial system, agreeing to set up
a $100-billion currency crisis fund and a new development bank.  The fund, approved at a summit in Durban, South Africa
yesterday, will help the BRICS nations -- Brazil,  Russia ,  India ,
China and South Africa -- ward off balance of payments or
currency crises. While leaders of the five countries agreed to
create a bank to fund infrastructure projects, they didn’t find
common ground on how to finance it.  There is “a very serious effort to really pull themselves
together despite the differences and differing interests,”
Colin Bradford, a non-resident senior fellow at Washington-based
Brookings Institution and former chief economist of the U.S.
Agency for International Development, said in phone interview
yesterday from Potomac,  Maryland . “Yes, it will be difficult to
put the bank in place. It will take a lot of time to accumulate
the capital.”  The BRICS nations accuse the World Bank and International
Monetary Fund of not doing enough to address underdevelopment,
and say Western governments exert too much control over the way
they are managed.  “Competition between a BRICS bank and the World Bank could
get interesting,” Simon Evenett, a professor of international
trade and economic development at the University of St. Gallen,
Switzerland, said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “Competition
might lead to fewer strings being attached to loans, which will
upset some Western governments.”  ‘Very Complicated’  While setting up a new lender may provide BRICS nations
with alternative funding on their own terms, Russian officials
warned that it won’t be operational for some time. The
feasibility of the bank has been under investigation for the
past year and officials from South Africa and  Brazil  had said
its creation would be a key outcome of the Durban summit.  “Issues including conditions of its activity, principles
of its work are very complicated,” Russian Deputy Foreign
Minister Sergei Ryabkov told reporters in Durban. “We don’t
have disagreements, we have different approaches. It is early to
take a formal decision to create the bank now. The devil is
always in the detail.”  Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman Jim O’Neill coined
the BRIC term in 2001 to describe the four emerging powers he
estimated would equal the U.S. in joint economic output by 2020.
Brazil, Russia, India and China held their first summit four
years ago and invited South Africa to join their ranks in
December 2010.  Currency Swaps  The five nations have 43 percent of the world’s population
and total foreign-currency reserves of $4.4 trillion. Trade
within the group surged to $282 billion last year from $27
billion in 2002 and may reach $500 billion by 2015, according to
data from Brazil’s government.  The summit also saw BRICS nations agreeing to collaborate
more closely. Brazil and  China  said on March 26 they will create
a swap line of about $30 billion in their respective currencies.
South Africa and Russia, which together hold about 80 percent of
platinum group metal reserves, plan to coordinate their actions
to influence prices in the market, mining ministers from both
countries said.  Officials didn’t provide details yesterday on how the
currency crisis fund will operate. In October, Brazilian Finance
Minister Guido Mantega said the pool will be modeled on the
Chiang Mai Initiative, which gives  Japan , China, South Korea and
10 southeast Asian nations access to $240 billion of emergency
liquidity to shield the region from global financial shocks.  BRICS nations have signalled they are prepared to work
together to wield influence, said Phil Elwood, vice president at
Washington-based Levick Strategic Communications, whose clients
include foreign governments.  “The lofty goal of being able to create a financial
institution in less than a week was a little bit over-
ambitious,” he said in a phone interview yesterday. “At this
point the specifics of the bank aren’t as important as the
message they are sending to the rest of the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  