-- BRICS Nations Need More Time for New Bank, Russia Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v ,   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-03-27T10:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/brics-nations-need-more-time-for-development-bank-russia-says.html
The five BRICS emerging-market
nations will need more time to set up a new  development bank  as
they work out details on funding and operations,  Russia ’s
finance minister said.  “An intention to create a BRICS bank will be mentioned in
the leaders’ communique,” Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said
in an interview yesterday after a meeting with his BRICS
counterparts. “As an idea it was positively discussed, but we
still need to work on the mechanism. There was a proposal to
declare capital of $50 billion but to pay $10 billion. Divided
by the five members this will be $2 billion each.”  The so-called BRICS nations --  Brazil , Russia,  India , China
and  South Africa  -- have been studying the viability of the bank
for a year, and their leaders are due to sign an accord on its
establishment at a summit today. In the run-up to the gathering
in Durban, South Africa, officials from Brazil and Russia
indicated each country could contribute $10 billion.  The five nations, which have 43 percent of the world’s
population and total foreign-currency reserves of $4.4 trillion,
are seeking greater financial sway to match their rising
economic power. India proposed the bank a year ago amid
criticism from developing nations that existing multilateral
lenders aren’t doing enough to address under-development and
Western nations have too much say over their management.  Capital Contributions  “There are lot of nuances which we will solve at the next
summit,”  Dmitry Peskov , a spokesman for Russian President
 Vladimir Putin , told reporters in Durban today. “All the talk
now is about creating the bank in general terms.”  Any new institution is unlikely to achieve much in the
near-term, according to Andrew Kenningham, an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .  “It will not be easy to reach agreement on the bank’s
capital contributions and governance structure,” he said in e-
mailed comments yesterday. “If and when it gets up and running,
it may simply duplicate or substitute for funds led by the
Chinese Development Bank.”  Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  coined
the BRIC term in 2001 to describe the four emerging powers he
estimated would equal the U.S. in joint economic output by 2020.
Brazil, Russia, India and China held their first summit four
years ago and invited South Africa to join their ranks in
December 2010.  ‘New Era’  “We are a new phenomenon in a world that urgently requires
a more equitable world order,” South African President  Jacob Zuma  said in a speech in Durban last night. “Through the BRICS
partnership, we are witnessing the dawn of a new era in the
global arena which is characterized by the rise of  emerging
markets  and developing economies.”  Trade within the group surged to $282 billion last year
from $27 billion in 2002 and may reach $500 billion by 2015,
according to data from Brazil’s government. Foreign direct
investment into the nations reached $263 billion last year,
accounting for 20 percent of global foreign direct investment
flows, up from 6 percent in 2000, the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development said on its website March 25.  BRICS finance ministers and central banks have reached
agreement on setting up a currency crisis fund of about $100
billion, Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters
yesterday. He called for the new bank to be established by 2014,
he said, without giving details of proposed funding.  The first project the new bank is likely to consider
funding is a road and rail corridor linking Durban and Tanzania,
Lionel October, the director-general of South Africa’s Trade and
Industry Department, said in an interview in Durban today. The
five nations will have equal shareholdings in the new bank and
South Africa is the only country so far that has asked to host
it, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  