-- British Airways Parent IAG Raises Bid for Spain’s Vueling
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-27T17:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/british-airways-parent-iag-raises-bid-for-spain-s-vueling.html
British Airways (IAG)  parent IAG
increased the value of its bid for Spain’s  Vueling Airlines SA (VLG) 
by 32 percent and said it will settle for majority control after
the discount carrier’s board spurned an earlier approach.  IAG lifted the offer price to 9.25 euros per share from 7
euros, the London-based company said in a statement, adding that
it’s seeking a minimum 4.16 percent more stock to gain at least
a 50.01 percent holding, down from the earlier 90 percent.  Willie Walsh , IAG’s chief executive officer, has made the
takeover of Vueling central to an overhaul plan of its Spanish
operations after the Madrid-based Iberia unit pushed the group
to a 23 million-euro ($29 million) loss last year. Vueling would
remain a standalone unit within  Europe ’s third-largest airline.  “The higher price and lower level of minimum acceptances
suggest a high likelihood of completion,” said James Hollins, an
analyst at Investec in  London  with a “buy” rating on IAG stock.
“With expected synergies driving a projected earnings
enhancement, we would take the deal positively if completed.”  Vueling shares that had been trading 20 percent above the
initial offer price before today rose a further 9 percent to
close at 9.24 euros in  Madrid . Shares of IAG, as International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA is known, fell 2.3 percent.  IAG’s proposal values the whole of Barcelona-based Vueling
at 277 million euros and came hours after the company announced
the exit of Iberia CEO Rafael Sanchez-Lozano, with immediate
effect. The executive, who has led Iberia since 2009, will be
replaced by Luis Gallego, who heads discount unit Iberia Express
and is a former Vueling chief operating officer.  IAG also offered an extended acceptance period of 48 days,
nine more than previously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  