-- Caglayan Says Crisis Is Turkey’s Chance to Close Development Gap
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2013-03-27T08:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/caglayan-says-crisis-is-turkey-s-chance-to-close-development-gap.html
The economic crisis in advanced
economies gives  Turkey  an opportunity to close the wealth gap
through courageous decisions to boost growth, Economy Minister
Zafer Caglayan said.  “Turkey needs to step on the gas and increase its growth
efforts,” the minister said in an interview in Ankara
yesterday. “All institutions need to support this effort with
more courageous decisions.”  Caglayan has been the government’s most vocal opponent of
the central bank’s policies last year, which depressed loan
growth in order to reduce the  current-account deficit . Caglayan
said that without his calls for lower rates to support growth,
Turkey’s economy may have stalled.  “When  gross domestic product  figures are announced on
April 1, we’re going to see all together how Turkey’s economy
has reached $800 billion,” he said. “If we didn’t call for
stepping on the gas in time, if instead of stepping on the gas
we’d kept pumping the brakes, we’d be talking about a Turkey
where growth had stalled and exports would have fallen to $110
billion instead of reaching $152.6 billion.”  The only way to reduce Turkey’s current-account deficit is
innovation and the production of higher value-added goods,
Caglayan said.  “Last year for every kilogram of exports, Turkey’s added
value was $1.58,” he said. “For Germany it was $4 and for
 Japan  it was $3.50. The solution is there,” he said.  Rare Opportunity  The banking and economic crisis in advanced economies
“is really opening new windows for  developing countries ,”
Caglayan said. “Turkey needs to take advantage of the rare
opportunity to close the gap.”  Turkey’s economy probably grew between 2 percent and 3
percent last year as the central bank raised rates and slowed
lending, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said this month. That
followed growth of 8.5 percent in 2011 and 9.2 percent in 2010.  The economy will probably grow by 4 percent this year,
according to the average estimate of 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  