-- California’s New Taxes Are Paying for Pensions
-- B y   D a v i d   C r a n e
-- 2013-03-27T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/california-s-new-taxes-are-paying-for-pensions.html
What if a corporation raised $500
million in a securities offering on the premise that the
proceeds would go for operating expenses, then disclosed a few
months later that $300 million of this amount would instead be
used to service a debt that wasn’t disclosed in the offering
document?  This would be false advertising, subject to sanction by the
 Securities and Exchange Commission . Unfortunately, the SEC
doesn’t have jurisdiction over state politicians engaging in the
same behavior, and, in the case of  California , involving sums
that are 100 times bigger.  Last November, California politicians persuaded voters to
support a proposed seven-year, $50 billion tax increase, largely
on the vow that the money would go to public education. The
first five words of the initiative’s title were “Temporary
Taxes to Fund Education.”  Now, just four months after the election, the state’s
Legislative Analyst’s Office has  announced  that the California
State Teachers’ Retirement System requires an extra $4.5 billion
a year for 30 years -- $135 billion -- to cover its unfunded
liability for teacher pensions and that the money will have to
come from some combination of school districts and the state. To
the extent that it comes from the school districts, $4.5 billion
a year is 167 percent of the annual amount those districts
expected from the tax increase. To the extent that it comes from
the state, $4.5 billion is more than 100 percent of the annual
amount it expected in new revenue.  Inflated Investments  Either way, more than $30 billion over the next seven years
will go to the service of a debt that wasn’t disclosed before
the voters were asked to approve the tax increase.  None of this is a surprise to longtime observers of many
teacher pension funds and of Calstrs specifically. It’s just as
I  predicted  a year ago on Bloomberg View, as the Volcker-Ravitch
 report  on California’s budget outlined last year, and as  Bill Gates  explained in a 2011 TED  talk .  It’s also no surprise to state officials. On the day the
proposed tax increase was announced in early 2012, I raised the
issue with the leaders of California’s State Assembly and State
Senate and later with Governor  Jerry Brown , and surely all were
aware of the Volcker-Ravitch report.  Worse, the $4.5 billion-a-year requirement is based on the
teachers retirement fund’s self-reported unfunded liability,
which in turn is based on Calstrs’s self-chosen and
 unrealistically  high investment-return  assumption  that
implicitly forecasts the stock market to double every 10 years.
Anything less than that and the cost to service the unfunded
liability will be higher (even that frothy assumption presumes
bond yields will rise to levels exceeding their current levels
and will do so without crushing the principal value of Calstrs’s
existing bond portfolio).  To put the far-fetched nature of this annual investment-
return assumption in perspective, it’s almost 15 percent higher
than the investment return that  Warren Buffett  assumes for his
pension funds, which not only are invested under Buffett’s
direction but also are, in size, a tiny fraction of Calstrs’s
portfolio and therefore much easier to compound at higher rates
of return.  That’s why financial economists working for the Volcker-
Ravitch report  said  last year that, under a more reasonable
earnings assumption, the cost to meet the retirement fund’s
unfunded liability is closer to $7 billion a year.  Nondisclosure of Calstrs’s liability before the tax vote
continues a pattern of deception about California’s pension
obligations.  In 1999, California legislators enacted a huge retroactive
increase in pensions without voter approval and based upon an
assertion by the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System 
that there would be no cost from the increase.  Hiding Risks  Not surprisingly, that prediction -- which implicitly
forecast the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to reach 30,000 by now
-- didn’t come true, with the result that the pension increase
has already cost the state more than $20 billion, with tens of
billions more to come. Recently, internal documents exposed that
 Calpers  knew of this risk but chose not to disclose it to the
public.  Teachers, who don’t receive outlandish wages or pensions,
didn’t cause this problem, and the good news for them is that
they will get their pensions because the state is legally
required to back up school districts if they can’t meet their
commitments.  Likewise, this problem wasn’t caused by defined-benefit
pension systems, which can work perfectly fine so long as
promises are funded properly when they are made.  But many politicians don’t want to fund pension promises
properly. Most want to keep doing the opposite so they can keep
making promises that can’t be kept, except at great expense to
innocent people down the road. (Some of these politicians voted
to remove me from the Calstrs board seven years ago after I
repeatedly  said  investment-return assumptions must be reasonable
and contributions must be raised.)  There’s no free lunch here. To the extent that school
districts pick up the cost, kids in school today will be hurt
because more dollars will go to pension costs and fewer dollars
will go to classrooms. To the extent that the state picks up the
cost, residents will receive fewer services. Either way, voters
will get little for the tax increase they approved in November.  ( David Crane , a former financial-services executive, is a
lecturer at  Stanford University  and president of Govern for
California, a nonpartisan government-reform group. He was an
economic adviser to California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger 
from 2004 to 2011. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
David Crane in  San Francisco  at  davidgcrane@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 