-- Canada Said to Consider Telecom Security Restrictions
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-03-28T02:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/canada-said-to-consider-telecom-security-restrictions.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest phone-equipment maker, may face additional restrictions
selling its products in  Canada  as the federal government
considers new regulations on foreign wireless suppliers it deems
security risks.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government is reviewing
whether it needs rules to govern the equipment used by the
country’s biggest mobile-phone operators, and has been
consulting industry officials, said a person familiar with the
matter. While the review isn’t singling out any company, Huawei,
which supplies both  Telus Corp (T)  and   BCE Inc. (BCE) , the country’s
largest telephone company, has already been barred from
providing gear for government networks, Trade Minister Ed Fast
said this month.  “It’s a manageable risk if you can implement some
verification systems and accept that suppliers like Huawei are
working to try to be as transparent as possible,” said Ray
Boisvert, former assistant director of intelligence at the
Canadian Security Intelligence Service, the country’s spy
agency.  The review comes as Western nations increasingly view
cyberattacks as a top security threat. Computer-based sabotage
moved past terrorism to take top place in the U.S. intelligence
community’s annual list of global threats, which also includes
 Iran’s nuclear program  and the Syrian government’s chemical
arsenal.  Canada could require that suppliers have their software
code verified by third parties and be subject to random audits,
Boisvert said.  ‘Pay Attention’  Canada is aware of security concerns surrounding foreign
wireless equipment providers, said Industry Minister Christian Paradis. “This is something that we clearly have to pay
attention to,” Paradis said in a March 26 interview at his
office in Ottawa. He declined to say what the government is
doing about its concerns.  A U.S. congressional committee said in October that Huawei
and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  provide opportunities for Chinese intelligence
services to tamper with telecom networks for spying. The U.S.
barred it in 2011 from participating in building a nationwide
emergency network. Still, the company supplies U.S.
telecommunications companies including  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , a
Bellevue, Washington-based wireless Internet provider.  Traffic Surge  A decision by Canada to impose tighter security measures
could drive up costs for carriers in the world’s 11th-largest
economy, which are already investing billions of dollars to
upgrade their networks to accommodate a surge in wireless data
traffic. Aside from Montreal-based BCE and Vancouver-based
Telus, Huawei customers also include Wind Mobile of Toronto,
which began operations in 2009.  Such a review could help suppliers ease concerns about
their practices, said Amit Kaminer, an analyst at The Seaboard
Group, a Toronto-based telecommunications research firm.  “I think these actions by the government are prudent,”
Kaminer said in an e-mail. The companies “should use this
review to dispel doubts and myths.”  Harper witnessed the signing of agreements between Huawei
and BCE and Telus in Beijing last year.  “Bell works with a range of international  network
equipment   suppliers , including Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco, Ericsson,
Huawei and Nokia Siemens,” said BCE spokeswoman Jacqueline
Michelis in an e-mail. “We work with these partners,
government, and the Canadian and international telecom industry
to ensure the highest levels of security for our customers.”  ‘Providing Assurances’  “We appreciate and support the reasonable and
understandable measures that have been taken collectively
between ourselves, carriers across Canada, and the federal
government, to allow Huawei to compete in Canada, while
providing assurances on matters of network security,” Huawei
spokesman Scott Bradley said in an e-mail.  “We will continue to work transparently with customers and
the federal government to address any issues necessary,”
Bradley said.  Telus spokesman Shawn Hall and Wind Mobile spokeswoman
Alexandra Maxwell declined to comment.  Huawei Canada President Sean Yang said last year the
company follows “Canadian laws and regulations. We’ve never had
an issue. And we would never do anything to jeopardize or
undermine the trust we know is critical to our long term
success.”  Overtaking Ericsson  Huawei, based in Shenzhen, China, was founded in 1987 by
Ren Zhengfei, a former technician in the  People’s Liberation
Army . Ren began reselling other companies’ gear and then began
making routers and switches, the core components of phone and
Internet networks, as the company took off. Today, the company
is poised to overtake Ericsson AB, as the world’s largest maker
of wireless network equipment.  Asked if  Sweden ’s Ericsson would trigger the same security
issues, Paradis said, “you don’t hear the same kind of concern
about the other company you just mentioned.”  Shares of Stockholm-based Ericsson  have jumped  25 percent
this year while Huawei is closely held.  Canada’s Fast said that the government has banned Huawei
from bidding on government telecommunications contracts. Still,
he said in an interview earlier this month that that doesn’t
amount to a blanket ban on Chinese investment.  “We welcome investment from the Chinese provided they play
by the rules and that they respect Canadian sovereignty, and
that they not undertake the kinds of activities that would
represent a security threat to Canadians,” Fast said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  