-- Canada January Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-03-27T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/canada-january-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s employment, earnings, and hours report for January
released by Statistics Canada.  Average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll employees were
$908 in January, up 0.1% from the previous month. On a year-
over-year basis, earnings increased 2.7%.  The 2.7% increase in earnings during the 12 months to
January reflects a number of factors, including wage growth,
changes in composition of employment by industry, occupation and
level of job experience, as well as average hours worked per
week. In January, non-farm payroll employees worked an average
of 33.0 hours per week, unchanged from the previous month but up
from 32.9 hours a year earlier.  Average weekly earnings by sector  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings outpaced
the national average in four of the largest industrial sectors,
led by construction and public administration.  Average weekly earnings in construction increased 6.1% to
$1,172 in the 12 months to January. The largest growth was in
the construction of buildings as well as heavy and civil
engineering construction.  Weekly earnings in public administration increased 5.5% to
$1,189. The most notable growth occurred in local, municipal and
regional public administration.  In health care and social assistance, weekly earnings rose
3.5% to $831, led by growth in hospitals and ambulatory health
care services.  Average weekly earnings in professional, scientific and
technical services increased 3.1% in January to $1,256, with
gains in computer systems design and related services as well as
legal services.  Among the largest industrial sectors, wholesale and retail
trade had the lowest year-over-year growth. Earnings in
wholesale trade edged up 0.3% to $1,061, while in retail trade,
they were unchanged from 12 months earlier at $524 in January.  Average weekly earnings by province  Year-over-year earnings growth of non-farm payroll
employees was above the national average in five provinces, with
the highest growth in Newfoundland and Labrador and  Quebec .  Newfoundland and Labrador had the largest year-over-year
growth in January, with average weekly earnings increasing by
4.4% to $947. The main contributors to this earnings growth were
construction and health care and social assistance.  In Quebec, average weekly earnings rose 4.3% to $835 in the
12 months to January.  Alberta continued to have the highest average weekly
earnings at $1,090, up 3.6% compared with 12 months earlier.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  Total non-farm payroll employment increased by 16,300 in
January, following a decline of 31,200 the previous month.  In January, the number of payroll employees rose most
notably in health care and social assistance; retail trade; and
construction. At the same time, there was a notable decrease in
administrative and support services.  On a year-over-year basis, payroll employment rose by
238,500 or 1.6%.  Among all sectors, mining and quarrying, and oil and gas
extraction posted the highest 12-month growth rate in payroll
employment at 7.4%, followed by construction (+6.3%) and real
estate and rental and leasing (+3.3%).  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is a
business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key objective
is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of earnings, the
number of jobs and hours worked by detailed industry at the
national, provincial and territorial level.  Estimates of average weekly earnings and hours are based on
a sample and are therefore subject to sampling variability.
Payroll employment estimates are based on a census of
administrative data and are not subject to sampling variability.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates from
its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a household
survey, the main objective of which is to divide the working-age
population into three mutually exclusive groups: the employed
(including the self-employed), unemployed and not in the labour
force. This survey is the official source for the unemployment
rate and collects data on the socio-demographic characteristics
of all those in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological differences,
estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do differ from time to
time. However, the trends in the data are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc -
cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as the “other employees” category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses that could not be
classified to a North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses that could not be classified to a NAICS code.
Earnings data are based on gross taxable payroll before source
deductions.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total
weekly earnings by the number of employees.  With each release, data for the current reference month are
subject to revision. Data have been revised for the previous
month. Users are encouraged to request and use the most up-to-
date data for each month.  Revisions  With this release, SEPH has started using the 2012 North
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) instead of NAICS
2007. Data was revised historically back to 1991. As well,
seasonally adjusted data were revised based on the latest
seasonal factors. Historical revisions were also made to a small
number of industries by province or territory. These changes
have little impact on SEPH estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  