-- CEDC Creditors Urged to Consider Fridman-Led Rival Takeover Bid
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-03-27T20:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/cedc-creditors-urged-to-consider-fridman-led-rival-takeover-bid.html
Investors should consider a rival
bid for  Central European Distribution Corp. (CEDC)  as it provides a
better chance at recovery for the Polish vodka producer than the
takeover being mooted by Russian billionaire Roustam Tariko,
according to a representative for the competing consortium.  Documents will be sent tomorrow seeking creditor support
for a competing pre-packaged bankruptcy proposal from a group
led by billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s A1, CEDC shareholder and
bondholder  Mark Kaufman , and Stolichnaya vodka seller SPI Group,
representatives said today on a conference call.  CEDC backed a restructuring plan put forward by Tariko’s
Roust Trading, which is being voted on by creditors, after the
Warsaw-based company was unable to repay $258 million of notes
due March 15. CEDC earned two-thirds of 2012  sales  in  Russia ,
where it produces Zelyonaya Marka, Parliament and Zhuravli
vodka. The counteroffer group’s lawyers and bankers held
separate calls with bondholders and media today.  The rival bid is superior because it provides more money, a
debtor-in-possession loan to get CEDC through bankruptcy, repays
only in-the-money creditors, and avoids some conflicts they
perceive with Tariko’s ownership of Russian Standard vodka, said
Giovanni Salvetti, who co-heads Rothschild Inc.’s Russia and
Ukraine team representing the rival consortium.  “It’s pretty evident to us the proposition that we put on
the table -- the latest one -- is definitely superior,
objectively superior” to Tariko’s, he said on the call.  A1’s affiliation with Russia’s OAO Alfa Bank means a
restructured CEDC will have access to ongoing financial support,
Salvetti said. Fridman and his partners in  Alfa Group  are set to
receive $14 billion from the sale of oil producer TNK-BP to OAO
Rosneft, Russia’s biggest crude company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  