-- Chicago Teachers, Students Protest Move to Close Schools
-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 2013-03-28T02:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/chicago-teachers-students-protest-move-to-close-schools.html
Several hundred  Chicago  teachers,
parents and students blocked key downtown streets to protest a
cost-cutting decision to close 54 public schools.  Organizers including the Chicago Teachers Union made good
on their pledge to put their “bodies on the line” yesterday
during a march to City Hall, where Mayor Rahm Emanuel has
proposed closing the schools to help erase a $1 billion deficit.  “It’s a death sentence for our kids to walk a mile to
school in that environment” of gangs and violence, said
Rousemary Vega, 33, at the rally. She has three children, ages
11, 6 and 4, at Lafayette Elementary School on the West Side.  Emanuel, 53, and aides say too many buildings are underused
and stretch the district’s ability to provide programs and
equipment. His proposal would shut 53 elementary schools and one
high school, fewer than half the 129 on a preliminary target
list. Union leaders and parents say the plan endangers children.  “These actions unnecessarily expose our students to  gang
violence , turf wars and peer-to-peer conflict,” Karen Lewis,
president of the  union , the largest teachers local in  Illinois ,
said in a March 21 statement. “This city cannot destroy that
many schools at one time; and we contend that no school should
be closed.”  LaSalle Street in the heart of the city’s financial
district was among the thoroughfares tied up by marchers who sat
down in the road at the height of yesterday’s evening commute to
demonstrate their opposition to the closures. Police dispersed
some who blocked traffic.  No Arrests  Adam Collins, a police spokesman, said 127 protesters who
wouldn’t get out of the street were given citations on the spot.  “There were no physical arrests,” Collins said.  Demonstrators gathered at Daley Plaza, opposite  City Hall ,
to protest the closings.  “A lot of people in the city need to be as angry as the
teachers because the actions they’re taking are putting children
at risk -- it’s criminal,” said Willie Williamson, 65, a
science teacher at the Herbert school on the West Side who said
he’ll have to reinterview for his job or leave when Herbert
merges with a neighboring school.  Emanuel, a Democrat, said in a March 22 statement that the
city delayed school closings for a decade “and it’s our
children and our city that have paid the price of inaction.”  Closings in the system, the nation’s third-largest with
403,000 students and 681 schools, would affect 10 percent of
elementary schools and about 30,000 students, according to
district statements. The move would save an estimated $990
million over 10 years, allowing the district to better equip
remaining schools with basics such as libraries and air
conditioning, according to administrators.  Other cities have made similar moves. Philadelphia
officials facing a $1.35 billion spending gap over five years
voted this month to shut 9 percent of its public schools.
 Detroit  also has closed buildings as the population declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in Chicago at 
 orenick1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 