-- China Criticism of Apple Yet to Sway Shoppers, Researcher Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-27T10:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/china-criticism-of-apple-yet-to-sway-shoppers-researcher-says.html
Attacks on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s  customer
service  by Chinese state media this month have failed to change
the perception of the country’s consumers, according to a survey
by  China  Market Research Group.  The People’s Daily newspaper, published by the the ruling
Communist Party, printed a commentary today with the headline
“Destroy Apple’s ‘Incomparable’ Arrogance.” It was the third
consecutive day that the newspaper has carried an article
criticizing the maker of iPhones and iPads. Two weeks earlier,
state broadcaster  China Central Television  aired a report on
Apple’s after-sales practices as part of its annual Consumer
Rights Day programming.  Interviews that China Market Research Group conducted with
30 people since CCTV broadcast its report found consumers still
hold favorable views of Apple,  Shaun Rein , managing director of
China Market Research Group in Shanghai, said in an interview
today. The research company hasn’t worked for Apple in the past
six years, he said.  “Apple is known as having some of the best customer
service in China and many consumers disagree” with the state
media, Rein said. “Many consumers view it as a joke and feel
the People’s Daily is reaching in its criticisms.”  Apple’s sales in the greater China region for the 12 months
to Dec. 29 rose 67 percent to $6.83 billion from $4.08 billion a
year earlier. The region, which includes  Hong Kong  and Taiwan
with the rest of China, accounted for 13 percent of total sales
compared with 8.8 percent a year earlier.  The country’s state media may be criticizing Apple to
divert attention away from pollution,  food safety  and other
domestic problems, Rein said.  Kitty Potter, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple,
declined to comment on the articles in the People’s Daily. She
referred to a Chinese-language  statement  that the company posted
to consumers on its website last weekend.  Apple policies on returns and repairs in China “fully
comply with the local laws and regulations,” according to the
statement. “We are committed to provide the best experience for
Chinese customers,” it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  