-- China Said to Let More Foreign Investors Trade Stock Futures
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-27T06:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/china-said-to-plan-letting-more-foreigners-trade-stock-futures.html
China ’s securities and foreign
exchange regulators are preparing to allow more foreign
investors to trade domestic stock index futures, said two people
with direct knowledge of the matter.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is among companies that may win
approval to trade the futures as soon as this week, said one of
the people. The individuals asked not to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the matter.  The new approvals would be the latest step China has taken
to give foreign investors greater access to its capital markets
after the ruling Communist Party pledged in November to promote
freer movement of funds in and out of the country and to make
the  exchange rate  more market-based. China in January approved
the first batch of five foreign investors to trade the index
futures, including Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley.  “If the market is too small, the value of stock index
futures as a hedging and price discovery tool can’t be fully
realized, so it’s good to bring in more participants,” Zhang Yanbing, an analyst at Zheshang Securities Co. in  Shanghai , said
by telephone today.  JPMorgan China spokeswoman Lisa Liang declined to comment.
Two phone calls to the press office of the State Administration
of Foreign Exchange went unanswered. The China Securities
Regulatory Commission didn’t immediately respond to a phone call
and a faxed request for comment.  The foreign investors approved for index futures were
already allowed to trade domestic stocks and bonds through the
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program. China more
than doubled the total amount of funds able to be invested
through QFII to $80 billion from $30 billion in April 2012.  Quota Increased  More than 200 institutions had obtained QFII status as of
February, according to the securities regulator. Participants in
the program have received approval from the foreign exchange
regulator to invest a combined $40.84 billion in China’s  capital
markets . The market value of stocks trading in China was $3.17
trillion as of yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “There had been concerns that if we let QFIIs trade stock
index futures, that this may lead to more short-selling on the
market but the size of the QFII funds allowed to trade stock
index futures is very limited, so that shouldn’t be a problem,”
said Zheshang Securities’s Zhang.  The country started stock index futures trading on the
China Financial Futures Exchange in Shanghai in 2010, enabling
investors to hedge their positions when the market declines. The
futures are based on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) , which tracks the 300
largest companies listed in Shanghai and Shenzhen. China has
 Asia ’s worst-performing major stock market over the past three
years.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Huang Zhe at 
 zhuang37@bloomberg.net  