-- China Rubber Use Seen Steady in Shift From Heavy Trucks to Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-27T02:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/china-rubber-use-seen-steady-in-shift-from-heavy-trucks-to-cars.html
Rubber demand in  China , the world’s
largest auto market, may be unchanged this year as consumption
by the heavy-truck sector slows while tire output for  passenger 
vehicles climbs, according to Hangzhou Zhongce Rubber Co.  Demand for tires for large trucks will slow this year as
the country shifts from heavy industries to a more consumption-
driven growth model, Chairman Shen Jinrong said in an interview
in Qingdao yesterday. China’s tire industry will use 3.25
million metric tons of natural rubber this year, according to
the China Rubber Industry Association.  Rubber prices have dropped 14 percent this year in Shanghai
and 6.6 percent in  Tokyo  amid turmoil in  Europe ,  stockpiles  at
the highest in three years and slower economic growth in China.
About 70 percent of China’s natural-rubber use is in tire making,
of which 70 percent is in heavy-truck tires, said Tong Jingjing,
an analyst at Sri Trang ( Shanghai ) Co., a unit of  Thailand ’s
biggest rubber exporter.  “The Chinese tire industry will endure thin profit
margins,” Shen said. “We need to further upgrade and continue
to focus on the passenger-car tire market,”  China’s tire output may rise by 4 percent this year, Deng Yali, chairman at the rubber industry association said yesterday.
The nation’s tire industry, facing rising labor costs and
overcapacity, will see its utilization rate further reduced this
year from the current average of 84 percent if output growth is
below 10 percent, Deng said.  “A 4 percent increase in tire output doesn’t translate
into a 4 percent increase in the natural rubber demand,” Shen
said. “Most of the growth is in passenger car tires, which use
less natural rubber, and tire makers are opting to use more
synthetic rubber.”  China will use more synthetic rubber because prices have
slumped, making the material more competitive, Shen said.
Synthetic demand growth will exceed that of the natural rubber
this year, he added.  China’s synthetic rubber consumption will climb 7.8 percent
this year, according to the rubber association.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  