-- China May Need Record Corn Imports to Bridge Shortage, Yigu Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-27T23:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/china-may-need-record-corn-imports-to-bridge-shortage-yigu-says.html
China, the second-biggest corn user,
may increase imports to a record in the marketing year starting
Sept. 1 as wet weather in its northeast region cut grain quality,
according to advisory service Yigu Information Consulting Ltd.  Heavy snow this winter increased moisture content and
reduced density, making the grain more susceptible to mold and
less suitable for feeding animals, said analyst  Zhang Qi . A
national shortage of good-quality grain may boost local prices
and purchases of U.S. corn to more than 7 million metric tons,
near the most allowed under government quotas, he said.  Corn in  Chicago  has dropped 14 percent after surging to a
record in August amid the worst drought since the 1930s. U.S.
corn for September delivery traded at a discount to the May
contract on expectation of a record harvest later this year.
China has ordered 900,000 tons to be delivered after Sept. 1, as
rising incomes have increased demand for meat, spurring
livestock producers to buy more feed ingredients such as corn.  “We don’t think there’ll be enough good-quality corn to
meet feed-mill demand by September,” Zhang said in an interview
by phone yesterday from Dalian in northeast  China . Surging local
prices may prompt private and state-owned traders to buy U.S.
corn in the marketing year starting Sept. 1, if the U.S. harvest
reaches a record “without natural disasters,” he said.  China  bought  a record of 5.23 million tons in the marketing
year ended Sept. 30, and shipments this year are forecast to
fall to 2.5 million tons, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  U.S. Grain  May-delivery corn, the most-active contract on the Chicago
Board of Trade, traded at $7.325 per bushel at 7:10 a.m. in
Beijing, while the September contract was at $6.015 and the
December contract was at $5.695.  U.S. corn shipped to China now  costs  2,684  yuan  a ton ($11
a bushel) after taxes, according to Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.
data. Local supply in the southern city of Shenzhen  costs  2,480
yuan, while December shipment from the U.S. costs 2,210 yuan,
according to Shanghai JC.  Corn quality in the northeast, the largest shipper to
China’s southern provinces, is “at least one grade lower” in
quality than the average in the past years, Zhang said.  In northeast Heilongjiang, China’s top producer, the water
content this year is 30 percent, compared with 25 percent in the
past years, he said.  China may use its entire low-tariff import quotas to meet
rising demand amid more expensive local prices, Feng Jilong,
general manager at Dalian Beifang International Grain Logistics
Co., said on March 21. Corn for delivery in September on the
 Dalian Commodity Exchange  closed at 2,461 yuan a ton yesterday.  As a condition of joining the  World Trade Organization ,
China committed to issuing at least 7.2 million tons of corn-
import quotas at low-tariff rates each calendar year,  according 
to the National Development and Reform Commission.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  