-- China Overnight Money Rate Jumps as Banks Brace for Quarter-End
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-03-27T02:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/china-overnight-money-rate-jumps-as-banks-brace-for-quarter-end.html
China’s overnight money-market rate
rose the most in more than a week on speculation banks are
hoarding cash to meet quarter-end capital requirements.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for 28-day
repurchase agreements planned for tomorrow, contracts that drain
funds from the financial system, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. The central bank
also asked lenders to submit orders for 14-day reverse-
repurchase contracts, said the trader who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  “We are approaching the quarter-end” and that may cause a
cash squeeze, said Chen Qi, a Shanghai-based strategist at UBS
Securities Ltd. “Liquidity is still stable or slightly loose
and a big spike in money-market rates isn’t likely.”  The overnight  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, climbed 11 basis points to 1.75 percent as
of 10:02 a.m. in Shanghai, according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. That was the
biggest increase since March 18.  China will continue to see large capital inflows over the
next few months because of high interest rates and  yuan 
appreciation, Market News International reported today, citing
an unidentified person close to the foreign-exchange regulator.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.29 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.52 percent government bonds due February
2023 added one basis point to 3.55 percent, data from the
Interbank Funding Center shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  