-- China Oil Tanker Seen at Iran Port for First Time Since EU Ban
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-03-27T15:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/china-oil-tanker-seen-at-iran-port-for-first-time-since-eu-ban.html
A Chinese supertanker able to haul
2 million barrels of crude sent a signal from Iran’s largest
export terminal in what may be the first visit of its kind since
a European ban on insuring shipments in July.  The  Yuan  Yang Hu, belonging to state-owned China Ocean
Shipping (Group) Co., the country’s biggest shipping company,
was at Kharg Island on March 21, according to vessel-tracking
data from IHS Fairplay, a Redhill, England-based research
company. The ship has since left the  Persian Gulf , according to
a signal today.  The European Union banned its member states from buying,
financing and insuring Iranian oil shipments from July 1 last
year, as the bloc joined the U.S. in pressuring the Persian Gulf
state to stop its nuclear program. The move affected 95 percent
of the world’s tanker fleet because the vessels were insured by
companies following EU law. Iran says the program is for
civilian purposes, while the west suspects a military intent.  “As far as I can see, this is the first confirmed visit to
an Iranian port by a Chinese-owned crude oil carrier since the
ban,” Richard Hurley, senior maritime data specialist at IHS
Fairplay, said by e-mail today.  China  Ocean Shipping, based in Beijing, didn’t respond to
three emails sent between March 22 and March 26. A media
official, who asked not to be identified because of company
policy, said March 22, 26 and today that he was looking into the
e-mailed questions about the ship and its insurance.  Skuld, the ship’s Oslo-based insurer, covers the tanker for
protection and indemnity risks, it said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. That insurance is automatically invalidated by
hauling Iranian oil, it said.  Opposes Sanctions  “China maintains normal and transparent energy cooperation
with Iran in accordance with its own energy requirements,”
Foreign Ministry Spokesman Hong Lei said at a press conference
in Beijing yesterday, when asked whether his government insures
tankers going to  Iran . “We obviously oppose some country
imposing sanctions against another country according to their
own domestic laws.”  There was speculation before and after the ban that the
Chinese government would directly insure the cargoes or that the
nation’s owners would seek alternative insurance.  “We insure ships on a yearly basis and do not usually know
what particular activity a ship is engaged in at any one time,”
Skuld said in its statement. “In general we only become aware
of a particular ship’s location and cargo if there is an
incident giving rise to a claim. An owner is not obliged to
inform Skuld about the trade he is conducting with the vessel.”  “Our insurance conditions contain a provision that cover
is automatically excluded if providing cover or paying a claim
may expose Skuld to the risk of sanctions,” Skuld said.  “While we cannot comment on a particular member, we are
very much aware of the EU restrictions on the provision of
insurance,” Skuld said. “Compliance is of the utmost
importance to us. We would point out that the operation of the
exclusion is automatic – the exclusion will apply without us
being required to give notice to owners.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  