-- Chrysler Risks Fury of Faithful With New Jeep Cherokee
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-03-27T15:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/chrysler-risks-fury-of-faithful-with-new-jeep-cherokee.html
Chrysler Group LLC is bringing back
the Cherokee, the model that helped usher in the age of the
sport-utility vehicle, with a design that’s testing the devotion
of the Jeep faithful.  The Cherokee, which debuts today at the  New York 
International Auto Show, is a break from the boxy Jeep Liberty
it replaces. Where Jeep touted Liberty’s “rugged off-road
capability,” it boasts Cherokee’s 41 percent mileage
improvement and non-rugged, on-road touches like parallel park
assist and adaptive cruise control that uses radar and video
sensors to keep a safe gap between cars.  The new Cherokee is aimed at a global audience and gives
Chrysler an updated product as SUVs take on a more car-like
appearance. Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne, who also
leads Chrysler’s majority owner  Fiat SpA (F) , wants to expand Jeep’s
worldwide presence by adding production in  China ,  Russia  and
 Italy . Chrysler expects to sell 800,000 Jeeps this year after
selling 701,626 in 2012.  “This is a product that, to some extent, Chrysler had to
do,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an automotive consultant with Rebel
Three Media & Consultants in Cos Cob, Connecticut. “Of course,
there are some people who are just horrified by the product. But
you have to factor in what’s happening now and in the future,”
including government mandates for fuel economy.  The Cherokee is also debuting as competitors such as  Ford
Motor Co. (F) , Honda Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. feature more
car-like crossovers where buyers rarely take their vehicles off
road.  ‘Jeep Capability’  For Fiat to reach its goals with the brand, it needs to
improve sales from what Liberty achieved, Mike Manley, president
of the Jeep brand and head of Chrysler Group’s international
operations, said in an interview today. Jeep replaced the
Cherokee with the Liberty in 2001 while keeping the Cherokee
name outside North America.  “For an SUV brand, I can honestly say it’s one of the most
important segments available to us,” he said. “As much as we
loved Liberty, it was a real niche player. When I think about
opportunities for us to continue our growth from last year, this
segment really provides that.”  Count Chris Permar among those who will miss the old
Liberty. Permar, a Wilmington, Delaware, union pipe fitter and
photographer, parks his black Liberty on the soft sand at Lewes
Beach, where he fishes for flounder and rockfish.  “I love the look of my Liberty,” Permar, 49, said in an
interview. “That beefy, tank-like look? I like that. I truly
take it up on the beach. It’s what it’s for. You know what I
mean?”  Jeep Sales  Chrysler has posted 35 consecutive monthly U.S. sales
gains, matching the company’s longest streak, which ended in
December 1994. It was the only major U.S. automaker to gain
share in its home market last year, and it needs the Cherokee
for Jeep to keep pace: It’s the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
company’s only brand that has lost sales so far this year.  Chrysler sold 474,131 Jeeps in the U.S. last year, about
80,000 below the brand’s 1999 peak. Cherokee, introduced in
1974, was a hit. After a 1984 redesign, it sold more than
100,000 models a year globally from 1986 through 2001. Liberty
was introduced in 2001 and quickly became a stalwart of the
lineup. Liberty represented 16 percent of U.S. Jeep sales in
2012, trailing only the large Grand Cherokee SUV and the rugged
Wrangler.  ‘Cute Utes’  While Liberty’s design languished in recent years, the
segment moved ahead with more aerodynamic redesigns and car-
based platforms.  Ford revamped the Escape for the 2013 model year, joining a
crowded field of “cute utes” that includes the Honda CR-V,
Toyota RAV4,  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ’s CX-5 and Hyundai Motor Co.’s
Tucson. Honda sold 281,652 CR-Vs last year, Ford, 261,008
Escapes and Toyota had 171,877 RAV4 deliveries.  Some buyers want the benefits of a larger SUV in a more
manageable package, Ralph Gilles, who oversees product design
for Chrysler Group, said in an interview.  “We wanted to have something that would compete with the
core of the market,” Gilles said. “Liberty is not as current
as it needs to be for the times. The new Cherokee is a complete
rethink of an offering in the segment.”  The 2014 Cherokee, which shares architecture with the Dodge
Dart compact car, arrives in the showrooms in the third quarter.
Mileage tops out at 31 miles (50 kilometers) per gallon,
compared with 22 for the Liberty. That’s an increasingly
important feature as the U.S. is requiring automakers to double
their corporate average fuel economy, known as CAFE, to 54.5
miles per gallon by 2025. The company has not disclosed Cherokee
pricing. The 2012 Liberty starts at $23,395.  Balancing Priorities  The Cherokee will retain a lot of the functionality of the
Liberty, Gilles said.  “That’s going to be the surprise,” he said. “Everyone
assumes to be a compact crossover, you have to give these things
up. I think they’ll see the engineers and the brand guys at Jeep
did a fantastic job balancing both.”  Early notices are positive.  “Gone is the iconic boxed cabin and in its place is a
swoopy, aerodynamic profile shared with most current midsize
crossovers,” Edmunds.com said in a  March 22 review .  Patrick Foster, who wrote the 1998 book “The Story of
Jeep,” used to sell Jeeps at a dealership in Derby,
 Connecticut , in the 1980s.  “I don’t see an awful lot of former Jeep in the Cherokee
and I think that’s good,” Foster said. “It should ride and
handle better. It feels a little more athletic. And it’s more
car-like than Liberty was. That was the failing. It felt like a
big, heavy truck.”  Good Change  Moreover, Jeep usually has succeeded when it has stepped
outside its comfort zone, Foster said. Jeep fans hold fast to
classic Jeep style touches, such as round headlights and a flat,
seven-slot grille. With the new Cherokee, the seven-slot grille
isn’t flat and follows the curved contour of the front and the
headlights aren’t round. Foster remembers the uproar from the
fan base when Jeep when the Wrangler replaced the CJ in the late
1980s.  “There was always a lot of push-back, but it brought a
whole lot of new people into showrooms,” he said. “It really
expanded the brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in New York at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  