-- Comcast Backed by High Court on Philadelphia Antitrust Suit
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-03-27T21:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/comcast-backed-by-top-u-s-court-on-philadelphia-antitrust-suit.html
Comcast (CMCSA)  Corp., the nation’s largest
cable-television company, doesn’t have to defend against an $875
million antitrust lawsuit on behalf of as many as 2 million
Philadelphia-area customers, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled.  The justices, voting 5-4 to reverse a lower court, said the
case against Comcast was too unwieldy to proceed as a single
class-action lawsuit.  The Philadelphia-based company was accused of monopolizing
its hometown market. The suing customers said Comcast swapped
territories and subscribers with competitors to ensure it could
control the market and charge higher prices. Comcast has denied
the allegations.  The high court, in an opinion by Justice  Antonin Scalia ,
said the customers didn’t meet requirements for outlining a
common method that could be used to determine monetary damages
for each of the thousands of individual parties to the lawsuit.  Proof about a common methodology for measuring damages is
needed before the case can proceed as a class-action suit
covering many individual claims, the court said. The customers
fell short when they produced a general theory about alleged
overcharges from lack of competition without more detailed
information about the impact of the specific antitrust
allegation in the lawsuit, the court ruled.  “We are pleased that the Supreme Court found that a class
should not have been certified in this case,” Jenni Moyer, a
Comcast spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Cable Competition  Comcast competes with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS,
 DirecTV (DTV) ,  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and smaller cable companies for TV
customers in the Philadelphia region. The company has about 22
million video subscribers.  Comcast today rose 28 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $41.75.  Scalia’s majority opinion was joined by Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Anthony Kennedy, Clarence Thomas and  Samuel Alito .  Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan  dissented.  The dissenters said the majority’s opinion ignored the
question the court took the case to settle -- how courtroom
rules on admissible evidence should apply when judging expert
testimony about measuring class-action damages.  Because of that, “the court’s ruling is good for this day
and case only” and shouldn’t be applied more widely in other
class-action suits, the dissent said.  The case is Comcast v. Behrend, 11-864.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  