-- Cyprus Capital Curbs Won’t Stem Need to Tap ECB More, Weber Says
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-03-27T10:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/cyprus-capital-curbs-won-t-stem-need-to-tap-ecb-more-weber-says.html
Cypriot capital controls may not
prevent the country’s lenders from becoming more reliant on
funding from the European Central Bank,  UBS AG (UBSN)  Chairman Axel Weber said.  Capital controls are “maybe a step to avoid a catastrophic
exit from the euro which would have had much larger
repercussions,” Weber said on Bloomberg Television’s “On the
Move” with Francine Lacqua today in  London . “A catastrophe has
been averted, but the impact on the Cypriot economy is going to
be huge” and “banks will become even more dependent on ECB
liquidity because deposits will be largely drained.”  Cypriot banks have been closed since European finance
ministers proposed a levy on deposits as a condition for a
European Union-led bailout on March 16. Central Bank Governor
Panicos Demetriades said yesterday it will be necessary to
impose some restrictions on the movement of capital when
financial institutions reopen tomorrow.  Without capital controls, “you’d see a clear bank run and
banks would collapse almost immediately,” said Weber, 56, who
is a former president of  Germany ’s Bundesbank. “It’s unheard of
in a monetary union” and “basically seals the country off to a
larger extent from the rest of the union. And that again is not
a nice thing to do.”  ECB Funding  The ECB said on March 25 it won’t stop the Cypriot central
bank from providing the island’s banking sector with emergency
funding. It had previously threatened to veto lending if a deal
that promised fresh capital and ensured the solvency of the
Mediterranean island’s banks wasn’t reached.  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades agreed to tax deposits
of more than 100,000 euros ($128,000) and wind down  Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , the country’s second biggest, with viable
assets being taken over by  Bank of Cyprus Plc , the largest
lender.  “Where I still see a problem is the unequal treatment of
the different banks,” Weber said. “For some banks, the two
largest banks in Cyprus, you will see a major impact on deposits
above 100,000 euros. That raises a whole lot of legal issues
because equal treatment in the European Union is one thing that
is very frequently gone to as a legal norm.”  Axel Weber left the Bundesbank in April 2011 after
resigning on concern about the ECB’s decision to buy bonds of
 Europe ’s most indebted countries. He became UBS chairman one
year later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  