-- Daimler Books $3.44 Billion Gain From Last EADS Holdings
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 2013-03-27T15:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/daimler-books-3-44-billion-gain-from-last-eads-holdings.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , which helped form
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  more than a decade ago,
will book a 2.7 billion-euro ($3.44 billion) gain from the
reevaluation of its remaining holdings in the airplane maker.  The operating-profit increase, which has no  cash-flow 
effect, will be booked in the second quarter, the Stuttgart,
 Germany  based automaker said in a statement today. The move will
also add 1.25 euros in earnings per share in 2013.  The gain is the result of a change in how Daimler will
account for its current 7.5 percent EADS stake, and a holding by
a group linked to the automaker, following a vote today by EADS
owners to dissolve the shareholder pact tying the luxury-car
manufacturer to the parent of Airbus SAS.  “We want to focus on our core business,” Daimler Chief
Financial Officer Bodo Uebber said in the statement. “We intend
to sell our remaining shares in EADS as we have previously
announced.”  Daimler, the owner of the  Mercedes-Benz car brand , already
sold a 7.5 percent stake in EADS for 1.66 billion euros in
December to concentrate on cars and trucks. Daimler’s exit is
part of a broader overhaul of EADS’s shareholder structure.  EADS investors  today approved the purchase of 15 percent of
the Toulouse, France-based aerospace company’s stock at a
maximum 50 euros a share to bolster its value after the disposal
of block holdings. French publisher  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  is also
selling its stake in the ownership overhaul.  The book gain for Daimler is the result of the price
increase in EADS shares, which have  jumped  60 percent in the
last six months. The estimate assumes a price of 38 euros a
share, and the final gain may be different, Daimler said today.
EADS was trading at 39.78 euros at 4:53 p.m. in Paris. Daimler
stock was down 1.2 percent at 43.58 euros.  The eventual sale of Daimler’s remaining 7.5 percent stake
in EADS will have a positive impact on cash flow, as the sale of
the first 7.5 percent holding did, the carmaker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chad Thomas  in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Lavell at 
 tlavell@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  