-- David Miliband Quits U.K. Politics, Ends Leader Chatter
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-27T13:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/david-miliband-quits-u-k-politics-ends-leader-chatter.html
Former U.K. Foreign Secretary David Miliband, the elder brother of opposition  Labour Party  leader Ed Miliband, quit British politics, ending speculation about his
leadership ambitions in the run-up to the 2015 general election.  He will become president of a New York-based humanitarian-
aid organization, the  International Rescue Committee , ending a
12-year career as a lawmaker. In a letter to his constituents on
his website today, Miliband said the move, while tinged with
“sadness,” was a result of his having to “make a choice about
how to give full vent to my ideas and ideals.”  Ed Miliband beat his brother to the Labour leadership in
2010, prompting a rift between the siblings, according to
British media reports. Ed twice offered his brother senior roles
in his opposition team, both rejected. David’s decision today
ends any chance of him challenging his brother as head of the
party.  “The legitimate fascination in the story of two brothers
who ran a leadership election against each other but don’t fight
each other, I felt, obscured the real choice for the country,
which is what a Labour government would do versus what the
Tories are doing,” David Miliband told Sky News television
today. “Inevitability is a big word to use, a loaded word to
use, but I think it’s the right decision for the party as well
as for me.”  The two brothers represent different wings of the Labour
Party. David, a close ally of former Prime Minister  Tony Blair ,
favored a centrist modernizing agenda. Ed, by contrast, has
closer ties to the party’s traditional labor-union supporters,
whose backing ensured his election as leader.  ‘Final Exhaustion’  “It means the end of a very painful chapter in Labour
politics; it appears they never really got over the trauma of
2010,” Mark Wickham-Jones, professor of politics at Bristol
University, said in an interview. “David leaving parliament is
an indication of the final exhaustion of Blairite politics.”  Following the 2010 leadership election, “I felt I could be
most helpful to the party on the front line,” serving voters in
his district in South Shields, northeast  England , rather than on
his brother’s parliamentary team,  David Miliband  wrote on his
website.  “I felt this gave Ed the space and at the same time the
support he needed to lead the party without distraction,” he
said. “He has done so with real success, leading a united team
that has taken the fight to the Tories. I am very pleased and
proud that our shared goal of making this a one-term government
is achievable.”  With just over two years to go until the next general
election, Labour has a consistent 10 percentage-point lead over
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservatives in national opinion
polls.  ‘Miss Him’  “We went through a difficult leadership contest but time
has helped to heal that,”  Ed Miliband  said in an e-mailed
statement today. “I will miss him. But although he is moving to
America, I know he will always be there to offer support and
advice when I need it.”  He said he hoped that “at some point in the future he can
once again make a contribution to British public life.”  David Miliband “remains one of the most capable
progressive thinkers and leaders globally,” Blair said in a
statement on his  website . “I hope and believe this is time out,
not time over.”  Another Blair ally,  Peter Mandelson , who serves as a
lawmaker in the upper House of Lords, said he would not rule out
a comeback to British politics by David Miliband. Mandelson
resigned from the Cabinet twice before returning as a minister.  ‘He Can’  “I don’t think this is the end,” Mandelson told the  BBC ’s
“World Tonight” program late yesterday. “I think if I can
come back, he can.”  Former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  said in a statement on
the International Rescue Committee’s  website  that he has “known
David almost 20 years. He is one of the ablest, most creative
public servants of our time.”  While Miliband’s departure will prompt a special election
in his South Shields district, Labour had a lead of more than
11,000 voters over the Conservatives on a turnout of 36,000 in
2010, making a loss of the seat unlikely.  Alistair Campbell , Blair’s former press secretary,
nicknamed David Miliband “Brains” after the puppet in the
1960s cult television series “Thunderbirds” because of his
intellect and physical resemblance to the character.  “Here’s to International Rescue -- Thunderbirds are go!”
Labour lawmaker  Caroline Flint  said in a Twitter posting today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  