-- Denver Water Imposes Mandatory Restrictions Over Drought
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-03-27T19:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/denver-water-imposes-mandatory-restrictions-over-drought.html
Denver Water,  Colorado ’s largest
municipal water supplier, imposed mandatory usage restrictions
including designated watering days due to a lack of snow in the
mountains and “serious” Stage 2 drought conditions.  Customers will be assigned two watering days a week
beginning April 1, according to a  statement  today on the
utility’s website. The U.S. Drought Monitor shows all of
Colorado experiencing some level of drought with reservoir
levels low and the statewide snowpack below average.  The last time a Stage 2 drought was declared and water days
were assigned in Colorado was in 2002. “We are facing a more
serious drought now,” Greg Austin, president of the Denver
Board of Water Commissioners, said in the statement.  “March snows have not done enough to improve the current
drought conditions,” the board statement said. “Most of
Colorado is in the second year of a severe drought and above-
average temperatures, which has led to low snowpack and low
reservoir levels across the state.”  Because of the dry conditions, reservoirs “haven’t been
full since July 2011,” said Jim Lochhead, chief executive
officer of Denver Water. “We would need about 7 feet of
additional snow in the mountains by late April to get us close
to where we should be.”  Water Bills  The board also adopted a higher price  structure  “to
encourage customers to use less water,” with an average summer
bill for a single-family residential customer who doesn’t use
less water increasing about $6 a month until restrictions end.
Snowpack in the South Platte and Colorado River basins, which
feed the city’s water supply, are at 59 percent and 73 percent
of average levels, respectively, according to the statement.  Single-family residential properties with addresses ending
in even numbers will be able to water on Sundays and Thursdays,
and Saturdays and Wednesdays for single-family properties with
addresses ending in odd numbers. All other properties including
multifamily, commercial, industrial and governments can water on
Tuesdays and Fridays, according to the utility.  The Denver water restrictions are taking place after the
worst drought in the U.S. last year since the 1930s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  