-- Detroit Emergency Manager Says He’ll Haggle With Bondholders
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-03-27T21:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/detroit-emergency-manager-says-he-ll-haggle-with-bondholders.html
Kevyn Orr,  Detroit ’s emergency
manager, said he’ll try to persuade the city’s bondholders to
reduce a debt of about $8.6 billion.  “Everybody knows we’ve got to address those obligations
through negotiations,” he said in a telephone interview today.
“And while they are significant, there are ways to do that.”  Orr, a 54-year-old lawyer who specializes in restructuring,
was appointed last week to help repair a city in a downward
spiral of shrinking population and revenue, and whose municipal
government opposed the takeover. Detroit’s deficit hit almost
$327 million last year.  The city’s credit outlook was raised to stable from
negative by  Standard & Poor’s  after Republican Governor  Rick
Snyder  named Orr to run it. Its B rating on general-obligation
bonds, five steps below investment grade, reflects the financial
imbalance, revenue shortfalls and long-term obligations
including potential swap-termination payments and unfunded
retirement costs, the company said.  Detroit has about $8.6 billion of long-term bond debt,
including $6.1 billion of non-general obligation debt, $963.4
million of general-obligation bonds and $1.5 billion of
borrowings to fund pension liabilities, according to a report
from a financial team that reviewed the city’s finances. When
other pension and retiree health-care obligations are included,
the city burden totals almost $15 billion.  Swap Standstill  One of the top methods the city has used to reduce its
annual operating deficits since 2005 has been to borrow more
money, according to financial team report. The city borrowed
some $600 million between 2005 and 2011. The city borrowed
another $129.5 million last year through the Michigan Finance
Authority to tide it over during its  financial crisis.  On top of that, the city owes some $350 million to
counterparties on  interest-rate swaps , failed bets on the
direction of  interest rates  designed to cut borrowing costs.  Orr, who left a job with Jones Day law firm in  Washington ,
D.C. to take the Detroit position, said the swap situation is
“at a standstill,” as counterparties have agreed so far not to
demand payment.  Orr said any agreement on debt reduction may involve “a
mix” of the city’s bonds.  “I can’t really go in depth on that now because we haven’t
entered negotiations with those parties yet,” he said. “We’re
going to look at what some of the bondholders and their insurers
might want. We are hoping we can get unanimous approval.”  Orr’s appointment had another rating company warning its
clients.  “We would generally consider this development to be
positive news for bondholders,” wrote Amy Laskey, managing
director of U.S. public finance for Fitch, in a March 15 report.
“However, Orr has been reported in the press to have made
statements indicating he will be looking for savings from
current and retired employees as well as bondholders.”  Rick Frimmer, a bankruptcy lawyer with Schiff Hardin LLP in
 Chicago , who said he represents some Detroit bondholders, said,
“It’s early in his tenure. Everyone is waiting to see what this
plan will be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  