-- Deutsche Bank Slides as S&P Considers Rating Cut
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-03-27T12:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/deutsche-bank-declines-after-s-p-says-debt-rating-may-be-cut.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental
 Europe ’s biggest bank, slid in Frankfurt trading after  Standard
& Poor’s  said it may cut the lender’s credit rating due to
concern about capital levels.  The company dropped 4 percent to 30.05 euros at 12:40 p.m.,
falling to the lowest level since September and almost doubling
losses this year to 8.9 percent. That compares with today’s 2.6
percent drop for the main  Euro Stoxx Banks Index. (SX7E)   Deutsche Bank, the least capitalized of Europe’s biggest
investment banks, faces “substantial risks” to its capital due
to the debt crisis, litigation and stricter regulation, S&P
said. That has stoked concern among some investors that the firm
will have to sell shares to boost its reserves, said Ingo Frommen, an analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
Stuttgart,  Germany .  “There’s continued worry about the state of the finance
industry and the  European debt crisis ,” Frommen, who  recommends 
investors buy Deutsche Bank’s stock, said by telephone.
“Deutsche Bank may see its rating cut if the environment
worsens. With its lower capitalization, that has people
concerned about a share sale.”  ‘Substantial Risks’  S&P placed the bank’s A+ long-term  rating  on CreditWatch
negative, it said in a statement late yesterday.  “We still see substantial risks to Deutsche Bank’s
internal capital generation from unresolved economic and
financial problems in the  euro zone ,” S&P said. It cited
“tensions” regarding the rescue of Cyprus this month.  Christian Streckert, a Frankfurt-based spokesman for
Deutsche Bank, declined to comment on the S&P report.  The  Federal Reserve ’s plan to order non-U.S. banks to
supply capital for their U.S. units may also “significantly
increase” the cost of doing business in that country for
Deutsche Bank and other foreign lenders, S&P said.  Deutsche Bank co -Chief Executive Officers Anshu Jain and
Juergen Fitschen have sought to boost  capital ratios  by reducing
risk, selling assets and re-calculating the value of assets
since taking over in June last year.  The lender’s core Tier 1 capital ratio rose to 7.8 percent
at the end of 2012 from less than 6 percent a year earlier,
company filings show. That’s still lower than the measure of
financial strength at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Credit Suisse Group AG and
UBS AG, data compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  Raising Capital  Jain told reporters in January that while he’ll “take
pain” to raise capital without diluting investors in a share
sale, he can’t rule out asking shareholders for cash should
regulation tighten.  Deutsche Bank probably won’t have to sell shares and the
stock may gain after the company reports first-quarter earnings
next month, said Frommen.  S&P said it will probably resolve the CreditWatch status in
the “coming weeks” either by affirming the ratings or lowering
them by one notch.  Deutsche Bank said last week that costs linked to U.S.
mortgage lawsuits and other regulatory probes meant it had
revised down 2012 profit by about 400 million euros ($514
million) to 291 million euros.  The lender has set aside 500 million euros for possible
fines related to alleged rate-rigging and 300 million euros
related to U.S. sanctions on  Iran , Der Spiegel newspaper
reported March 24 without citing anyone.  Litigation Wave  The world’s biggest banks are facing investigation and
lawsuits linked to the manipulation of benchmark  interest rates 
as well as the improper sale of products such as interest-rate
derivatives. Deutsche Bank is also a defendant in “numerous”
civil suits as an issuer or underwriter in residential mortgage-
backed securities, it said in October.  “The wave of litigation has to end at some point, this
year and next will probably be the high point for Deutsche
Bank,” Michael Seufert, an analyst with Norddeutsche Landesbank
in Hanover who recommends investors buy the stock, said by
telephone. “The issue is prescient for investors right now
because it is having an effect on profit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  