-- Deutsche Bank Proprietary Traders Said to Find Jobs at Funds
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-03-27T16:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/deutsche-bank-traders-said-to-join-hedge-funds-as-prop-unit-shut.html
At least two  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  debt
traders left for hedge funds after the bank closed a
proprietary-trading group last month to cut costs and prepare
for post-crisis regulations.  John Roach, a mortgage-debt trader, will join BlueCrest
Capital Management LLP, while Michael Boyle, who traded
commercial mortgage securities, started at Tilden Park Capital
Management LP this month, said two people familiar with the
moves. The lender closed the proprietary unit, which took market
positions with the bank’s money, as it faces rules curbing risk-
taking, said three people familiar with the matter. The people
asked not to be identified because the moves aren’t public.  More than four years after the depths of the credit crisis,
an exodus of veteran debt traders from the biggest banks is
accelerating. Deutsche Bank has lost at least five credit
traders and salesmen this year to money managers as it overhauls
compensation, cuts almost 2,000 jobs and boosts capital
reserves. That follows the departures of at least 10 from its
 New York  credit group since the start of 2011.  “At every single bank in the world, if you’re a trader and
you get a decent bid from the buy-side, you take it,” said
Michael Maloney, president of New York-based recruitment firm
Maloney Inc. “Traders that are making markets to customers
might lose that also because of Dodd-Frank, the government and
new rules and regulations.”  Limiting Risk  Banks are also curtailing the amount of money they use to
facilitate bond trades. In 2010, the 27-country  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  raised minimum  capital requirements  and
 U.S. Congress  passed the Dodd-Frank Act, which seeks to limit
the risks banks can take with their own money.  While the corporate-bond market has grown by 57 percent
since October 2007, to $8.8 trillion, the 21 primary dealers
that do business with the  Federal Reserve  reduced their  holdings 
of the debt by 77 percent during the period, to $55.1 billion,
according to Bloomberg and Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  Matt Siravo, a distressed-debt analyst who was previously a
loans trader, left Deutsche Bank earlier this month for
BlueCrest, the $35 billion hedge fund manager run by  Michael Platt , according to the people familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the moves aren’t public.
Siravo and Roach will join Deutsche Bank alumni Stefano Galiani,
a credit trader who started at the hedge fund last year, and
John Silvetz, who came on in 2011.  Okoshi, Talbot  Other Deutsche Bank defections this year include Masaya Okoshi, former head of investment-grade debt trading for the
Americas, who went to Wellington Management Co., and Casey Talbot, who was co-head of the firm’s credit sales for the
Americas and left for UBS AG’s hedge-fund division.  Deutsche Bank was ranked as having the biggest share of the
U.S. fixed-income market last year, according to consulting firm
Greenwich Associates.  The Frankfurt-based lender’s revenue from fixed-income,
currency and commodities trading has dropped 14 percent since
2009 to $11.8 billion in 2012, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  BlueCrest, which has increased its assets by $6.4 billion
since the start of 2012, was founded in 2000 by former JPMorgan
Chase & Co. proprietary traders Platt and William Reeves,
according to the firm’s  website .  Tilden Park , the fixed income-focused asset manager in New
York that oversees $1.5 billion, is led by Josh Birnbaum, former
co-manager of trading in Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s structured
products group, according to the firm’s website.  Ed Orlebar, a spokesman for BlueCrest, declined to comment
on the hires, as did Catherine Jones, a spokeswoman for Tilden
Park.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 