-- Deutsche Bank Unit Sued Over Mortgage-Backed Securities
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/deutsche-bank-unit-sued-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
DB Structured Products Inc., a unit
of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , was accused in a lawsuit of selling a a
“massive number” of defective loans to a securitization trust.  HSBC Bank USA NA, acting as trustee, asked in a federal
lawsuit filed yesterday in New York that DB Structured Products
be ordered to pay unspecified money damages or to buy back the
suspect loans, which were collateral for certificates issued by
the trust.  At least 1,302 of more than 4,000 loans securitized and
sold to the trust breached the bank unit’s warranties about
their origination, the trustee said in the complaint. DB
Structured Products also allegedly broke a promise to repurchase
bad loans.  “DBSP’s breaches go to the very heart of the relevant
agreements,” according to the breach of contract claim brought
by HSBC on behalf of Ace Securities Corp Home Equity Loan Trust
Series 2007-WM2, a trust created under New York law in 2007.  The quantity of bad loans exceeded those contemplated by
the parties, HSBC alleged. Because DB Structured Products
controlled the selection of loans for securitization, it was the
only party positioned to accept risks that included bad
underwriting.  Ace Lawsuits  Ace Securities entities sued the Deutsche Bank unit in New
York state court in September and again in January. The unit of
German’s largest lender was also named as a defendant in a
separate lawsuit in November.  Duncan King , a New York-based spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
said he couldn’t immediately comment on the allegations in the
complaint. The lender is based in  Frankfurt .  The aggregate principal balance of loans sold to the Ace
trust subject to yesterday’s lawsuit was $784,302,135, according
to the complaint. Based on that figure, the trust publicly
offered certificates worth almost $753 million.  “The trust holds the mortgage loans for the benefit of
investors in the certificates, who ultimately bear the economic
consequences of the mortgage loans’ performance or lack of
performance,” HSBC said in the complaint.  The case is ACE Securities Corp. Home Equity Loan Trust
Series 2007-WM2 v. DB Structured Products, 13-cv-02053, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  