-- Drinker Biddle, Duane Morris, DLA Piper: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-03-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/drinker-biddle-duane-morris-dla-piper-business-of-law.html
Mary Hansen, assistant director of
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s Division of
Enforcement in the agency’s Philadelphia office, joined Drinker
Biddle & Reath LLP as a partner in the firm’s commercial
litigation practice. She will practice in the Philadelphia
office as part of the firm’s white collar team.  Hansen will focus her practice on representing individuals
and corporate clients in regulatory investigations and
enforcement actions, internal corporate investigations and white
collar criminal actions, as well as compliance and prevention
strategies and programs.  Alfred W. Putnam Jr., Drinker Biddle’s chairman, said in a
statement that Hansen “brings SEC experience and expertise to
an already impressive group of high ranking former government
lawyers who’ve joined the firm recently.”  Hansen joined the SEC in 2004. At the agency, Hansen, a
member of the Market Abuse Unit and the Municipal Securities and
Public Pension unit, investigated and developed complex
litigation strategies for numerous matters involving potential
violations of federal  securities law , including broker-dealer
and investment adviser fraud, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
violations, unlawful  insider trading  by securities industry
professionals and corporate executives, as well as municipal
offering fraud.  Drinker Biddle has 650 attorneys in 11 offices nationwide.  Law Firms  Duane Morris Expands With Joint Venture in Mideast  Duane Morris LLP has opened its first office in the  Middle
East  through a joint venture with the Al Mashaikhi Law Firm, a
multi-practice law firm in Muscat, Oman. The new joint venture,
to be known as the Dr. Said Al Mashaikhi and Partner Law Firm,
expands the capabilities and geographic reach of both firms,
Duane Morris said. The Omani firm was founded by name partner
Dr. Said Al Mashaikhi, and Duane Morris partner Jeffrey Rodwell,
formerly based in Duane Morris’s  London  office, who relocated to
Muscat to serve as the managing director.  In 2010, Duane Morris formed an enhanced joint law venture
with Selvam LLC in  Singapore , creating Duane Morris & Selvam
LLP. In 2011 the firm formed a strategic alliance with Mexico
City firm Miranda & Estavillo. Duane Morris also has offices in
London, as well as in Hanoi and  Ho Chi Minh City  in  Vietnam , in
addition to its 20 U.S. locations.  DLA Piper Downplays Fee E-mails in Bankruptcy Case  The day after e-mails suggesting that lawyers at DLA Piper
LLP had “churned” work to beef up the fees in a bankruptcy
matter, the firm’s leaders tried to downplay the significance of
the correspondence.  In an e-mail to the firm’s attorneys obtained by  Bloomberg
News , the co-chairmen of the firm for the Americas, Roger Meltzer and Jay Rains, and co-managing partners for the Americas
Anastasia Kelly and Michael Poulos said that “the e-mails were
in fact an offensive and inexcusable effort at humor, but in no
way reflect actual excessive billing.”  The four also defended the fees charged. The dispute is
pending in New York state court.  The case is DLA Piper v. Victor, 650374/2012, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  News  Argentina Loses Bid for Full-Court Rehearing in Bond Appeal  Argentina ’s request that the full federal appeals court in
New York reconsider a ruling by a three-judge panel was denied
in a case involving $1.3 billion in defaulted bonds.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan yesterday said the
full court won’t rehear the appeal, leaving in place an Oct. 26
ruling that bars Argentina from treating restructured-debt
holders more favorably than holders of the repudiated debt. The
court is separately considering a related appeal, argued last
month, about the details of how a lower court may enforce the
October ruling.  Argentina defaulted on a record $95 billion in debt in
2001. Holders of about 91 percent of the bonds agreed to take
new exchange bonds in 2005 and 2010, at a deep discount. The
country claims that a ruling forcing it to pay creditors who
hold defaulted bonds, led by Elliott Management Corp.’s NML
Capital Ltd., would open it up to more than $43 billion in
additional claims it can’t pay and trigger a new default.  In October, the appeals court affirmed a decision by U.S.
District Judge Thomas Griesa that an equal-treatment, or pari
passu, clause in the original bond agreements prevents Argentina
from treating holders of defaulted bonds less favorably than the
holders of the restructured bonds. The appeals court also said
Griesa may bar Argentina from paying on the restructured debt
without also making payments on the defaulted bonds.  On Feb. 27, the three-judge panel denied Argentina’s
request to rehear the appeal. In a related appeals court
argument in the case the same day, a lawyer for Argentina told
the same three judges that the nation will default on the
restructured debt if it’s forced to also pay holders of the
defaulted bonds.  Because the pari passu ruling is based on New York State
contract law, it’s unlikely the issue will be considered by the
U.S. Supreme Court, the highest federal appeals court.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic
of Argentina, 12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (New York).  Greenwich Village Residents Appeal Dismissal of NYU Suit  Residents of a group of high-rise buildings in Manhattan’s
 Greenwich Village  appealed a judge’s decision to dismiss their
lawsuit seeking to block  New York University ’s expansion plans.  Tenants of Washington Square Village sued the school in
August, seeking a court order stopping the university from
taking any action to eliminate a two-acre park in the center of
the cluster of buildings or to remove a commercial strip and
garden that form the park’s boundary.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Ellen M. Coin on March
14 denied their request for a preliminary injunction and
dismissed the suit, saying the plaintiffs first need to raise
the matter with the state’s Division of Housing and Community
Renewal. The tenants filed a notice of appeal yesterday.  They intend to ask the appeals court whether the school can
“unilaterally eliminate a required ancillary service” when
case law shows that rent-stabilized tenants in the city have a
right to a garden or park and that landlords can’t eliminate
them without an administrative proceeding, according to the
notice.  The tenants said they will also ask whether they’re
entitled to an injunction to “preserve the status quo” while
they file complaints with the Division of Housing and Community
Renewal, and whether the lower court abused its discretion in
dismissing the case.  The  New York  City Council voted in July to let New York
University add 1.9 million square feet to the campus for
classrooms, a gym and housing in the face of objections from
residents and faculty who said it would change the character of
the neighborhood.  The $6 billion expansion is opposed by dozens of university
departments and divisions and has sparked lawsuits from
community residents and faculty members. Professors in the
university’s largest school passed a vote of no-confidence in
President John Sexton on March 16, saying he failed to consult
with them on the plan.  The case is WSV Green Neighbors Inc. v. New York
University, 155507/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  Wal-Mart Sues Union in Florida Over Store Demonstrations  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, filed
trespassing claims in a lawsuit against the  United Food and
Commercial Workers International Union  and other groups holding
demonstrations at its stores in  Florida .  The  company , in a complaint filed March 22 in Orange
County, Florida, seeks a court order restraining the group and
several individuals from trespassing on Wal-Mart property to
picket, demonstrate, disrupt customers or confront managers.
Wal-Mart employees aren’t unionized.  The lawsuit is aimed at the UFCW, its subsidiary OURWalmart
and another group that allegedly trespassed 73 times in 13
states in the past year, Steven Wheeless, a Wal-Mart attorney,
said in a letter to the union’s general counsel filed with the
 lawsuit .  “Wal-Mart files this action after repeatedly warning the
union that it would act to protect its property interests and
its associates’ work environment if the union did not stop its
illegal conduct,” Wheeless said.  OURWalmart said store managers have reacted in an extreme
manner and harassed one Florida employee when she walked off the
job and peacefully protested with her family outside a store.  “This lawsuit looks to be another meritless attempt by
Wal-Mart to silence workers and the community rather than hear
our concerns,” the union said yesterday in an e-mail. “Rather
than creating good jobs with steady hours and affordable health
care, Wal-Mart’s pattern is to focus its energies on infringing
on our freedom of speech.”  The case is Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. United Food and
Commercial Workers International Union, Circuit Court, Orange
County, Florida.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  