-- Drugs for Indian Poor Spark Pfizer Anger at Lost Patents
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-03-27T19:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/drugs-for-indian-poor-spark-pfizer-anger-at-lost-patents.html
In trying to get sophisticated
medicines to its neediest citizens,  India  is increasingly
pitting its generic-pharmaceutical industry against
international drugmakers, threatening their growth in emerging
markets.  An Indian regulatory board this month upheld a ruling that
allows  Natco Pharma Ltd. (NTCPH)  to make a low-priced copy of  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s
Nexavar cancer treatment. The drug is one of at least four that
have had their patents weakened, revoked or rejected in India in
the past year. The country also has refused a patent for
 Novartis AG’s (NOVN)  Gleevec leukemia medicine, and the  Supreme Court 
will rule April 1 on the company’s appeal of the decision.  Those steps are needed to put modern medicines into the
hands of Indians, according to aid groups and doctors. Western
drugmakers including New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  say the country,
which has a $30 billion drug market that’s growing 13 percent a
year, is abusing international law and allowing domestic
companies to profit from products discovered at Big Pharma’s
expense.  The dispute illustrates how emerging markets are turning
out be less lucrative than drugmakers expected. London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  has warned that so-called compulsory
licensing of patented products may hurt profit growth. One
advocacy group now is pushing stricken Western countries such as
 Greece  to follow India’s lead, raising the prospect of further
pressure on drug prices.  WTO Standards  “Emerging markets are extremely important for drugmakers
because they can’t grow in Europe, plain and simple,”  Michael Leuchten , an analyst at Barclays Plc in London, said in a
telephone interview. “The effect isn’t quantifiable, but it is
a stumbling block and companies will suffer.”  India in 1995 agreed to meet intellectual-property
standards set out by the  World Trade Organization . The country
says those standards allow it to invalidate patents and issue
compulsory licenses to local generics companies to ensure its
citizens have access to medicine.  Indian officials also may be motivated by boosting the
domestic  drug industry , said Wim Leereveld, who heads the  Access
to Medicines Foundation , a non-profit group that ranks drug
companies on how well they make products available to poor and
middle-income countries.  “This is not only about access to medicines; they are also
protecting their own businesses,” said Leereveld, whose group
doesn’t take funding from drug companies.  Iressa Case  An e-mail requesting comment sent to 12 officials at
India’s Department of Pharmaceuticals wasn’t answered. Three
phone calls to the office of the department secretary, Dilsher
Singh Kalha, weren’t answered.  Generic-drug companies Natco and GM Pharma Ltd. won their
2006 effort to contest AstraZeneca Plc’s patent protection in
India for its lung-cancer drug Iressa, a  decision upheld  in
November 2012 by the country’s Intellectual Property Appellate
Board.  The same month, the board also revoked protection for  Roche
Holding AG’s (ROG)  Pegasys, a drug to treat hepatitis C, on an appeal
by the  Sankalp Rehabilitation Trust , a charity that helps
injecting drug abusers, and the generics maker  Wockhardt Ltd. (WPL) 
Pfizer’s Sutent cancer drug, which it had been selling in India
since 2007, was stripped of protection last year.  “From the perspective of companies, I can’t think of
anything more incredible than to have the government expropriate
your intellectual property and have domestic companies exploit
it,” said Chris Israel, the U.S. coordinator for international
intellectual property enforcement under President  George W. Bush 
who now works for the  American Continental Group Inc.  lobbying
firm in Washington.  India’s Right  Neither the U.S. nor the European Union have sought help
from the WTO to stop compulsory licenses. The EU recognizes
India’s right to issue compulsory licenses, Helene Banner, a
spokeswoman for EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht, said in an
e-mailed statement. American Continental’s Israel said such
licenses are intended for use in health emergencies such as
pandemics, not because prices are too high.  Doctors welcome India’s efforts to make drugs more
affordable.  “The Indian drug is so important for 90 percent of my
patients, because otherwise they’ll get nothing,” said Bhawna
Sirohi, an oncologist at Mumbai’s 900-bed Tata Memorial Centre,
which mainly treats poor patients. “I think it’s fantastic.”  Pharmaceutical company executives say patent-sharing bodies
known as patent pools and voluntary licenses can make drugs
available to the poor. Patents won’t stop medicines from
reaching those who need them, Paul Herrling, who heads
Novartis’s Institute for Tropical Diseases in Singapore, said in
an interview.  Other Markets  “We have a very clear policy not to make the patent a
barrier,” Herrling said. The patent situation has led Novartis
to re-allocate investments to other emerging markets such as
 China , Herrling said.  Still, without compulsory licensing, many Indians may not
have access to some medicines. About a third of the population
lives in poverty, and the income per capita is $1,410 a year,
according to the  World Bank .  “Even if a month of therapy costs $12, one or two
concurrent illnesses are too expensive for a family like that,”
said Michael Kleinrock, director of research development at the
IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics, said in a telephone
interview. The institute is a unit of IMS Health, which tracks
pharmaceutical sales.  Roy Waldron, Pfizer’s chief intellectual property counsel,
called on the U.S. government this month to work harder to
protect patents in India.  ‘Fair Game’  “We believe that Indian generic companies now see any
innovative product as fair game for compulsory license,”
Waldron said in testimony March 13 to the House Ways and Means
Committee’s subcommittee on trade. Pfizer didn’t respond to a
request for further comment.  Besides issuing compulsory licenses, India has refused to
grant patents in some cases. At the request of a cancer aid
society and several generics makers, the government in 2006
denied a patent for Novartis’s Gleevec, a drug that is credited
with turning a  deadly blood cancer  into a chronic disease,
saying it wasn’t sufficiently innovative. The Basel,
Switzerland-based company appealed, and the case wound up at the
Supreme Court, with a decision to be published April 1.  ‘Thumping’ Profit  “We are concerned about the current situation in India
with respect to the recent decisions by the government that
concern not only compulsory licensing, but also the patent
status for certain products of some of our competitors,”  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY)  Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter  told
reporters at a March 26 briefing in Beijing.  “This is something we’ll continue to try to address with
individual governments” and through multinational
organizations, said Lechleiter, who’s chairman of Pharmaceutical
Research and Manufacturers of America, a U.S. lobbying group.  In the case involving Bayer’s Nexavar, the Indian  appellate
board  said that while Bayer had made “thumping” profits on the
drug internationally, it failed to make the treatment affordable
to at least 80 percent of Indian patients with liver or kidney
cancer. The compulsory  license  allows Natco to sell a copy for
as much as 8,880 rupees ($163) a month, 3 percent of the
original price of more than $5,000. Bayer receives a small
royalty.  Roche’s Rebranding  Roche last year said it would rebrand and cut the price of
two patented cancer drugs in India, MabThera and Herceptin.
Still, India’s Department of Pharmaceuticals in January started
the process of issuing compulsory licenses for three cancer
treatments including Herceptin, according to the newspaper
Indian Express. A Roche spokesman declined to comment on the
reports.  India’s efforts may embolden other countries. China last
year overhauled parts of its intellectual property law to allow
domestic companies to make low-cost versions of medicines under
patent protection. In September, the Indonesian government
 expanded  access to HIV drugs and a hepatitis B treatment.  Drug companies are looking to India and other  emerging
markets  for growth because prices are under pressure in Europe.
Emerging markets are set to make up 38 percent of revenue by
2020, according to Barclays’ Leuchten. IMS forecasts drug sales
on the  Indian subcontinent  will grow 13 percent a year through
2016.  Greece, Spain  A non-profit group called  Essential Inventions Inc . this
month asked the Greek government to use compulsory licenses to
supply cancer and HIV drugs to its citizens, David Hammerstein,
a member of the group’s board, said in a telephone interview.  “Hundreds of people in Greece are dying because they are
not getting the medicines, tens of thousands can’t afford the
medicines,” he said. Hammerstein said his group is also
thinking of asking the Spanish government to import generics
under a compulsory license. He expects a response from Greek
officials in a couple of weeks.  “There is a danger it will pick up steam,” said IMS’s
Kleinrock. “Companies have to take it seriously.”  For Related News and Information:
Bayer to Appeal India Ruling That Allows Copy of Cancer Drug  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  