-- EADS Investors Back 15% Buyback to Ease Ownership Changes
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-27T14:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/eads-eases-spanish-share-sale-as-shareholders-vote-on-new-board.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. investors gave approval for the purchase of 15 percent
of the company’s stock at a maximum 50 euros a share in a move
to bolster its value after the sale of block holdings.  Shareholders meeting in Amsterdam approved the resolution
as part of the most sweeping changes to EADS’s corporate
structure since its formation in 2000. While the buyback could
cost 6.2 billion euros ($8 billion) based on the agreed terms,
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  said the plan is to limit
spending to one-third of its 12.3 billion euros in cash.  The revamp clears the way for founding investors  Lagardere
SCA (MMB)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  to exit, increases the free-float, and aims
to curb government influence over operational affairs at a
company whose products include Airbus SAS commercial aircraft,
helicopters, fighter planes, missiles and defense electronics.  “It’s an important milestone,” Enders told journalists
after the meeting. “Today we can launch into a new phase where
we become much more normal than we were before.”  Board members approved today will meet informally this
evening to choose a new chairman, which EADS has said should be
Denis Ranque, former chief of French avionics supplier  Thales
SA. (HO)  Directors can’t meet officially until the new shareholder
structure has been consummated, something that may take a day or
two as lawyers hammer out final details.  Price Gain  The board should decide on the size and timing of the share
repurchase by April 2, the company said. When plans for the move
were first announced EADS stock was trading at about 26 euros,
and has gained about 50 percent since then to almost 40 euros.  If implemented in the first half, a buyback would be
divided into two equal tranches, EADS said in documents today.  The purchase will be determined by “market conditions,”
according to Enders, while Chief Financial Officer Harald Wilhelm told shareholders it should also leave room for  capital
spending  and future dividends.  Under the new corporate structure, the company’s free float
will increase, even with the introduction of the German state
into the ownership.  France , which has a 15 percent stake, will
see that drop to 12 percent, matching the German holding, and
both will lose their veto rights over major decisions.  ‘Good Shape’  New board members besides Ranque include  Anne Lauvergeon ,
the former CEO of French nuclear-reactor manufacturer Areva SA,
and Germans Manfred Bischoff, once co-chairman of EADS, and
Hans-Peter Keitel, ex-CEO of builder Hochtief AG.  Enders said today he expects to finish a strategic review
by about midyear, including a look at the balance between
commercial and defense interests.  “We’re not in a hurry, the company is in good shape,” he
said. “Don’t expect any spectacular developments.”  About one-fifth of EADS revenue comes from military
activities, which Enders said was “fortunate,” given his
expectation that European and U.S.  defense spending  will decline
or stay flat through the end of this decade at least.  Enders said EADS’s defense business will be less hard hit
than those of some rivals because programs such as the
Eurofighter combat jet and A400M military transport, just
preparing for first delivery, are shared between countries.  “Multi-national programs, as difficult as they are to get
started, are equally difficult to unwind,” the CEO said, while
adding that discussions with governments in coming years will be
devoted to negotiating cuts, not starting new programs.  Enders also said he valued the “multi-domestic approach”
that Ranque took at Thales, making it a major contractor in the
U.K. and  Australia , among other countries.  EADS said before today’s meeting that  Spain  will be allowed
to reduce its stake earlier than planned, selling as much as
1.15 percent of stock by April 10 to cut the holding to about 4
percent. An initial agreement allowed no disposal until Jan. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  