-- Economists Confounded as Basci Rates Go Symmetric: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-03-27T09:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/economists-confounded-as-basci-rates-go-symmetric-turkey-credit.html
Economists are split on whether
Turkish monetary policy is looser or tighter after central bank
Governor Erdem Basci cut one of his three interest rates while
saying he’d use an experimental tool to manage liquidity.  BNP Paribas SA, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Oyak Securities
and Ata Invest interpreted the move as loosening policy to focus
on boosting growth, while BGC Securities said it was
contractionary. Morgan Stanley described it as “neither here
nor there” and Finansbank called it “confusing.” The lira at
first weakened before rallying, while two-year  note yields  rose
and the 10-year rate fell.  Basci, who uses three interest rates along with frequent
adjustments to  reserve requirements  to control lending and the
 exchange rate , said the changes would make his so-called rates
corridor “more symmetric.” The approach has prevented traders
from taking a view on the lira and helped reduce its volatility
to a record low since its introduction in October 2011.  “Not surprisingly, the central bank surprised the markets
once again,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist  Yarkin Cebeci  said
in an e-mailed report from Istanbul after yesterday’s decision.
“We do not think that the bank has become more or less hawkish.
Instead, the series of decisions they have taken today signals
that the unorthodox policy mix could be taking a new turn.”  ‘More Symmetric’  The Monetary Policy Committee in Ankara cut the upper end
of its corridor, the  overnight lending  rate, to 7.5 percent from
8.5 percent while leaving the lower end, the  overnight borrowing 
rate, unchanged at 4.5 percent. It also left the benchmark one-
week repurchase rate unchanged at 5.5 percent. None of the
economists in a Bloomberg survey before the rates decision
yesterday correctly predicted the changes.  While the central bank didn’t raise reserve requirements,
it did make it more expensive to hold foreign exchange or gold
by increasing a so-called reserve option coefficient.  The committee said in a statement it will “increase the
effectiveness” of its reserve-options mechanism, reducing the
need for a wide band. “The interest-rates corridor was made
more symmetric by cutting the overnight borrowing rate,” it
said, without elaborating on the benefits of symmetry.  Neutral Policy  “The central bank’s expansionary policies are gradually
being pulled back to a more neutral policy,”  Ozgur Altug , chief
economist at BGC Partners in Istanbul, said in an interview
yesterday. “They’re concerned about a new wave of bad news from
 Europe , but at the same time they’re concerned about loan growth
and an increase in the  current-account  deficit, so this is just
fine tuning.”  The central bank said in a statement on its website today
that the tighter liquidity policy, together with the recent
deceleration in capital inflows, should have a dampening effect
on credit growth. The current-account deficit will probably
increase in the short-term, and the existing monetary policy
framework will help to limit further deterioration, it said.  Making the corridor more symmetric is a reference to
balancing the difference between the benchmark  interest rate  and
the overnight rates, according to Altug. After the changes, the
 benchmark one-week repo rate  is 200 basis points below the upper
end of the corridor, down from 300 basis points before, and
remains 100 basis points above the lower end.  “The bank aims to bring the policy rate close to the
midpoint of the corridor, which will move the monetary policy
stance from expansionary towards contractionary,” he said.  Untested, Unique  The reserve option mechanism is the multiplier at which
banks are allowed to keep required reserves for lira liabilities
in either foreign exchange or gold at the central bank. Moody’s
Investors Service senior credit analyst  Sarah Carlson  called the
mechanism “untested” and “unique” in a conference on  Turkey 
in Istanbul on Nov. 21.  Keeping reserve requirements on hold, contrary to most
economists’ forecasts, showed that policy makers were relaxing
their stance on loan growth, Selim Cakir, chief economist at
Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS, the Turkish unit of BNP Paribas in
Istanbul, said in a report yesterday.  The bank has been adjusting interest rates to control
capital flows and the value of the lira, while using reserves to
fine-tune loan growth.  “The priorities of the central bank seem to have shifted
from excessive inflows to worries about growth,” Cakir said.
“Today’s decision signals a more dovish stance.”  Aggressive Easing  “The surprise cut to the top band of the corridor was
intended mainly to stimulate the supply side of the economy, in
view of the sensitivity of small- and medium-sized businesses
and corporate lending to the top end of the interest rate
corridor,” Goldman Sachs economist  Ahmet Akarli  said in a
report from  London  yesterday. “This implies quite an aggressive
easing in overall lending conditions” and risks a “more rapid
widening in the current-account deficit,” he said.  Turkish loans grew 19.9 percent in the 12 months to March
15, according to banking regulator data released this week,
above the central bank’s year-end target of 15 percent. A
revival of concern that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen may
have prompted the bank to take a less hawkish stance on credit
growth, according to Gulay Girgin, chief economist at Istanbul-
based Ata Securities.  “The surprise cut in the upper band of the corridor also
emanates from the recent rise in global uncertainties,” Girgin
said by e-mail yesterday. “The bank, rather than being
disturbed by the pace of commercial and corporate loan growth,
preferred to take a precautionary step to preserve loan
growth,” and protect the economy from a deteriorating sentiment
in global markets, she said.  Capital Flows  International investors increased their holdings of Turkish
debt by $16 billion last year, driving yields 483 basis points
lower, the biggest decrease among 20 major  emerging markets 
tracked by Bloomberg. The flow began to reverse this month, with
foreign investors selling $1.6 billion in government debt in the
week to March 15, the biggest weekly outflow since 2007.  The lira climbed 0.4 percent to 1.8149 per dollar at 8:23
p.m. in Istanbul yesterday, after turning to a loss in the
minutes following the rates decision. It lost 0.2 percent today
to 1.8168. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds rose 9 basis
points today to 6.40 percent, extending their increase this
month to 71 basis points, the biggest among 20 major emerging
markets tracked by Bloomberg.  The yield on 10-year bonds dropped six basis points to 7.18
percent yesterday, falling for a first day in three, while the
rate on  one-year  sovereign debt spiked 32 basis points to 6.38
percent, the biggest jump since October 2011.  The  extra yield investors  demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated sovereign bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries was
unchanged at 221 basis points, 72 basis points below the average
for 59 emerging market countries, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Diversified index.  Uncertain Outlook  Five-year credit-default swaps on Turkey fell one basis
point to 143, compared with 159 for  Russia  and 175 for  South
Africa , both of which are rated higher. The contracts, which
drop as perceptions of creditworthiness improve, pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or cash
equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The changes yesterday may be an admission by the bank that
its policy mix has been ineffective in controlling loan growth,
according to Cebeci at JPMorgan. The bank will probably
increasingly use active liquidity management instead of reserve
requirement increases to restrict loan growth, he said.  “Today’s decision might be an intermediary step in
transitioning to a different policy stance,”  Inan Demir , chief
economist at Finansbank AS, the Turkish bank owned by National
Bank of  Greece , said in a report yesterday. Overall, he said the
the move was surprising and confusing, “which presumably
reflects the uncertain capital-flow outlook.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  