-- Leeds Owner Stalls on Explaining Team Sale, Exchange Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-27T14:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/leeds-owner-stalls-on-explaining-team-sale-bahrain-bourse-says.html
Bahrain’s stock exchange said the
Gulf-based owner of Leeds United hasn’t explained conflicting
statements made about a possible sale of the three-time English
soccer champion.  Dubai-based GFH Capital, which bought Leeds less than four
months ago, said on the club website last week it was seeking
“investment in part of its share,” although not a full sale.
GFH’s parent,  Gulf Finance House EC (GFH) , said in its 2012 financial
statement released in February it was looking to sell the club
within 12 months after securing it as a “bargain purchase.”  Gulf Finance House is listed on the Bahrain bourse. Under
its regulations, companies are required to clarify any
statements that contradict information released to the exchange.  Shaikha Al Zayani, an official in the bourse’s companies
affairs department, said the exchange has been seeking
clarification from Gulf Finance House’s compliance officer about
the contradicting statements since last week, and called again
today.  “He says the company has already disclosed its position in
the financial report for the year so we requested to clarify the
article on the website and we haven’t had a response,” Al
Zayani said in a telephone interview. “Usually the companies
give us a response immediately and take actions to amend if
statements are wrong.”  Salem Patel, head of  investment management  at Gulf Finance
House, said any enquiry should be referred to the Bahrain stock
exchange when contacted by  Bloomberg News  on March 21.  ‘Bargain Purchase’  GFH Capital said in a statement today that it “remains
committed to retaining a substantial part of its investment
in Leeds United Football Club. It’s always been a part of the
group’s plan to bring on board a group of like-minded
investors.” Leeds spokesman Paul Dews said he had no immediate
comment on the exchange’s observations.  GFH Capital paid $33 million for the Yorkshire-based team
and estimates that it’s worth $10 million more than that, Gulf
Finance House said in its year-end statement. The parent company
said it made a “bargain purchase” because of “pressure on the
sellers to exit their holdings due to a change in their business
plan.”  “The group has an active plan to sell its stake in LUFC
Holdings Limited, and accordingly, the asset and liabilities
acquired were classified as held-for-sale and presented in the
consolidated statement of financial position,” the parent
company said in its statement for the year ending Dec. 31, 2012.
“Subsequent to the year end, the group has commenced
negotiations relating to the sale of its stake.”  Financial Troubles  Leeds had success more than a decade ago, reaching the
semifinals of  Europe ’s elite  Champions League  in 2001 and
producing international players including Jonathan Woodgate,
 Harry Kewell  and Alan Smith from its academy. The team stumbled
into financial troubles by overspending on players, and slipped
out of  England ’s Premier League in 2004. After falling into the
third division and spending time in  bankruptcy protection , Leeds
now plays in the second-tier Championship. It’s 10th in the
standings, seven points below the playoff positions for a spot
in the  Premier League .  Gulf Finance House is due to hold its annual meeting
tomorrow and may provide shareholders with further information
then, Al Zayani said. She said that not correcting misleading
information is a breach of regulations for Bahrain-listed
companies.  ‘Right or Wrong’  “At least they need to tell us what is right or wrong,”
she said. “They said it’s already defined in the annual
statement.”  Gulf Finance House is “not following regulations defined
by the central bank of Bahrain,” Al Zayani added. “They have
to confirm, deny or correct whatever statement is declared to
the public or to newspapers.”  In May, Gulf Finance House, which specializes in  Islamic
finance , obtained permission from creditors to restructure a
$110 million debt. Its accounts showed profit of $10 million in
2012 on sales of $63.6 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  