-- EIOPA Begins Discussions on Insurers’ Interim Solvency Rules
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-03-27T14:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/eiopa-begins-discussions-on-insurers-interim-solvency-ii-rules.html
The European Insurance and
Occupational Pensions Authority , the European Union’s insurance
watchdog, today will begin deliberations on interim guidelines
for national regulators to be put into place from next year.  EIOPA is developing the  guidelines  to support local
supervisors in getting insurers ready for new pan-European
solvency rules, called Solvency II.  The framework, containing “key aspects” of the new rules
including risk management and a preapplication of so-called
internal models, or insurers’ own risk models to be approved by
supervisors, need to be applied from Jan. 1 next year, EIOPA
said today in an e-mailed statement. Still, it will allow for
“some flexibility” because of the need to phase in provisions,
it said.  “These guidelines are an important step toward consistent
and effective supervisory practices in the preparation for the
Solvency II implementation,” Gabriel Bernardino, chairman of
the Frankfurt-based organization, said in the statement. “They
will play an important role in supporting the good function of
the internal market in the insurance sector.”  Solvency II, intended to make insurers in the region
allocate the same capital reserves against the risks they take,
has been in the making since 2001. No implementation date has
been found so far, as lobbying by German, British and French
insurers over the rules’ impact on long-term savings products
has delayed its introduction.  “I still believe that it is possible, if everything goes
right, to have the date of implementation of Jan. 1, 2016,”
Bernardino told journalists on a conference call from  Frankfurt 
today. He added that EIOPA still hasn’t received a timetable
from the European Union.  The public consultation period will end on June 19 and
EIOPA plans to publish the final guidelines later this year.
This should allow local regulators “to put in place certain
important aspects of the preparation for Solvency II starting on
January 1, 2014,” the organization said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  