-- Fridman Considers Making $4 Billion Bid for Tele2 Russia
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-03-28T16:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/tele2-agrees-to-sell-russian-unit-to-vtb-group-for-2-4-billion.html
Billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa
Group  said it’s ready to trump lender  VTB Group (VTBR) ’s bid for  Tele2
AB (TEL2B) ’s mobile-phone assets in  Russia  and is considering a takeover
of the entire Swedish telecommunications company.  A1, an investment arm of Alfa, is willing to pay $3.6
billion to $4 billion in cash for Tele2 Russia and is interested
in agreeing on a price for the remaining assets of Stockholm-
based Tele2 “over a short period of time,” it said today. VTB,
Russia’s second-largest lender, reached a deal yesterday to
acquire Tele2 Russia for $3.55 billion in cash and debt.  Tele2  shares  rose 4.5 percent in the Swedish capital. A1
held talks with Tele2 and shareholder  Investment AB Kinnevik (KINVA) 
last year, although an offer with “a significantly higher
price” than VTB’s was rejected in October by Tele2, A1 said.
Tele2’s exit from Russia after 12 years followed its failure
last July to win a wireless license to run faster services in
the country, leaving it with an outdated network just as
consumers devour more data with smartphones and tablets.  “VTB is a very serious purchaser that gave us a
straightforward deal that’s easy to close,” Lars Torstensson, a
Tele2 spokesman, said in an interview today. Tele2 is going to
try and close this deal “as swiftly as possible,” he said.  Financial Investor  In an interview today, VTB First Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Yuri Soloviev said the bank isn’t buying the asset on
behalf of anyone else, although it’s looking at potential
shareholders to add strategic value, “be it a Russian or a
foreign investor.”  “We’re open to any proposals,” VTB CEO Andrey Kostin said
yesterday in an interview in  Stockholm .  Telecommunications is a strategic industry for Fridman’s
Alfa Group, which controls  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , a Tele2 rival in
Russia. Alfa last week completed a $14 billion sale of a stake
in oil company TNK-BP. Fridman has a net worth of $15.2 billion
and ranks 52th in the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Tele2 assets will have synergies with VimpelCom, said A1
managing partner Dmitry Vozianov.  “We’ve been in talks with Tele2 and the Stenbeck family
for the last one and a half years,” Vozianov said, referring to
the Swedish family that controls Kinnevik. “We planned another
round of talks next week.”  Tele2 Russia may also attact other carriers such as former
fixed-line monopoly OAO Rostelecom, according to Aalandsbanken
analyst Lars Soederfjell. Russia’s three largest wireless
providers are  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , VimpelCom and OAO MegaFon.  Deal Multiples  VTB isn’t in talks with the country’s phone companies over
a Tele2 deal, CEO Kostin said.  Yesterday’s agreement with VTB values Tele2 Russia at 4.9
times its 2012 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
and amortization. That compares with a median multiple of 4.3
times among transactions in the European wireless industry over
the past three years, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Tele2 plans to pay shareholders 12.5 billion kronor ($1.9
billion), or 28 kronor a share, after the transaction is
completed. Kinnevik, Tele2’s biggest holder, said it would
receive about 3.8 billion kronor in cash.  Shares of Tele2 closed at 113.40 kronor in Stockholm,
 valuing  the company at $7.8 billion. They have fallen 3.2
percent this year.  The sale of the Russian assets will allow the company to
focus on its core markets in  Sweden , the Netherlands,  Norway  and
 Kazakhstan , Tele2 said. In December, Tele2 acquired a wireless
license in the Netherlands.  ‘Investment Phase’  “We are in an investment phase,” Chief Financial Officer
Lars Arne Nilsson said in an interview. The deal will “help us
come closer to our leverage targets.”  Tele2’s Russian unit had Ebitda of 1.24 billion kronor in
the fourth quarter, compared with 1.21 billion kronor a year
earlier, accounting for 47 percent of the group’s earnings by
that measure. The unit’s customers rose by 373,000 in the period
to 22.7 million.  As of December 31, Tele2 had 22.7 millions users in Russia,
MTS had 71.2 million, MegaFon 62.6 million, VimpelCom 56.1
million and Rostelecom 13.6 million, according to researcher
AC&M Consulting.  As older Russian markets mature and competitors fight for
clients, it’s more costly for operators to find new users. New
regions in Russia, which are more profitable, are expected to
help balance declining margins elsewhere in the country, Tele2
CEO Mats Granryd said last month.  ‘Big-Three Scenario’  “Given the presence of an intermediary in the transaction,
it seems most logical to us to assume that the Big Three
scenario is in play, though Rostelecom acquiring Tele2 Russia
also cannot be ruled out as yet,” said  Anna Lepetukhina , an
analyst at Sberbank Investment Research.  VimpelCom won’t exclude the possibility of taking part in a
Tele2 deal if such an opportunity arises, spokeswoman Natalya
Tashkeeva said, calling Tele2 a “significant player.”  MegaFon isn’t in talks with VTB, spokesman Petr Lidov said.
MegaFon may consider parts of Tele2 if they are offered,
Director Ivan Streshinskiy said in December, adding such an
acquisition may make sense if carried out jointly with other
operators.  MTS spokeswoman Irina Agarkova and Rostelecom spokeswoman
Kira Kiryukhina declined to comment. Both companies have
previously confirmed potential interest to Tele2 assets.  VTB Capital advised VTB Group on the transaction, while
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  is Tele2’s adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  