-- Electronic Arts Sees Digital 50% of Total Sales by 2015
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   E m i l y   C h a n g
-- 2013-03-27T22:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/electronic-arts-says-digital-games-will-be-50-of-sales-by-2015.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  Chief
Operating Officer Peter Moore said digitally delivered video
games may account for 50 percent of sales by 2015 as more
players migrate to tablets and smartphones from consoles.  Electronic Arts, based in Redwood City,  California , plans
to offer games for mobile devices for free and will make money
from sales of in-game accessories, Moore said today in an
interview with Bloomberg TV. The company also will benefit from
selling digital versions of games now sold on discs, he said.  “In two years we could be looking at the tipping point
where digital becomes bigger than the traditional core,” Moore
said.  Electronic Arts, the second-largest U.S. video game
publisher, reported $4.14 billion in revenue in fiscal 2012. The
company plans to expand on a model established with the February
release of its first free mobile game, “Real Racing 3.” The
title was downloaded more in its first five days than the
previous versions combined, Moore said.  “It taught us that the business model of the future is
bringing in a larger sampling of consumers with a free-to-play
mechanic,” Moore said. “We’re seeing the balancing now of
other platforms against the console.”  Electronic Arts rose less than 1 percent to $17.79 at the
close in New York. The shares are up 23 percent this year.  Moore is considered a possible successor to Chief Executive
Officer John Riccitiello, who was ousted this month after the
company lowered its sales and profit forecasts. Moore defended
Riccitiello, CEO since 2007, saying he created a strategy to
lead the company back to profitability.  “John Riccitiello leaves us in tremendous shape,” he
said. “We can see the light at the end of the tunnel.”  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  is the largest video-game
publisher in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  