-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance on Philippine Debt Upgrade
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-27T22:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/emerging-stocks-advance-for-third-day-on-china-banks-u-s-data.html
Emerging-market stocks had the
longest advance in a month as the Philippines got its first
investment-grade rating and China’s largest banks posted a
decline in bad-loan ratios. Brazil’s real strengthened.  SM Investments Corp. (SM)  rose 5.3 percent, leading Philippine
stocks to a record. Industrial & Commercial  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) ,
the world’s most profitable lender, gained as profit beat
analysts’ estimates. Brazil’s Bovespa index climbed as PDG
Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes rallied. The Turkish
lira rebounded after  Standard & Poor’s  raised the country’s
rating to BB+, its highest non-investment grade category.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.3 percent to
1,032.05 in New York, gaining for a third straight day.
Philippine stocks and the peso surged as  Fitch Ratings  raised
the nation’s debt rating to BBB-. Agricultural Bank President
Zhang Yun said yesterday Chinese banks’ non-performing loans are
at a “manageable” level. Cyprus announced  capital controls  to
prevent outflows when banks reopen tomorrow.  The rating upgrades  “reaffirm that’s the part of the
world you don’t have to worry about in terms of credit issues,”
Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist at the private-banking
unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland, said by phone. His firm oversees
more than $20 billion. “There’s been a focus on whether there
are massive bad loan problems in China,” he said.  The news
“takes that worry off the table.”  Financial shares in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained
the most among 10 groups. The broader gauge has slipped 2.2
percent this year, trailing a 6.8 percent gain in the  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  of developed-country stocks. The emerging-markets measure
trades at 10.8 times 12-month projected profit, compared with
the MSCI World’s 14.2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets exchange-traded fund, the
ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained 0.4 percent to
$42.68. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, dropped 1.4 percent to 16.63.  Cyprus’s banks will open their doors to customers tomorrow
for the first time in almost two weeks, with new rules curbing
access to cash. Moody’s Investors Service lowered the highest
rating that can be assigned to a domestic debt issuer in Cyprus
to Caa2, citing growing risk the country would exit the euro.  Brazil’s Bovespa index rose to a one-week high as
homebuilder PDG Realty gained 5.4 percent. It earlier tumbled as
much as 4.4 percent after it reported an unexpected net loss.
The real rose 0.3 percent, erasing earlier losses as the central
bank intervened to stem the currency’s decline.  Mexico, Russia  Mexico’s IPC Index added 0.9 percent, climbing for a sixth
day in its longest streak of gains since Jan. 23.  Russian shares rose for the first time in four days.
Poland’s WIG20 Index added 1.4 percent.  PGE SA (PGE) , the country’s
largest electricity company, added 3.9 percent. Benchmark
indexes in Hungary and the  Czech Republic  dropped.  Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index rose 0.3 percent to gain a
fifth day. “The Turkish economy appears to be slowly
rebalancing, without undermining its relatively strong fiscal
performance,” S&P said after the country’s market closed.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index jumped 2.7 percent as
the currency strengthened 0.3 percent. The benchmark  stock index 
jumped 35 percent in the past 12 months and the peso appreciated
5.2 percent, leading gains in Asia’s 10 biggest developing
economies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. SM
Investments rallied to a record.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  added 1 percent. ICBC rose 0.7 percent,
extending a three-day rally to 2.4 percent.  Fosun International
Ltd. (656)  jumped 9.8 percent, the biggest gain in the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF) , after saying profit increased last year.  Tax Shareholders  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index advanced 0.7 percent as Orascom
Telecom Holding SAE that jumped 3.1 percent. National Societe
Generale Bank SAE slumped 9.5 percent in Cairo. Egypt plans to
tax shareholders that profited from selling shares in Societe
Generale SA’s Cairo-based unit to Qatar National Bank SAQ except
for the parent company, according to a letter released by the
Egyptian bourse yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
dollar debt over U.S. Treasuries rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 307, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co.
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  