-- Ericsson Said to Discuss Buying Microsoft’s TV-Software Unit
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-03-27T20:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/ericsson-said-to-discuss-buying-tv-software-unit-from-microsoft.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB)  is in talks to buy
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s IPTV business, which makes software used by
phone companies such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  to deliver television over the
Internet, people with knowledge of the matter said.  The deal could be announced in a few weeks, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
are private. Annual sales at Microsoft’s IPTV business, called
MediaRoom, have stayed near $350 million for the past three
years, according to Raymond James & Associates, and the unit
could fetch more than $1 billion, Cross Research says.  Ericsson, the largest maker of wireless networks, is
seeking to cater to carriers that are competing with cable,
satellite and Web-based providers. The move will also help
Ericsson step up its emphasis on software and services amid
accelerating competition in hardware. Microsoft, the biggest
software maker, intends to focus on delivering TV through its
Xbox game console, a person familiar with its plans said.  “This would make sense for Ericsson as it provides for a
more complete offering,” said  Alexander Peterc , an analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas. “Still, the technology started to get hyped
about 10 years ago and may have reached its peak already, so I
don’t see this as a growth market.”  IPTV technology helps telecom carriers bundle voice,
broadband and TV products that can compete with cable companies
and Web-delivered services like Netflix, which are increasingly
popular for broadband users, Peterc said.  $44 Billion Projection  More than  100 million  people will get TV service via IPTV
from phone companies this year, up from 46 million in 2010, with
much of the growth in China and Japan, said Guillermo Hurtado,
an analyst at Pyramid Research. The number of subscribers will
increase 17 percent a year through 2017, while revenue will rise
about 16 percent to $44 billion in the period.  MediaRoom may sell for 2.5 to 5 times sales, according to
 Richard Williams , an analyst at Cross Research in Livingston,
New Jersey. That indicates a price of $875 million to $1.75
billion.  Yvonne Edenholm, a spokeswoman for Ericsson, declined to
comment, as did Melissa Havel, a spokeswoman for Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft at Waggener Edstrom.  Microsoft became a leader in the market for Internet-TV
software in the past decade as phone companies ramped up efforts
to woo TV subscribers to grab share from cable companies, such
as  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   ‘Sideshow’ Business  The sale of MediaRoom marks a strategic shift, said Colin Dixon, chief analyst at  nScreenMedia , a digital media
consultant.  “MediaRoom has gone from being a centerpiece of
Microsoft’s TV strategy to a kind of sideshow,” Dixon said.  AT&T, the largest U.S. telephone company, uses Microsoft’s
IPTV in U-Verse, which combines television with other
communications services, such as  Internet access . AT&T had 4.5
million U-Verse video subscribers at the end of 2012.  Microsoft has focused in recent years on delivering TV-
related entertainment services via its Xbox console, striking
distribution deals for  Xbox Live  with such partners as  Viacom
Inc. (VIAB)  and Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN.  Ericsson shares were little changed at 81.40 kronor at the
close in Stockholm, after rising as much as 0.9 percent.
Microsoft added less than 1 percent to $28.37 at the  New York 
close.  Separately, Ericsson said today it finished a planned
reorganization in Sweden. It eliminated 1,399 positions,
according to the statement, and the 1.5 billion kronor ($231
million) in restructuring costs will affect the company’s first-
quarter results.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  