-- Merlin Entertainment IPO Options ‘Open’ Amid London Preference
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-03-27T11:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/merlin-entertainment-ipo-options-open-amid-london-preference.html
Merlin Entertainments Group Ltd.,
the private-equity backed owner of Madame Tussauds and the
 London  Eye, said London is the preferred location for a planned
initial public offering, though all options are open.  “We would make no secret of our preference to list in the
U.K.,” Chief Executive Officer Nick Varney said in an interview
today as the Poole, England-based company reported higher annual
profit on sales that exceeded 1 billion pounds ($1.5 billion).  Merlin has said it plans to seek a listing by 2014, having
abandoned a proposed sale to the public three years ago in favor
of selling a stake to CVC Capital Partners Ltd. According to a
report in the  Times newspaper  last month, the company was put
off listing in London at the time by a reluctance among U.K.
institutional investors to buy shares in private-equity backed
companies at anything other than a big discount.  A listing in the U.S. “is an option” as 20 percent of
Merlin’s business is in North America, Varney said today. “We
have to look at all the options available.”  The entertainment group plans to reduce its net debt from
1.27 billion pounds to less than three times earnings before
interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization ahead of a
listing, though hasn’t yet appointed advisers, Varney said.  In addition to CVC, Merlin is co-owned by  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , the world’s biggest buyout firm, and Kirkbi A/S, the Danish
owner of a majority stake in LEGO Group.  Profit Gain  Merlin said today that operating profit rose 17 percent to
258 million pounds in the year ended Dec. 29, driven by growth
in indoor attractions. Ebitda rose to 346 million pounds.  Revenue gained 15 percent to 1.07 billion pounds, though
like-for-like sales declined 0.5 percent as some potential
visitors attended the London Olympics instead. Wet weather
across  Europe  also deterred families from visiting its parks.  Merlin is opening more entertainment parks across North
America and  Asia  to drive growth as European economy wanes under
the eurozone crisis. About 20 percent of revenue comes from
 North America  and almost 15 percent from Asia-Pacific.  “We are not expecting to see much improvement in southern
Europe, but we are feeling pretty confident about the rest of
Europe,” Varney said today. Merlin owns the Gardaland theme
park in  Italy , where the impact of the Eurozone crisis is
unlikely to improve anytime soon, he said.  Still, the company is “feeling fairly optimistic,” the
CEO said, citing higher demand over the February school holidays
amid an improvement in weather conditions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  