-- Ernst & Young Says China Firm has Papers Regulator Seeks
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-03-27T11:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/ernst-young-says-china-firm-has-papers-regulator-seeks.html
Ernst & Young Hong Kong, which
resigned as the auditor in 2010 for a Chinese water treatment
company planning an initial public offering, doesn’t hold the
audit papers the city’s regulator wants, a court was told.  “The performance of the engagement was carried out by Hua
Ming and all the working papers were created by staff of Hua
Ming,” the audit firm’s lawyer Benjamin Yu said today,
referring to its Beijing-based affiliate Ernst & Young Hua Ming.  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission, which is
seeking the documents in relation to Standard Water Ltd.’s
failed attempt to go public, believes Ernst & Young Hong Kong
either possesses or has access to the documents, its lawyer Jat
Sew Tong told the city’s Court of First Instance.  The regulator is making banks criminally liable for false
statements in IPO documents and strengthening regulation after a
series of accounting scandals involving Chinese companies. It
says auditors must be able to discuss their working papers as
part of Hong Kong’s regulatory framework, and that its lawsuit
followed consultation with Chinese authorities.  Hong Kong’s regulatory framework presumes that “the
watchdog auditor will be able to put the bloodhound regulator on
the scent,” SFC Chairman Carlson Tong said in a speech earlier
this month.  Ernst & Young Hong Kong resigned as Standard Water’s
auditor in March 2010 citing the discovery of inconsistencies in
the company’s documents. Standard Water subsequently withdrew
its listing application.  The work papers held by Ernst & Young Hua Ming can’t be
provided to the SFC directly because of secrecy laws in  China ,
Ernst & Young Hong Kong has said.  The SFC’s lawyer Jat today said the audit firm has failed
to demonstrate what secrecy laws apply.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Ernst &
Young, HCMP1818/2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  