-- Escape From the Euro Zone: A Tragedy in Three Acts
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-03-27T22:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/escape-from-the-euro-zone-a-tragedy-in-three-acts.html
What if Cyprus said no?  What if the small island-nation decided to repudiate the
terms of the 10 billion-euro ($12.8 billion) bailout handed down
by European leaders on Monday, bid “auf Wiedersehen” to the
euro and the 16 other countries that share it, and become a free
agent? What if, as U.K. member of the European Parliament Daniel Hannan wrote in the  U.K.’s Telegraph  this week, “Cyprus were to
default, decouple, devalue -- and then prosper? What effect
would a successful return to the Cyprus Pound have on the rest
of the  euro zone ?”  Little, if any, in the short run. Cyprus accounts for less
than 0.2 percent of euro-zone gross domestic product. It could
be cut loose without any macroeconomic impact. European savers
were unfazed by the initial rescue package’s proposed tax on
insured  bank deposits : Bank runs in other countries never
materialized. Even the financial-market reaction to the Cypriot
parliament’s March 19 rejection of that plan turned out to be a
non-event. Perhaps officials in Brussels saw the response as a
sign that Cyprus could be treated differently without any
adverse consequences.  Over the longer term, an escape by Cyprus would signal the
beginning of the end of a dream that was decades in the making:
a United States of Europe. Other uncompetitive countries would
see exiting as a viable option, a way of unshackling their
economies from the chains of a single currency and policies more
suited to, and determined by, the northern countries. (Although
the  Maastricht Treaty  provides no mechanism for leaving the
euro, a country’s refusal to comply with bailout terms would
probably be a de facto deal-breaker.)  Bailout Repackaged  The effect on Cyprus would be just the opposite: a disaster
in the short run, as Cypriot banks collapsed, taking the economy
down with them. In the long run, Cyprus would become more
competitive through a devalued currency rather than by a decline
in wages. So who could blame Cypriots for wanting their freedom?  The rescue package agreed to early this week in Brussels is
certainly better than the first go-round. In fact, it’s in line
with normal resolution procedures for insolvent institutions.
Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the country’s second-largest bank, will
be liquidated, with shareholders and bondholders taking the hit.
Uninsured depositors could suffer a loss of up to 40 percent.
Bank of Cyprus Pcl, the largest financial institution, will be
recapitalized by converting uninsured deposits to equity shares
to achieve a capital ratio of 9 percent, according to a
 Eurogroup statement . Insured depositors at both banks will be
fully protected.  So a better plan, yes, despite the haphazard execution and
perilous message it sends to European bank creditors and
depositors, including small savers supposedly covered by  deposit
insurance . It’s also unique in the context of earlier euro-zone
bailouts, the cost of which was largely borne by taxpayers.  Consider, for example, the decision to spare depositors in
Greek branches of Cyprus Popular, whose troubles started with
the 50 percent “haircut” it was forced to take on its large
portfolio of  Greek government debt , a condition of that
country’s bailout. Piraeus Bank SA agreed to buy Cyprus
Popular’s Greek branches, with half of the financing provided by
the Cyprus bailout.  The goal is to shield the Greek banking system from
Cyprus’s crisis and prevent a mass deposit exodus. (Contagion
would only create additional problems for German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  in advance of September’s parliamentary election.)
Cypriot banks are to remain shut at least until today and will
be subject to  capital controls  once they open.  Earlier this week, Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who serves as head of the Eurogroup, said Cyprus
may serve as a model for future bailouts. Europe’s stock markets
and the euro headed south, prompting Dijsselbloem to issue a
terse, 37-word  statement  clarifying that “Cyprus is a specific
case” and future adjustment programs will be “tailor-made”
for each country.  End Game  So which is it? Euro-zone depositors must be wondering.
Investors didn’t wait for the answer. The  Euro Stoxx Banks Index (SX7E) 
lost almost 4 percent on March 25 and 6.8 percent so far this
week.  Hannan, of the European Parliament, wonders why Cyprus
doesn’t “copy Iceland, let its banks collapse, and leave their
shareholders and bondholders to sustain the loss.”  That’s exactly what Cyprus is doing -- without a possible
offset from  currency devaluation .  Like Cyprus, Iceland’s banking system had grown to be many
times the size of the nation’s economy. When short-term funding
dried up during the 2008 financial crisis, Iceland nationalized
the domestic units of its banks, imposing losses on foreign
creditors. The krona lost 80 percent of its value versus the
euro.  Today,  Iceland’s economy  is recovering, thanks to a weaker
currency, fiscal consolidation and accommodative monetary
policy. Capital controls have yet to be lifted.  It’s not clear how Cyprus will manage without the
flexibility Iceland had. Cypriots may tire of waiting to see how
things play out -- and opt to write a different ending for their
country.  Act I of this drama dealt with the negotiations and
manipulations leading up to the creation of the European
monetary union. Act II was the realization. Act III, which is
still being written, is certain to test the viability of “No
Exit.”  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  