-- Etihad, JAT to Sign Initial Deal in April, Serbia Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-27T14:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/etihad-jat-to-sign-initial-deal-in-april-serbia-says.html
Etihad Airways PJSC, the third-
biggest Gulf airline, will sign an initial partnership agreement
with unprofitable Belgrade-based JAT Airways in April as  Serbia 
works to save its national carrier from bankruptcy.  The memorandum of understanding, the first step in forming
a strategic partnership, will be be signed in mid-April in
Belgrade, the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “We want JAT to become a profitable company and the pride
of Serbia,”  Mladjan Dinkic  said, according to the statement.
The final accord may be completed two months after that.  Serbia plans to take over about 170 million euros ($216
million) of JAT’s liabilities, reduce its workforce of 1,300 and
add six new aircraft to its fleet as part of the company’s
overhaul, Transportation Minister Milutin Mrkonjic said March
22. The government also started talks with the European
Aeronautic Defence & Space Co., the parent of Airbus SAS, on
leasing four planes.  The partnership would include a “complete upgrade” of
JAT’s fleet and the purchase of new planes, allowing Etihad to
take over 49 percent of Serbian carrier and turn JAT into a
member of the Etihad-led alliance, along with  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) ,
Aer Lingus Group Plc, Virgin Australia Airlines Pty Ltd. and Air
Seychelles Ltd., he said. Etihad would also help JAT lease four
new planes before the start of the tourist season in June.  New Routes  Etihad and JAT would also start daily flights between
Belgrade and  Abu Dhabi  and introduce flights from Belgrade to
 Chicago  and three other U.S. destinations with Air Berlin, he
said.  Dinkic is in the  United Arab Emirates , where the Abu Dhabi
Development Fund approved a $400 million financing for Serbian
agriculture, half for irrigation systems and the rest for cheap
lending to Serbian farmers to purchase machinery.  Dinkic, who is also the country’s economy minister, will
meet with representatives of Mubadala Aerospace and Mubadala
ATIC, parts of Mubadala Development Co., which is interested in
investing in a 4 billion-euro semiconductor plant in Serbia,
according to a Jan. 14 report.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s eight-month-old Cabinet is
trying to pull the economy out of its second recession in three
years, lure investments and reduce the unemployment rate of
around 25 percent. Mubadala’s investment alone would exceed a
third of total investments in Serbia between 2005 and 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  