-- T-Mobile’s MetroPCS Merger Rejected by Advisory Firm ISS
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-03-29T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/metropcs-investors-see-iss-as-tiebreaker-in-t-mobile-vote.html
Institutional Shareholder Services
Inc. , an investor advisory firm, recommended against T-Mobile
USA Inc.’s merger with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , dealing a
blow to a transaction that lacks the support of MetroPCS’s
biggest owner.  ISS said it opposed the deal because of unfavorable terms
and the potential for MetroPCS to thrive as an independent
company. MetroPCS could bolster its network by acquiring more
wireless airwaves and it may be the target of additional merger
offers in the future, the Rockville, Maryland-based firm said in
a report. Investors are slated to vote on the proposed
combination on April 12.  “The question remains, ‘Why now?’” ISS said. “Absent
merging with T-Mobile, PCS will still have $1.5 billion of  cash 
to dedicate to new spectrum in some way and could continue
operating as a stand-alone company.”  Paulson & Co. -- MetroPCS’s largest investor, with almost
10 percent of shares outstanding -- has come out against the
deal, as has smaller  shareholder  P. Schoenfeld Asset Management.
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, the second-largest owner, is
backing the merger.  Critics suggest the merger will load up the new company
with too much  debt , while supporters say it’s the best way for
MetroPCS to compete with larger carriers. The complexity of the
proposal -- a reverse merger creating a publicly traded business
that’s 74 percent owned by T-Mobile parent  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  -
- may prompt investors to rely more heavily on shareholder-
advisory firms, said  Michael Mahoney , senior managing director
at Falcon Point Capital LLC in  San Francisco .  ‘More Important’  “Because of the unique structure of this deal, ISS’s
decision is more important,” said Mahoney, who doesn’t own
shares in either MetroPCS or Deutsche Telekom.  ISS has held sway in high-profile takeover votes before. In
2002, the firm advocated for the $22.3 billion combination of
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and Compaq Computer Corp. The deal was
approved over the opposition of Hewlett-Packard board member
Walter Hewlett.  The merger is “strategically compelling,”  Glass, Lewis &
Co. , another advisory firm, said in a report sent by e-mail
yesterday. “MetroPCS and T-Mobile make for a strong strategic,
technological and cultural fit. The transaction addresses
MetroPCS’ challenges of obtaining additional spectrum, more
subscribers, a larger network footprint and a stronger platform
for future growth.”  MetroPCS’ Contribution  Still, San Francisco-based  Glass Lewis  said shareholders
shouldn’t be satisfied with the agreement because it “appears
to undervalue MetroPCS’ contribution to the combined company.”  The proposal would unify the fourth- and fifth-largest U.S.
wireless carriers, and it represents a key part of Deutsche
Telekom’s effort to stage a U.S. comeback. Its T-Mobile division
ranks a distant No. 4 to Verizon Wireless,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S) , and it lost 2.1 million monthly contract
subscribers last year.  Deutsche Telekom remains convinced that the deal will
benefit both carriers’ shareholders and that it will be approved
on April 12, said Philipp Kornstaedt, a spokesman for the Bonn-
based company. He declined to say whether Deutsche Telekom may
offer improved terms to MetroPCS shareholders.  To bounce back, T-Mobile announced plans this week to offer
the iPhone for the first time and introduced new payment plans
that let customers avoid the industry’s typical long-term
contracts. At the event, T-Mobile’s chief executive officer,
John Legere, said he was sure the MetroPCS deal would succeed
and criticized the  hedge funds  opposing the plan.  Legere said at the time that he had met with ISS and came
away confident about the merger’s prospects.  ‘Greedy’ Funds  “It will be approved, despite the greedy hedge funds,”
said Legere, who joined Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile in
September. “I’m confident because it makes huge sense. And the
alternatives for MetroPCS are a bit fictitious.”  Still, critics have balked at the terms. Deutsche Telekom,
 Germany ’s largest phone company, would own almost three-quarters
of the new business after making a $1.5 billion cash payment to
MetroPCS shareholders. The German company also would loan $15
billion to the entity. The resulting level of debt -- and the
relatively high, 7 percent projected  interest rate  -- would be a
heavy burden, according to P. Schoenfeld Asset Management and
other opponents.  “If anyone is being greedy here, it is Deutsche Telekom,”
Paulson & Co. said in a statement. “While we support industry
consolidation, the current proposal is a bad deal for MetroPCS
shareholders. We believe MetroPCS is worth more as a stand-alone
company.”  Deal Valuation  The way the deal is structured, the combined company would
be valued at $7 to $8 a share, said  Jonathan Chaplin , a New
York-based analyst at New Street Research. That compares with
MetroPCS’s closing share price of $10.90 yesterday. Shares of
the Richardson, Texas-based company have fallen 20 percent since
Oct. 2, the day before the merger was announced, signaling that
investors are unhappy with the terms.  Deutsche Telekom rose 0.4 percent to 8.25 euros at the
close in  Frankfurt  yesterday.  “The deal will be tough to get done,” said Kevin Smithen,
an analyst with Macquarie Securities USA Inc. in  New York . “The
opposition goes well beyond the publicly identified activist
shareholders.”  Possible Sweetener  Deutsche Telekom could improve its chances by sweetening
the offer, perhaps by cutting the new company’s debt by several
billion dollars, he said.  “This would help the valuation of the new company,” said
Smithen, who has the equivalent of a buy rating on MetroPCS.  Beyond that possibility, MetroPCS may have few additional
options. The company said this week that no other bidders have
emerged willing to counter T-Mobile’s offer.  MetroPCS could go it alone, though it’s increasingly
difficult to compete with the major carriers. Analysts estimate
that the company’s revenue will drop 1 percent to $5.07 billion
this year, while net income slides 36 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  MetroPCS’s board  approved the merger and has urged a yes
vote so the carrier can mount a stronger challenge to the top
carriers -- even if the new company would still be relatively
small. The combination would create a carrier with 42.3 million
customers, less than half the size of  Verizon Wireless  or AT&T.  Data Demand  The deal moved a step closer to completion on March 12,
when both the Federal Communications Commission and the
 Department of Justice  approved the transaction. The following
week, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. signed off
on the arrangement.  The merger also received the endorsement of  Egan-Jones
Proxy Services , which issued a report earlier this week. The
Haverford, Pennsylvania-based firm said the combination would
increase the size and quality of the carrier’s wireless coverage
and help it respond to growing demand for faster mobile-data
services.  MetroPCS’s combination with T-Mobile is a good idea in
principle, so long as the terms are right, Smithen said. As for
the ISS report, the firm’s advice may influence investors who
haven’t yet made up their minds, he said.  “It might sway the undecided,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  