-- EU Governments Approve Banker Pay Curbs as U.K. Objects
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-03-27T12:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/eu-governments-approve-banker-pay-curbs-as-u-k-objects.html
European Union nations approved
bank-capital and bonus rules for the 27-nation bloc in the face
of continued opposition from the U.K.  The measures, which ban bonuses of more than twice fixed
pay, were approved today at a meeting of national ambassadors,
according to a spokeswoman for Ireland’s EU presidency, who
couldn’t be identified in line with official policy. The U.K.
was the only country to raise concerns at today’s meeting and
lacks the power to block the measures, according to an EU
official.  “We’ve made clear that we cannot support this agreement,”
a U.K. diplomat said in an e-mailed statement. The plans will
lead to “increases in fixed pay for  bankers , making it more
difficult for banks to retain capital in a downturn.”  European Parliament lawmakers and Ireland, which holds the
rotating EU presidency, brokered a deal last week on how to
apply an international overhaul of bank rules to the bloc’s
8,300 lenders. Legislators insisted the package include banker
pay curbs.  Following today’s endorsement by ambassadors, the draft
laws must be voted on by the Parliament, and signed off on by
ministers, before they can take effect. The U.K. doesn’t have a
veto on the plans, which require weighted majority support in
the EU’s Council of Ministers.  “The U.K. concerns on the bonus rules are well known,”
 Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial-services chief, said in an interview. “The U.K. was
involved, as were all governments, in the long negotiations on
the text and we believe that on all points their concerns were
generally taken into account.”  The EU has said it plans for the legislation to take effect
on Jan. 1, though that may slip to July 1, 2014, depending on
when the rules are published. Officials said last week that the
pay rules wouldn’t apply to bonuses awarded in 2014 based on
performance in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  