-- EU to Start Debate on Energy, Climate Rules Amid Crisis
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-03-27T16:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/eu-to-start-debate-on-energy-climate-rules-amid-crisis.html
The European Union’s executive
started a debate today on EU climate and energy rules as the
crisis-ridden bloc seeks a long-term plan to cut greenhouse
gases and promote clean power technologies.  While the 27-nation bloc is making “good progress” toward
its 2020 goals to boost the share of renewable energy and cut
greenhouse gases, a framework for the subsequent decade is
needed to give investors legal certainty, spur innovation and
prepare for a global climate deal, the European Commission said
in a consultation paper published in Brussels.  The commission invited member states, the European
Parliament, industry groups and non-governmental organizations
to submit until July 2 their views on EU objectives for 2030.  “Despite of all the challenges, we need to start this new
chapter of the European climate and energy policies,” Climate
Commissioner Connie Hedegaard told a news conference. “The
trick is to understand and reflect in all our policies that we
do have three crises: an economic crisis, job and social crisis,
but we also still have a climate, energy and resource crisis.
The sooner we get this the better.”  The EU, in the fourth year of the sovereign-debt crisis,
wants to remain the leader in the global fight against climate
change while ensuring the security of energy supply and
fostering competitiveness. The new rules must draw on the
lessons from the current framework and identify how to best use
synergies and deal with trade-offs between various policy
objectives, the commission said.  Climate Goals  “Climate and energy policies need long-term perspectives,
there’s probably no sector which depends on long-term planning
as much as the energy sector,” Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  told the conference. “You could say that 2020 was
yesterday for the energy sector and 2030 is tomorrow.”  The energy and climate consultation document, known as a
green paper, builds on the commission’s earlier assessments,
which showed that the most cost-efficient way for the EU to
attain its long-term climate goals is to cut greenhouse gases by
40 percent in 2030. Leaders of the bloc, which has a binding
target to reduce emissions by 20 percent in 2020 compared with
1990 levels, voiced political support for cutting pollution by
at least 80 percent in 2050.  Serious Threat  “A great number of reports from various international
organizations have underlined  the threat  of a rapidly changing
climate to our economies, our security, our natural resources
and our food supplies,” the Greens group in the EU Parliament
said in a statement. “The threat is too serious for Europe to
continue to fail to understand the necessity of tackling both
the climate and the  economic crisis  at the same time.”  While the document published today is aimed at triggering a
debate among policy makers on the future policy framework, the
commission wants to present concrete legislative proposals
toward the end of this year, Oettinger said. A new set of goals
could become binding toward the end of 2014 or in 2015 at the
latest, he said.  Investors in the EU emissions trading system, the world’s
largest, have been urging lawmakers to set a binding climate
target for 2030 as soon as possible to prevent carbon prices
from declining further after they slumped to a record low of
2.81 euros a metric ton in January.  Coherent Framework  The challenge will be for the EU to design a coherent
framework that takes into account ambition, competitiveness,
economic viability and differing capacities of member states.
Under the current climate and energy package, the EU also has a
binding goal to increase the share of green energy to an average
of 20 percent by the end of this decade and a political target
to boost energy efficiency by one-fifth. Among the issues that
the commission will seek opinion on is whether Europe needs
binding targets for those two areas after 2020.  “It’s very important, if we decide in the end that we’re
going to have three targets, that we consider the interaction
between them,” Hedegaard said in an interview today. “That’s
probably one thing that was done good enough when the last set
of targets were set. That’s very important.”  Under the current design, demand for emission permits in
the EU cap-and-trade program is being undermined by overlapping
renewables and energy-efficiency measures, according to Jesse
Scott, head of the environment policy unit at power industry
association Eurelectric. The lobby includes EON SE,  Germany ’s
largest utility, and  Enel SpA (ENEL) ,  Italy ’s biggest electricity
producer.  Greenhouse Gases  “Subsidies for renewables create an implicit carbon price
which competes with the explicit price of allowances,” Scott
said by e-mail. “This problem is undermining the ETS as a
market tool, and has the potential ultimately to destroy the
competitive electricity market, at the expense of customers or
taxpayers. We are especially pleased that the green paper
recognizes this issue.”  When designing the future policy framework, the EU will
also need to take into account the cost of energy, the
commission said. In this context, it’ll need to address several
issues, including full enactment of its existing energy market
legislation, the future exploitation of conventional and
unconventional gas in  Europe  and slow progress in international
efforts to curb greenhouse gases, according to the EU executive.  The Climate Action Network environmental lobby criticized
the commission’s draft, saying it barely addresses climate
change, instead mainly focusing on issues of competitiveness and
energy security.  “By neglecting the urgency of the climate crisis, the
commission does not recognize the reality of the planet we are
living on,” Wendel Trio, a Brussels-based director of CAN
Europe, said by e-mail. “The cost to our economy from inaction
on the climate crisis will be enormous. By setting ambitious and
binding targets for renewable energy and energy savings, we
could begin to tackle the problem,” Trio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  