-- Europe’s Deep Freeze Takes the Wind Out of Store Sales
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-03-27T09:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/europe-s-deep-freeze-takes-the-wind-out-of-store-sales.html
As most Europeans shiver in the
grip of the coldest March in living memory, the region’s
retailers are feeling every bit as uncomfortable.  Spring fashions, potted plants and garden furniture --
which normally contribute to sales at this time of year -- are
gathering dust as freezing winter temperatures show no sign of
dissipating.  Kingfisher Plc, (KGF)  the region’s largest home-improvement
retailer, has had a slow start this spring, the company said
yesterday.  Hennes & Mauritz AB, (HMB)   Europe ’s second-biggest clothing
retailer, reported last week that cold weather was among the
reasons for a 10 percent drop in first-quarter profit.  “Weather is a massive factor in the fortunes of
retailers,” said Bryan Roberts, an analyst at Kantar Retail in
London. “Do-it-yourself and fashion are the two that are most
vulnerable at this particular point of the year.”  This month is set to be the  coldest March  across England
and  Wales  in at least 44 years, according to forecaster
WeatherOnline Ltd. The U.K.’s average temperature of 3.1 degrees
Celsius (37.6 degrees Fahrenheit) for the first 17 days of the
month compares with a long-term average of 5.5 degrees, the
country’s Meteorological Office said. In  Germany , March may be 3
degrees to 5 degrees colder than the average, Deutscher
Wetterdienst forecasts.  Forecasters expect the winter weather to continue until
Easter, dealing a blow to home-improvement retailers. The long
holiday weekend is traditionally among the busiest periods for
them as shoppers use the time off to start outdoor projects.  Record Rainfall  “It’s been a tough month for non-food, with DIY and
fashion feeling the pinch from the cold weather,” Nick Bubb, an
independent retail analyst in  London , said in an e-mail.  Kingfisher Chief Executive Officer Ian Cheshire said
yesterday that it was too early to tell what impact the weather
would have this year. While this March has been the coldest in
five decades, last summer was the wettest in a century, he said.
Record U.K. rainfall cut the profit of Kingfisher, which owns
the B&Q chain, by 25 million pounds ($38 million) last year.  Kingfisher  shares  have fallen 0.3 percent this year versus
an 8.5 percent gain in the U.K. benchmark  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)   Praktiker AG (PRA) , a German home-improvement retailer, says
revenue is significantly lower this month than a year ago as the
cold deters customers from buying garden products and equipment.
The company says it’s seeking to boost revenue by offering a
storewide discount of 35 percent.  Stark Contrast  Hornbach Holding AG (HBH3) , Germany’s third-biggest home-
improvement chain, said the spring planting season, which
usually starts in March, will be delayed. “The normal schedule
is completely distorted,” said spokeswoman Ursula Dauth.
Nonetheless, she said that if the weather improves soon Hornbach
will likely recoup many of the sales it could lose this week.  The current freezing temperatures stand in stark contrast
with this time last year, which marked the warmest March since
1957, according to WeatherOnline.  The cold weather hasn’t just been confined to Europe. An
almost weekly series of storms has come across the U.S. since
the start of February, dropping snow and tying up air traffic.  For clothing retailers, the cold weather is “really bad”
because they won’t be able to sell spring fashions as planned
and may be short of winter inventory, said Daniel Lucht, an
analyst at ResearchFarm, a market researcher in London.  “The only thing you can do is discount really,” putting
profitability under pressure, Lucht said.  Quick Decisions  Next Plc, (NXT)  Britain’s second-largest clothing retailer, said
last week that the chilly climate was delaying spring purchases
and contributing to a “quiet start” to the fiscal year. John
Lewis Partnership Plc, the country’s largest department-store
chain, also cited “extended winter weather” as it reported a
0.3 percent drop in sales for the week ended March 16.  Citigroup Inc. analysts estimate that H&M’s March same-
store sales will decline 10 percent from a year earlier.  Some supermarket chains have had pallets of barbecue
equipment and charcoal in stores for at least two weeks,
according to Kantar Retail. Others have faced shortages of
various products after the weather affected deliveries, the
researcher said. Britain’s Met Office says the U.K. has been hit
by as much as a foot of snow since March 22.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  “will be pulling out all the stops” to
make sure deliveries get through, according to Roger Burnley,
logistics chief at Britain’s third-largest supermarket chain.  “Last time we had snow we even had one enterprising driver
delivering an online order by sledge,” Burnley said by e-mail.  Salt, Scarves  Sainsbury has put its “cold weather plan” into action to
ensure all its stores are stocked with products such as salt and
scarves, as well as bread, milk and soup, Burnley said.  Not all shoppers are put off by the cold snap. Margareta
Stoeva, a 21-year-old Bulgarian who works as a pianist on a
ship, said she’s buying more spring clothes to make herself feel
better about the weather.  “When I see the sun I go out and buy a t-shirt or shorts
or a skirt,” Stoeva said outside a shoe store in  Stockholm .
“Then it feels a little more like spring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Jarvis in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  