-- Euro Risks Drop Toward Parity on No Growth, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-03-27T03:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/euro-risks-drop-toward-parity-on-no-growth-morgan-stanley-says.html
The euro risks dropping toward
parity with the  U.S. dollar  over the next 2 1/2 years as the
region enacts policies aimed at weakening the currency to
bolster growth, Morgan Stanley said.  The 17-nation euro, which has slid 2.6 percent this year,
will continue to decline as the bailout package for Cyprus fans
concern about the safety of  bank deposits  in the region, Hans- Guenter Redeker, the head of global currency strategy at Morgan
Stanley, said in an interview yesterday in Sydney. Italy’s
struggle to form a government after last month’s divided vote
will also weaken the euro, he said.  “This policy concerning Cyprus, people will be getting
more concerned in funding the peripheral, providing deposits
there,” Redeker said. “The long-term implication is that
monetary transition in  Europe  is not working, there’s no credit,
no growth, and fiscal policy is still fragmented. So, therefore,
you need to be fairly pessimistic for the outlook.”  The euro traded at $1.2855 as of 12:14 p.m. in  Tokyo  after
yesterday falling as low as $1.2829, the least since Nov. 22.
The common currency will end the year at $1.25 and fall to $1.19
by the end of 2014, Redeker said. The median forecast of
analysts polled by Bloomberg is for the euro to trade at $1.29
by Dec. 31.  Europe Recession  “Within 2 1/2 years or so, you could be very close to
parity, so the risk of an undershoot is quite significant,” he
said.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted more
than economists estimated this month, adding to signs the region
is struggling to emerge from recession.  Gross domestic product 
in the fourth quarter fell by the the most since the first
quarter of 2009.  While European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
earlier this month the region will gradually recover later in
2013, concerns about Cyprus have roiled markets. Under the terms
of an agreement struck March 25, senior Cypriot bank bond
holders will take losses and uninsured depositors will be
largely wiped out.  The deal is “long-term a very negative thing,” said
Redeker. Private-sector funding in indebted nations such as
Spain and Italy will probably stay elevated compared to Germany,
hampering the effectiveness of monetary policy across the region
as austerity measures detract from growth, he said  “What is left is that Europe in autumn is going to do the
 Japan ,” Redeker said, referring to policies that seek to weaken
currencies to support exports and growth. “That type of policy
is going to come on the agenda, and when we are getting into the
third- and fourth quarter, it’s coming forcefully through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  