-- Euro Near Four-Month Low on Cyprus Contagion Concern; Yen Gains
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-03-28T00:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/euro-trades-near-four-month-low-amid-cyprus-contagion-concerns.html
The euro traded 0.2 percent from a
four-month low versus the dollar on concern that future European
bailouts could include the kind of bank deposit levies imposed
on Cyprus.  The 17-nation currency headed for its biggest weekly
decline in seven with Italian political parties still deadlocked
ahead of a deadline today for forming a government. The yen
gained against most of its major peers before  Bank of Japan (8301) 
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda appears before upper house lawmakers
ahead of a policy meeting next week.  “There is concern what’s happened in Cyprus is setting a
precedent for what could potentially happen to deposit holders
in other parts of the zone,” said Janu Chan, a Sydney-based
economist at St. George Bank Ltd. “I suspect Italian politics
could weigh on the euro.”  The euro was unchanged at $1.2780 as of 9:30 a.m. in  Tokyo 
from yesterday, when it touched $1.2751, the lowest since Nov.
21. The shared currency was little changed at 120.69 yen,
following a 0.6 percent drop yesterday. The yen traded at 94.42
per dollar from 94.46.  The euro has declined 1.6 percent against the greenback
this week, the most since the five day’s ended Feb. 8, and 1.6
percent versus the yen.  Japan ’s currency is little changed
against the dollar since March 22.  Financial markets will be closed tomorrow for a holiday in
most of  Europe , the U.S., and much of  Asia .  Banks Reopen  Cyprus’s banks will open their doors to customers today for
the first time in almost two weeks, with new rules curbing
access to cash. They’ve been closed since March 16, when the
European Union presented a plan to force losses on all
depositors in exchange for a 10-billion euro bailout.  A subsequent agreement shuts  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , the
nation’s No. 2 lender, and imposes larger losses on uninsured
depositors.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday lowered the highest
rating that can be assigned to a domestic debt issuer in Cyprus
to Caa2, citing a growing risk that the country would exit the
euro. The company said Cyprus’s Caa3 government bond rating and
negative outlook remain unchanged.  In Japan, the BOJ’s Kuroda goes before the upper house of
parliament today, six days before he leads his first policy
meeting as central bank chief.  In lower house testimony on March 26, Kuroda pledged to buy
more  government bonds  to help achieve a 2 percent annual
inflation target in two years.  Expectations of additional policy easing have driven the
yen down 17 percent in the past six months, the biggest decline
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has gained 2.1 percent.
The  U.S. dollar  has risen 2.8 percent.  Figures from the Commerce Department today may show the
 U.S. economy  expanded at a revised 0.5 percent annual pace in
the fourth quarter, faster than the government’s previous
estimate of 0.1 percent growth, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  