-- Evans Says Fed Bond Buying Should Continue Through End of 2013
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-03-27T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/evans-says-fed-bond-buying-should-continue-through-end-of-2013.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Chicago 
President  Charles Evans  said stimulus must continue “firing on
all cylinders” until achieving sustained job growth, adding
that he expects the Fed will keep  buying assets  at a pace of
about $85 billion per month throughout this year.  That “is a good pace to maintain to provide that abundant
confidence that we’re going to continue with accommodation,”
Evans said today in a meeting with reporters in Chicago. “This
is a point when we have to be patient and let our policies
work.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said last week it will
keep up the pace of bond buying even as some Fed officials voice
concern over the costs and risks from the unprecedented program
while others note a recent acceleration in job growth. Boston
Fed President  Eric Rosengren  also said today he wants to
continue the asset purchases through year’s end.  “I’m going to have a lot more confidence if I begin to see
indications that growth is well above trend and it’s going to be
sustainable,” Evans said at the Chicago Fed. “We have gone
through this type of thing before, where we saw improvements in
the labor numbers” only to watch job growth slow “to unhelpful
levels.”  Since reducing its  benchmark interest rate  almost to zero
in December 2008, the Fed has been experimenting with large-
scale asset purchases to bolster growth. The central bank
started its third round of quantitative easing in September,
specifying neither an end date for the program nor a total
amount officials plan to buy.  Halt Purchases  Policy makers have debated when to slow and halt the
purchases as they weigh the efficacy, costs and risks of further
expanding the record $3.21 trillion balance sheet. While Dallas
Fed President  Richard Fisher  is among officials who have argued
for an immediate tapering of the program, Evans isn’t alone in
favoring a continuation of the current policy for some time.  Fed policy should pursue “faster economic growth and a
more-rapid improvement in the  unemployment rate ,” Rosengren
said in a speech in Manchester,  New Hampshire . “We should
continue our large-scale asset purchases of Treasury and
mortgage-backed securities through this year -- although the
amount may need to be adjusted up or down, depending on how the
economic situation evolves.”  Quantitative easing is “beginning to work” with low
 interest rates  bolstering housing and auto sales, Evans said
today. Benefits still far outweigh the potential negative impact
from the stimulus, and “it’s not even a close call at the
moment,” he said.  Vocal Advocate  Evans, who votes on monetary policy this year, has been
among the most vocal advocates for easing within the Fed.  The economy will probably grow 2.5 percent this year and
3.5 percent next year, Evans said, noting his expectations for
“a pretty good” environment despite cutbacks in  government
spending . The Fed should keep asset purchases “going through
the end of this year at about this pace,” he said.
Unemployment, at 7.7 percent in February, will be “in the
vicinity of 7 percent” by the end of 2014, he said.  If job growth starts to falter, the Fed can continue buying
assets for a longer period, he said. Another option is to
accelerate purchases.  Evans dissented twice in favor of more accommodation in
2011. He was the first FOMC participant to propose that the Fed
link its zero-rate policy to economic indicators, a suggestion
that was adopted by the FOMC in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  