-- Ex-Guard Gets 16 Months for Selling Sun Data on Bulger Case
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-03-27T12:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/ex-guard-gets-16-months-for-selling-sun-data-on-bulger-case.html
Two former law-enforcement officers
were sentenced to as much as 16 months in jail after admitting
taking bribes from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Sun tabloid, the first to
confess to criminal charges in a probe of wrongdoing at the
company’s U.K. newspapers.  Former prison guard Richard Trunkfield was sentenced to 16
months in jail for accepting 3,350 pounds ($5,000) in bribes
from the Sun for information about Jon Venables, who was
convicted of killing two-year-old James Bulger in 1993, Judge
Adrian Fulford said today. Alan Tierney, an ex-police officer in
Surrey, got 10 months for selling details about celebrities to
Sun journalists.  “This, I fear, is a case of some seriousness,” Fulford
said in reference to Trunkfield at a hearing in London today.
“His actions could have proved highly damaging to the prison
service.”  News Corp.’s publications in the U.K. have been
investigated for phone hacking and bribery since revelations in
2011 that the company’s News of the World tabloid illegally
accessed messages on the mobile phone of a murdered school girl
during the police investigation. News Corp. Chairman Rupert
Murdoch closed the News of the World in response to the scandal
and dozens of people have been arrested in police probes.  The Sun is Britain’s best-selling daily and the main focus
of the bribery investigation. Rebekah Brooks, the former chief
executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K. unit and a past editor of
both the Sun and the News of the World, has been charged with
both phone hacking and bribery.  Notorious Murder  The Bulger case was one of the most notorious murders in
British history as Venables and another boy were only 10 years
old when they abducted and murdered the toddler. Venables was
imprisoned at a youth offenders’ institution until being
released in 2001. The case caused public protests and his
identity was changed to protect him.  Tierney sold the Sun on Ronnie Wood, a member of the
Rolling Stones, and the mother of soccer player John Terry.  April Casburn, a senior  London  police detective, was
sentenced on Feb. 1 to 15 months in prison for trying to sell
information about the phone-hacking probe to the News of the
World. She was the first person sentenced in the cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  