-- Ex-Morgan Keegan Fund Directors to Settle SEC Claims
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-03-27T21:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/ex-morgan-keegan-fund-directors-to-settle-sec-claims.html
Eight former Morgan Keegan & Co.
mutual-fund directors agreed to settle U.S. regulatory claims
that they allowed assets backed by subprime mortgages to be
overvalued as the housing market collapsed in 2007.  The settlement outlined today in a Securities and Exchange
Commission administrative order would resolve claims filed by
the agency in December 2010. A hearing set for April 2 has been
stayed, according to the order.  “The parties have agreed in principle to a settlement on
all major terms,” the SEC said in the order signed by an agency
official and attorneys for the eight former directors. Terms
weren’t disclosed.  Morgan Keegan agreed to pay $200 million to  settle  related
fraud allegations in 2011. The brokerage, formerly owned by
 Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , was acquired by  Raymond James Financial
Inc. (RJF)  last year.  The eight directors, who were responsible for determining
the fair value of securities that lacked readily available
quotations, delegated valuation to a committee without providing
meaningful guidance, the SEC said in 2010. The directors made
little effort to learn how the values were being determined,
according to the regulator.  The directors named by the SEC were J. Kenneth Alderman,
Jack R. Blair, Albert C. Johnson, James Stillman R. McFadden,
Allen B. Morgan Jr., W. Randall Pittman, Mary S. Stone and
Archie W. Willis III.  Stephen Crimmins of K&L Gates in  Washington , attorney for
Blair, Johnson, McFadden, Pittman, Stone and Willis, declined to
comment.  Peter Anderson  of Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP in
Atlanta, a lawyer for Alderman and Morgan, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  