-- Fannie Mae Regulator Sets No-Doc Modifications for Borrowers
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-03-27T19:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/fannie-mae-regulator-sets-no-doc-modifications-to-help-borrowers.html
Seriously delinquent borrowers with
mortgages owned or backed by  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac will be
able to reduce monthly payments without documenting finances
under a program introduced by the companies’ regulator.  The move announced today by the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  is designed to stem losses to the U.S.-owned firms by
letting borrowers at least 90 days behind on their loans bypass
the administrative hurdles of typical loan modifications.
Homeowners may still give their lender documents on financial
hardships and can save more money by doing so, the  agency said .  “This new option gives delinquent borrowers another path
to avoid foreclosure,” Edward J. DeMarco, the FHFA’s acting
director, said in a statement.  About two-thirds of U.S. home mortgages are backed by
Washington-based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of McLean,  Virginia ,
which package loans into securities on which they guarantee
payments of principal and interest. About 3.2 percent of
mortgages they guarantee were at least 90 days in arrears in
January, according to data from the two companies.  Borrowers and lenders have complained about the amount of
paperwork required to ease loan terms under the Home Affordable
Modification Program. The new effort is designed to ensure that
borrowers will get some relief while waiting to hear whether
they qualify for deeper aid under the existing HAMP program.  ‘Unnecessary Friction’  “If this gets people into a modification and they perform,
everybody wins,” Julia Gordon, director for housing finance and
policy at the Center for American Progress, said in a telephone
interview. “No-doc gets results, and in my view, HAMP should
have required far less of this documentation to begin with.
There’s been unnecessary friction.”  The Streamlined Modification Initiative will begin July 1
and end on August 1, 2015, the FHFA said. Borrowers must be at
least 90 days delinquent, have a loan at least a year old and
have less than 20 percent equity in their home to qualify.  Modified loans will have fixed interest rates and payment
terms extended to 40 years, the FHFA said. Some borrowers who
owe more than their homes are worth won’t be required to pay
interest on a portion of the principal.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  have been operating under U.S.
conservatorship since September 2008, when they were seized by
federal regulators amid losses on risky loans during the
subprime mortgage crisis.  Since 2008, they’ve completed 1.3 million loan
modifications and 1.4 million other foreclosure-prevention
actions, including short sales and forbearance plans.  Strategic Defaults  The two companies have computer programs that can detect
borrowers who are likely to try to default intentionally to get
a streamlined modification, the FHFA said. Whether that will be
enough to prevent so-called strategic defaults by borrowers
looking to qualify for help remains to be seen, Jaret Seiberg, a
senior policy analyst for Guggenheim Securities LLC’s Washington
Research Group, wrote in a market commentary.  “We are cautious about whether these safeguards will work,
but take it as an encouraging sign that FHFA has thought about
the issue and has a plan to address this risk,” Seiberg wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  