-- Fat-Buster Bacteria Helps in Gastric Surgery, Researchers Find
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-03-27T19:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/fat-buster-bacteria-helps-in-gastric-surgery-researchers-find.html
Bacteria that live in the gut
change after gastric-bypass surgery, and may aid in  weight loss ,
according to a Harvard University study.  Researchers gave mice the stomach-shrinking surgery and
monitored changes in the gut’s bacterial inhabitants, according
to  a study  in the journal  Science Translational Medicine . When
bacteria from the mice that got surgery were transferred into
mice with no gut germs, those mice also lost weight, about a
fifth of what they would have lost with surgery.  Gastric surgery helps people lose weight by shrinking the
size of the stomach, making it tougher to absorb calories. Now
scientists think it may also adjust gastrointestinal bacteria,
contributing to weight loss and raising the possibility for
less-drastic obesity treatments, according to the authors.  “A major gap in our knowledge is the underlying mechanism
linking microbes to weight loss,” said Peter Turnbaugh, a study
author and systems biologist at Harvard, in a statement released
by the university. “There were certain microbes that we found
at higher abundance after surgery, so we think those are good
targets for beginning to understand what’s taking place.”  The researchers fed three groups of mice a high-fat, high-
carbohydrate diet that made them obese. One group received the
most-common version of gastric bypass, called  Roux-en-Y . Two
other groups received “sham” operations, where the animals’
intestines were cut and sewn back together. One group of those
who received the sham operation continued eating the same diet
as before; another group was put on a weight loss diet.  Microbe Changes  After a week, the mice who received weight-loss surgery had
changes in the numbers and kind of microbes that lived in their
gut, the study found. Three weeks later, the mice had lost a
third of their body weight. By comparison, there was little
change in the bacteria of mice that underwent the sham slicing,
even though those in the controlled diet group also lost the
same amount of weight.  The scientists then transferred the microbes from the
surgically-altered mice into mice whose stomachs lacked their
own bacteria. Those mice also lost weight while other sterile
mice receiving bacteria from either group didn’t.  It’s not clear what about the bacteria caused weight loss,
the study authors said.  “We need to learn a good deal more about the mechanism by
which a microbial population changed by gastric bypass exerts
its effects,” said Lee Kaplan, a study author and director of
the Obesity, Metabolism, and Nutrition Institute at
 Massachusetts General Hospital , in a statement. “ The ability
to achieve even some of these effects without surgery would give
us an entirely new way to treat the critical problem of obesity,
one that could help patients unable or unwilling to have
surgery.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  