-- Fed’s Kocherlakota Says 6.5% Unemployment No Rate Trigger
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-03-27T20:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/fed-s-kocherlakota-says-6-5-unemployment-is-no-rates-trigger-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the  Federal Open Market
Committee  may choose not to raise the main  interest rate  when
the jobless rate falls below 6.5 percent.  “The unemployment rate threshold is not a trigger for FOMC
action,” Kocherlakota said in a  speech  today in Edina,
 Minnesota . He also said the committee’s guidance provides “a
great deal of protection against undue inflationary pressures.”  The policy-setting FOMC affirmed last week it will keep the
federal  funds rate  near zero as long as unemployment remains
above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation does not exceed
2.5 percent. The committee also said it will leave the pace of
asset purchases unchanged at $85 billion a month.  Should the central bank’s inflation outlook ever rise above
2.5 percent, its commitment to keep rates near zero “is off the
table,” said Kocherlakota, who doesn’t vote on the FOMC until
2014. “I would see a breach of this threshold as being a cause
for significant concern.”  Policy makers haven’t had a medium-term outlook for
inflation as high as 2.25 percent during the past 15 years, the
Fed district bank chief told a gathering of Minneapolis-area
business leaders. That means an outlook of more than 2.5 percent
“should be seen as being highly unusual” and prompt the FOMC
“to strongly consider an aggressive response.”  Communications Policy  The central bank should give clearer guidance about the
conditions that will prompt it to halt  asset  purchases,
Kocherlakota said to reporters after his speech.  “We’re vague about asset purchases,” only saying “we’re
going to continue the asset purchases until we have a
substantial improvement in the labor market outlook,”
Kocherlakota said. The Fed should give “more guidance about
what that means, specific quantitative guidance.”  “Improvement in the  labor market  has been stronger,”
Kocherlakota said, adding he is “pleasantly surprised by the
strength in the private sector over the past couple months.”  By 2018, unemployment will probably decline to a range of
5.2 percent to 6 percent while inflation will be about 2
percent, he said in response to audience questions.  “The Fed will be successful in achieving its goals in
terms of inflation and unemployment,” Kocherlakota said.
“Private-sector forecasters share this confidence, that five
years out we’re going to be looking at inflation and
unemployment that have normalized.”  GDP Growth  Kocherlakota in his speech maintained his forecasts that
gross domestic product probably will expand by 2.5 percent this
year and 3 percent next year, and that unemployment will
“continue to fall only slowly,” to 7.5 percent in late 2013
and 7 percent in late 2014. Inflation measured by the personal
consumption expenditures index “will remain subdued” at 1.6
percent in 2013 and 1.9 percent in 2014, he said.  Kocherlakota repeated his view that “monetary policy is
currently not accommodative enough,” and that the central bank
should do more to spur economic growth and hiring.  The Fed started a third round of quantitative easing in
September with $40 billion of monthly agency mortgage-backed
securities purchases. The program was expanded in December with
$45 billion of monthly purchases of Treasury notes.  Kocherlakota, 49, was among the earliest advocates of tying
the Fed’s interest-rate policy to economic data, first calling
for the change in a speech in September. The FOMC adopted a
variation of what the district bank president advocated in the
committee’s December meeting.  Kocherlakota spoke to the Bloomington,  Eden Prairie , Edina
and Richfield chambers of commerce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Edina, Minnesota at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  