-- Fed’s Rosengren Backs Bond Buying Through ’13 to Lift Growth
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-03-27T17:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/fed-s-rosengren-favors-bond-buying-through-2013-to-lift-growth.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said he wants to continue the central
bank’s bond purchases through year’s end and raise or lower the
pace in response to economic data.  Fed policy should pursue “faster economic growth and a
more rapid improvement in the  unemployment  rate,” Rosengren
said in the text of remarks prepared for delivery in Manchester,
 New Hampshire . “We should continue our large-scale asset
purchases of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities through
this year -- although the amount may need to be adjusted up or
down, depending on how the economic situation evolves.”  Rosengren, who votes on monetary policy this year, has
supported the central bank’s monthly purchases of $85 billion in
Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities as a means to try to
bring down 7.7 percent unemployment. The Fed previously bought
$2.3 trillion of assets in two earlier quantitative-easing
programs.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank would alter monthly buying in response to gains in the job
market, underscoring a need for flexibility. He said further
gains would be needed to be sure “this is not a temporary
improvement.”  ‘Slightly Better’  While recent economic reports have been slightly better
than expected, the  U.S. economy  may grow at a rate of “a bit
above 2 percent” in the first half of this year, Rosengren said
to the Business and Industry Association of New Hampshire and
the state’s bankers’ association. He said the benefits of the
bond-buying program outweigh the costs, and minimized concerns
that the Fed’s record-high  balance sheet  would spur inflation or
cause financial instability.  “Fiscal austerity has been offset in part by improvements
in housing and also auto sales,” he said. “Housing and autos
are the most interest-sensitive components of GDP, and their
strength partly reflects the positive impact of Federal Reserve
policies to push long-term  interest rates  down with our large-
scale asset purchase program.”  Rosengren said the central bank should reduce its bond
buying as the economy improves and at some point it should stop
purchases.  Buying More  “On the other hand, if the economy does much worse, we
have the option of buying more of them,” Rosengren said in
response to audience questions. “There’s additional things we
can do if we need to do, including just expanding some of the
things” already under way, he said.  Fed policy makers expect U.S. unemployment to fall to 6.9
percent to 7.6 percent by the fourth quarter, and Rosengren said
in his prepared remarks his forecast was for “just above the
midpoint” of 7.25 percent. Despite the progress, unemployment
remains “far higher” than the 5.25 percent rate the economy is
likely to return to over time, he said.  Boston Fed research suggests each $500 billion in asset
purchases has led to a quarter-point decline in the  unemployment
rate  and the creation of about 400,000 jobs, Rosengren said.  Meanwhile, an index of inflation tied to spending patterns
rose 1.2 percent in the year ended in January, which is “far
below” the Fed’s target of 2 percent, he said.  Risk-Taking  Rosengren spent much of his speech addressing concerns,
raised this year by Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein  and Kansas City
Fed President Esther George, that low interest rates could lead
to excessive risk-taking and therefore threaten financial
stability.  “I see little evidence that our monetary policies are
generating significant financial stability problems at this
time,” he said.  While U.S. stock prices have risen, the gains have been
largely in tandem with corporate earnings and the price-earnings
ratio for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index remains below its 20-
year average, Rosengren said.  Home prices  are below their peaks,
and about in line with rental rates, he said.  High-yield bond rates have dropped, though most of the
decline has been in line with U.S. Treasury yields, the Boston
Fed chief said. The largest U.S. banks are much better
positioned to withstand shocks because they have considerably
more capital than in 2008, he said.  Bank Supervision  While farmland prices have surged, any threat is likely to
be concentrated in small banks and should be dealt with by bank
supervision rather than monetary policy, which would be “a very
blunt tool,” Rosengren said.  “While the  Federal Reserve ’s accommodative monetary policy
has been an important driver of the current economic recovery,
and the financial stability costs appear relatively modest at
this time, we cannot be Pollyannas,” he said.  The Fed should continue to closely monitor whether central
bank stimulus is “having unintended consequences,” the Boston
Fed leader said, and areas of focus may include quality of
covenants on high-yield bonds. Covenants are legally binding
agreements in which the borrower agrees to certain stipulations
over the life of the loan.  “Bond covenants are intended to protect investors, and the
issuance of bonds that reduce or eliminate common covenants in
their contracts could become an area of concern,” Rosengren
said. “In fact, there is some evidence that some new bond
issuance reduces covenants that protect investors.”  Bond Covenants  The average covenant score for speculative-grade bonds, in
which 1 is the strongest and 5 is the weakest, was 3.96 in
February, according to Moody’s Investors Service, the weakest
reading since the ratings company began tracking the data in
January 2011. High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  Rosengren said other areas of focus should include the
growth of real estate investment trusts, money market mutual
funds, and concerns with broker-dealers and wholesale funding
markets.  When the central bank began its third round of large-scale
asset purchases in September, the most recent Labor Department
report showed the unemployment  rate  was 8.1 percent. Joblessness
fell to 7.7 percent in February, and monthly payroll growth has
averaged almost 200,000 since October.  Even so, the labor market is far from making up the losses
it sustained during the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009. The economy lost 8.8 million jobs as a result of the
recession, and it has since regained 5.7 million.  Fed officials have varying views of how far along the
recovery is.  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley this week
said it’s “too soon to take much cheer from the recent economic
news” because reports have had ups and downs, while Dallas Fed
President  Richard Fisher  said he favors reducing mortgage bond
purchases in light of a “pretty robust housing situation.”  Rosengren, 55, became president of the Boston Fed in July
2007, and had previously served in the economic and supervision
departments of the bank. The Boston Fed district includes
 Connecticut  excluding Fairfield County,  Massachusetts ,  Maine ,
New Hampshire,  Rhode Island  and  Vermont .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Goffstown, New Hampshire at 
3271 or  mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  