-- Ford Forecasts $300 Million South America Loss in First Quarter
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-03-28T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/ford-forecasts-300-million-south-america-first-quarter-loss.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  forecast a first-
quarter loss of about  $300 million  for its South American
operations because of currency exchange rates, inflation and
trade restrictions.  “Weakening currency and inflation pressure will challenge
our profits and margins in 2013,” Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s
president of the Americas, said yesterday at a Bank of America
Corp. auto conference in New York. Moves by Brazil and Argentina
to limit imports from Mexico also have affected sales of its
Mexican-built Fusion and Fiesta cars, he said.  The  regional loss  places more pressure on Ford’s operations
in North America, where the Dearborn, Michigan-based company
posted record pretax profit and operating margin for 2012. The
second-largest U.S. automaker has forecast a full-year loss of
about $2 billion in Europe, while it targets breaking even in
 South America  and  Asia .  Hinrichs said the currency challenges include  Venezuela ,
which devalued the bolivar by 32 percent last month and is
dealing with the death of President  Hugo Chavez  on March 5.  Some automakers are entering the South American market for
the first time, aggressively pricing their vehicles and
establishing local production, which Ford said may lead to
excess capacity. The automaker also cited a challenging economic
environment in Argentina.  Ford would have recorded a translation loss of about $200
million in its year-end financial statements had Venezuela’s
devaluation occurred before the end of last year, the company
said in a Feb. 19 regulatory filing. The effect of the country’s
move will be included in operating results and not reported as a
special item, Hinrichs said.  Ford fell 0.7 percent to $13.22 at the close yesterday in
 New York . The  shares  have gained 2.1 percent this year, trailing
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 9.6 percent rise.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  