-- Ford Amasses Driver Data to Improve on Mileage Ratings
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-03-27T15:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/ford-amasses-driver-data-to-improve-on-mileage-ratings.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , facing criticism
about the fuel economy of some of its models, moved to boost the
amount of driver-mileage data sharing to come up with measures
more valuable than government ratings.  Ford will  challenge  software developers to create mobile or
Web-based applications that help drivers more easily access
personal fuel-economy data,  Jim Farley , Ford’s executive vice
president of global marketing, said during a speech to open the
 New York auto show . He said the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency’s ratings “really aren’t as meaningful.”  “Some companies are going to be rewarded by starting to
introduce new ways for customers to see real-world fuel
economy,” Farley told reporters today after his speech. “We’re
going to be a leader in this space. We are absolutely changing
some of our communication around fuel economy.”  Gasoline mileage is crucial to auto purchases, with more
new-vehicle owners saying it was the primary reason for buying a
car or truck than any other determinant, according to  J.D. Power
& Associates . Ford is pushing for changes to how the industry
looks at fuel economy after  Consumer Reports  singled out some of
its models for falling short of mileage ratings.  “No matter what goes in advertising claims, customers are
skeptical,” Farley told reporters. “We have to give them tools
like the app we’re talking about, and that’s how they’ll really
enjoy our cars, that’s how they’ll be able to compare across
other companies’ products.”  Consumer Reports  In December, Yonkers, New York-based Consumer Reports said
that two of Ford’s newest hybrid models trailed their EPA
ratings of 47 miles per gallon (76 kilometers) by 17 percent to
21 percent in its testing. The Ford Fusion hybrid achieved 39
mpg, while the C-Max hybrid averaged 37 mpg in tests of city and
highway driving.  In February, Consumer Reports said its tests of
turbocharged cars from Ford and  General Motors Co. (GM)  didn’t
support the companies’ statements about that powertrain
technology’s fuel economy and performance. Tests of Ford’s 2013
Fusion sedan with a 1.6-liter turbo engine found the car to be
slower and less fuel efficient than models with standard four-
cylinder engines including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Camry and  Honda
Motor Co. (7267) ’s Accord, the magazine said.  “We’re in an unfortunate situation where people are
disappointed even though they’re getting very good fuel
economy,” Jake Fisher director of auto testing for Consumer
Reports, said today in an interview. “If an automaker or
someone else could actually predict the fuel economy that you
would get out of a car, it would be far more useful.”  Fusion Sales  The criticism has done little to slow sales for the Fusion,
which has drawn comparisons to Aston Martin luxury-car styling
since its redesign last year. Deliveries for the model climbed
28 percent to 27,875 in February, topping Nissan Motor Co.’s
Altima for a second-straight month, and coming within 125 sales
of passing Honda’s Accord. Sales of Toyota’s Camry, which
remains the mid-size car segment leader, slipped 9.5 percent.  “There’s no question that Ford has made strides and
improved the fuel efficiency of their cars,” Fisher said. “The
discrepancy between expectations is what the problem is.”  Ford has been experimenting in its advertising with the way
it makes fuel-economy assertions to better communicate with
consumers, Farley said. Ford’s television ads for the Fusion
hybrid emphasize that that car gets more than twice the mileage
of the average car on the road instead of boasting best-in-class
fuel economy.  More Relevance  “We did that very intentionally,” he said. “We thought
that would be a more relevant claim for customers than the EPA”
rating.  Farley also reiterated that Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford
is working with the EPA to determine whether changes to the
industry’s hybrid testing procedures are needed.  Ford has countered Consumer Reports’ criticism of its
hybrids by pointing out that several of Toyota’s Prius hybrid
models showed even bigger fuel-economy shortfalls against EPA
estimates in city driving than the Fusion and C-Max hybrids.  Hybrids can lose about 7 miles per gallon when driving at
75 miles per hour rather than 65 mph, Raj Nair, Ford’s product
development chief, said in January at the Deutsche Bank Global
Auto Industry Conference in  Detroit . A difference of 30 degrees
in outside temperature can cause a 5 mpg disparity. Mileage can
be another 5 mpg lower for a new hybrid compared with one that’s
been driven at least 6,000 miles, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in  New York  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  