-- Former Trader’s Software Skips Visa in Battle With Google
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-03-28T12:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/former-trader-s-software-skips-visa-to-challenge-google-wallet.html
Merchants paid an estimated $600
billion last year to let their customers use plastic to shop.
Now, some stores are turning to a Swedish company that says it
can slash those credit and debit card fees in half.  Those fees to banks and payment network companies such as
 Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  eat into profits that could have
gone to lower prices for customers, said  Seamless Distribution
AB (SEAM)  Chief Executive Officer Peter Fredell. While other apps let
smartphone users pay without wallets, Seamless’s SEQR is the
only one that saves merchants money with no investment, he said.  “This is huge, especially when many of these merchants
have an operating margin of 1 percent,” Fredell said over lunch
from his office overlooking a construction site on the outskirts
of  Stockholm .  Seamless cut its teeth on the streets of cities such as
Accra, Riga and Mumbai, where its software lets mobile users top
up their pre-paid cards without a modern banking infrastructure.
After 12 years, the company is harnessing the booming use of
smartphones to promise savings to merchants because it can route
payments directly to and from bank accounts, dodging traditional
card-handling fees.  Seamless struck a deal with McDonald Corp.’s restaurants in
 Sweden  on March 5 and one with grocer  Axfood AB (AXFO) , with annual
sales of 36.3 billion kronor ($5.6 billion), in October.
Fredell, a former derivatives trader, said he’s signing a
handful of new contracts each day and plans to expand to other
European markets soon. His business idea is to split the global
average of 1.89 percent in card fees 50-50 with shopkeepers.  Personal PIN  Say a shopper wants to buy groceries. A cashier scans the
items, rings up the total and beams the information to Seamless
through a switch already built into many registers. The customer
snaps a picture of the unique QR code on the machine, beams up
and Seamless software matches the seller to the buyer in the
cloud. The shopper gets a message to approve the purchase,
completes the deal with a personal PIN and then gets a receipt,
all within seconds.  “People have been so focused on the exchange of info
happening at the store,” Fredell said. “We took it the other
way, running the transaction backwards.”  Steep Fees  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s mobile-wallet solution lets consumers pay for
goods in stores by tapping a smartphone on a device. People
talking about mobile payments dwell on the use of near-field
communications, or NFC, as the best way to transfer money from
the buyer to seller, Fredell said, adding he initially passed on
NFC after considering the security risk of having bank data
“floating through the air.”  Seamless’s technology is already integrated into more than
half a million points of sales globally thanks to the company’s
roots in mobile top-ups, where it conducted more than 3 billion
transactions last year. The big problem with Google Inc.’s
mobile payments app is that it’s still a card transaction where
merchants face the steep fees, Fredell said.  “There’s no business case to install NFC readers, to make
investments if there’s no profit,” Fredell said. “Why connect
through the Visa or MasterCard switch, why not just connect
directly to the banking system.”  The SEQR app is available on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and on
devices running Google’s Android software.  Representatives for Visa and MasterCard couldn’t
immediately be reached in  Europe .  Strong Response  The company made a loss of 24.8 million kronor last year
while sales more than doubled to 134 million kronor as it sunk
income from its traditional top-up business into development of
SEQR. So far, the response from retailers has been strong,
Fredell said. Seamless hands out unique QR identifiers, the
shops flip a switch on their cash register and the system is up
and running.  “We’re doing this because it should save us money and
customers want this for the future,” said Anders Quist, head of
business development at Axfood in Stockholm. “This gives us
lower transaction costs, allowing us to be more efficient, which
is important in a low-margin business like ours.”  Seamless, which is traded on Stockholm’s OMX Nasdaq
exchange, raised 102.4 million kronor after selling new shares
earlier this year to use for expansion.  Investment AB Kinnevik (KINVA) ,
which owns 24.2 percent of  Germany ’s Rocket Internet, is the
second-biggest owner with 11.8 percent after Fredell, who has
16.1 percent. The share sale gives Seamless the funding it needs
to continue with its expansion plans, Fredell said.  Beyond Physical  The shares were unchanged at 23.30 kronor at the early 1
p.m. close in Stockholm with trading volume less than 20 percent
the three-month daily average. The stock is up  40 percent  this
year, compared with a 8.7 percent gain for Stockholm’s  OMX
Index. (OMX)   Seamless is already looking beyond physical shopping, the
CEO said. The system works just as well for online purchases
where a website generates a SEQR code for each purchase and
could be used in direct advertising, in magazines or even in
television commercials, which would help retailers better focus
ad spending.  “Because we can save merchants money, they can let that
trickle down in the form of offers to consumers,” Fredell said.
“It becomes a symbiosis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  