-- France’s Towns Demand Rescue From ‘Time Bomb’ of Dexia Loans
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-03-27T08:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/france-s-towns-demand-rescue-from-time-bomb-of-dexia-loans.html
French towns from Asnieres to
Sainte-Etienne are calling on President Francois Hollande’s
government to save them from about 10 billion euros ($13
billion) in Dexia loans whose risks they say weren’t made clear.  Sitting on debt pegged to foreign interest rates or
currencies, many troubled municipalities are struggling to
service their loans and clamoring for help from the state.  “This is a time bomb for a certain number of local
governments,”  Sebastien Pietrasanta , the mayor of Asnieres, a
Paris suburb, told reporters yesterday. “We need a global
solution and not just a case-by-case” treatment from the state,
he said. Asnieres sued Dexia’s French unit last year over a loan
tied to the dollar-yen exchange rate.  Loans issued by Dexia’s French unit, dubbed “toxic’ by
mayors, have now mostly been taken over by SFIL, the state-owned
municipal lender created this year. The transfer was part of the
break-up of the Franco-Belgian entity, which was among the first
European casualties of the financial crisis and the credit
crunch that followed in the wake of the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Although SFIL Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Mills  has
said that among local governments with “sensitive” borrowings
“there is a very small minority with high or very high rates,”
mayors of several towns say their loans have become an untenable
burden, hurting them as France’s economy stalls and unemployment
rises to a 13-year high.  Mounting Lawsuits  Dexia, being wound down after two bailouts by France and
 Belgium , has about 2 billion euros in risky French municipal
loans. Dexia spokeswoman  Caroline Junius  declined to comment on
demands made by municipalities, while French Finance Ministry
spokesman  Laurent Fary  didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Meanwhile, lawsuits against Dexia are mounting.  A Nanterre court last month allowed Seine-Saint-Denis, a
county on the outskirts of Paris, to lower interest payments on
three loans from Dexia, ruling that the final contract signings
failed to mention the interest rate on the borrowing.  Dexia said on Feb. 8, after the ruling, that it hadn’t
failed in its “information duty” on the loans.  The city council of Saint-Etienne in central  France  plans
to vote in May on whether to take legal action over loans from
Dexia’s French unit and at least 100 French municipalities are
considering lawsuits by June, mostly over Dexia loans, Saint-
Etienne Mayor  Maurice Vincent , who heads a group of local
governments, said at the press conference in Paris yesterday.  Burdensome Payments  Saint-Etienne has three loans amounting to a total of 61.5
million euros from Dexia’s defunct French unit that are now on
SFIL’s books.  The loans include one linked to the difference between the
10-year British pound constant-maturity-swap and the 6-month
Japanese benchmark,  Jean-Gabriel Madinier , the city’s secretary
general, said by phone.  Saint-Etienne in the second part of 2013 faces an 8 percent
spot interest rate on this contract, or a 14 million-euro mark-
to-market payment, he said.  The Rhone county’s council last week voted to take legal
action at the Nanterre court over five loans from Dexia Credit
Local with interest rates tied to currency movements, according
to an e-mailed document sent by its press office.  The Rhone department’s loans with Dexia amount to 354.7
million euros, the local government said.  New Loans  The troubled loans and the calls for a global government
rescue come as Hollande’s government is seeking to cap state
spending. France’s economic slump is forcing Hollande to abandon
his 2013 deficit target and find additional savings to appease
the nation’s European partners.  SFIL said last month it plans to issue between 3 billion
euros and 5 billion euros of covered bonds this year to provide
resources for new municipal loans that will be sold by a joint
venture between La Banque Postale and Caisse des Depots et
Consignations.  SFIL, based in Paris, also took over Dexia’s French unit
8.4 billion euros of “sensitive” structured loans and it plans
to reduce these risks “progressively and in a definitive way”
over coming years, CEO Mills said in Nantes last week at a
meeting with local government representatives, according to a
press report confirmed by the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  