-- Gazprom Signs First Long-Term Gas Sales Contract With Serbia
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-03-27T15:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/gazprom-signs-first-long-term-gas-sales-contract-with-serbia.html
Russia ’s  Gazprom OAO (GAZP)  and  Serbia ’s
Srbijagas JP signed a contract on natural-gas sales to the
Balkan country through 2021 as Gazprom announced it may invest
in gas-fired power plants in Serbia.  The first long-term contract with Serbia brings a 13
percent price cut from previous annual contracts, Alexei Miller,
Gazprom’s chief executive officer told reporters in Belgrade
today. Deliveries of about 1.5 billion cubic meters of gas a
year would grow by 3.9 billion cubic meters when the Serb
section of the Russia-backed  South Stream  gas pipeline is
completed in 2016, he said.  “We are considering construction of gas plants and we are
ready to establish joint ventures to invest in such projects,”
in Serbia, Miller said. Gas deliveries to the plants would be at
below market rates, enabling them to offer electricity at
competitive prices, he said.  Serbia and Russia have an energy accord under which Gazprom
Neft, the oil arm of Russia’s gas producer, acquired Serbia’s
top oil and gas company  Naftna Industrija Srbije AD (NIIS)  in 2009,
while Serbia was included in the South Stream project.  “The Russian Federation is certainly our most important
foreign partner,” Serbian Prime Minister Ivica Dacic said. He
said he’ll visit Moscow next month to discuss a broader
“strategic partnership agreement.”  The Serb stretch of the South Stream, estimated to cost 1.7
billion euros ($2.2 billion) and entering the country from
 Bulgaria , will improve Serbia’s energy security and support its
economic growth, Miller said. Serbia’s sole supply route for gas
now comes from  Hungary  and suffered disruptions during Russia’s
price disputes with Ukraine.  With assistance from Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story: Misha Savic in Belgrade
at   Msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  