-- GDF Suez Executives’ Bonuses Cut Amid Hollande CEO Pay Pressure
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-03-27T16:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/gdf-suez-executives-bonuses-cut-amid-hollande-ceo-pay-pressure.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , owner of Europe’s
biggest gas network, cut its top executives’ bonuses in 2012
amid poor results and as the government clamps down on  executive
compensation .  The variable portion of Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet’s compensation was set at 1.6 million euros ($2.04
million), 5.2 percent lower than the previous year, while that
of Vice-Chairman Jean-Francois Cirelli’s was almost unchanged at
842,036 euros, according to the company’s  annual report .  The levels were set by the board “in the context of a
difficult environment,” the document states. The move,  La
Lettre de L’Expansion  reported yesterday, was at the request of
board members representing the state, the single biggest
shareholder of the utility.  The French government has promised a new law in the coming
months on executive pay at companies, which comes after Swiss
voters this month approved a so-called “fat cats” regulation
that gives shareholders a binding say each year on such
compensation. French President  Francois Hollande  last year
capped the remuneration of the heads of state-owned companies, a
move that shrinks Electricite de France SA CEO  Henri Proglio ’s
annual pay to 450,000 euros from 1.6 million euros.  Mestrallet and Cirelli’s fixed compensation will remain
unchanged from 2011 at 1.4 million euros and 1 million euros
respectively, the annual report says. GDF Suez is 34 percent
owned by the French government, which has four representatives
on the utility’s board. Jerome Chambin, a spokesman for utility,
declined to comment on the executives’ pay.  GDF Suez reported a 61 percent drop  in 2012 profit.   ‘Intolerable’ Excesses  Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  confirmed today in an
interview in  Le Parisien  that a law is being planned on
compensation and corporate governance because of “sometimes
intolerable” excesses that need to be corrected.  The law won’t include a cap on salaries, although rules may
require worker representation on boardroom compensation
committees, he was quoted as saying.  Renault SA (RNO)  Chairman  Carlos Ghosn  should make a “gesture”
on his salary, according to the minister. Moscovici’s comments
aren’t first time the government has taken aim at the Renault
executive. The state owns about 15 percent of the carmaker.  “The state, as a shareholder, is carefully watching the
remuneration of the top manager,” he said in January. The
Renault press office didn’t return a calling seeking comment.  Under pressure from former President  Nicolas Sarkozy , some
French corporate executives, including Mestrallet and Cirelli,
renounced stock options for 2008 compensation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  