-- Genworth to Sell Wealth-Management Unit for $412.5 Mln
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-03-27T22:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/genworth-to-sell-wealth-management-unit-for-412-5-million-1-.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the life
insurer and mortgage guarantor, agreed to sell its wealth-
management unit to a venture of Aquiline Capital Partners LLC
and Genstar Capital LLC for about $412.5 million.  The sale will yield a loss of about $40 million after tax,
with $35 million recognized in the current quarter, Richmond,
Virginia-based Genworth said today in a statement. The deal is
expected to be completed in the second half, Genworth said.  Genworth Chief Executive Officer Tom McInerney, who took
over in January, is seeking to simplify the company and bolster
finances after losses tied to insuring U.S. mortgages. Proceeds
from the sale, which includes the Altegris asset manager, will
be kept at the holding company to repay 2014 debt, at maturity
or before, according to the statement.  “This transaction is another step forward in executing our
strategy, by generating capital from a non-core business and
increasing financial flexibility,” Chief Financial Officer
Martin Klein said in the statement.  Genworth shares rose 2.8 percent to $10.48 at 5:27 p.m. in
extended  New York  trading. They have advanced 17 percent in the
last year, compared with a 15 percent gain in the 81-company
Standard and Poor’s 500 Financials Index.  Genworth’s wealth-management unit oversees about $20
billion in assets and works with more than 6,000 advisers,
according to a March 25 statement. Operating income at the
segment was $55 million in 2012 and $47 million in 2011, the
insurer said in a regulatory filing.  Aquiline, Genstar  Aquiline, led by Jeff Greenberg, is a New York-based
private-equity firm investing in financial services including
banking, asset management, property-casualty insurance and
securities. Genstar, based in San Francisco, invests in middle-
market companies. The firms were advised by Deutsche Bank AG.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was Genworth’s banker on the deal,
and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP gave legal advice, according to the
statement.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  committed to provide debt financing,
according to a statement from the buyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  