-- German Snags Delays EU Nod for ECB Bank-Supervisor Accord
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-03-27T18:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/german-snags-delays-eu-nod-for-ecb-bank-supervisor-accord.html
The European Union will reconsider
details of a proposed law to make the  European Central Bank  a
supervisor after  Germany  requested technical changes.  Germany told a meeting of national diplomats in Brussels
today that the EU should extend rules for firing the chairman of
the ECB’s bank oversight board to cover the vice chairman,
according to two EU officials who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. It also wants the text to state
more clearly that national parliaments can quiz the ECB on its
supervisory policies. Germany, along with other EU governments,
can veto the plans.  Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, sought
endorsement at today’s meeting of the deal it reached on the
draft law last week with the European Parliament, but will now
weigh minor modifications. A spokeswoman for Ireland’s EU
presidency said some limited work must still be done on the
compromise text and that the EU remains on track for the
measures to take effect in mid-2014.  EU leaders called for the new supervisor in 2012 as they
sought to tame a fiscal crisis that has forced  Greece ,  Portugal ,
Ireland,  Spain  and, most recently, Cyprus to seek international
aid. The move is part of a broader plan to build a so-called
banking union that may also include a central authority for
resolving failing lenders, due to be proposed later this year.  Germany also wants stronger references in the text to
possible changes to bloc’s treaties that would place the
supervisor on what it says would be a sounder legal footing, the
EU officials said. The issues shouldn’t affect the timetable for
setting up the supervisor, according to the officials.  The German Finance Ministry declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  