-- Boeing Says Car Battery Fire Won’t Affect 787 Test-Flight Plans
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-03-28T03:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/gs-yuasa-made-battery-caught-fire-at-mitsubishi-motors-plant.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  said test flights aimed
at restoring grounded 787s to service after battery overheating
won’t be affected by a blaze reported in a car battery made by a
unit of the company supplying the planemaker.  “We have been assured that the battery in question is
fundamentally different from the 787 battery both in its
construction processes, design and chemistry,” said  Marc Birtel , a Boeing spokesman. An auto battery made by a unit of  GS
Yuasa Corp. (6674)  caught fire March 18 during testing, said  Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. (7211) , a partner in the battery maker.  Boeing is focusing on the 787’s lithium-ion cells that drew
scrutiny by U.S. regulators after one caught fire on a parked
jet in Boston and another began smoldering and smoking,
prompting an emergency landing in Japan. The aircraft maker
added safety modifications to the batteries and plans a second
787 test flight in “coming days” before submitting the changes
to the  Federal Aviation Administration  as it seeks approval to
restore the grounded planes to service.  GS Yuasa reported the car battery fire to Boeing, which is
working toward government approval of a fix to its 787
batteries, Birtel said yesterday.  The planemaker said March 15 that changes to the design and
added safeguards, such as a new enclosure and a vent line, will
ensure safety.  Boeing, which has a backlog of more than 800 Dreamliners
with a list price starting at about $207 million, has halted
deliveries until commercial service resumes.  The battery that caught fire was produced by  Lithium Energy
Japan , a unit of GS Yuasa that makes batteries for Mitsubishi
Motors, Tomoko Kawabe, a spokeswoman for the automaker, said by
phone. The automaker owns 4.4 percent of the closely held
company, with GS Yuasa holding 51 percent and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) 
owning 44.6 percent, according to Kawabe.  The Mitsubishi car battery that caught fire was built at a
different factory than those made for the 787, a GS Yuasa
spokesman said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  