-- Iberia CEO Exits Amid Savings Scrap After British Airways Merger
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-27T11:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/iberia-ceo-exits-amid-savings-scrap-after-british-airways-merger.html
British Airways (IAG)  parent IAG said the
head of unprofitable Spanish unit Iberia will step down with
immediate effect, mid-way through a cost-cutting program that’s
provoked union ire as it seeks to eliminate 3,140 jobs.  Rafael Sanchez-Lozano will leave by “mutual agreement,”
London-based IAG said today. He’ll be replaced by Luis Gallego,
who heads the Iberia Express discount unit and is a former chief
operating officer of low-cost affiliate  Vueling Airlines SA. (VLG)   “The conflict with unions could have weighed on Sanchez-
Lozano’s decision,” said Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based
strategist at FGA/MG Valores. “Iberia needs a big restructuring
to adjust to a more competitive market environment, and Gallego
brings his expertise from Iberia Express and Vueling.”  Iberia Express, established last year with less-generous
employee contracts, is running at a profit, while the main
Iberia operation posted a 351 million-euro ($450 million) annual
loss. IAG is seeking a 600 million-euro earnings turnaround at
the Madrid-based business by 2015.  “Iberia is entering its next transition phase and I have
every confidence that Luis can return Iberia to profitable
growth,” IAG CEO Willie Walsh said in the statement, adding that
Sanchez-Lozano had led Iberia “through a very difficult period.”  Sanchez-Lozano, who has a degree in law and business, was
appointed Iberia CEO on July 9, 2009 -- 18 months before the
merger with BA that formed IAG -- the same day as chairman
Antonio Vazquez, who subsequently became group chair. Gallego,
who studied engineering, also takes his place on the IAG board.  Manuel Atienza, a spokesman for the UGT union, said the
departure of Sanchez-Lozano had been “coming for a while” and
that his management was “terrible, leaving the company in
critical situation.” Atienza welcomed Gallego as “an open-minded
guy,” while cautioning that he should avoid bringing an Iberia
Express culture perceived to be anti-union to the main airline.  Shares of IAG, as International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA is known, traded 1.4 percent lower at 252.30 pence as of
10:32 a.m. in  London . The stock has gained 37 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  