-- ICBC Leads Chinese Banks in Trumping Returns at JPMorgan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-28T08:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/icbc-profit-beats-estimates-on-lending-growth-bad-debt-control.html
China’s largest banks capped a
sixth year of record profits by posting a 21 percent average
return on equity, more than twice the rate earned by U.S. and
European competitors led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and its three
major local rivals boosted their combined profits 15 percent to
716.2 billion yuan ($115 billion), filings over the past week
show. By comparison, earnings at the four largest U.S. lenders
rose 9.6 percent to $51.9 billion while their ROE, a measure of
how well the firms invest shareholder funds, averaged about 7.3
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Government controls on  interest rates  and limits on foreign
banks’ operations helped buoy profits at China’s state-owned
lenders even as the economy  slowed . Western rivals, in contrast,
were weighed down by regulatory probes and a crackdown on
proprietary trading. JPMorgan was hurt by $6.2 billion of
trading losses, while  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  joined banks fined for
offenses from rigging rates to  money laundering .  “It’s a very regulated market” in China,  Mike Werner , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said by telephone. “It’s
very difficult for foreign banks to expand and that has
essentially assured the domestic banks of getting a very healthy
portion of the overall business.”  Slowing Economy  China’s banks boosted credit last year to fend off slowing
profit growth and  the threat of rising defaults  after the
world’s second-largest economy expanded 7.8 percent in 2012, the
slowest pace in 13 years. Growth may accelerate this year and
next as the nation ushers in new leaders who plan to continue
with reforms, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Chinese banking shares dropped in  Shanghai  and  Hong Kong 
today after the banking regulator tightened rules on savings
products and the cabinet called for new measures to deregulate
interest rates. ICBC fell 2.7 percent to close at 4.01 yuan in
Shanghai and lost 0.2 percent in Hong Kong.  Still, shares of the four biggest Chinese banks -- ICBC,
 China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ,  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) 
and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  -- have gained 28 percent in Hong Kong
trading since mid-September as the U.S. announced a third round
of quantitative easing and investors bet on an economic
recovery.  The return on equity for some global banks, which had
exceeded 20 percent from 1997 to 2007, has plummeted to less
than 10 percent as the firms bolstered capital levels to meet
regulatory requirements while legal costs and slow economic
growth weighed on earnings.  ‘Remarkably Resilient’  “Chinese banks are in much better shape than their
counterparts in most developed countries,” Sandy Mehta, chief
executive officer of Value Investment Principals Ltd., said in
an interview in Hong Kong. Their “ROEs have been remarkably
resilient in the face of a slowing economy,” and will probably
be sustained as China’s growth revives, he said.  Among the four largest U.S. firms, the ROE ranged from 13.2
percent at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  to 1.3 percent at  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , the data show. In  Europe , the three largest banks by
assets -- HSBC, Deutsche Bank AG and BNP Paribas SA -- posted an
average ROE of 5.96 percent as their combined profit fell 25
percent to $23.2 billion last year.  Foreign banks have 387 branches in China, compared with
about 65,000 operated by the four largest local lenders at the
end of 2011, according to the China Banking Regulatory
Commission. The global firms held less than 2 percent of banking
assets in China and have so far reaped bigger profits from their
investment in local lenders than from their own franchises.  Bailout, IPOs  China ’s four state-run lenders, all of which are based in
Beijing, were transformed from almost insolvent institutions
with spiraling defaults a decade ago, with the help of more than
$650 billion in bailouts. They went on to raise a combined $64.5
billion through first-time share sales starting in 2005 and now
rank among the 10 biggest by market value in the world.  ICBC, the world’s most profitable lender, yesterday
reported 15 percent growth in net income for 2012, and a return
on equity of 23 percent. Still, its profit growth was the
weakest since its shares started trading in 2006.  At Construction Bank, the second-largest, profit grew 14
percent. Agricultural Bank, ranked No. 3, posted a 19 percent
increase, while Bank of China’s earnings rose 12 percent.  Combined profits at these lenders may increase 4 percent to
$120 billion this year, compared with a 31 percent increase to
$67.9 billion for their U.S. rivals, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Soured Loans  Meanwhile, non-performing loans at Chinese banks increased
every quarter in 2012 to hit 492.9 billion  yuan  as of Dec. 31
from 427.9 billion yuan a year earlier, according to the
nation’s banking watchdog. The  net interest margin , a measure of
lending profitability, at the nation’s 3,800 lenders stood at
2.75 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with 2.7 percent a
year earlier, the regulator said.  Changes in economic conditions will show up in banks’
profits and asset quality with a lag of six months to a year,
ICBC President Yang Kaisheng said yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  