-- Is the Dell Stub the Right Investment for You?: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-27T21:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/is-the-dell-stub-the-right-investment-for-you-real-m-a.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carl Icahn ’s bids for  Dell Inc. (DELL)  are employing a rarely used deal
tactic that has yielded both big payouts and big losses for
shareholders.  The offers allowing investors to retain stock in the
floundering personal-computer maker may help them win over
shareholders like Southeastern Asset Management Inc., who want
the chance to make more money alongside buyers. Still, investors
must be prepared to take on the risk of potential losses as the
firms seek to turn the Round Rock, Texas-based company into a
contender in tablets and cloud computing, said Scott Rostan, a
former M&A analyst whose New York-based firm Training the Street
teaches new hires at banks about mergers.  So-called stub equity “may appeal to investors with a
longer time horizon and a higher risk-reward tolerance,” Rostan
said in a telephone interview. “But with potential reward
obviously comes risk, and it’s going to take years to turn
around Dell.”  Clear Channel Communications Inc. shareholders are still
waiting for a payout with the stock down  84 percent  since
private-equity firms Bain Capital LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners
LP closed a deal for the company in 2008, when a slump in the
economy and radio advertising sales deepened, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Meanwhile, KKR & Co. handed investors who
retained shares of  Amphenol Corp. (APH)  a 103 percent gain in the
first year following the 1997 purchase of a majority of the
cable-television equipment business.  Go-Shop Period  Blackstone and Icahn submitted proposals to Dell’s board on
March 22, the deadline of the so-called go-shop period designed
to solicit competing bids. Dell said March 25 that the proposals
may be superior to the already agreed-upon $24.4 billion buyout
offer from founder  Michael Dell  and private-equity firm Silver
Lake Management LLC.  Blackstone’s plan values Dell at more than $14.25 a share,
while Icahn would pay $15 a share in cash for as much as 58.1
percent of the stock. Under both plans, the buyers will borrow
money to help fund the transaction, and some shares may continue
to be publicly traded, giving current shareholders a choice
between cash and stock. Blackstone didn’t specify its cap on the
equity portion.  The special committee of the Dell board of directors will
be reviewing the proposals from Icahn and New York-based
Blackstone, according to  David Frink , a spokesman for the
company. Chief Executive Officer Michael Dell isn’t speaking
publicly about the process, Frink said.  Dell Trading  Icahn didn’t respond to a request for comment sent to his
spokeswoman  Susan Gordon . Representatives for Blackstone and
Silver Lake declined to comment.  Even before the new proposals were made public, Dell shares
had been  trading  above Michael Dell and Silver Lake’s offer of
$13.65 a share. Five analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  earlier
this month projected that the bid would be increased to as much
as $14.90 to $15 a share in order to win support from minority
shareholders, which need to approve the deal. The stock ended at
$14.50 yesterday. Today, Dell slipped 0.5 percent to $14.34.  “What shareholders are telling you is that the floor is
not $13.65,”  Louis Meyer , a special situations analyst with
Oscar Gruss & Son Inc., said in a phone interview. “Just based
on the reputation of Blackstone, people are saying ‘I’m willing
to give it the benefit of the doubt. My floor is now $14.25.’”  For Blackstone and Icahn, a leveraged recapitalization
offers a cheaper alternative to a full takeover, according to
 James Hill , who runs the private-equity practice at law firm
Benesch, Friedlander, Coplan & Aronoff LLP. It’s also a “hybrid
of necessity” that can help win shareholders’ approval, he said
in a phone interview from Cleveland.  ‘Clever Way’  In the case of Dell, the stub equity option also eliminates
the need to incorporate Michael Dell’s stake in a bid, according
to  Erik Gordon , a business and law professor at the  University
of Michigan  in Ann Arbor.  “It’s a clever way of possibly making this deal happen,”
Gordon said in a phone interview. “This is a way of dealing
with Michael, and it gives them a way of dealing with people who
are screaming that any of these prices could be unfair.”  Icahn’s offer assumes that Southeastern Asset Management
and T. Rowe Price Group Inc., the largest investors after
Michael Dell, would contribute their stakes and won’t receive a
cash payment.  Southeastern Asset Management has criticized the current
$13.65-a-share deal, saying it undervalues the computer maker.
The firm, which has estimated Dell should be valued at $24 a
share, said March 25 that it’s pleased with the proposals from
Blackstone and Icahn, in part because of the option to keep an
equity stake.  Gains, Losses  A representative for Southeastern Asset Management declined
to comment further. Kylie Muratore, a spokeswoman for T. Rowe
Price, which also opposed the original buyout plan, said
yesterday that the firm isn’t commenting on Dell.  A leveraged recapitalization with an equity stub allows
stockholders “to share in the gains and losses,”  Steven Kaplan , a finance professor at the University of Chicago’s Booth
School of Business, said in a phone interview. “For investors
who think the price is too low, that’s attractive.”  In 1997, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., now known as KKR &
Co., acquired a 75 percent stake in Amphenol for $1.5 billion in
cash and debt, while allowing shareholders to retain a 25
percent stake in the coaxial cable manufacturer.  ‘Our Cake’  When KKR sold the last of its shares in 2004, the buyout
firm said its $340 million investment in Amphenol had returned
$1.4 billion to KKR investors. The publicly traded shares had
more than  quadrupled  by then. In a March 2001 report, Gabelli
Asset Management Inc. said that Amphenol showed the potential
profits available from investing in stubs.  “We have our cake in the form of premiums paid by LBO
groups to buy portfolio companies,” the asset management firm
wrote in the report. “Every now and then, we get to eat it too,
by holding on to stubs that allow us to participate, along with
the LBO group, in realizing a portfolio company’s full upside
potential.”  While an equity stub has the potential to unlock more value
for Dell shareholders, they also have to be prepared for the
risks of a stake in what will be a highly leveraged company,
Gordon said.  “The leveraged recap doesn’t make it easier to turn around
the company,” he said. “If you stay in the company, nobody has
magic that makes your stock worth more unless they turn the
company around. You’ve got to really believe that that’s going
to happen.”  Clear Channel  Dell last year had privately forecast that it would earn
$5.6 billion in operating  income  for 2014, a figure that is now
going to come in around $3 billion, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Dell is struggling as consumers shun
PCs and laptops in favor of tablets and smartphones.  Steve Gerbel, founder and president of Chicago Capital
Management, a Chicago-based hedge fund focused on merger
arbitrage, said he recommends taking the certainty of the cash
offer for Dell because a turnaround could be lengthy as the
company’s business declines. He said his firm sold its Dell
shares when the stock surpassed $13.65.  In the buyout of Clear Channel by Bain Capital and THL,
shareholders were given the choice to take either $36 a share in
cash or one share of  CC Media Holdings Inc. (CCMO)  -- a shell company
created for the deal -- for each Clear Channel share they owned.
CC Media was offered as an alternative form of payment when Bain
Capital and THL cut the value of the cash portion.  ‘Struggled Grievously’  Investors who have owned CC Media since the $17.9 billion
transaction closed in July 2008 have  lost  84 percent.  “If you’re a shareholder and you felt that the deal was
underpriced, you might want to hold onto your shares rather than
giving them up,”  Josh Lerner , a professor at  Harvard Business
School  who specializes in private equity, said in a phone
interview. “But clearly it involves making a substantial bet.
With the benefit of hindsight, we know that Clear Channel
struggled grievously subsequently.”  The stock drop had much more to do with the timing of the
transaction than the form of the deal, said Jonathon Jacobson,
the co-founder and CEO of Highfields Capital Management LP, the
money management firm that pushed for a public equity stub at
the time. The Clear Channel deal closed in 2008, when the U.S.
recession deepened and the radio advertising business dried up,
Jacobson said in a phone interview.  ‘Different World’  “It was a different world,” said Jacobson, who currently
serves as one of two independent  directors  on Clear Channel’s
board. “The advertising business and radio business in
particular fell off a cliff in 2008 and 2009 and has since
recovered, but not to pre-crisis levels.”  Concerns about Dell’s viability may help explain Blackstone
and Icahn’s motivations to pursue leveraged recapitalizations,
according to Peter Lobravico, New York-based vice president of
merger arbitrage trading and sales at Wall Street Access Corp.  “The fact that you didn’t get any all-cash bids during the
go-shop is kind of confirmation that you have to be a little bit
careful with this thing,” Lobravico said in a phone interview.  Offering stub equity allows the acquirer to share the risk
of the deal, said Pavel Savor, an assistant professor of finance
at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School in
Philadelphia who has published research on M&A. At the same
time, offering stub equity also eliminates some benefits of
going private, such as no longer having to file quarterly
reports, he said.  Leveraged Recapitalizations  While leveraged recapitalizations were more commonly used
by companies in the 1980s to defend against hostile takeovers
with added debt and more concentrated stock holdings, private-
equity firms eventually started using the tactic to help secure
shareholder support and reduce costs. Prior to an accounting
rule change in 2001, private-equity firms had more incentive to
carry out stub deals because it helped shield them from
requirements to write down goodwill, which is the portion of a
takeover price that exceeds the book value of the target’s
assets.  In his letter to Dell’s board, Icahn cited his partial
takeover of  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI)  as evidence of his track record. His
firm amassed an 82 percent  stake  in the oil refiner last year
after offering to acquire the entire company. While investors
that sold to him were paid $30 a share, the remaining traded
 shares  ended yesterday at $51.19.  Mario Gabelli , the founder of Gamco Investors Inc., which
oversees more than $36 billion in assets, said yesterday in a
phone interview that his firm bought an arbitrage position in
Dell when the buyout was first announced. He said he’s yet to
decide whether to take cash or retain a stake in the computer
company if that option became available.  “If a private-equity firm like Blackstone has done their
math right,” this is a way for a Dell shareholder such as
Southeastern “to get part of their money back or participate in
the ongoing success of the leveraged enterprise,” Gabelli said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  