-- ISDA Probe, Too-Big-to-Fail, Basel Risk-Plan: Compliance
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-03-27T12:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/isda-probe-too-big-to-fail-basel-risk-plan-compliance.html
The International Swaps &
Derivatives Association, a financial industry derivatives group,
is being probed as part of a European Union antitrust
investigation into how data on  credit derivatives  is shared.  Regulators found “indications that ISDA may have been
involved in a coordinated effort of investment banks to delay or
prevent exchanges from entering the credit derivatives
business,” the European Commission said in a statement
yesterday. The EU started a probe in April 2011 into whether 16
lenders, including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , colluded
by giving pricing information to data provider Markit Group Ltd.  The EU’s probes add to separate antitrust investigations
into whether banks colluded to manipulate benchmark lending
rates, including the London interbank offered rate. The U.S.
Justice Department is also probing the credit derivatives
clearing, trading and information services industries.  Global regulators have sought to toughen oversight of the
credit-default swap market, arguing the trades helped fuel the
financial crisis. The EU has the power to levy fines as much as
10 percent of revenue in antitrust cases.  The commission “is examining whether a number of
investment banks may have used Markit, the leading provider of
financial information in the CDS market, to foreclose the
development of certain CDS trading platforms,” the regulator
said. “This could have been achieved through collusion or an
abuse of a possible collective dominance.”  ISDA is cooperating with regulators and “is confident that
it has acted properly at all times and has not infringed EU
competition rules,” the organization said in an e-mailed
statement. Markit officials didn’t respond to a phone call
seeking comment.  ISDA, based in New York and founded in 1985, has more than
800 member institutions from 60 countries, according to its
 website . As well as banks, the organization represents
governments, investment managers, law firms and accountants.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Denmark Reviews Bail-In Law as ‘Terrorists’ Shape Banking  Denmark, the European Union nation that led the way in
burden-sharing two years ago, is now reviewing its commitment to
the bail-in legislation as the euro area makes its first try in
Cyprus.  The country, whose banks hold assets about four times the
size of its $300 billion economy, may reclaim the option to bail
out its biggest banks after a government-appointed committee
recommended the adjustment to existing laws.  “To have a principle that we would never, under any
circumstances, save a bank -- that’s like saying you would never
trade with terrorists,” Michael Moeller, chairman of Denmark’s
committee on systemically important financial institutions, said
in an interview with  Bloomberg News ’s Frances Schwartzkopff.
“But what if they had an atomic bomb that could blow up half
the United States?”  Denmark is reconsidering its stance on bail-ins after
losing 23 percent of its banks to a real estate bubble that
burst in 2008.  Lawmakers in Denmark pledged in 2010 not to bail out banks
after taking unprecedented steps to support the industry in the
wake of the global financial crisis two years earlier. Less than
a year after passing the bail-in bill, two regional lenders
failed, shutting most of the nation’s banks out of international
funding markets as investors balked at the prospect of losses.  The Sifi committee unveiled its recommendations this month,
naming Denmark’s six biggest banks as too big to fail. The
designation means the lenders will need to set aside as much as
5 percentage points in additional  capital . The committee also
proposed giving the regulator broader powers and requiring banks
to pay into a fund to finance potential bailouts.  The opposition  Conservative Party  has already signaled it
will try to block the higher  capital requirements  while the
Danish Bankers Association said the measures would force banks
to cut lending and imperil an economic recovery.  Europe agreed to bail out Cyprus after the nation caved in
to demands that it shut down its second-largest bank and force
losses on uninsured depositors and bondholders, including senior
creditors.  For more, click here.  Senators Give Unanimous Support to Ending Too-Big-to-Fail Banks  U.S. Senators voted 99-0 in support of a non-binding
measure calling for an end to implicit subsidies the credit
markets give banks with more than $500 billion in assets because
of the perception that the federal government would bail them
out.  The amendment, sponsored by Senators David Vitter, a
Republican from Louisiana, and  Sherrod Brown , a Democrat from
Ohio, is seen as an early gauge of support for a bill the two
lawmakers said they will introduce next month to provide
economic incentives for banks to reduce their size.  Brown said the goal of the legislation is to take way the
“economic advantage the market gives” large banks and to
reduce the risk they pose to the entire financial system.  The upcoming bill would impose additional capital
requirements on the largest banks -- defined in the amendment as
those with more than $500 billion in assets. The new capital
rules wouldn’t include risk weights that “can be manipulated
and gamed,” Vitter said on the Senate floor on Feb. 28.  Six U.S. banks have more than $500 billion in assets:
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America  Corp., Citigroup Inc.,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   For more, click here.  Sarris Muffles Calls for Cypriot Exit from Euro After Rescue  Finance Minister Michael Sarris sought to muffle calls for
Cyprus to weigh a precedent-setting exit from the euro to ease
the economic pain inflicted by the country’s 10 billion-euro
($13 billion) bailout.  The option of eventually pulling out of the currency was
floated March 25 by  Christopher Pissarides , a Nobel prize winner
now advising the government, and Nicholas Papadopoulos, head of
the parliament’s finance committee.  “It would be catastrophic to even talk or entertain the
idea and much less exit the  euro zone ,” Sarris said yesterday
in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Ryan Chilcote  in
Nicosia. “Our place is in Europe, our place is in the euro zone
and we will do whatever it takes to stay there.”  Cypriot banks have been closed except for limited cash-
machine withdrawals since an initial, later revised, rescue
accord was reached on March 16. On March 25, the government
extended the bank holiday until tomorrow.  Controls on capital movements to prevent money from
draining out of the banking system -- allowed in exceptional
circumstances under  European Union law  -- will remain for “a
matter of weeks,” Sarris said. Restrictions may be “less
stringent” on banks other than  Bank of Cyprus Plc , the largest
bank, which will take over viable assets left over from the
shutdown of  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , the second-largest.  Banks May Face Tougher Risk-Concentration Limits in Basel Plan  Global regulators are seeking to toughen curbs on how much
business large  global banks  can do with each other as part of a
push to prevent lenders from keeping risks too concentrated.  A “key lesson from the crisis is that material losses in
one systemically important financial institution can trigger
concerns about the solvency of other SIFIs, with potentially
catastrophic consequences for global financial stability,” the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said yesterday in a
statement on its  website .  The group said it wants input on how to strengthen so-
called large-exposure limits that force banks to diversify the
range of companies and other lenders they work with. The Basel
group is drafting updated risk concentration limits as part of a
third wave of measures to overhaul bank rulebooks since the
financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Under yesterday’s proposals, a bank identified by
regulators as being of global systemic importance should be
prevented from investing an amount equivalent to more than 15
percent of its core capital in transactions with another bank of
similar size and importance.  The plans would add to existing Basel guidance that the
amount of business a bank can do with a single counterparty
should be capped at no more than 25 percent of its capital.  BOE Says U.K. Banks Have Capital Shortfall of $38 Billion  U.K. lenders were told by the  Bank of England  to raise 25
billion pounds ($38 billion) of additional capital, less than
analyst estimates.  Banks need to set aside  more money  than they already have
to cover bigger potential losses on commercial real estate and
from the euro zone, possible fines for mis-selling and stricter
risk models, the Bank of England said following a report by the
Financial Services Authority. The central bank didn’t identify
or quantify the number of lenders that need to bolster capital.  The BOE said that expected loan losses could exceed
provisions by 30 billion pounds, while future fines and conduct-
related penalties could be 10 billion pounds more than banks
expect. It said lenders underestimated assets weighted for risk
by 170 billion pounds, leading to a 12 billion-pound capital
shortfall in that category.  The full impact of the three areas could deplete lenders’
capital by 52 billion pounds, less than the 60 billion-pound
estimate that emerged from the BOE’s November Financial
Stability Report. Some banks already have enough resources to
cover them, paring the shortfall to 25 billion pounds, the BOE
said today.  Lenders will have to reach a common equity tier 1 capital
ratio of 7 percent of risk-weighted assets by the end of 2013.
While some banks already exceed this level, those that don’t
will have to boost capital or restructure their balance sheets
without hindering lending to the economy, the BOE said.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Standard Chartered Plc, the two
British banks that get most of their profit from Asia, have the
strongest core Tier 1 capital ratios under Basel III at 9.8
percent and 10.7 percent respectively.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  has a ratio
of 8.2 percent,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  8.1 percent and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  7.7 percent.  Miles Tax Must Replace Levy U.S. Won’t Raise, LaTourette Says  Abolishing the U.S. gasoline tax and replacing it with a
levy based on miles driven could happen by today regardless of
hurdles to implementing it, said a former top Republican on the
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.  The gasoline tax, which Congress hasn’t raised since 1993,
needs to be ended because lawmakers won’t increase it, former
Representative Steve LaTourette said yesterday in an interview
with Bloomberg News’s Angela Greiling Keane. Policymakers could
immediately replace it with a tax of about 1 1/2 cents per mile
that could be collected in ways that alleviate privacy concerns,
he said.  The existing taxes are 18.4 cents a gallon on gasoline and
24.4 cents on  diesel fuel .  Lawmakers are due to reauthorize a bill next year on
surface transportation spending and will have to decide how to
replace declining revenue in the Highway Trust Fund or how to
cut spending on highways and transit as usage of both increases.  Replacing the $54.5 billion  raised  for highway and transit
projects from fuel taxes and other sources would require an
average vehicle-miles tax rate of about 1.8 cents a mile,
according to  data  compiled by the  Federal Highway
Administration . That’s based on the 2.97 trillion miles (4.77
trillion kilometers) driven in 2010. A motorist driving 12,000
miles a year, at that rate, would pay about $216 a year.  India Plans New Rules for Companies Pawning Shares to Borrow  India’s capital market  regulator  will frame stricter rules
for companies and owners pledging shares as collateral to borrow
funds after uneven disclosures resulted in some small companies
plunging 80 percent last month.  The  Securities & Exchange Board of India  is also planning
to overhaul regulations for  insider trading , as well as share
repurchases, Chairman U.K. Sinha said in Kolkata yesterday. The
regulator set up a panel on March 5 to review insider trading
rules. Indian companies had pledged as much as 1.5 trillion
rupees ($28 billion) of shares to lenders as of Dec. 31, Morgan
Stanley said in a report on Feb. 21.  Sinha is reviewing regulations to raise corporate
governance standards in the $1.2 trillion market. A dozen
companies on the S&P BSE500 index plunged last month amid
speculation the shares pledged by company’s founders in return
for loans have been sold.  Core Education & Technologies Ltd. (CETL) 
crashed 80 percent,  Gravita India Ltd. (GRAV)  38 percent and  ABG
Shipyard Ltd. (ABGS)  17 percent in the period.  Compliance Action  Citigroup Ordered by Fed to File Anti-Money-Laundering Plans  Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest U.S. lender, must show
the  Federal Reserve  it has tightened safeguards to prevent a
repeat of money-laundering violations.  Regulators told the New York-based company to explain
procedures put in place to improve compliance with the Bank
Secrecy Act and anti-money-laundering regulations, known as
BSA/AML, the Fed said in a consent order yesterday.  The bank failed to conduct proper due diligence on
customers and was too slow to file so-called suspicious activity
reports, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said in
April. The deficiencies prevented Citigroup from identifying
risky customers and monitoring client relationships, the
regulator said.  The Fed said it acted after regulators including the OCC
and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. filed orders last year
against bank subsidiaries Citibank NA and Banamex USA because of
deficiencies they found.  The Bank Secrecy Act requires banks to report all large
cash deposits to help prevent crimes such as drug trafficking
and terrorist financing.  Nynas Bid for Shell Hamburg Refinery Assets Faces EU Probe  Nynas AB’s bid for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Hamburg oil
refinery assets faces a European Union investigation over
possible competition concerns for oils used for industrial
products.  The EU extended its deadline to rule on the deal until Aug.
8. The acquisition would remove the only competing producer of
naphthenic base oils which is used to make industrial greases,
metalworking fluids, adhesives, inks, fertilizers and other
products, regulators said in an e-mailed statement.  “The commission needs to make sure that it would not raise
production costs for European companies as well as prices for
the customers of the various end products,” EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement.  Nynas, a venture of  Neste Oil Oyj (NES1V)  and Petroleos de
Venezuela SA, agreed to buy part of the facility, including a
base-oil plant, tank farms and jetties, after Shell said in 2011
that it would halt fuels product after failing to find a buyer
for the northern German plant. Shell said last month it would
cease diesel and gasoline output as it converts the refinery to
storage.  Hans Oestlin, a spokesman for Nynas in Stockholm, said the
company will cooperate with the commission and expects to
receive a positive outcome.  Indonesia Blocks U.S. Request for WTO to Probe Farm Import Rules  Indonesia blocked a  U.S. request  for World Trade
Organization judges to probe Indonesian curbs on imports of
horticultural goods, animals and animal products ranging from
 beef  and vegetables to fruits and dried flowers.  The U.S., which challenged Indonesia on Jan. 10, said non-
automatic import licenses and quotas hinder trading and break
global commerce rules. Indonesia won’t be able to block a second
U.S. request for the Geneva-based WTO to set up a panel of
judges to rule on the complaint.  “Indonesia has created a complex web of import-licensing
requirements that, along with quotas, have the effect of
unfairly restricting U.S. exports,” the U.S. Trade
Representative’s Office said in a March 14  statement  from
Washington. “These measures appear to be designed to protect
Indonesia’s domestic agriculture industry.”  Indonesia adopted rules in late 2011 and tightened them
last September to include what the U.S. called even more onerous
requirements for horticultural imports. In December, Indonesia
announced “drastic reductions in quotas for beef and other
animal product imports, further restricting access to the
Indonesian market,” the USTR said.  U.K. Will Split Border Agency to Create Faster Visa Service  The U.K. Border Agency will be split into a visa-issuing
body and an immigration-policing organization after it struggled
to deal with arrival lines at airports and caused long waits for
visas.  In a statement to Parliament in London yesterday, Home
Secretary Theresa May said both the new bodies will be moved
back into the Home Office, to be under her direct
responsibility, rather than being managed at arm’s length, as
UKBA was.  The visa service will focus on making it easier for people
to visit the U.K., taking quick decisions, May said. UKBA had a
backlog of 312,726 immigration cases in the three-month period
ending in September 2012, according to a  report published March 
25 by Parliament’s Home Affairs Committee.  U.K. Broker Jailed After $4.5 Million Currency Investment Fraud  A former U.K. foreign-exchange broker was sentenced to five
years in jail for defrauding investors of about 3 million pounds
($4.5 million).  Ian Dickinson collected more than 11 million pounds from
investors, betting about 750,000 pounds on foreign-exchange
markets and losing about 200,000 pounds, U.K. prosecutors said
yesterday on their website.  Dickinson, who pleaded guilty in February to one charge of
participating in a fraudulent business as a sole trader,
returned 8 million pounds to his investors, the  Crown
Prosecution Service  said. He was sentenced yesterday at court in
Essex, England.  Prudential Fined $45 Million, CEO Thiam Censured on AIA Bid  Prudential Plc (PRU)  was fined 30 million pounds ($45 million)
and Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam was censured for not
telling the U.K. finance regulator soon enough that it planned
to acquire  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s Asian subsidiary.  The insurer didn’t inform the Financial Services Authority
of the proposed acquisition of AIA in 2010 until after the deal
was leaked to the press, the regulator said today in a
statement. Prudential failed to disclose it at a meeting between
FSA regulators and the insurer two weeks before the leak, even
after being asked about growth plans for the Asian market.  Prudential “should have informed the FSA at the earliest
opportunity to allow the FSA to decide whether to approve or
reject the deal on regulatory grounds,” the agency said in the
 statement . “The failure to inform the FSA was significant,
because it resulted in the FSA having to consider highly complex
issues within a compressed timescale before making a decision as
to whether to suspend Prudential’s shares.”  The fine is the fifth-largest from the FSA, and the second-
highest penalty that’s unrelated to Libor manipulation.  Thiam, 50, was publicly reprimanded by the FSA because he
played a “significant role” in the decision not to tell the
agency about the deal, according to the statement. He wasn’t
individually fined.  Prudential made a record $35.5 billion bid for  AIA Group
Ltd. (1299) , then the Asian unit of AIG, in March 2010, which failed
three months later when shareholders balked at the price.  Courts  Monsanto and DuPont Drop Antitrust, Soybean Patent Lawsuits  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and  DuPont Co. (DD) , the world’s largest seed
companies, agreed to drop their respective antitrust and soybean
patent lawsuits and enter into licensing agreements for making
genetically modified crops.  Monsanto will ask the St. Louis federal court to dismiss
its claim that DuPont infringed patents for Roundup Ready
soybeans, setting aside a $1 billion jury award, the companies
said yesterday in a joint statement. DuPont will ask the court
to dismiss its claim that Monsanto uses monopoly power to stifle
innovation.  The agreement follows recent legal victories by St. Louis-
based Monsanto over its smaller rival in the $34 billion seed
market. A U.S. jury in August ordered DuPont to pay Monsanto for
infringing seed patents, and the U.S. Department of Justice and
state attorneys general dropped probes late last year into
industry antitrust concerns raised by DuPont.  In the agreements announced yesterday, DuPont’s Pioneer
seed unit will license the newest versions of Monsanto soybeans
engineered to tolerate Roundup and another weed killer and make
a series of royalty payments to Monsanto totaling $1.75 billion
through 2023, the companies said. Monsanto gains access to
DuPont patents for crop-disease resistance and a corn-
defoliation technique.  The cases are Monsanto Co. v. E.I. duPont de Nemours & Co.,
09-cv-686, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri
(St. Louis) and Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc. v. Monsanto
Co., 11-cv-497, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Iowa
(Des Moines).  For more, click here.  EPA Clean Water Act Rules Thrown Out by U.S. Appeals Court  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency wastewater treatment
rules deemed to have been adopted in a pair of letters sent to a
U.S. senator in 2011 were struck down by a federal appeals
court.  The EPA sent the letters to Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley 
while he was acting as an intermediary between the agency and
the Iowa League of Cities, which the St. Louis-based court said
had seen a gap between the regulator’s municipal sewer-water
treatment rules and its expressed expectations.  The agency argued that the letters should be considered
policy statements or interpretations of existing rules referred
to in the correspondence. They contained new, improperly created
regulations, one of which exceeded the EPA’s authority, the
court said March 25.  A unanimous three-judge panel declared both rules were
created in violation of the federal Administrative Procedures
Act, which requires public notice and comment.  The case is Iowa League of Cities v. Environmental
Protection Agency, 11-3412, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit (St. Louis).  Ex-Foundry Networks Executive Charged in Insider-Trading Scheme  A former Foundry Networks Inc. executive was charged in
what prosecutors called a $27 million insider-trading scheme
with tipping a California hedge fund analyst about the company’s
acquisition by  Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD)   David Riley , 47, the former chief information officer for
Foundry Networks, and Matthew Teeple, 41, an analyst for an
unidentified San Francisco-based hedge fund, were charged
yesterday in a felony complaint filed in federal court in
Manhattan, prosecutors said. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission also sued the two, as well as third man, John V.
Johnson.  Riley and Teeple are charged with conspiracy and  securities
fraud . The most serious charge of securities fraud carries a
sentence of as long as 20 years in prison, Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara’s office said. Johnson, 46, of Arvada
Colorado, who the U.S. said was a portfolio manager for a
Denver-based firm, pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges on
March 18 before U.S. District Judge John Keenan in New York.  On July 16, 2008, Riley provided secret tips about Foundry
being acquired by Brocade to Teeple before the deal was
announced on July 21, 2008, prosecutors said. Within two hours
of his conversation with Riley, Teeple called an analyst at the
unidentified investment adviser, causing the fund to execute
trades based on the inside information, according to the U.S.  In total, trading on the tips, one investment adviser
earned more than $16 million and avoided losses of more than $11
million, Bharara’s office said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Riley, 13-mag-00806, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Teeple, 13-
cv-02010, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews  Iran Raises Possible Cyber Threat Concern, Smocer Says  Paul Smocer of the Financial Services Roundtable talked
about U.S. legislation to bolster cybersecurity and current
cyber threats.  He spoke with  Stephanie Ruhle  and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.” To watch the video, click here.  Yellen Leading Fed Would Bring Continuity, Mishkin Says  Frederic Mishkin, a professor at Columbia University and a
former Federal Reserve governor, talked about the outlook for
the central bank’s leadership, and the European Union’s bailout
of Cyprus.  He spoke with Stephanie Ruhle and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.” To watch the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  