-- Israel Says Qatar Should Use Its ‘Gazillions’ for Peace
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2013-03-27T12:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/israel-says-qatar-should-use-its-gazillions-for-peace.html
Qatar should use its “gazillions
of petrodollars” to finance peacemaking, not confrontation, an
Israeli official said today, responding to a planned $1 billion
fund to protect “the Arab character” of  Jerusalem .  The establishment of a Palestinian state, with east
Jerusalem as its capital, is one of the “foremost” rights of
the Palestinian people, Qatar’s Emir Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani said, in proposing the fund at the Arab Summit in Doha
yesterday. Qatar will contribute $250 million to its coffers,
he said, without specifying how the money would be spent.  “This proposal is yet another Qatari attempt to spread
ignorance and hatred, fueled by gazillions of petrodollars,”
Yigal Palmor, a spokesman for  Israel ’s Foreign Ministry, said in
response to the proposal. “They should try spending their money
on peacemaking for a change.”  The fate of east Jerusalem, home to Jewish, Muslim and
Christian shrines, is one of the most divisive issues of the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Israel captured the eastern sector
of the holy city from  Jordan  in the 1967 Mideast war and annexed
it in a move that is not internationally recognized.
Palestinians see east Jerusalem as the future capital of a state
based on the  West Bank  and  Gaza Strip , while the current Israeli
government says its capital city must remain undivided.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said he
welcomed the establishment of the fund and the Qatari pledge.  Promise Delivery  “The Israeli occupation is working in a systematic and
hurried way to Judaize east Jerusalem, change its features and
uproot its Palestinian residents, attacking the al-Aqsa Mosque
and its Islamic and Christian holy sites,” Abbas said in a
speech at the summit. The mosque in Jerusalem’s Old City is
Islam’s third-holiest shrine.  Wassel Abu Yousef, a member of the Palestine Liberation
Organization’s executive committee, said that he hopes that the
Arabs will be able to deliver on this pledge. No money was
contributed to a similar fund for Jerusalem established at a
previous summit, he said.  “The money can help in all aspects, including education,
such as renovating schools,” Abu Yousef said. “In the health
sector, we have a hospital in Jerusalem that’s about to close
due to the lack of funding. And homes in east Jerusalem can be
renovated.”  In October, Qatar’s Sheikh Hamad became the first head of
state to visit Gaza since Hamas overran it in 2007. During that
visit, he pledged nearly $500 million in aid to the impoverished
Palestinian territory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Jerusalem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  