-- Istanbul Airport Posts Fastest Growth Among Busiest Hubs
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-03-27T11:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/istanbul-airport-posts-fastest-growth-among-world-s-elite-hubs.html
Istanbul airport posted the biggest
jump in passenger numbers among the world’s major hubs last
year, expanding almost one-third faster than the next-best
performer as it captures traffic from  Europe  rivals.  Istanbul’s near 21 percent increase in passenger numbers to
45.1 million made it one of only six airports among the top 30
to post a double-digit gain, according to figures from Airports
Council International. Dubai ranked second for growth, with a
13.2 percent increase to 57.7 million people.  Europe’s traditional hubs are struggling to add travelers
as a sluggish economy hurts demand and rivals further east
exploit their geographical position to grab a growing share of
inter-continental transfer traffic. Istanbul is the major hub
for Turkish Airlines, while Dubai is the home base for Emirates,
the world’s biggest carrier on international routes.  “This is all on the back of growth at  Turkish Airlines (THYAO) ,”
said John Strickland, director of JLS Consulting Ltd. in London.
“Istanbul is a good connecting point and a more favorable place
to Europeans than the Gulf because it’s that much closer. The
Turkish economy is also very buoyant.”  Istanbul’s surge ranks the hub positioned on the boundaries
of Europe and Asia 20th worldwide, with Dubai placed 10th.  Chicago Slides  Atlanta Hartsfield -- the main base of  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) 
-- remained the world’s No. 1 airport in 2012, with its
passenger total growing 3.3 percent to 95.5 million. That staved
off the challenge of second-placed Beijing, which reaped a 4.1
percent gain to almost 82 million.  London Heathrow, operating at the limit of its two runways,
remained third on 70 million passengers with 0.9 percent growth,
while Tokyo Haneda leapfrogged  Chicago  O’Hare to place fourth.  The Japanese hub’s passenger total increased 6.7 percent to
66.8 million, while Chicago -- once the world’s busiest airport
and ranked second until as recently as 2008 -- experienced a 0.1
percent decline to 66.6 million. Europe’s second- and third-
ranked airports, Paris Charles de Gaulle and  Frankfurt , posted
growth of 1.1 percent and 1.9 percent respectively.  The other airports to post double-digit growth were ninth-
ranked Jakarta in  Indonesia , which had been the fastest-growing
hub in 2011, on 12.1 percent, South Korea’s Incheon on 11.3
percent, Bangkok on 10.6 percent and  Singapore  on 10 percent.  Among the top 30,  Madrid  suffered the biggest slump in
passengers at 9 percent, with Phoenix and Houston also recording
declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in  London  at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  