-- Italy’s Postal Service Discusses Fixed-Line Venture With Wind
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-03-27T13:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/italy-s-postal-service-discusses-fixed-line-venture-with-wind.html
Italy’s state-owned postal service
and Wind SpA, the country’s third-largest mobile-phone company,
are discussing a possible venture with Wind’s fixed-line network
Infostrada,  Poste Italiane  SpA Chief Executive Officer Massimo Sarmi said.  The Italian postal company is seeking to develop its data
storage, cloud computing and broadband services by using
Infostrada’s network, Sarmi said in a phone interview this week.
“In this way we could improve our capacity to offer ADSL
broadband subscriptions also in the fixed-line phone industry.”  Poste entered Italy’s mobile-phone market in 2007 when the
company started its virtual network operator PosteMobile, which
leases network capacity from Vodafone Group Plc. Last year
PosteMobile reached 3 million subscribers and generated
operating profit of 28 million euros ($36 million). Poste
Italiane also is in talks with  Brazil ’s Post Correios to start
mobile phone services in Brazil, Sarmi said.  Wind is owned by  Russia ’s third-largest mobile provider,
 VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)   Sarmi said his company also may be interested in the
eventual spinoff of  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s fixed-line network.
“If a new company was created and dedicated to TI networks, we
could become a partner of it, potentially acquiring a stake.”  Poste Italiane, which is based in  Rome , boosted 2012 profit
22 percent to 1.03 billion euros, while revenue gained 11
percent to more than 24 billion euros. A higher proportion of
the postal service’s earnings and revenue came from insurance
and financial services, helping offset lower sales from its main
business of postal services, the company said today in a
statement.  Revenue from postal and business services fell 10 percent
last year to 4.66 billion euros. The company’s provider of
insurance services, Poste Vita, reported 2012 premium revenue of
10.5 billion euros, up 10.5 percent from 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  