-- Jana Says ISS Backing Two Nominees for Agrium’s Board
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-03-27T12:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/jana-says-iss-backing-two-nominees-for-agrium-s-board.html
Jana Partners LLC, the activist
investor pushing for changes at fertilizer maker  Agrium Inc. (AGU) ,
said proxy adviser Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.
recommended shareholders vote for two of its nominees for
Agrium’s board.  ISS backed Jana Managing Partner  Barry Rosenstein  and David
Bullock, a former chief financial officer of Graham Packaging
Inc., for election at Agrium’s April 9 shareholders’ meeting,
Jana said today in a statement. Glass, Lewis & Co., another
advisory service, recommended its clients vote for all of
Agrium’s director nominees, citing management’s “more
compelling case,” Calgary-based Agrium said yesterday in a
statement.  Jana is seeking to replace five of Agrium’s directors with
its own nominees, citing a lack of experience in farm-product
retailing and distribution on the current 13-person board, and
has proposed the company spin off the retail network to boost
profitability. The New York-based hedge fund is Agrium’s largest
 shareholder , with a 7.5 percent stake, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Jana would “have no power to break up the company, unless
they can persuade the rest of the board, through reasoned
discussion, of why that path would deliver sustainably higher
value,” the hedge fund quoted ISS report as saying.  An ISS spokeswoman didn’t immediately respond to messages
and an e-mail seeking a copy of the report.  Board Members  Agrium, a fertilizer producer that is also the biggest
retail supplier of crop nutrients and seeds to U.S. farmers,
last month named Mayo Schmidt, the former chief executive
officer of Canadian grain handler Viterra Inc., and David Everitt, a retired  Deere & Co. (DE)  executive, to its board as non-
executive directors.  The ISS report is at odds with those from three other proxy
advisory firms, including  Glass Lewis , Agrium said today in its
own statement.  “ISS simply got this one wrong,” Agrium Chairman Victor J. Zaleschuk said in the statement. “A significant number of
large institutional funds have told us they will override any
ISS recommendation in favor of Jana and vote instead for
Agrium’s board nominees.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  