-- JPMorgan Outlook Raised by S&P as London Whale Fades
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-03-27T22:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/jpmorgan-s-credit-outlook-raised-to-stable-from-negative-by-s-p.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , still shaken
by the fallout from last year’s record trading loss, was
upgraded to stable from negative by  Standard & Poor’s  as the
credit firm’s doubts about the “London Whale” episode eased.  The bank “has successfully addressed our concerns
regarding risk-management missteps in its chief investment
office portfolio,” S&P said in a statement today about
JPMorgan’s credit outlook. “Corrective actions should prevent
additional issues from arising.”  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  and other
top executives misled investors and dodged regulators as losses
escalated on a “monstrous” derivatives bet, according to a
301-page report released this month by the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations. Bruno Iksil, the U.K. trader
behind the bets, was nicknamed the London Whale because his
positions were so huge.  The biggest  U.S. bank  “mischaracterized high-risk trading
as hedging,” and withheld key information from its primary
regulator, sometimes at Dimon’s behest, investigators found.
Managers manipulated risk models and pressured traders to
overvalue positions to hide growing losses, the panel said.  The Senate probe could help regulators make a case that
JPMorgan executives broke the law, drawing on the report, more
than 90,000 e-mails and documents, 200 transcribed telephone
calls and 25 interviews with bank officials. The report may also
ratchet up pressure on Dimon, 57, to surrender his role as
chairman of the New York-based company to improve governance.  S&P said its more optimistic outlook reflects “our
expectation that further regulatory scrutiny will not result in
additional egregious findings and that legal suits will not have
a material impact on profitability or lead to significant senior
management changes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rick Green in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  