-- Kazumasa Iwata Joins Kuroda Naysayers as BOJ to Meet: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-03-27T06:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/kazumasa-iwata-joins-kuroda-naysayers-as-bank-of-japan-to-meet.html
Former  Bank of Japan (8301)  Deputy
Governor Kazumasa Iwata, an advocate of expanded stimulus,
joined economists predicting the bank’s new chief Haruhiko Kuroda will fail to meet his deadline for a price target.  “It’s impossible to achieve 2 percent inflation in two
years,” Iwata, 66, president of the Japan Center for  Economic
Research , said in an interview yesterday. Even five years won’t
be easy, he said, as the economy is expected to weaken following
a planned  sales tax  rise.  The comments add to skepticism over whether Kuroda can
accelerate an end to 15 years of deflation through more easing,
with former Morgan Stanley Chief Global Economist  Stephen Roach 
saying yesterday he’s “not convinced” it can work. Those
doubts are yet to take hold among investors, with the yen
weakening for a second day and bond yields at a 10-year low on
bets the central bank will add to stimulus next week.  “It’s hard to believe something that hasn’t happened in
the past two decades will happen so quickly,”  Yasuhide Yajima ,
chief economist at NLI Research Institute Ltd., an affiliate of
Nippon Life Insurance Co., Japan’s biggest life insurer, said in
 Tokyo . “Even if the BOJ pumps cash into the economy and
everything goes smoothly, the government still needs to
implement a strategy to boost growth.”  The yen dropped 0.3 percent to 94.73 per dollar as of 2:52
p.m. in Tokyo, extending its fall of almost 9 percent since the
start of the year. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  closed 0.2
percent higher, while the yield on the benchmark 10-year note
was at 0.515 percent, the lowest since June 2003.  Iwata said Kuroda risks a reversal in the yen if he fails
to meet expectations at the BOJ’s next scheduled policy meeting
on April 3-4.  Meeting Expectations  Kuroda yesterday reiterated his pledge to do “whatever it
takes” to end falling prices, telling lawmakers that he wants
to achieve 2 percent inflation in two years.  He said the BOJ will consider combining its monthly bond
purchases and asset purchase fund, as well as buying more debt
with longer maturities and scrapping a rule that limits the
scale of bond buying. He has also suggested bringing forward
open-ended asset purchases planned for 2014.  Iwata said that the market is expecting open-ended
purchases to start from May, adding that failure to implement
any of the “list” of policies risks causing disappointment.  “Not only investors, but also corporate executives and
consumers need to believe,” that things are changing, he said
in his office overlooking Tokyo’s Imperial Palace.  Toyota Motor Corp. agreed this month to pay its employees
in  Japan  the biggest bonus in five years as the world’s largest
automaker expects its net income to triple this fiscal year.  Market Bubble  Iwata joins skeptics including Atsushi Mizuno, a former BOJ
board member, who said in an interview this month that Kuroda
will hit a “wall of reality” because more bond purchases would
escalate risks of a market bubble.  Even Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic advisers have
expressed skepticism on the chance of the BOJ reaching its goal.  Koichi Hamada, a retired Yale University professor, said
this month that failing to reach the 2 percent price target will
be acceptable so long as the economy heals after emerging from
its third recession in five years last quarter.  Only three of 15 economists surveyed this month by
 Bloomberg News  were “very” or “somewhat” confident the BOJ
will get 2 percent inflation within two years.  Deputy Governor Kikuo Iwata, who is unrelated to Kazumasa
Iwata, told lawmakers yesterday that resigning would be the best
way to take responsibility for failing to meet the target.  Still, some economists think the goal is achievable.  “If the yen keeps weakening, that will boost stock prices,
buoy sentiment and help boost demand in the economy,” said
Kazuhiko Ogata, chief Japan economist at  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)  in
Tokyo. “Abe will probably compile a stimulus package to offset
the negative impact of raising the sales tax.”  Sales Tax  The tax is set to increase to 8 percent in April 2014 and
10 percent in October 2015 from the current 5 percent. Japan’s
consumer prices excluding fresh food haven’t advanced 2 percent
for any year since 1997, when the tax was last increased.  Iwata, who was deputy governor from 2003 to 2008, was cited
earlier this year as a potential candidate to lead the BOJ by
economists including  Credit Agricole ’s Ogata. With Kuroda’s
selection for governor, the current leadership is “probably the
best team to achieve the price target,” Iwata said.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  Vietnam ’s economic
growth slowed in the first quarter, while  consumer confidence  in
 South Korea  climbed, reports showed today.  Indonesian Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  was approved
by a commission yesterday to become the next central bank
governor and awaits endorsement by the parliament.  France  and the U.K. will publish final fourth-quarter gross
domestic product data, while Spain and  Russia  will report
inflation figures. In the U.S., data on mortgage applications
and pending home sales are due.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  