-- Kenny Faces Election Test as Obama Support Not Carried Home
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-03-27T10:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/kenny-faces-election-test-as-obama-support-not-carried-home-1-.html
Irish ministers are being feted by
investors and politicians from Brussels to Washington. At home,
voters are less enthusiastic.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  faces his toughest test at the
ballot box since taking office in 2011 in a special election
today after junior minister Shane McEntee took his own life in
December. While polls show their Fine Gael party probably will
cling to the seat, support for the coalition government is
slumping as the economy struggles to grow.  “It’s too late for me,” Gerry Healy, 54, a former store
owner in Meath, said after Finance minister  Michael Noonan 
sketched out plans to help homeowners with mortgage arrears. “I
handed the bank the keys to my house this week. My business went
bankrupt in 2008. I’m part of a forgotten generation.”  Kenny took power two years ago following Fine Gael’s best
election result since Irish independence in 1922. He then raised
taxes and cut spending to narrow what’s still the biggest  budget
deficit  in the euro region. While that’s winning support from
investors, it’s costing him politically.  Ireland sold 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion) of 10-year
bonds for the first time since it was locked out of debt markets
in 2010, forcing the previous government to seek a bailout. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  told Kenny last week he had shown “great
leadership” guiding his country through the economic crisis.  Poll Slump  Among Irish voters, combined support for coalition partners
 Fine Gael  and the  Labour Party  dropped 22 percentage points to
34 percent since the 2011 election, according to a March 4-14
poll of 985 voters commissioned by the Sunday Independent.  “This is a pattern emerging in polls now,” said  Diarmaid
Ferriter , a historian and author of “Transformation of Ireland:
1900-2000.” “There may be lots of talk about green shoots, but
it’s hard to see them on the ground.”  Polls opened at 8 a.m. today with 11 candidates standing
for election and 64,000 people eligible to vote, state
broadcaster  RTE  reported. Voting takes place until 9 p.m. and
the count is scheduled to start tomorrow.  Signs of stability are emerging in the economy as
employment rose on an annualized basis in the fourth quarter for
the first time since 2008. The jobless rate is still about 14
percent, almost triple the level of five years ago.  “Unemployment is the big issue for me,” said Donal
Kavanagh, 72, a retired school teacher in the town of Kells,
County Meath. “Young people now, even if they do have
qualifications, have to move. I voted Labour last time. I
definitely won’t vote for them this time.”  Mortgage Arrears  With the campaign in full swing, homeowners are getting
their first bills under a property tax introduced by Noonan. The
levy comes as one in four Irish mortgages are at least three
months in arrears or have been restructured, the legacy of the
biggest real-estate market collapse in western  Europe .  Support for the  Labour Party  in particular has plunged,
dropping to 9 percent from 21 percent in the 2011 election. Fine
Gael has backing from 25 percent of voters, down from 36
percent, according to the Sunday Independent poll published on
March 17. No margin of error was given.  “Whatever the government does, I’ll still be paying more
money this year,” said Denis Fitzsimons, 64, a retired railway
worker in Meath and another Labour voter turning away from the
party. “I’ll be paying a tax on my house that I shouldn’t have
to, all to help the banks.”  Fianna Fail  Fianna Fail, which presided over the demise of the Celtic
Tiger economy, suffered the worst election result in its history
two years ago. Since then, the party since has risen to 29
percent in the latest poll from 18 percent in 2011.  Fine Gael may hold on to the seat in Meath, after picking
Helen McEntee, the daughter of the former government minister
who committed suicide three months ago, as its candidate.  “Particular circumstances are at play here and the family
name is still powerful in Irish politics,” said Ferriter. “But
it could be close.  Fianna Fail  hasn’t gone away.”  Since the economic crisis emerged about five years ago, the
government has introduced tax increases and spending reductions
amounting to about 15,000 euros per family in Ireland, Kenny
said in  Washington  on March 18.  “We don’t have any choice,” said Larry Reid, 60, a local
council worker. “The cutbacks affect me, but if we don’t do it
now, we will be in an even worse position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  