-- Kerry, Fabius Meet in Paris to Discuss Mali, Syria
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-03-27T09:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/kerry-fabius-meet-in-paris-to-discuss-mali-syria.html
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
met his French counterpart today to discuss Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s war against rebel forces and unrest in  Mali .  Kerry, who arrived in Paris last night, held breakfast
talks with Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius on international
efforts “to bring an end to the Assad regime’s brutal campaign
against the Syrian people” and “to restore democracy in
Mali,” according to Jen Psaki, a State Department spokeswoman.  Syrian opposition leader Moaz al-Khatib said yesterday the
rebels had asked Kerry for North Atlantic Treaty Organization
missile batteries in  Turkey  to be used to protect civilians in
northern  Syria  from rocket attacks by Assad’s forces. As many as
11,200 United Nations peacekeepers and a special
counterterrorist unit should be deployed to Mali to take over
the fight against Islamic insurgents, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon said in a report obtained yesterday.  Kerry and Fabius also discussed the Central African
Republic, Psaki told reporters traveling with the secretary of
state. The rebel Seleka movement seized power in the country
three days ago.  Kerry later met French business leaders including Jean- Bernard Levy of Thales SA and Clara Gaymard of General Electric
Co.’s French unit to talk about economic growth and the U.S.-
European Union trade pact under discussion.  The U.S. and EU are negotiating a free trade accord that,
if adopted, would remove tariffs, ease regulatory barriers and
expand investment access. Trade between the U.S. and EU amounted
to $4.5 trillion in 2011, the U.S. says, accounting for one-
third of all trade. U.S. and EU officials have said they want to
complete the talks -- which face challenges over issues
including agriculture and regulatory standards -- within two
years.  The top American diplomat is returning to the U.S. later
today after a week in Israel and Jordan with President  Barack Obama  and a separate trip to Iraq and  Afghanistan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Paris at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  