-- KKR Said to Seek $1.5 Billion for Energy Investment Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-03-27T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/kkr-said-to-seek-1-5-billion-for-energy-investment-fund.html
KKR & Co., the buyout firm run by
Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , is seeking $1.5 billion for an
energy fund that will invest in oil and gas development,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The firm will use the KKR Energy Income & Growth fund
mostly for drilling partnerships with a goal of generating
steady income and distributions for investors, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the plans are private.
KKR is offering a management-fee discount to clients who commit
money in the first round of fundraising, the people said.  Investment firms are trying to take advantage of the shale
boom in the U.S. fueled by the use of so-called horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, to extract
oil and gas. KKR, which had about $76 billion under management
at year-end, is investing in energy as it diversifies beyond
traditional corporate takeovers. The firm has made several
natural-gas investments connected to shale discoveries in recent
years and has a group dedicated to energy and infrastructure
transactions headed by Marc Lipschultz.  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New York-based KKR,
declined to comment on the capital raising.  KKR’s new fund will also invest in minerals and royalties,
as well as mezzanine debt, said the people. While marketing the
fund, KKR will be able to give investors a preview of some
investments. The firm will roll three deals into the fund
comprising drilling partnerships with  Comstock Resources Inc. (CRK) ,
Raptor Petroleum LLC and Cinco Energy Services, the people said.  Comstock Partnership  KKR agreed in July to partner with Comstock Resources to
help develop its Eagle Ford shale acreage in South Texas, the
companies said at the time. Under the agreement, KKR is able to
participate for one-third of Comstock’s working interest in
wells drilled on its acreage in exchange for paying $25,000 per
acre through a drilling carry, or development expense.  KKR is offering an annual management fee of 0.75 percent to
investors joining the first close, which is being targeted for
sometime in May, compared with 1.5 percent for later clients,
the people familiar with the matter said. The firm will take 15
percent of the profit after achieving an annual return of at
least 8 percent, known as the preferred return hurdle.  The new fund will be managed by Lipschultz, global head of
KKR’s energy and infrastructure business; Jonathan Smidt, who
leads KKR Natural Resources; Robert Antablin, who runs the
platform that purchases minerals and royalty interests in oil
and gas assets; and managing directors Claire Farley and David Rockecharlie, according to the people. KKR in 2011 hired Farley
and Rockecharlie, the founders of RPM Energy LLC, an oil and gas
exploration and development company.  The fund’s team is expected to include 20 to 25 investment
professionals, one of the people familiar said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  