-- Natural Gas Lobbyist Takes on Obama on Fracking
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-03-27T16:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/natural-gas-lobbyist-takes-on-obama-on-fracking.html
The new head of a U.S. natural gas
trade group said he will seek to raise the industry’s visibility
as the Obama administration considers regulations that may limit
hydraulic fracturing for the fuel.  America’s Natural Gas Alliance, which includes  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK)  and Devon Energy Corp. among its members, today
named Marty Durbin as chief executive officer. Durbin, 47, is
the nephew of  Richard Durbin , the second-ranking U.S. Senate
Democrat.  Durbin takes over the Washington-based group as President
Barack Obama’s administration considers rules for hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, for oil and gas on federal lands. The
process forces water, sand and chemicals underground to unlock
gas trapped in shale-rock formations, and helped to drive down
prices last year to a decade low. Environmentalists say fracking
poses pollution risks.  The energy industry has backed state regulations as
sufficient to limit the risks, Durbin said.  “The good news about the administration is it recognizes
the benefits of natural gas,” Durbin said in an interview.  He said he also expects to promote exports of liquefied
natural gas as lawmakers including Oregon Senator  Ron Wyden , the
chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee,
consider limiting the amount sold overseas.  Durbin became executive vice president of government
affairs for the American Petroleum Institute in December 2009.
He joins the gas group, which represents 27 independent natural
gas producers, on May 1.  The administration has delayed issuing proposed rules for
hydraulic fracturing.  ANGA spent $2.65 million on lobbying in 2012, less than
$7.21 million reported by the American Petroleum Institute,
which represents companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (EXC)  and
 ConocoPhillips. (COP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  