-- Nazis Loved Scarlett O’Hara as FDR Gave Blacks Raw Deal
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-03-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/nazis-loved-scarlett-o-hara-as-fdr-gave-blacks-raw-deal.html
The American public that elected
Franklin Roosevelt president was ready for strong measures. On
Inauguration Day 1933, a quarter of the work force was
unemployed. According to a contemporary report in the New York
Times, “Nobody is much disturbed by the idea of dictatorship.”  Yet the country never succumbed to authoritarianism. Why it
didn’t is the subject of  Ira Katznelson ’s great big history of
the Roosevelt and Truman administrations, “ Fear Itself: The New
Deal and the Origins of Our Time .” It’s not nearly as soporific
as that subtitle makes it sound.  The author, a professor of political science and history at
Columbia University, has written a book for grown-ups, with a
complex, troubling theme: “From start to finish, the New Deal
flourished with ethical compromise.”  His point is not (on the whole) to chastise. “It would be
facile,” he maintains, “simply to denounce, or even regret, such
compromises. Nonetheless, it is important to assess their
character and implications.”  His most consistent focus is on Congress and the powerful
bloc of southern Democrats without whose votes Roosevelt’s
programs would have been toast. These men belonged to a once
common, now extinct species: the progressive racist.  They were anti-banker and pro-worker, as long as the worker
was white, and they gave FDR the legislation he wanted -- until
they began to fear that a stronger federal government might
start tampering with Jim Crow.  Civil Rights  In return for their support, “during his long term of
office,” Katznelson relates, “Franklin Roosevelt never pushed
civil rights legislation.”  FDR came to the presidency during a worldwide crisis of
confidence in democracy. “Fascism is action,” Mussolini had
declared. Along with Hitler and Stalin, he could claim “to have
surmounted class conflict, the bane of market capitalism, while
creating a united people.”  Meanwhile, the democracies, with their poky, deliberative
parliaments, were in a state of paralysis even worse than what
we’re seeing today. And so, as Katznelson makes clear, the New
Deal was charged with nothing less than vindicating both
democracy and capitalism.  And it did. Even during the busy Hundred Days that followed
FDR’s inauguration, the laws, “however novel and far-reaching,”
continued to issue from the legislative branch, not the White
House, as the Constitution stipulated.  No Maids  The catch was “the exclusion of maids and farmworkers --
fully two-thirds of southern black employees -- from key New
Deal programs.”  As Southern Democrats proudly and publicly invoked the
principle of white supremacy, the new laws intended to raise
American workers out of poverty contained provisions for keeping
southern blacks trapped in it.  The Nazis, for their part, were bewildered at their lack of
support in a region whose ideology shared so much with their
own. The higher-ups loved “ Gone With the Wind ”:  “Joseph Goebbels spent the hours after midnight on June 22,
1941” -- the eve of the Russian invasion -- “watching a
prerelease German version with a group of invited friends,
perhaps not aware that one of the film’s stars, Leslie Howard,
was a British Jew.”  That may be the one (bleakly) funny moment in “Fear
Itself.” Otherwise, the way Roosevelt balanced the New Deal on
the backs of African-Americans is sickening to read about. And
revelatory.  But long stretches of the book are pretty arid. The other
ethical compromises Katznelson chronicles -- the wartime
alliance with Stalin, the atomic massacres at Hiroshima and
Nagasaki, the postwar culture of surveillance and anti-Communist
paranoia -- are too familiar to merit this many pages.  For the reader’s sake, I wish Katznelson (or his editor)
had been incisive enough to extract the shorter, sharper book
buried in this long and often bland one.  “Fear Itself” is published by Liveright (706 pages,
$29.95). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  (Craig Seligman is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and Zinta
Lundborg’s  culture interview .  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 