-- New York Fed’s Potter Says Latest QE Round More Transparent
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-03-27T19:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/new-york-fed-s-potter-says-latest-round-of-qe-more-transparent.html
Investors should be able to update
their expectations for monetary policy more frequently now that
the  Federal Open Market Committee  has linked its asset purchases
to economic conditions, said  Simon Potter , executive vice
president at the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York .  “The advantage of the current policy is that it relates
asset purchases to economic conditions and the efficacy and
costs of the policy in a more explicit and transparent manner,”
Potter told the Forecasters Club of New York. “This should
enable market participants to recalibrate their expectations
more continuously in light of incoming information.  The FOMC decided March 20 to press on with purchases of
long-term debt that have ballooned the Fed’s  balance sheet  to a
record $3.21 trillion.  The Fed panel reiterated its plan to leave its key interest
rate near zero as long as  unemployment  remains above 6.5 percent
and the outlook for inflation is less than 2.5 percent.  The central bank plans each month to continue buying $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion of
 Treasury securities  ‘‘until the outlook for the labor market has
improved substantially.’’  Potter said the Fed has bought about $130 billion in
Treasuries since January and about $260 billion in agency
mortgage-backed securities since September. Potter is in charge
of the System Open Market Account, the New York Fed portfolio
that implements the committee’s monetary policy.  Sales Strategy  Potter said in response to questions after his speech that
the New York Fed should have no trouble selling the assets if
the FOMC directs it to do so.  ‘‘It’s very easy to do,” Potter said. “Part of that is to
give the market a good feeling for what that sales strategy will
be and it’s supposed to be a slow, predictable sales strategy.”  The New York Fed’s January survey of primary dealers in
 government bonds  showed investors expect the central bank to
purchase about $1 trillion in securities from 2013 until early
2014, he said.  “The current purchases reduce  interest rates  and ease
financial conditions through the same transmission channels as
previous purchase programs,” Potter said. After selling assets
to the Fed, “investors may rebalance their portfolios by
investing in other assets, raising the prices of those assets,
lowering their yields, and easing overall financial conditions.’  Remove Risk  ‘‘The Federal Reserve’s asset purchases are designed to
remove risk from the portfolios of private investors,” he
added.  The central bank cut its benchmark lending rate to a range
of zero to 0.25 percent in December of 2008. Unable to push the
main interest rate lower, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  used the size and composition of the Fed’s balance
sheet as a new tool to push down longer-term rates.  Central bankers engaged in three rounds of quantitative
easing, including a move last September to expand the balance
sheet further with $40 billion a month in mortgage-backed
securities purchases. In December, the FOMC expanded its third
round of so-called quantitative easing, adding $45 billion in
monthly Treasury purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ; Taylor Tepper in New York at 
   ttepper2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  