-- New York City Paying Less With Highest Health Cost: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-03-27T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/new-york-city-paying-less-with-highest-health-cost-muni-credit.html
At $10,108 per person, New Yorkers
bear the highest unfunded burden for retired public workers’
health benefits among the 15 biggest U.S. municipalities.
Investors have responded by driving the city’s relative
borrowing cost almost one-third below the five-year average.  Cities often cover these expenses, unlike pensions, on a
pay-as-you-go basis. The top 15, comprising almost 9 percent of
the nation’s population, have a combined $115 billion in retiree
liabilities, and an average burden of about $2,300 per capita,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The benefits cover promises
such as life insurance and health-care premiums.  While pensions are guaranteed constitutionally in many
states, so-called other post-employment benefits are more open
to change through negotiation. Retirees in Central Falls, Rhode
Island, which exited bankruptcy protection last year, pay 20
percent of health-care costs until they turn 65, and some New
Jersey workers retiring after June 2011 contribute a higher
portion depending on their tenure.  “OPEB has gotten the reputation of being an easier
liability to modify than the pensions,” said Tamara Lowin,
director of research at Belle Haven Investments Inc., which
manages $1.5 billion of munis in White Plains, New York.  Runner-Up  Detroit , where an emergency manager took over this week,
has the nation’s second-largest burden, at $8,024 per resident,
followed by San Francisco, with $5,558, according to the
Bloomberg Rankings compilation of cities’ financial reports.
Cities with larger liabilities need to start addressing them
before they overwhelm financial resources, said David Draine,
senior researcher at the Pew Charitable Trusts in  Washington .  “Like a credit card bill where you just make the minimum
payment, every year you delay simply pushes those costs into the
future and makes them bigger,” he said. “If costs continue to
rise and take up larger and larger shares of budgets, it forces
either painful tax increases, cuts in existing services or
reductions in benefits promised.”  Investors are taking comfort in New York’s ability to keep
its retirement promises. In Wall Street’s home state, where
residents face the nation’s biggest tax burden, investors demand
a yield  penalty  of 0.5 percentage point on 10-year, tax-exempt
general obligations of New York City issuers, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with the five-year average of 0.71
percentage point.  Meeting Responsibilities  “Health-care financing remains a challenge for the Big
Apple and for major cities across the country,” Matt Sweeney, a
spokesman for Comptroller John Liu, who helps oversee the city’s
pensions, said in an e-mail. “With that said, New York City
meets its responsibilities to our retired police officers,
firefighters, teachers and civil service retirees and will
continue to do so.”  Income on New York City debt has the added benefit of being
exempt from city, state and federal taxes, said Lowin at Belle
Haven.  “Demand for New York City debt is always high regardless
of supply,” she said.  In comparison, Los Angeles, the nation’s second-most-
populous city, ranks ninth in terms of its OPEB liability,
Bloomberg data show. With the same Aa2 rating from Moody’s
Investors Service, third-highest, 10-year Los Angeles general
obligations have a spread of about 0.9 percentage point,
Bloomberg Valuation data show.  State Control  In New York, the state controls the retiree obligations its
biggest city pays. Last year, Mayor Michael Bloomberg worked
with Governor Andrew Cuomo to push a pension overhaul through
the legislature. Still, retiree health-care expenses weren’t
addressed. New York City’s pension funds are run separately from
those representing state and other local workers.  To help balance the budget for the fiscal year that began
in July, Bloomberg took $1 billion from a Retiree Health
Benefits Trust set up several years earlier to pay for future
employees’ health-care needs. He plans to take another $1
billion next year. The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  In a report this month, the state Financial Control Board
that oversees city fiscal policies expressed concern about
swelling health costs for current and retired employees, which
are forecast to grow to $8.3 billion by 2017 from $5.3 billion
this year. It called the costs “unsustainable” without more
funding, and estimated the city’s unfunded liability at about
$88 billion as of June.  Agreement Aversion  Localities may be forgoing funding retiree health care to
avoid making a tacit agreement maintaining the level of
benefits, Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  George Friedlander 
wrote in a March 22 note to clients. Some anticipate benefits
can be adjusted or subject to collective bargaining, they said.  Other jurisdictions may consider changing liabilities after
a ruling this month in  Illinois  that said retiree health-care
benefits aren’t protected by the state constitution as are
pensions, the analysts said.  Retirees will pay more of their OPEB premium costs, shaving
about $9 billion from Illinois’s $33.3 billion unfunded
liability, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by Peter DeGroot
wrote in a note to clients March 22.  Some cities with small liabilities can afford a pay-as-you-
go approach, while others face sticking taxpayers with a
“sizeable bill,” Draine said.  ‘Unsustainable Approach’  “For places like New York City and others that have racked
up substantial liabilities, it’s really a costly and potentially
unsustainable approach,” he said.  In the $3.7 trillion municipal market, investors are
absorbing the slowest week of issuance since January, with
localities set to offer about $3.5 billion.  At 2 percent, yields on benchmark 10-year munis are the
lowest in two weeks, Bloomberg Valuation data show. They’ve
still been above the interest rate on comparable-maturity
Treasuries for 10 straight trading days, the longest stretch
since October, Bloomberg data show.  The  ratio  is about 105 percent, compared with an average of
about 92 percent since 2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper
munis are relative to federal debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  