-- New Paris Tech School to Combat Hollande’s Focus on Past
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 2013-03-27T11:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/new-paris-tech-school-to-combat-hollande-s-focus-on-past.html
French mobile-phone entrepreneur
Xavier Niel is opening a new technology school in Paris to spawn
the likes of Facebook Inc. and Google Inc.  The school, called  42.fr  -- in a nod to the “ The
Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy ,” where the number makes a
central appearance -- will be free and seek to groom young
whizzes to stimulate the market for developers, the co-founder
of  Iliad SA (ILD) , who never went to college himself, said in an
interview on i-Tele today.  The move is aimed at attacking dwindling innovation in
France and addressing a trend of rising unemployment that the
government of President  Francois Hollande  seems unable to halt,
Niel said. While France’s unemployment rate stands at 10.6
percent, employers are unable to find adequately technologically
qualified people, he said.  “We are the world’s fifth-richest country and yet the 20th
in  information technology , which is an indicator of the decline
to come,” Niel said. “The government is focusing on saving
jobs in industries of the past, rather than creating jobs for
the future.”  French jobless claims rose for a 22nd straight month in
February as a stalled economy prompted companies to pare
payrolls, the Labor Ministry said yesterday. The increase,
propelled by firings at companies such as  Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Co. (GT)  and  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , brings the number of claimants to just
shy of the record 3.196 million in January 1997.  Hollande has said he aims to reverse the trend of job
losses by the end of the year.  A Maverick  Niel’s school will be based in the 17th arrondissement of
Paris and will open in November, he said.  “We’ll throw the students in at the deep end and see who
has the capacity, the capability, the desire and the drive to
make it,” Niel said.  Niel is something of a maverick in  France . In a country
where most top executives come from France’s Grandes Ecoles, or
elite schools, Niel is a self-made billionaire, whose success as
an entrepreneur came without family money or a university
education. His aggressive price-competition strategies have
pulled down what consumers pay for mobile-phone and Internet
services in France.  The executive started by creating sex-chat services and
invested in porn shops. In May 2004, just months after Iliad’s
initial public offering, he was investigated after one of the
stores was found to be involved in prostitution. He was
exonerated from the charges and paid a fine.  With his school project, the executive says he aims to
bring out and hone the strengths of the French to pull the
country out of its current morass.  “When we focus on the past for solutions rather than the
future, we’re in trouble,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  