-- Newly Identified Genetic Variations May Help Screen for Cancers
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-03-27T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/newly-identified-genetic-variations-may-help-screen-for-cancers.html
U.K. scientists have found more
than 80 new genetic variations linked to increased risk of
developing cancer, which may eventually help with screening
tests to warn of the disease at an earlier stage.  While each alteration raises the risk of cancer by a small
amount, those who carry a combination of them could see their
risk of developing prostate cancer increase by almost 50 percent
and breast cancer by 30 percent, according to scientists at the
University of Cambridge and The  Institute of Cancer Research,
London .  The new research increases understanding of genetic risk
factors that are linked to more than half of all cancers, with
the rest caused by lifestyle factors. It may also pave the way
for gene-based screening tests using saliva samples, according
to  Paul Pharoah , cancer epidemiologist at the University of
Cambridge.  “We’re on the verge of being able to use our knowledge of
these genetic variations to develop tests that could complement
breast cancer screening and take us a step closer to having an
effective prostate cancer screening program,”  Doug Easton ,
professor of genetic epidemiology at Cambridge, said in a
statement today.  The research, detailed in a series of papers published by
Nature Genetics and the American Journal of Human Genetics,
among other journals, studied the DNA make-up of more than
100,000 people with cancer and 100,000 people from the general
population.  Lifestyle Factors  The genetic variations, called single nucleotide
polymorphisms, are all inherited and are not formed by
environmental factors, Easton said. Risks associated with these
variations can be multiplied by lifestyle factors, which are
equally important in the development of cancers, he said.  “They are two things that go together,” Easton told
reporters at a briefing in  London .  While the low cost of gene-based screening tests could help
to identify cancer risks earlier, they may raise ethical
questions for patients for whom knowledge of the risk could lead
to decisions on such things as preventive masectomies, Pharoah
said.  Still, this improved understanding has the potential to
dramatically reduce deaths from cancers, said  Ros Eeles ,
professor of oncogenetics at The Institute of Cancer Research.  In the case of prostate cancer, “if we can show from
further studies that such men benefit from regular screening, we
could have a big impact on the number of people dying from the
disease, which is still far too high,” she said.  The research was funded by  Cancer Research  U.K. and the
Wellcome Trust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  