-- Nicolas Cage Hired by China’s BAIC Motor to Promote Senova Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-27T09:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/nicolas-cage-hired-by-china-s-baic-motor-to-promote-senova-cars.html
Actor Nicolas Cage has signed on as
brand ambassador for Chinese automaker BAIC Motor Corp., joining
Brad Pitt and Barcelona soccer star  Lionel Messi  in promoting
automobiles in the world’s largest vehicle market.  Cage will appear in a television commercial to be aired in
May, according to Beijing-based BAIC Motor. The state-owned
automaker said it chose the 49-year-old Academy Award winner as
its brand spokesman because he’s well-known to Chinese
audiences, especially target buyers in their 40s.  “Cage will be our ambassador for the Senova D series that
will hit the market soon,” Alex Qu, a spokesman for the
company, said by phone today. Qu declined to provide more
details on the events that Cage will attend in  China .  BAIC, whose parent traces its roots to making sidecar
motorcycles used in the  Korean War , is stepping up publicity as
it prepares to roll out its Senova brand in the second quarter.
The automaker is also targeting sales to senior government
officials, with Beijing municipal Party Secretary Guo Jinlong
and Mayor Wang Anshun expressing interesting in replacing their
Audi sedans, BAIC’s overseas business head Dong Haiyang said.  Cage, currently the voice of a caveman in the animated film
“The Croods,” won an Oscar for his performance in “Leaving
 Las Vegas ” and has also starred in movies such as “Drive
Angry.”  General Motors Co. (GM)  signed up Pitt in January to promote its
China-made Cadillac XTS, while Chery Automobile Co. hired
Barcelona soccer player Messi in 2010 to pitch their Riich brand
cars. Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co.’s Volvo Cars entered an
endorsement deal with Houston Rockets player Jeremy Lin last
year.  BAIC Motor’s parent has said it is seeking an initial share
sale for the car unit in  Hong Kong  and mainland China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Tian Ying in
Beijing at   ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  