-- TNK Billionaire to Pour Cash Into Power, $1 Billion in New Area
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-03-27T08:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/tnk-billionaire-to-pour-cash-into-power-1-billion-in-new-area.html
Billionaire Viktor Vekselberg will
recapitalize his Russian power companies and pour as much as $1
billion into a “resource-intensive” industry at home after
selling out of oil producer TNK-BP.  “We’ll definitely invest more in our energy business in
Russia, that’s 100 percent sure,” Vekselberg said in an
interview late yesterday in Durban, South Africa. “It’s
carrying a lot of debt and has a big investment program, so
we’ll recapitalize it.”  President  Vladimir Putin , who blessed the TNK-BP sale, said
last year that he would “very much like” for the venture’s
billionaire partners to invest at least a “significant part”
of their proceeds in Russia’s economy. OAO Rosneft bought TNK-BP
from  BP Plc (BP/)  and the AAR partners, including Vekselberg, for $55
billion last week, the country’s biggest ever deal.  Vekselberg, Russia’s third-richest person with a fortune of
$15.2 billion according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index ,
controls power plants with more than 16,000 megawatts of
installed capacity through his Integrated Energy Systems
holding. He has also invested in technology through Swiss
companies including  Sulzer AG (SUN)  and  OC Oerlikon Corp AG. (OERL)   “Our second strategic direction is in high tech, including
machinery and new technology,” Vekselberg said while attending
a meeting of BRICS leaders. “We have ideas related to
fundamentally new directions, which we hope will succeed.”  Vekselberg is looking at putting $1 billion into a
“resource intensive” project in Russia, entering an area that
he’s never invested in before, the businessman said, declining
to elaborate.  Vekselberg’s Renova Group,  Mikhail Fridman  and  German Khan ’s Alfa Group and Len Blavatnik’s Access Industries were
paid $27.7 billion in cash for their 50 percent of TNK-BP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Durban South Africa, at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  