-- Lockheed’s Troubled F-35 Unscathed in Pentagon’s Budget
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-27T19:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/lockheed-s-troubled-f-35-said-to-be-unscathed-in-budget.html
The Pentagon wants to spend about
$8.4 billion in the next fiscal year to continue developing and
purchasing  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35, the fighter that is
seven years behind schedule and 70 percent over initial cost
estimates.  The funding includes $6.36 billion to build all 29 of the
F-35s previously planned for 2014, including 19 of the version
designed for the Air Force, six for the Marine Corps and four
for the Navy, according to a budget document obtained today by
 Bloomberg News . The remaining funds would be for continued
development and spare parts.  The proposal for the Joint Strike Fighter will be part of a
$526.6 billion  defense budget  that President  Barack Obama  will
propose next month for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1,
according to government officials familiar with the budget plan
who asked not to be identified discussing it in advance.  The budget request, which doesn’t include money for war-
related expenses such as the conflict in  Afghanistan  and troops
in the Middle East, reflects the Pentagon’s commitment to the
F-35, its most expensive weapons program, despite its soaring
cost and pressures to cut Pentagon spending. Buying 29 F-35s
next year, the same number Congress approved for the current
year, would mean stability after reductions from planned
purchases for three consecutive years.  Obama’s budget request will be his opening bid in the
annual spending negotiations with Congress, which have been
delayed and complicated this year by the budget cuts called
sequestration. The Pentagon plan, which is always reshaped by
congressional committees, will call for $99.3 billion for
procurement and $67.5 billion for research and development,
according to the officials.  Automatic Cuts  The proposed  defense spending  for fiscal 2014 doesn’t
include automatic cuts of as much as $50 billion that will be
imposed unless Obama and Congress rescind or amend the deficit-
reduction requirement. That will let the administration make the
political case that programs such as the F-35, with the jobs it
creates for suppliers in 45 states, will emerge unscathed if
Republicans accept Obama’s plan to replace sequestration with a
combination of spending cuts and revenue increases.  The estimated cost for a fleet of 2,443 F-35 fighters has
climbed to $395.7 billion, a 70 percent increase since 2001.
Pentagon officials have prodded Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, and its
subcontractors to improve performance and reduce costs.  The F-35 is being developed and built at the same time, an
approach that was called “acquisition malpractice” last year
by Frank Kendall, who is now the Pentagon’s undersecretary for
acquisition.  Calming Anxieties  Over the past three years, the Pentagon deferred planned
purchases of 425 F-35s until after 2017.  The F-35 funding to be proposed for fiscal 2014 “will help
calm any anxieties amongst the partner nations” buying the
jets, Douglas Barrie, senior fellow for military aerospace with
the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies,
said in an interview.  Among the partners are the U.K.,  Italy ,  Australia ,  Canada ,
the Netherlands,  Norway ,  Denmark ,  Turkey , Singapore, Japan and
 Israel .  “If you see cuts in the U.S. numbers, then partner nations
think, ‘What does this mean for me?’” he said of the prospect
that the price per plane would increase.  Under sequestration, the Pentagon must cut as much as $46
billion across 2,500 programs, projects and accounts over the
remaining seven months of the fiscal year.  Air Force  officials have projected that as many as five of
19 F-35s it requested for this year -- part of the 29 for three
services -- could be cut under sequestration.  ‘Big Decision’  “The big decision for me on F-35 will be the decision on
the FY 2015 budget: Do we ramp up or not?” Kendall told
reporters March 12 at a defense conference in Washington.  The Defense Department plans increases to 44 planes in
fiscal 2015 and 66 in fiscal 2016, according to figures included
last year in its long-range budget plan. A new plan for fiscal
2014 to 2018 will be released next month.  “Overall, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program is moving
in the right direction after a long, expensive and arduous
learning period,” the U.S. Government Accountability Office
said in a report this month.  “Going forward, ensuring affordability -- the ability to
acquire the aircraft in quantity” that keeps the per-plane
price down -- “is of paramount concern,” the GAO said.  For Related News and Information:
F-35 Fighter Too Big to Kill as Lockheed Hooks 45 States  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  