-- Oil-Demand Plateau Seen as Natural Gas Favored: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-03-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/oil-demand-plateau-seen-as-natural-gas-favored-chart-of-the-day.html
Oil demand may reach a plateau
worldwide by the end of the decade as cars, trucks, railroad
engines and power plants increasingly use natural gas instead,
according to Citigroup Inc. analysts.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, U.S. prices for the
fuels provide an economic incentive to make the switch. Crude
oil is about four times more expensive than gas for a similar
amount of energy, measured in British thermal units, based on
 New York  futures trading.  “The shift from oil to gas is already under way in the
U.S.,” Seth Kleinman, the head of European energy research at
Citigroup, and five other analysts wrote yesterday in a report.
Other countries are poised to follow suit, they wrote, as gas
becomes more plentiful and anti-pollution efforts intensify.  China has more than 40,000 trucks that run on liquefied
natural gas and plans to put up thousands of service stations
for these vehicles and passenger cars, the report said. In the
U.S., a growing number of corporate and public-transit fleets
use LNG or another fuel, compressed natural gas, they added.  Canada, Russia and India are testing locomotives fueled by
LNG, Citigroup’s analysts wrote. So is BNSF Railway Co., a unit
of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , which said earlier
this month that it will operate six LNG engines this year.  Gas may supplant oil as a fuel for generating electricity
in the  Middle East , India and  Latin America , the report said.
Citigroup’s analysts added that international shipping and
petrochemical companies may make similar shifts.  “Oil demand growth may be topping out sooner than the
market expects,” Kleinman, based in London, and his colleagues
wrote. Greater fuel economy may combine with the shift toward
gas to cause global demand to level off at about 91 million
barrels a day, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  