-- Holmes Offered Guilty Plea in Colorado Theater Shooting
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2013-03-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/holmes-offered-guilty-plea-in-theater-shooting-lawyers-say-1-.html
James Holmes, charged with murder
for a July shooting rampage at a  Colorado  movie theater that
left 12 dead, offered to plead guilty and spend his life in
prison without any chance of parole, according to a court
filing.  Lawyers for Holmes said the offer was made before his March
12 arraignment and that prosecutors, who are considering seeking
the death penalty, haven’t accepted it yet, according to the
filing yesterday in state court in Centennial, in suburban
Denver. Prosecutors are expected to inform the court of their
decision on the death penalty on April 1.  “It appears the only impediment to a resolution of this
case would be if the prosecution chooses to seek the death
penalty,” Jeff Middleton, Daniel King and Tamara Brady, lawyers
with the Colorado public defender’s office, said in the filing.
“If the prosecution elects not to pursue the death penalty,
then it is Mr. Holmes’ position that this case could be resolved
on April 1.”  Judge William Sylvester entered a not guilty plea at
Holmes’s arraignment because King said his client wasn’t ready
to plead. Defenders have said they are considering an insanity
plea.  If prosecutors ask for the death penalty, Holmes may become
the first capital defendant to challenge the constitutionality
of the state’s insanity-defense laws.  Probable Cause  Sylvester ruled in January that the government established
probable cause that Holmes committed the crimes of which he’s
accused. Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the  University of
Colorado , Denver, is charged with 166 counts, including murder
and attempted murder.  Lisa Pinto, a spokeswoman for the Arapahoe County district
attorney’s office, didn’t immediately respond to a phone and
message and e-mail seeking comment on yesterday’s filing.  Colorado State Public Defender Douglas Wilson also didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on the
filing.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kass in Centennial, Colorado, at  kassj@msn.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  