-- Honda Revamps Acura MDX Seeking Luxury SUV Sales Gains
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-03-27T16:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/honda-revamps-acura-mdx-seeking-luxury-suv-sales-gains.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) , targeting record
U.S. sales this year, is readying a redesigned Acura MDX sport-
utility vehicle as it seeks to catch luxury competitors with
enhanced performance, safety equipment and fuel-efficiency.  The 2014 MDX, a seven-passenger SUV unveiled today at the
New York International Auto Show, will have a new, higher-
powered V-6 engine and six-speed transmission, and a smooth
exterior for better aerodynamic performance when it goes on sale
this year, Honda said in a statement. The new MDX will also be
sold for the first time in a lower-priced two-wheel drive
version, along with all-wheel-drive grades, Honda said.  The revamped MDX has “new levels of luxury comfort, family
functionality and fuel efficiency to once again set the luxury
SUV benchmark,”  Jeff Conrad , Acura’s vice president and general
manager of sales, said in the statement.  Honda set a goal for this year of topping its best-ever
U.S. volume of 1.55 million Honda and Acura brand cars and light
trucks, set in 2007, and is counting on the third-generation MDX
and new RLX luxury sedan to reach the target.  Honda, based in Tokyo, also seeks to revive Acura. The
brand’s U.S. sales totaled 156,216 vehicles last year compared
with a peak of 209,610 in 2005. Acura deliveries, which trail
those of  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus in the U.S., are up
only 6.2 percent this year through February.  Honda didn’t immediately announce a volume goal or pricing
for the new model, the best-selling Acura brand light truck for
more than a decade.  Acura sales may rise more than 20 percent from a year ago,
 John Mendel , executive vice president for Honda’s U.S. sales,
said in an interview yesterday.  Honda’s U.S. sales operations are based in Torrance,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  