-- Monsanto, BitTorrent, Microsoft: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-27T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/monsanto-bittorrent-microsoft-intellectual-property.html
Monsanto Co. and  DuPont Co. (DD) , the
world’s largest seed companies, agreed to drop their respective
antitrust and soybean patent lawsuits and enter into licensing
agreements for making genetically modified crops.  Monsanto will ask the  St. Louis  federal court to dismiss
its claim that DuPont infringed patents for Roundup Ready
soybeans, setting aside a $1 billion jury award, the companies
said yesterday in a joint statement. DuPont will ask the court
to dismiss its claim that Monsanto uses monopoly power to stifle
innovation.  The agreement follows recent legal victories by St. Louis-
based Monsanto over its smaller rival in the $34 billion seed
market. A U.S. jury in August ordered DuPont to pay Monsanto for
infringing seed patents, and the U.S. Justice Department and
state attorneys general dropped probes late last year into
industry antitrust concerns raised by DuPont.  “We have spent a lot of time and a lot of energy fighting
each other,” Scott Partridge, a Monsanto vice president, said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “There came a point after a
bunch of confrontations where their interests and our interests
aligned.”  In the agreements announced yesterday, DuPont’s Pioneer
seed unit will license the newest versions of Monsanto soybeans
engineered to tolerate Roundup and another weed killer and make
a series of royalty payments to Monsanto totaling $1.75 billion
through 2023, the companies said.  Monsanto gains access to DuPont patents for crop-disease
resistance and a corn-defoliation technique.  Royalty payments to Monsanto will be $346 million from 2014
to 2015, $456 million in the next two years, and per-unit
payments starting in 2018 that will total at least $950 million,
DuPont said in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The cases are  Monsanto Co. (MON)  v. E.I. duPont de Nemours & Co.,
09-cv-686, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri
(St. Louis) and Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc. v. Monsanto
Co., 11-cv-497, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Iowa
(Des Moines).  Overland Loses Ruling in Library Patent Case Against BDT  Overland Storage Inc. (OVRL) , a maker of data-protection systems,
lost a patent-infringement ruling against BDT-Solutions GmbH
over storage systems that archive a company’s electronic
records.  BDT didn’t violate Overland’s patent rights, U.S.
International Trade Commission Judge Charles Bullock said in a
notice posted on the Washington agency’s website.  The case targets closely held BDT’s FlexStor II product
line of automated tape libraries, which it makes overseas and
then lets companies sell in the U.S. under their own brand
names. Automated libraries backup or archive data on tape drives
in a central location and then retrieve that data from networked
computers, often using robotic arms.  The Overland patents, covering technology it uses for its
NEO systems for small- and medium-sized companies, are for the
apparatus and methods of storing or retrieving the data. The Neo
series  accounted  for about 31 percent of the company’s $59.6
million in revenue in fiscal 2012, the company said in its
annual report.  Bullock in June said neither of the two patents had been
infringed, and one aspect of one of the patents was invalid. The
six-member commission in January ordered the judge to review
those findings, particularly as it pertained to the validity
issue of patent 6,328,766, and infringement of patent 6,353,581,
which relates to a mail slot in the devices.  San Diego-based Overland named International Business
Machines Corp. and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  in the original complaint; it later
settled with those companies. Overland also has  filed  patent-
infringement lawsuits against other competitors, including
 Quantum Corp. (QTM)  and  Qualstar Corp. (QBAK)  Those cases are pending in
federal court in San Diego.  The case is In the Matter of Automated Media Library
Devices, 337-746, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  BitTorrent Founder Seeks U.S. Patent on Live Video Streaming  A new application published in the database of the U.S.
Patent and  Trademark Office  covers a technology enabling live
video streaming anyone can perform without elaborate equipment.  Application  20130066969 , published in the database March
14, lists  Bram Cohen  of Mill Valley, California, as the
inventor. He is best known as the author of the BitTorrent
protocol that is used for peer-to-peer file sharing.  According to the application, the technology will divide
content into multiple data blocks that are transmitted to what
the inventor says are “clubs.” Each person involved in the
transaction will belong to at least two of these clubs. When the
content comes to one person, that person will distribute the
data block to others in the club, and also to people in others’
clubs. That person will also receive data blocks assigned to
other clubs from members of those clubs.  The protocol covered by this application is  now being made
available  on the BitTorrent website, where it’s called
BitTorrent Live.  Royal Caribbean’s Passenger-ID System Accused of Infringement  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) , the Miami-based cruise line,
was sued by a Michigan company for infringing a patent that
covers a method for verifying the identity of a passenger.  The cruise line infringed patent 7,239,723, according to
the complaint filed March 25 in federal court in Miami. The
patent is allegedly infringed by a system that the cruise line
uses to identify its passengers, both upon initial boarding and
on subsequent entries to the ship.  Travel Photo LLC of Troy, Michigan, claims it is injured by
the cruise line’s actions and seeks awards of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees. It also asked the court to
order Royal Caribbean to halt activities that Travel Photo
claims infringe the patent.  The case is Travel Photo LLC v. Royal Caribbean Cruises
Ltd., 13-cv-21053, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida (Miami).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Microsoft Sends EU Report Questioning Google Search Presentation  A  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  consultant questioned the impartiality of
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s search results as European Union regulators try to
end an antitrust probe of the operator of the world’s biggest
search engine that is in its third year.  Internet traffic  can be diverted by manipulating the order
of search results, said Susan Athey, a professor of economics at
 Stanford University ’s Graduate School of Business and a
Microsoft consultant, in a blog post on Microsoft’s website.
When a site is moved from the first position to the 10th
position in a series of search results, it typically will lose
about 85 percent of its traffic, she said.  “Impartiality of search results will become all the more
important in the years to come, given that screen sizes on
smartphones and tablets are smaller than on traditional PCs,”
Athey said. “Smaller screens mean there is even less room for
competing services to appear in Google’s mobile search.”  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  has sought a
deal with Google to end the antitrust probe without imposing
fines, while competitors such as Microsoft and  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP) 
have tried to pressure regulators to force Mountain View,
California-based Google to change its business practices. The
U.S. ended an investigation into Google in January, saying there
was no evidence the company’s actions harmed consumers.  “We continue to work cooperatively with the European
Commission,” Al Verney, a Brussels-based Google spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The EU in 2010 began investigating claims Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting competitors’ ads after
receiving complaints from Microsoft and others.  While Microsoft and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a
quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post
in 2011, citing data from regulators.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Three Californians Indicted for Selling Counterfeit CDs, DVDs  Three California residents were indicted by a federal grand
jury for criminal copyright infringement, according to a
 statement  from the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation.  The charges are related to the sale of counterfeit DVDs and
CDs containing unauthorized copies of music and films. There is
also one count of trafficking in goods bearing counterfeit
trademarks.  The counterfeit goods were sold in rural Glenn and Yuba
counties, according to the government statement.  If convicted on all counts, the alleged sellers of
counterfeit goods face fines of as much as $2.25 million and
maximum prison terms of 15 years.  The indictment followed an investigation by the FBI and the
Sacramento High Tech Crimes Task Force.  According to the case docket, presently only one of the
three defendants is represented by counsel. Otto Godinez-Sales,
21, of San Jose, is represented by Timothy Zindel from the
Office of the Federal Defender in Sacramento. He didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mail seeking comment on the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Godinez-Sales, 13-cr-00088, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Talk  Creation of IP Negotiator Post Suggested in Hatch’s Senate Bill  U.S. Senator Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, introduced a
bill that would create a new ambassador-rank position in the
Office of the U.S. Trade Representative that would have IP-
related responsibilities.  Under the Innovation Through Trade Act, S. 660, there would
be a “Chief Innovation and  Intellectual Property  Negotiator”
within the USTR office. This position would be a presidential
appointment subject to confirmation by the  U.S. Senate .  The IP negotiator would conduct trade negotiations and
enforce trade agreements related to U.S. intellectual property
and would “take appropriate actions to address acts, policies
and practices of foreign governments” negatively affecting U.S.
innovation, according to a  statement  from the Senate Finance
Committee.  The bill also provides for a new statutory report to be
made to both the Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways and
Means Committee on actions taken by the USTR to advance U.S.
innovation and IP rights, and enforcement action taken to
protect those rights.  IP and innovation are “all too often relegated to second-
tier status in our trade policy,” Hatch said in the statement.
Negotiating strong IP agreements and enforcing them is a
“necessity, not an option,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  