-- Monti Rushes to Exit, Bersani Seeks ‘Insane’ Person’s Job
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-03-28T09:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/monti-rushes-to-the-exit-as-bersani-seeks-insane-person-s-job.html
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti
can’t wait to quit. Pier Luigi Bersani, who has first shot at
replacing Monti, said only a lunatic would want to.  “Believe me, only an insane person would want to govern at
this moment,” Bersani said yesterday in a meeting with rival
lawmakers as he sought to persuade them to support his bid to
form a government.  The contradiction is characteristic of Italian politics at
a time when the economy is stuck in recession and the  crisis in
Cyprus  is pushing up government borrowing costs. Parliament was
deadlocked by inconclusive elections last month and Bersani,
after nearly a week of talks, has given no signal that he can
break the impasse. He will report to President Giorgio Napolitano today with the results of his negotiations.  The incumbent has indicated his desire for a breakthrough.  “This government, and I’ll say it in the most respectful
way possible, can’t wait to have its mandate rescinded,” Monti
said yesterday in a speech to parliament.  The leadership vacuum has delayed the approval of stimulus
measures and weakened the country’s defenses as the euro-region
financial crisis descends on Cyprus. The economy, which has
contracted for six straight quarters, is projected to shrink
again this year, while the market turmoil pushes up government
borrowing costs.  Bond Yields  Italian 10-year bond yields rose 6 basis points to 4.83
percent at 10:39 a.m. in  Rome , bringing the gain this week to 31
basis points. The difference in yield with similar-maturity
German bunds widened 7 basis points to 3.58 percentage points,
the biggest gap since Nov. 14.  The cost of insuring against losses on Italian sovereign
debt climbed to the highest since Nov. 16, with credit-default
swaps on the nation’s bonds rising 13 basis points to 309 basis
points.  Established politicians like Bersani, 61, have distanced
themselves from the appearance of ambition as public disgust
with parliament grows. During the election campaign and in the
weeks after the Feb. 24-25 vote, Bersani repeatedly used the
word “responsibility” to describe his motivation. Monti, a
former university president, refers to his entry into politics
as a personal “sacrifice.”  “It’s clear that only those without the whiff of career
ambitions can get ahead in this moment,” said Nicola Marinelli,
who oversees $180 million at Glendevon King Asset.  Even Silvio Berlusconi, a three-time premier, took a step
back during the campaign and said he would accept the position
of finance minister if he won the election.  All that came amid the success of 64-year-old former
satirist Beppe Grillo, whose Five Star Movement won more votes
than any single party and who peppers his speeches with calls to
sweep out the establishment.  Bersani has so far failed to entice his main rivals. Vito
Crimi, Five Star’s head in the Senate, said yesterday his party
would vote “no” to any confidence vote on a Bersani
government. Angelino Alfano, general secretary of Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty party, said he had rejected Bersani’s plan and
a new proposal was needed.  “They can’t hold us back any longer,” Grillo said last
month when the election results were announced. “They might go
on another seven or eight months and produce a disaster, but we
will be watching and working to keep it under control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  