-- Monti Says Ex-Minister Botched India Talks Over Accused Soldiers
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-03-27T16:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/monti-says-ex-minister-botched-india-talks-over-accused-soldiers.html
Italian Premier  Mario Monti  said
ex-Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi botched talks that resulted in
the government bowing to demands by  India  and returning two
soldiers to face charges in the killing of two fishermen.  Monti’s criticism was delivered in a speech today in
 Italy ’s lower house of parliament, the same venue where Terzi
yesterday announced his resignation and faulted the government
for the March 21 decision to send the soldiers back. Comments
made by Terzi earlier this month angered India and made the
negotiations more difficult, Monti said.  Italy’s strategy “shouldn’t have been the subject of
premature statements to the press, which Minister Terzi decided
instead to make, previewing a final result that at that point
couldn’t be taken for granted,” said Monti, whose speech was
interrupted by criticism from lawmakers assembled in the hall.  The return of the soldiers has increased the disfavor
Monti, 70, faces in parliament as he nears the end of his 15-
month term. The former university president, called to power to
impose fiscal austerity and shield Italy from the  European debt
crisis , finished fourth in elections last month and said today
he was ready to leave office.  “This government, and I’ll say it in the most respectful
way possible, can’t wait to have its mandate rescinded,” Monti
told parliament. “It’s a mandate we didn’t ask for in November
2011. It was the world of politics that found the situation too
complicated to handle it.”  Monti’s caretaker administration will be disbanded once
lawmakers in the divided parliament come together behind a new
premier. Pier Luigi Bersani, leader of the biggest coalition,
was given a mandate last week to assemble a majority and is
scheduled to meet President Giorgio Napolitano tomorrow to give
the results of his consultations.  Monti Blamed  Monti is responsible for the failure to shield the soldiers
from the Indian justice system, lawmakers from Beppe Grillo’s
Five Star Movement and Silvio Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
party said in separate speeches after the premier spoke. Lorenzo
Dellai, a representative from Monti’s Civic Choice party, said
Terzi’s resignation was politically motivated.  The soldiers at the center of the case were charged with
shooting dead two fishermen in February 2012, while they were
guarding an Italian-flagged tanker from pirate attacks. The
 Supreme Court  of India in February allowed the marines to leave
the country to vote in Italy’s election after assurances by
Italy that they would be sent back within four weeks.  The soldiers were sent back to India on March 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  