-- How Faucet Maker Duratex Became Favorite Brazilian Stock
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-03-27T21:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/how-faucet-maker-duratex-became-favorite-brazilian-stock.html
The Brazilian company that most
excites stock analysts makes faucets, toilets and fiberboard.  Duratex SA (DTEX3)  has the highest consensus rating on the
benchmark Bovespa index with 11 buys, 2 holds and no sells, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Three  analysts  raised ratings on the
Sao Paulo-based construction-materials supplier in the past
three months, the best percentage improvement of any stock.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s stimulus measures such as
halting a tax on industrial products have been a boost for
Duratex, whose biggest shareholder is the holding company for
bank  Itau Unibanco Holding SA. (ITUB4)  Duratex also has pared output
costs, while a factory fire disrupted a rival’s production, said
Maria Eduarda Lassance, an analyst and partner at Jardim
Botanico Investimentos.  “Even with the increase in the stock price, we are very
comfortable that the results will continue to be strong,”
Lassance, who helps manage 800 million reais ($397 million)
including Duratex shares, said by telephone from  Rio de Janeiro .
“This year should continue to be hot and if competitor problems
continue, prices could continue to rise.”  Duratex rallied 39 percent in the year that ended yesterday
and traded at  17 times  estimated 2013 earnings, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compared with a  ratio of 11  for the Bovespa
index, which fell 17 percent in the period. The shares rose 3
percent, the most since March 11, to 16 reais at the close today
in Sao Paulo.  Wood Division  Revenue rose 14 percent in 2012 from a year earlier to 3.4
billion reais after volumes at the wood division, which accounts
for two-thirds of  sales , climbed a record 16 percent. Demand for
Duratex’s wood panels increased after a fire in September shut
the Montenegro plant operated by  Chile ’s  Masisa SA (MASISA) , its biggest
competitor, until February.  Duratex fiberboard goes into products such as furniture,
for which the IPI tax on industrial goods was cut to zero from
September until January as Rousseff’s administration works to
revive economic growth in the world’s second-largest emerging
market. The IPI rose to 2.5 percent through June, when it
probably will return to 5 percent.  Rousseff’s measures also include a reduction in electricity
rates and paring payroll taxes. Growth in Brazil slowed to 0.9
percent in 2012 from 2.7 percent in 2011.  “Government incentives for the furniture sector helped the
company a lot,” said Karina Freitas, an analyst at Concordia SA
Cvmcc, in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “Even without
benefits like the energy cost reduction, the company has been
able to cut costs well.”  Furniture Efficiency  Duratex’s division that makes wood for furniture is
becoming more efficient, Freitas said. Costs at the unit fell to
470 reais per cubic meter at the end of last year from 518 reais
a year earlier. Meanwhile, revenue per cubic meter increased 2.7
percent to 887 reais, according to a regulatory filing.  Furniture demand is rising as more Brazilians enter the
middle class, which accounts for 52 percent of the population,
up from 40 percent in 2003. While Duratex raised wood-panel
prices by 6 percent this year after boosting output, Masisa’s
wood sales in  Brazil  dropped by 18 percent in 2012, according to
a regulatory filing. A spokesman for Masisa at Ketchum Inc.
declined to comment and wouldn’t give his name.  “The new Brazilian middle class is demanding furniture --
they want to live better,” Duratex Chief Financial Officer
Flavio Donatelli said in a telephone interview. That means the
loss of the IPI tax break in June won’t “have much of an impact
on demand,” he said.  More Competition  Duratex will face increased competition this year with the
restart of Masisa’s plant and joint project between Calhoun,
Georgia-based Mohawk Industries Inc. and Chile’s Celulosa Arauco
& Constitucion SA. Mohawk’s corporate line went unanswered, and
Arauco didn’t respond to requests for comment.  “We have to wait and see how the market behaves, but we
don’t foresee another escalation” in prices, Donatelli said.  After expanding through acquisitions in recent years, a
“key obstacle” now facing Duratex is the lack of suitable
prospects, Diogo Miura and  Marcelo Aguiar , analysts at Goldman
Sachs do Brasil CTVM SA, wrote in a March 1 note to clients.
Rising wages and benefit costs also remain a risk, they said.  Duratex paid 161 million reais last year for a 37 percent
stake in Colombian wood-products maker  Tablemac (TABLEMA)  SA and bought
valve-maker Industria Metalurgica Jacarei Ltda for 46 million
reais. In January, it acquired shower heating system maker
Thermosystem Industria Eletro Eletronica Ltda for 58 million
reais, according to a regulatory filing.  “We think there are still good opportunities out there,”
Donatelli said about future acquisitions.  With existing factories operating at full capacity, Duratex
will increase output of medium-density fiberboard by 40 percent
by mid-year.  “The way the market is growing and how capacity is already
at its limits, they have to keep investing more,” Jardim
Botanico’s Lassance said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net . 