-- How the ATM Revolutionized the Banking Business
-- B y   B e r n a r d o   B a t i z - L a z o
-- 2013-03-27T16:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/how-the-atm-revolutionized-the-banking-business.html
Most adults living in urban areas
around the world have come in contact with an automated teller
machine. For many, it represents their “bank” far more than
rows of tellers standing behind tall counters.  The story of the ATM’s rapid rise to ubiquity is also one
of a revolution in retail banking.  It begins with the embrace of automation that
characterized the mid-century economy and gave rise to vending
machines, self-service gas stations and other innovations. In
the case of the ATM, much of the initial impetus began with
European bankers concerned about increasing unionization and
rising labor costs. To economize, they solicited engineers to
develop a solution for after-hours cash distribution.  In 1967, two British banks installed prototypes of today’s
ATM. The same year, Swedish savings banks unveiled a similar
invention called the Bankomat. By 1971, manufacturers were
mushrooming and building ATMs around the world, including in
the U.S. and  Japan .  These early devices were all stand-alone, clunky,
unfriendly and inflexible. They could do one thing only:
dispense cash when activated by a token. Some banks would keep
the token in the machine and return it to the customer (by
post) once the account was debited. Many machines proved
unreliable: Rarely had electronic equipment been put to the
test by weather in such a way. Security was also a problem, as
there was no easy way to make sure that whoever deposited a
token was indeed the owner of the bank account.  Moving Online  Chubb, the British lock maker, pioneered the use of a
personal identification number. Chubb (along with several other
companies) also introduced card-like plastic tokens with a
magnetic strip. Yet this wasn’t enough to reassure bankers.  For these reasons, the development of online communication
with a central computer became an overriding concern.
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  was a pioneer in this
regard. IBM started the first online trials in  Sweden  and
followed up with an online device in the U.K. for Lloyds Bank
in 1972. For most of the 1970s, IBM engineers worked to develop
the rails, pipes and standards on which other elements of the
payments ecosystem -- such as credit cards and point-of-sale
terminals -- would eventually depend.  By the early 1980s, however, ATM manufacturers such as
Chubb, De La Rue Plc and Docutel Corp. had failed to keep up
with developments in computing and electronics. Others hadn’t
yet achieved a critical market share. Citibank had effectively
abandoned a plan to commercialize devices of its own patented
design. Even IBM, which had the marketing muscle, engineering
expertise and business contacts to take over the market,
decided against further investment in payment technology.  Around this time, two Ohio-based companies,  NCR Corp. (NCR)  and
 Diebold Inc. (DBD) , were working on technology that would enable them
to effectively dominate the world’s supply of ATMs for the next
two decades.  Capitalizing on deregulation and the banking industry’s
growth across retail markets, NCR and Diebold were instrumental
in turning the dinosaur cash dispenser into today’s sleek,
multi-function ATM. The companies’ innovations included new,
customer-friendly video-display units; programmable buttons
alongside the screen; a shift toward dispensing cash
horizontally, which reduced jams; and a growing menu of
options, including money transfers and balance inquiries.  Explosive Growth  These advances soon freed staff at retail-banking branches
to engage customers in higher-value services, such as
insurance, mortgages and stock-market trading. ATMs thus proved
to banks that there were alternative distribution channels to
brick and mortar branches; became the backbone of the payments
system; and opened the door to telephone and Internet banking.
In this sense, ATMs enabled the explosive growth of retail
finance during the last decades of the 20th century.  ATMs, however, remained expensive to operate. The need for
dedicated phone lines still limited them largely to bank
branches or high-traffic locations such as train stations and
airports. Operating systems and microprocessors had to be
custom-made. All this changed with the advent of digital
telephony and personal computers, and the introduction of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  software as the core operating system. The ATM
then effectively became a terminal of banks’ central computers,
enabling online verification at the point of transaction.  In the mid-1990s, Triton Systems Inc. and Tidel
Engineering LP introduced lighter and cheaper machines that
used dial-up communications. Unlike ATMs attached to a bank,
these new cash dispensers could send and receive encrypted data
over regular phone lines. As a consequence, new organizations
called independent ATM deployers (better known as IADs) began
installing stand-alone ATMs in grocery stores, bars,
universities and casinos that dispensed cash for a fee.  The IADs also introduced the practice of self-
replenishment: The owner of a bar, for example, could deposit
cash received from customers directly into the ATM, increasing
sales while reducing the need to transport cash to and from the
bank.  More recently, in what is perhaps the dawn of another new
era, some banks have explored the possibility of connecting
ATMs to mobile-telephone networks. This level of sophistication
isn’t bad for a machine that had decidedly humble beginnings
almost 50 years ago.  But the ATM has always been more than a convenient way to
get cash. It revolutionized the way banks think about
customers, the way the financial world thinks about technology,
and the way we pay for almost everything we buy.  ( Bernardo Batiz-Lazo  is a professor of business history
and bank management at Bangor University in  Wales  and the
author, with Tom Harper, of “Cash Box: The Invention and
Globalization of the ATM.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this post:
Bernardo Batiz-Lazo at  b.batiz-lazo@bangor.ac.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  