-- Paradis Says Canada Wireless Sector Needs Foreign Capital
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r ,   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-03-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/paradis-says-canada-wireless-sector-needs-foreign-capital.html
Canada’s wireless industry needs
more foreign capital to support emerging challengers to the
country’s established carriers, Industry Minister Christian Paradis said.  “What we want is to have more competition,” Paradis said
yesterday when asked if he would prefer a foreign-backed company
or a domestic carrier buying Wind Mobile, the largest recent
entrant to the Canadian industry.  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the Amsterdam-
based owner of Wind Mobile, is soliciting bids for the company,
according to Canaccord Genuity analyst  Dvai Ghose .  “We need foreign capital,” Paradis, 39, said during an
interview in his office near Parliament in Ottawa. For the
smaller players, “capitalization is a life and death matter.”  The government is looking at ways to help four new wireless
providers, which also include Videotron Ltd., Public Mobile Inc.
and Mobilicity. The smaller firms are challenging  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Telus Corp. (T) , which together
control more than 90 percent of the market by subscribers.  VimpelCom, whose acquisition of Wind Mobile is pending
approval by Canadian regulators, intends to sell the company and
has begun collecting bids, Toronto-based Ghose said in a
research note last week.  Anthony Lacavera , the founder of Wind
Mobile, is teaming up with his original backer Naguib Sawiris
and his investment firm Accelero Capital to submit a bid, the
Globe and Mail  reported .  Auction Rules  Alexandra Maxwell, a spokeswoman for Wind Mobile, declined
to comment, as did VimpelCom spokesman  Bobby Leach .  Paradis laid down new rules on March 7 designed to foster
competition by preventing the biggest three companies from each
buying more than one of four blocks of 700-megahertz airwaves in
a wireless spectrum auction this year.  The format for the auction will ensure there are at least
four wireless providers in each region of the country, Paradis
said at the time. The government is determined to see that
vision realized, he said in the interview yesterday.  “We have to continue to push,” Paradis said. “We have a
less intrusive way for now in the market, but we are committed
to go this way.”  Paradis said it’s “hard to speculate” how the government
would respond to a bid for  BlackBerry (BB) , formerly known as
 Research in Motion Ltd .  “This is an aggressive market; you never know what can
happen,” Paradis said. “When you have a national champion like
BlackBerry, you hope they remain a national champion.”  Target BlackBerry  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the Beijing-based computer maker, said
in January it was assessing potential targets and strategic
alliances and was looking at BlackBerry. Lenovo’s Chief
Financial Officer Wong Mai Wing told Bloomberg in an interview
“we are looking at all opportunities -- RIM and many others.”  Acquiring BlackBerry would require approval from Canadian
and U.S. regulators because of the size of the transaction and
the fact the company operates secure mobile networks for
government agencies. Canada automatically reviews foreign
takeovers of companies with asset values of more than C$344
million ($338 million) to determine whether the transactions are
a “net benefit” to the country.  Chinese ownership of BlackBerry would also raise security
questions. The company has been wary of widening its operations
in  China  over concerns about protecting its sensitive networks,
Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins told shareholders in
July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  