-- Pembina Building Spree Spurs Best Pipe Returns
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-03-27T20:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/pembina-building-spree-spurs-best-pipe-returns-corporate-canada.html
Pembina Pipeline Corp. (PPL)  has more
room to rise after its expansion into pricier fuels such as
propane and ethane helped it generate the best total return
among its Canadian peers this year.  Pembina has advanced 14 percent, including dividends, this
year, top among the country’s six largest pipeline operators,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It sports the highest
dividend yield in the group at 5.1 percent, as it advances three
projects valued at C$1 billion ($984 million) to extract,
process and transport petroleum liquids across  Alberta .  The Calgary-based company is taking advantage of a surge in
demand from energy producers drilling for liquids such as
ethane, butane and propane after a North American glut pushed
natural gas prices to a decade low last year. Pembina is getting
a lift as it builds on its C$3.2 billion  purchase  of Provident
Energy Ltd., Leon Frazer & Associates Inc. said.  “As the business grows and as they’re able to increase
their dividend, there’s certainly room for the stock price to
increase,” Ryan Bushell, who manages C$900 million at Toronto-
based Leon Frazier including shares in Pembina, said in a phone
interview. “The liquids business is booming.”  Highest Yield  Pembina’s 14 percent total return compares with 10 percent
for  Canada ’s largest pipeline company  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , and 3
percent for  Inter Pipeline Fund (IPL-U) , the sixth-biggest, according to
Bloomberg data. The company’s dividend is forecast to continue
leading its peers in the next 12 months at 5.3 percent, the
Bloomberg estimates show.  Pembina rose 1.2 percent to C$31.95 in Toronto, a record
closing price. It is projected to climb 7.7 percent to C$34.41
in 12 months, according to the average of 11 analysts’ estimates
 compiled  by Bloomberg. Profit rose 36 percent to C$225 million
in 2012 as Pembina doubled revenues following the purchase of
Provident.  The company is considering a project to export propane from
a terminal along Canada’s Pacific Coast and is assessing
customer interest for a third expansion of its Peace, Northern
and Swan Hills pipelines in northwest Alberta, Pembina Chief
Executive Officer Robert Michaleski said on a conference call
with analysts on March 4.  That’s on top of a second build out announced this month on
the Peace and Northern conduits, part of the C$1 billion in new
projects. Pembina plans to twin its 73,000 barrel-per-day plant,
or fractionator, that strips ethane from liquids, which it
acquired by purchasing Provident last year. It will also double
the capacity of a plant being built to extract liquids from the
gas stream in Alberta.  ‘Cements’ Position  Pembina is in talks with potential customers and may pursue
additional projects related to natural gas liquids and crude
oil, such as storage, pipelines and gas processing, Michaleski
said in a phone interview yesterday.  “Ultimately we’re probably talking in that range of C$4
billion in projects that we will get to announce, and we’ve
announced some of them, for the next three- to five-year
period,” Michaleski said, declining to give details.  Infrastructure to extract, process and transport natural
gas liquids in Alberta is full, the CEO said. The industry will
need new export markets for future excess propane supplies that
may push down prices in the province, he said, predicting there
will be enough local demand for ethane and condensate.  With the expansions, Pembina “cements” its position as
the largest provider of fractionation services in Western
Canada, said Steven Paget, an analyst at FirstEnergy Capital
Corp. in Calgary who rates the company a buy and owns Pembina
debentures.  Liquids Output  “Pembina is starting to look like the  Enterprise Products
Partners (EPD)  of Canada,” referring to the Houston-based company, a
so-called “midstreamer” which takes output from producers,
processes it and transports it to market, Paget said in a phone
interview on March 25.  Producers are boosting liquids output to counter low gas
prices caused by a boom in production from shale formations
across the continent. After touching a 10-year low of $1.907 per
million British thermal units on April 19, North American gas
prices settled at an 19-month high of $4.068 in  New York  today.  Liquids output in Western Canada will probably increase 39
percent to 420,000 barrels a day by 2025 from 303,000 currently,
according to a  forecast  by Calgary-based ITG Investment Research
on March 25. Demand is also rising for condensate, the light
hydrocarbon liquid, from oil-sands producers.  Touch Molecules  Condensate, required to thin heavy bitumen for pipeline
transport, will probably more than double to 700,000 barrels a
day by the end of the decade from 310,000 last year, ITG said.  Pembina may have an edge in profiting from the rush to
liquids by building on its integrated business model, said Juan Plessis, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. in  Vancouver  who
rates Pembina a buy and doesn’t own shares.  “Where they have an advantage is that they touch the
molecules at various points” through the cycle and are able to
garner premium returns, Plessis said.  Pembina’s existing  pipeline network  cuts across much of the
 oil fields  in western Canada that are being rejuvenated with
modern drilling and well technologies allowing development of
liquids, Plessis said, pointing to the Montney, Deep Basin,
Duvernay, Cardium and Slave Point.  Rather than buying the gas supply, Pembina’s new projects
will charge customers a fee for processing, so they shelter the
company from commodity price swings, Plessis said.  ‘Blue-Chip’ Stocks  Environmental opposition to oil-sands development has
contributed to delays for pipeline proposals such as  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL crude line from Alberta to the U.S. Gulf
Coast, which depends on a U.S. approval the company expects this
year. Pembina’s assets are largely in Alberta, where protests
haven’t been as big as in the U.S. or British Columbia.  Canadian pipeline stocks are hovering near record highs
amid attempts to block new conduits. Investors are seeking yield
in an industry they predict has a stable growth outlook, John
Clark, president of Pacific Spirit Investment Management Inc. in
Vancouver, said in a phone interview on March 22.  “There’s a flight to blue-chip dividend-paying stocks
because individual investors can’t find an income return that’s
meaningful in the fixed income area, so they’re looking at the
pipeline stocks,” Clark said.  If  interest rates  rise, Pembina’s stock may be hurt,
Bushell said. “There may be a period of time where it flattens
out.”  ‘Premium’ Stock  Pembina is the priciest stock among peers, with an
enterprise value at 15.9 times its earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to Bloomberg
data. The premium is also the highest when compared to Bloomberg
estimates for the next 12 months. Enterprise value is a measure
of company’s value, including market capitalization, debt,
preferred shares, and excluding cash.  With C$345 million in equity issuance complete this month,
probably the last in 2013, investors should accumulate Pembina
shares despite the premium cost and expect a dividend increase
as soon as later in the year, Robert Kwan, an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Vancouver, said in a March 21 note.  “We believe the growth visibility for projects that will
largely contribute in 2015 underpinned by long-term, take-or-pay
contracts is supportive of the premium,” Kwan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  