-- Pending Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Decline 0.4%
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-03-27T20:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/pending-sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-fell-0-4-in-february-1-.html
Americans signed fewer contracts to
buy previously owned homes in February, indicating a pause in
momentum for an industry that is helping power the economy.  An  index  of pending home sales fell 0.4 percent to 104.8,
the second-highest level since April 2010, after a revised 3.8
percent increase the prior month, the National Association of
Realtors reported today in  Washington . Contract signings,
unadjusted for seasonal variations, increased 5 percent from
February 2012.  Tighter mortgage lending criteria have made it tougher for
prospective homeowners to take advantage of historically low
 interest rates , while fewer properties for sale hinder those
with access to credit. Rising property values may encourage more
people to list homes as the spring selling season gets under
way, giving the housing market another leg up.  “This year housing will remain a bright spot in the
economy,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, a U.S. economist in  New York 
at BNP Paribas and the top forecaster of pending home sales over
the past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Low
inventory is a “temporary phenomenon. As prices rise a little
bit more, we’ll see more supply and market forces will fix the
situation.”  Stocks fell as concern over  Europe ’s debt crisis
intensified. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which approached a
record high yesterday, dropped less than 0.1 percent to 1,562.85
at the close in New York.  Spanish Budget  The Spanish government said today that its 2012  budget
deficit  will be bigger than first estimated after the European
Union requested changes in how tax claims are computed.  U.S. pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings in advance of actual
closings, which occur a month or two later. Existing-home sales
made up about 93 percent of the housing market last year.  Sales of previously owned properties  rose in February  to
the highest level in more than three years, the Realtors group
reported on March 21. Sales climbed 0.8 percent to a 4.98
million annualized rate, the fastest since November 2009.  “I’ve never seen a market like this, and I’ve been doing
this for 19 years,” said Jenny Ames, a real estate agent at
Coldwell Banker in  Chicago . Ames, who sells properties on the
city’s north side that range from $200,000 to $5 million, said
she had about $130 million in sales last year. “The top agents
in the city, most of us, doubled our sales in 2012 compared to
2011. This year, we’re again way ahead of where we were the year
before.”  Home Prices  The pickup in demand combined with limited supply of
available properties is pushing up home values. The NAR’s report
last week showed the  median price  of an existing home increased
to $173,600 last month, an 11.6 percent increase from February
2012 that was the biggest 12-month gain since November 2005.  “The challenge is that the inventory is just dribbling
in,” said Ames. “The lack of inventory is creating pressure on
buyers, and it’s encouraging them to respond with urgency.”  The number of previously owned homes  on the market  climbed
to 1.94 million from 1.77 million in January, marking the first
gain in supply since April. At the February sales pace, it would
take 4.7 months to sell those houses compared with 4.3 months at
the end of January.  Michael Makris, a real estate agent at McEnearney
Associates Inc. in Alexandria,  Virginia , said clients are
wasting no time bidding for properties in the area just across
the Potomac River from the nation’s capital.  Higher Bids  “What you’re hearing about inventory being low yet the
number of buyers being very high is right on target,” Makris
said. “It’s caused prices to rise pretty significantly.”  One couple had been house shopping for about five months
before Makris showed them a condominium in Arlington, Virginia,
with an  asking price  of $599,000. Within an hour, they
successfully bid $625,000 for the property.  “Demand is unbelievable,” he said. “Buyers are out there
now in droves.”  Since about the middle of last year, sales of existing
homes priced $500,000 and higher have led the percentage gains
in activity, according to the  National Association of Realtors .  Total sales climbed 10.2 percent in February from the same
month in 2012, according to the group’s report last week.
Purchases of houses priced less than $100,000 were down 12.8
percent during the period, and those priced $100,000 to $250,000
were up 6.8 percent. The year-to-year gains for properties
priced at $500,000 or more ranged from 23.1 percent to 27.6
percent.  Mortgage Standards  “I think the underwriting or loan approval standards are a
little too high still,” said Tony Geraci at Century 21 HomeStar
in Highland Heights,  Ohio , which has brokers in metropolitan
areas throughout the state. The average market price of homes in
the area served by his agency is around $125,000. “Some people
have cleared up their credit, and there’s nothing they’ve done
recently, but their credit score is still a little too low.”  The  median  pending home sales forecast in a Bloomberg
survey called for a 0.3 percent drop. Estimates of 37 economists
in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 3 percent to an
increase 4 percent. The Realtors’ group revised January’s data
from a previously reported increase of 4.5 percent.  Two of four regions saw a decrease in February pending home
sales, today’s report showed, led by a 2.5 percent drop in the
Northeast. Pending sales climbed 0.4 percent in the Midwest and
0.1 percent in the West.  Economic Ripple  Improvements in the housing market are rippling through
the economy -- from construction companies and agents to lenders
and retailers such  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and  Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM)   “We are far from early-2000 levels in the scope of
economic benefit from a good-to-robust housing market in
creating jobs and generating  tax revenue ,” said Robert
Alderson, president and chief executive officer of  Kirkland’s
Inc. (KIRK) , in Nashville,  Tennessee , retailer of home accessories and
furniture.  “Kirkland’s did experience a chilling effect on customer
traffic in spending late in Q4 and early in Q1 2013 for our
middle-income customer,” Alderson said on a March 14 earnings
call. “But business trends have improved nicely thus far in
March, which is encouraging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  