-- Pentagon, Shanksville Responders Added to WTC Health Plan
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-03-27T15:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/pentagon-shanksville-responders-added-to-wtc-health-plan.html
A health care fund for responders
to  New York ’s World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001, is being
expanded to include rescuers at corresponding attack and crash
sites at the Pentagon and in Shanksville,  Pennsylvania .  The U.S. Health and Human Services Department provided the
first eligibility requirements for people who worked at those
two sites to be added to the $1.5 billion World Trade Center
Health Program, according to a  regulatory filing  today. About
540 to 1,467 new people are expected to enroll, starting May 1,
at a cost of as much as $3.2 million a year, the agency said.  The World Trade Center program, created for people who
survived or helped with rescue, recovery and cleanup after the
attack by two hijacked airplanes in New York, was last expanded
in June to cover cancer. Today’s announcement extends the
program to police, firefighters and volunteers who responded to
the Pentagon building in  Virginia  and in Shanksville, where
passengers of a fourth hijacked plane forced its crash.  The government said it waived normal rulemaking procedures,
instead issuing a final regulation with a brief comment period,
because “postponement in the implementation of eligibility
criteria for Pentagon and Shanksville responders could result in
real harm to those individuals who are currently coping with one
or more health conditions.”  Geographic Limits  Almost 3,000 people were killed after terrorists hijacked
the four commercial airliners in September 2001. Debris and
particulate matter from the crash sites have been blamed for
ailments such as asthma, stroke and cancers that developed in
responders and nearby residents.  The current $1.5 billion medical fund was created on Jan.
2, 2011, when President  Barack Obama  signed legislation that
reactivated a program that operated from 2001 to 2003 to help
those suffering from the World Trade Center attack and its
aftermath.  The 2011 law allowed for Shanksville and Pentagon
responders to be covered as well, but the government hadn’t
provided eligibility rules until today. In its rule, the health
department said it had to determine geographic boundaries of the
incident sites and figure out how long rescuers worked at those
locations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  