-- Pimco’s Kiesel Picks Whirlpool in Bet on Housing Rebound
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-03-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/pimco-s-kiesel-picks-whirlpool-in-bet-on-housing-rebound.html
U.S. industries tied to housing are
likely to grow about four times as fast as the economy, making
them top picks for investors, said Mark Kiesel, global head of
corporate bond portfolios at Pacific Investment Management Co.  Housing  starts  will increase 15 percent a year until at
least 2015, and  home prices  will rise more than 5 percent
annually as demand recovers from the worst real estate crash
since the Great Depression, Kiesel said at a March 26 Bloomberg
dinner in  Newport Beach ,  California , focused on housing. The
economy will grow 4 percent in nominal terms, and less than 2
percent when adjusted for inflation, he said.  “Housing’s going to surprise people on the upside,” said
Kiesel, who in January was named Morningstar Inc.’s 2012 fixed-
income fund manager of the year. “But I don’t think the best
way to play it is homebuilders.”  Pimco, based in Newport Beach, began investing heavily in
the bonds of building-materials and appliance companies such as
 Masco Corp. (MAS) ,  USG Corp. (USG) ,  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  and  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) 
about 18 months ago, said Kiesel, who manages $130 billion,
Pimco’s largest pool after Co-Chief Investment Officer  Bill Gross ’s portfolio. Kiesel put his own money into a rebound last
May, buying a Newport Beach house after selling in 2006 when he
decided the real estate bubble was set to burst.  An index of  pending sales  of U.S. homes fell 0.4 percent in
February from the previous month as tight  inventories  and
limited access to credit held back transactions, the National
Association of Realtors reported yesterday in  Washington . The
gauge was at its second-highest level since April 2010, when
federal homebuyer tax credits fueled a surge of sales.  Sales Surge  New homes  sold in February at an annual pace of 411,000,
capping the best back-to-back months since August and September
2008, the Commerce Department reported earlier this week. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has surged
63 percent in the past year, six times the gain in the  S&P 500 .
Prices for existing homes sold in 20 cities jumped 8.1 percent
in January from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month gain since
June 2006, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller Index.  “We own banks, a play on reflation,” Kiesel said. “Not
enough investors have inflation hedges. And I think you need
them. I think housing is one effective inflation hedge.”  While investors buying houses to rent or resell have helped
drive prices up from a post-bubble low, the U.S. unemployment
rate must decline for the real estate market to sustain growth,
Esmael Adibi, an economist at  Chapman University  in Orange,
California, said at the dinner.  “Investors aren’t real demand,” Adibi said. “Real demand
is driven by  job creation  and household formation. We don’t have
enough job creation. We don’t have enough household formation.”  Land Preparation  Deliveries of new homes have been slowed by builders and
developers not having enough land prepared to meet demand,
especially in places such as California, said Emile Haddad,
chief executive officer of FivePoint Communities Inc., a
developer of about 50,000 lots at master-planned communities in
the state.  Land prices in FivePoint’s projects in Orange County, Los
Angeles and  San Francisco  have jumped 40 percent in the past
year as builders compete for property, he said.  “The next cycle’s going to be driven by the lack of supply
more than by demand,” said Haddad, whose Aliso Viejo,
California-based company’s biggest investor is homebuilder
 Lennar Corp. (LEN)   Sudha Reddy, chief executive officer of Haven Realty
Capital LLC, a buyer of single-family rentals that’s partly
financed by Apollo Global Management LLC, expects investment
opportunities in that sector to last two more years before the
El Segundo, California-based company considers selling
properties.  ‘Exit Strategy’  “We believe there’ll be multiple exits, but we’re not
overly concerned with how that plays out right now,” Reddy said
at the dinner. “We’re focused on acquiring homes properly in
the right markets and operating them, but we certainly see an
exit strategy either to the end user -- individuals that want to
come back to the homeownership market -- or possibly to larger
portfolio buyers.”  Interest rates  close to record lows have helped make homes
more affordable, driving up buyer demand, Kiesel said. Federal
Reserve policy makers led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke plan to
keep rates low as long as unemployment remains higher than 6.5
percent and inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5
percent. The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury bonds and
mortgage-backed securities a month to stimulate the economy.  “Do you think the Fed wins the war?” Kiesel said. “My
view is that the Fed will win and they’re going to expand the
balance sheet until housing prices go up. I don’t think you want
to bet against central banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  