-- Poles, Slovaks to Jointly Bid for 2022 Olympics as Growth Slows
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-03-27T15:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/poles-slovaks-to-jointly-bid-for-2022-olympics-as-growth-slows.html
Poland and Slovakia agreed to file
a joint bid to host the 2022 Winter  Olympic Games  to share costs
and boost economic growth amid government austerity measures
sparked by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Slovakia would organize alpine skiing and ice hockey
events, while the Polish city of Krakow would act as the main
center of the games, Slovak Premier  Robert Fico  and his Polish
counterpart Donald Tusk said after a meeting of ministers of
from the two countries.  The bid comes at a time when a worsening outlook for
 economic growth  is reducing room for fiscal stimulus in the
region as both countries seek to meet the European Union’s
budget-deficit limit as early as this year. Hurt by the debt
crisis, Poland is battling its worst economic performance in
more than a decade, while Slovak economic growth is set to slow
to 0.7 percent this year from 2 percent in 2012.  “I believe this will be a financially viable project,”
Fico said at a joint press conference with Tusk today in the
mountain town of Poprad, Slovakia. “We shouldn’t drop our
ambitions just because there is a crisis in the euro zone.”  Poland , the largest eastern EU member, can draw from its
experience of co-hosting the European soccer championship last
year with Ukraine, Tusk said. Slovakia, a country of 5.5 million
people, about one-seventh of Poland’s population, is counting on
its skiing resorts including Jasna, which is operated by  Tatry
Mountain Resort (TMR)  AS, and its hosting of the 2011 world ice hockey
championships to support the bid.  The prime ministers declined to elaborate on the costs of
hosting the games. A document discussed by the Slovak Cabinet
earlier this month put the preliminary estimate at about $2
billion, of which between 20 percent and 30 percent would be
borne by Slovakia.  The two countries would submit the joint bid to the
 International Olympic Committee  in October, according to the
preliminary schedule released by the Slovak administration. The
IOC is expected to create a shortlist of applicants by June next
year and pick the host city in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Poprad, Slovakia at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  