-- Pound Rises to Two-Month High Against Euro on Cyprus, Italy Woes
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-03-27T16:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/pound-advances-to-six-week-high-against-euro-on-cyprus-concern.html
The pound rose to a two-month high
against the euro as a funding  crisis in Cyprus  and political
deadlock in  Italy  spurred demand for U.K. assets as a haven.  Sterling trimmed a quarterly decline versus the common
currency even as an Office for National Statistics report
confirmed the U.K. economy shrank in the fourth quarter, putting
the nation on course for another recession. The pound was also
boosted after Italy’s Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani
said there was no possibility of a broad coalition to resolve
the stalemate. U.K. government bonds advanced, with 10-year
securities gaining for a fifth day.  “It’s being driven by euro events, general market risk
events rather than anything specifically U.K.,” said  Gavin Friend , a currency strategist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
 London . “We seem to be in a mindset where the euro is a sell on
rallies. Investors have been scared off by the comments coming
out of  Europe  and the measures they are taking.”  The pound gained 0.4 percent to 84.50 pence per euro at
4:51 p.m. London time, after appreciating to 84.42 pence, the
strongest since Jan. 24. Sterling has still dropped 4 percent
versus the euro this year. The U.K. currency weakened 0.3
percent to $1.5115, leaving it 7 percent lower since Dec. 31.  Cyprus may announce what types of controls it plans to
implement today, before banks are scheduled to reopen tomorrow.
The country’s leaders are seeking to prevent the flight of money
from the island’s lenders, which have been closed for almost two
weeks after the European Union forced losses on depositors in
exchange for a 10 billion-euro ($12.8 billion) bailout.  Italian Deadlock  Italy’s Five Star Movement, the party led by former
entertainer Beppe Grillo, will vote against Bersani in a
confidence vote, the party’s chief whips in parliament said in
 Rome . The deadlock follows inconclusive elections last month.  The 10-year gilt yield fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.72 percent, the lowest level since Nov.
13. The 1.75 percent bond due September 2022 gained 0.58, or
5.80 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 100.25.  U.K. gross domestic product contracted 0.3 percent last
quarter, the same as previously estimated, the  Office for
National Statistics  said in London. The  Office for Budget
Responsibility  cut its growth forecast last week.  Sterling’s Decline  Sterling has declined 4.8 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The euro fell 0.3 percent and the
dollar rose 3.3 percent.  The indexes show the pound is  little changed  since March
20, when minutes of the  Bank of England ’s most recent meeting
revealed some officials said further bond purchases may cause an
“unwarranted depreciation of sterling,” prompting investors to
pare bets on an increase in economic stimulus.  The British currency’s slide against the dollar this
quarter will slow because policy makers don’t want to see a
disorderly drop, according to  David Bloom , global head of
currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in London.  “The move to $1.48, or even lower, is going to take from
now to the end of the year, or a lot longer,” Bloom said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Mark Barton . “The move
will still happen lower in sterling, but it will be more
controlled.”  U.K. government bonds have returned 0.5 percent this
quarter through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bunds gained 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  