-- PP Aims to Change Spanish Mortgage Law Within Two Months
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-03-27T16:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/pp-aims-to-change-spanish-mortgage-law-within-two-months.html
Spain’s governing People’s Party
aims to approve within two months steps to ease pressure on
people in arrears with their mortgages, without giving into
demands to let them surrender their homes to cancel their debts.  The changes to the law will make it easier to renegotiate
loans, the PP’s economy spokesman, Vincente Martinez-Pujalte,
said at a news conference today in the southern city of Murcia,
according to an e-mailed statement from the party.  Political pressure is mounting on the government to protect
borrowers. Record  unemployment  has triggered 400,000 foreclosure
procedures since the start of the country’s financial crisis,
and the European Court of Justice has ruled that Spanish
mortgage law can lead to unfair evictions.  “The proposed changes are purely cosmetic, and deep down
nothing is going to change,” Juan Jose Fernandez Figares, chief 
analyst at Link Securities in Madrid, said by e-mail. He said 
most of the steps are already being applied by banks that are 
reluctant to take more real estate onto their books. Spain has 
received about 40 billion euros ($50 billion) in European funds 
to bail out its banks.  The PP amendments, as announced by the government in
January, will allow those in arrears to cancel their debt if
they pay 65 percent of the mortgage outstanding on their home
within five years or 80 percent within 10 years, if the property
is sold at auction.  ‘Unlikely’ Scenario  “That scenario is unlikely,” Carlos Masip and Juan David
Garcia, analysts at Fitch Ratings, said during a conference call
yesterday. “Many borrowers won’t be able to do that. If they
could they wouldn’t be in foreclosure now.”  Other changes include capping interest charges for late
payments to three times the official reference rate and
prohibiting the start of foreclosure proceedings before three
mortgage payments have been missed.  The proposals will also enable judges to suspend
foreclosure procedures if they detect unlawful clauses in
contracts and give notaries more power to prevent transactions
in such cases.  Spanish home loans are usually full-recourse, which
means homeowners remain on the hook for their debts even after a
foreclosed property is sold or confiscated by the lender for
less than the value of the mortgage. The Bank of Spain says the
incentives created by those rules have held down the mortgage
default rate.  “If the government were to take excessive measures
regarding mortgage law, that would affect banks,” Juan Villen, 
head of mortgages for Idealista.com, Spain’s largest property 
website, said in a telephone interview. “It would endanger all 
of the hard work that has been done so far to restore the 
Spanish banking system to health.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  