-- Treasuries Climb as European Turmoil Boosts Safety Demand
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-03-27T21:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/treasuries-rise-as-italian-turmoil-renews-refuge-appeal.html
Treasury 10-year note yields fell
to a three-week low as investors sought refuge amid speculation
that Italy’s political deadlock and reverberations from Cyprus’s
bailout will intensify  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  U.S.  five-year note  yields tumbled to almost the lowest
this year even as the U.S. sold $35 billion of the securities in
the second of three note sales this week totaling $99 billion. A
report showed pending sales of homes in the U.S. dropped last
month, adding to wagers the Federal Reserve will keep interest
rates at virtually zero.  “It’s concern over Europe that’s driving the better bid to
Treasuries,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in
New York at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for
institutional investors. “It’s the good old flight-to-quality
bid emanating principally from Europe. Despite the fact we have
$99 billion to sell, we’re still seeing a pretty good uptrade.”  The  10-year note  yield slid six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.85 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.83
percent, the lowest level since March 4. The price of the
benchmark 2 percent securities due in February 2023 gained
18/32, or $5.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 3/8.  Yields on the current  five-year note  dropped four basis
points to 0.73 percent and touched 0.72 percent, the lowest
since Jan. 2.  Trading  volume  increased 40 percent to $327 billion,
according to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S.
government debt. It was the highest since March 19. The average
daily volume for the past year is $247 billion.  U.S. government securities have lost 0.4 percent this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury
Index. They are little changed this month.  Costly Level  Treasuries rose to the most expensive level this year. The
10-year term premium, a model that includes expectations for
interest rates, growth and inflation, reached negative 0.78
percent. A negative reading shows investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The gauge was
at negative 0.56 percent March 11, the least costly since April.  “Geopolitical risks are elevated, so the safety trade is
more attractive today,” said William Larkin, a fixed-income
money manager in Salem,  Massachusetts , overseeing $500 million
at Cabot Money Management Inc. “That feeds the Treasury trade.
Globally it’s one of the best hedges.”  Note Auction  The five-year notes sold today  yielded  0.760 percent,
compared with a forecast of 0.766 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of six of the Federal Reserve’s 21 primary dealers. The
 bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of securities offered, was 2.73, versus an
average of 2.84 at the past 10 sales.  Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks,  bought  46.1 percent of the notes. The
average for the past 10 sales is 40.4 percent.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 16.8 percent,
versus an average of 13.7 percent at the past 10 auctions.  The U.S. is scheduled to auction $29 billion of seven-year
debt tomorrow. A $35 billion two-year sale yesterday drew the
lowest demand since July 2011. The  bid-to-cover  ratio was 3.27.  Treasuries rose earlier as concern a European Union-led
rescue package for Cyprus may be a precedent for future rescues
fueled bets instability in the region will increase. The nation
is shutting its second-biggest bank, largely wiping out
bondholders, to win the 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout.  Cyprus’s banks will open for six hours tomorrow with
capital restrictions in place after staying closed for almost
two weeks, according to the nation’s central bank.  No Chance  Italy’s Democratic Party leader, Pier Luigi Bersani, was
rejected by leaders of the Five Star Movement after talks aimed
at forming a governing coalition were broadcast live on the
Internet. Bersani said there was no chance of a broad coalition
to end the deadlock caused by inconclusive elections last month.  The nation is “struggling to form a government,” said
Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors. “That’s adding to the fear trade.”  U.S. debt was also supported by month-end buying to match
market indexes. Funds that manage portfolios against benchmark
indexes, including the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index, typically
buy longer-maturity Treasuries near month-end to align the
interest-rate sensitivity of their holdings with the indexes.  The Barclays index will extend its duration, the measure of
rate-sensitivity, by 0.10 year on April 1, compared with 0.11
year on March 1.  Home Sales  Treasuries rose earlier as the National Association of
Realtors’  index  of pending home sales fell 0.4 percent after a
revised 3.8 percent increase the prior month. A Bloomberg survey
forecast a 0.3 percent drop.  The Fed has held its benchmark  interest rate  at zero to
0.25 percent since 2008 to support the economy. It reiterated
March 20 the rate will remain low as long as unemployment, now
at 7.7 percent, stays above 6.5 percent and inflation is
projected at no more than 2.5 percent.  The central bank also is buying $85 billion of bonds a
month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs. It bought
$1.56 billion today of Treasuries due between 2039 and 2043.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  and the Chicago Fed’s
Charles Evans said they want the central bank to keep buying
bonds through the end of 2013. Narayana Kocherlakota of the
Minneapolis Fed said the central bank isn’t doing enough to spur
economic growth. Rosengren and Evans gave speeches, and Evans
spoke in a meeting with reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  