-- Treasuries Remain Higher After $35 Billion Five-Year Note Sale
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-03-27T17:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/treasuries-remain-higher-after-35-billion-five-year-note-sale.html
Treasuries remained higher as
concern that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen bolstered demand
at a U.S. auction of $35 billion of five-year notes.  The securities drew a  yield  of 0.760 percent, compared with
a forecast of 0.766 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of six of
the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers. The  bid-to-cover 
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 2.73, versus an average of
2.84 at the past 10 sales. Treasuries rose earlier amid concern
 Italy  faces an uphill battle in forming a coalition government.  “It’s all about Europe,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, which as a
primary dealer is obliged to bid in U.S. debt sales, said before
the auction. “Treasuries continue to be an international asset
class, so when investors flee overseas assets, they park their
money in Treasuries.”  The  current  five-year note yield fell four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 0.73 percent at 1:06 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The benchmark
 10-year note  yield dropped seven basis points to 1.84 percent.  Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks,  bought  46.1 percent of the five-year
notes sold today after purchasing 41.7 percent at the February
offering. The average for the past 10 sales is 40.4 percent.  Direct Bidders  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 16.8 percent of
the notes, versus 14.3 percent last month and an average of 13.7
percent at the past 10 auctions.  Five-year notes have gained 0.04 percent this year,
compared with a 0.39 percent loss by Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The five-
year securities returned 2.3 percent in 2012, while Treasuries
overall advanced 2.2 percent.  The U.S. is scheduled to auction $29 billion of seven-year
debt tomorrow, the last of three note sales this week totaling
$99 billion.  A $35 billion two-year offering yesterday drew the lowest
demand since 2011. The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand
by comparing total bids with the amount of debt offered, was
3.27, the least since July 2011.  Value Gauge  U.S. government securities rose to the costliest level this
year. The 10-year term premium, a model that includes
expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation, was at
negative 0.78 percent today, the most expensive since Jan. 1. A
negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  Treasuries climbed earlier as concern that a European
Union-led rescue package for Cyprus may be a precedent for
future rescues fueled bets on more instability in Europe. To win
the 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout, Cyprus is shutting
its second-biggest bank, largely wiping out bondholders.  Italy’s Democratic Party leader, Pier Luigi Bersani, said
there was no chance of a broad coalition to end the deadlock
caused by elections last month.  “There’s a lot of negative news coming out of  Europe , and
it’s bringing in pretty good buying in the Treasury market,”
said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors.  Treasury yields remained lower as a report showed fewer
Americans signed contracts to purchase previously owned  homes ,
adding to speculation the Fed will keep interest rates low. The
National Association of Realtors’ index of pending home sales
fell 0.4 percent last month.  The central bank has held its benchmark  interest rate  at
zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 to support the economy. It
reiterated on March 20 that the rate will remain low as long as
unemployment, now at 7.7 percent, stays above 6.5 percent and
inflation is projected at no more than 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  