-- Robert Mugabe Said to Ready Military to Back Election Bid
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-03-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/robert-mugabe-said-to-ready-military-to-back-election-bid.html
Zimbabwean security officials are
considering deploying soldiers, police and youth militia to
intimidate voters ahead of an election this year in a bid to
extend President Robert Mugabe’s 33-years in power, two senior
members of his party said.  The campaign would focus on rural voters because of the
strong urban support for Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai and
his  Movement for Democratic Change , or MDC, said the members of
the politburo of Mugabe’s  Zimbabwe  African National Union-
Patriotic Front party, known as Zanu-PF. They declined to be
identified because of concern for their safety. Zanu-PF denies
that it plans to use violence to sway the vote.  Mugabe, 89, has ruled Zimbabwe since 1980, when a guerrilla
army he led toppled a whites-only government, paving the way for
elections brokered by former colonial power, the U.K. He
narrowly won a vote in 2000 against the MDC after a campaign
said by observers, including those from the European Union to be
characterized by violence and electoral irregularities favoring
Mugabe’s party.  Three subsequent elections were marred by violence and vote
fraud. Tsvangirai, 61, pulled out of a 2008 presidential run-off
after saying his followers were being attacked and killed by
Mugabe’s supporters.  The 15-nation  Southern African Development Community  forced
Mugabe and Tsvangirai to form a coalition government in 2009 and
agree to organize new elections to end the political dispute and
a decade-long economic recession. As part of the agreement Zanu-
PF kept control of the military while the MDC took over economic
ministries.  Diamonds, Business  Military officials and a number of cabinet ministers are
concerned that should Mugabe and his party lose elections, they
may face charges over human-rights violations related to violent
election campaigns as well as being made to account for
corruption, the officials said.  Zimbabwe’s Treasury has questioned transactions in a
program of forcing foreign businesses including  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  to cede stakes to the government and black
Zimbabweans as well as diamond mining on the eastern Marange
field, from which it says it gets no benefit. New York-based
Human Rights Watch is among rights groups that have accused the
military of involvement in gem extraction and smuggling.  Zimbabwe has the world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome
reserves after South Africa as well as deposits of gold and
coal. Companies including  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ,  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd. (AMS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  operate in the
country.  Generals Summoned  Zimbabwe’s army generals have twice been summoned to South
Africa, a member of SADC, in the past two months and warned by
the government and military there to keep soldiers in their
barracks before the elections, the party officials said. Those
warnings may be disregarded as the generals feel there is little
South Africa can practically do to intervene, they said.  Zanu-PF will abide by SADC’s wishes for a peaceful ballot,
 Rugare Gumbo , a spokesman for the party, said in a telephone
interview March 26.  In January Mugabe agreed to a vote on a new constitution,
which was held on March 16, and said there would be elections
later this year. The new constitution is key step in the
agreement negotiated by SADC toward fresh elections.  The role of the military “is always a worrying concern in
the political arena, where the MDC believes they have no
place,” Douglas Mwonzora, a spokesman for Tsvangirai’s party,
said in an interview yesterday. “Its a major concern, as is the
resurgence of violence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  