-- Romania to Leave EU’s Highest Interest Rate Unchanged on Prices
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-03-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/romania-to-leave-eu-s-highest-interest-rate-unchanged-on-prices.html
Romania  will probably leave
borrowing costs at a record low for an eighth meeting as
Cyprus’s bailout weighs on emerging-market currencies and
inflation remains above the central bank’s target.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei will keep its main  interest
rate  unchanged today at 5.25 percent, the highest in the
European Union, according to all 20 economists in a Bloomberg
 survey . The decision is due after 11 a.m. in Bucharest, with
Governor Mugur Isarescu to brief reporters later in the day.  A rescue plan that sought to impose losses on insured
Cypriot deposits has rekindled  Europe ’s debt crisis, sparking
fears of contagion across the continent. Romania, which halted a
rate-cutting cycle in May, is bucking a regional trend toward
lower interest rates with inflation exceeding the upper limit of
monetary-policy makers’ tolerance band.  “Elevated inflation and renewed uncertainty in the  euro
zone  will likely see the central bank keeping rates on hold in
the coming months,” Mai Doan, a London-based economist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch, said in a note. “In the meantime, the
central bank may be more cautious with its liquidity management
amid leu weakness.”  The leu, the world’s best-performing currency against the
euro in January, pared this year’s advance to 0.8 percent after
the Cyprus uncertainty triggered a 1.3 percent loss this month.
It traded at 4.4205 yesterday, down 0.2 percent from March 26.  Recession Dodged  Romania avoided a recession last quarter as gains in
consumption and communication services offset a slump in
agriculture. Gross domestic product rose a seasonally adjusted
0.1 percent from the previous three months, less than the 0.2
percent announced in a Feb. 14 preliminary report, after a 0.3
percent decline in the third quarter.  The inflation rate declined to 5.7 percent in February,
after reaching 6 percent in January, the highest in 19 months.
Price growth will return to the central bank’s target range of
1.5 percent to 3.5 percent by year-end, policy makers predict.  “We are not in a situation to cut interest rates,”
Isarescu said yesterday during a speech in Bucharest. “Even
though we averted a recession, we still have inflationary
expectations.”  Eastern European central banks are trimming borrowing costs
to help revive flagging economic growth. Hungary cut its main
rate to 5 percent on March 26, while  Poland ’s central bank also
reduced its benchmark seven-day  reference rate  to 3.25 percent
on March 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  