-- Rostelecom Names Kalugin Leader After Putin Pal Buys Stake
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-03-27T16:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/russian-government-names-cable-executive-kalugin-rostelecom-ceo.html
OAO Rostelecom named cable
entrepreneur Sergey Kalugin to lead the company after a friend
of Russian President  Vladimir Putin  bought a minority stake in
the state-run telecommunications provider.  Kalugin will replace Alexander Provotorov as president,
Rostelecom said today in a statement after the board approved
the appointment. Arkady Rotenberg, Putin’s judo partner, bought
a 10.7 percent stake last month from Marshall Capital, which had
backed Provotorov.  “Kalugin has a good understanding of the fixed business
and as he has worked at Rostelecom, some management continuity
is ensured,” Ivan Kim, an analyst at VTB Capital, said in a
note to clients today. “Rostelecom is unlikely to be aggressive
in the mobile marketplace” because the new leader lacks
experience in wireless communication, he said.  The 46-year-old Kalugin was co-founder and head of
National Cable Networks, which billionaire Suleiman Kerimov
acquired in 2005 and built into a larger pay TV and Internet
operator, OAO National Telecommunications or NTK. Kerimov sold
NTK to Putin’s friend Yury Kovalchuk in 2008, who sold it to
Rostelecom in 2011. Kalugin worked under all three owners. He
quit in 2012 to work in his own business, WebMediaGroup. The
government recommended that he be appointed to run Rostelecom.  Provotorov Criticism  The Russian Communications Ministry had criticized
Provotorov for inefficient spending at Rostelecom, including for
expansion into mobile. Provotorov may receive compensation of
200 million rubles ($6.4 million), Kommersant  reported  today,
without saying where it got the information.  Rostelecom has about 13 million mobile voice customers and
more than 9 million fixed-line broadband subscribers. The number
of pay-TV subscribers exceeds 6 million, and the company has
about 28 million local fixed-line voice customers.  Rostelecom’s board also approved prices for buying out
minority investors who vote against a merger with parent
Svyazinvest. The buyout price will be 136.05 rubles per common
share and 95.24 rubles per preferred share, the company said
today.  Rostelecom shares rose 1.9 percent to 123.05 rubles, while
the  preferred stock  added 0.5 percent to 89.71 rubles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  