-- Russia Readying Help for Companies With Funds Ensnared in Cyprus
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-03-27T10:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/russia-readying-help-for-companies-with-funds-ensnared-in-cyprus.html
Russia is among the biggest losers
of the  crisis in Cyprus  and may use its  development bank  to aid
companies with funds trapped behind  capital controls  in place on
the cash-strapped island, the head of the state lender said.  “We are prepared to consider proposals and ideas, if any,
that may be forthcoming from our  finance ministry  or other state
institutions,”  Vladimir Dmitriev , chairman of Vnesheconombank,
known as VEB, said in an interview yesterday in Durban, South
Africa. “One can assume a mechanism of temporary help for
Russian business will be created.”  Russian lenders and companies, which had about $31 billion
in Cypriot banks by the end of 2012, are bearing the brunt of
losses inflicted on foreign investors by the country’s 10
billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout. The Russian government has
been notified of corporate funds frozen in Cyprus after being
accumulated there for deals, First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said in a radio  interview  yesterday.  Restrictions on money transfers probably won’t be loosened
for weeks as the Mediterranean island digests the impact of the
European decision to close the second-largest Cypriot bank and
impose losses on uninsured depositors, according to Finance
Minister Michael Sarris.  Cyprus may announce what types of controls it plans to
implement today, before its banks are scheduled to reopen
tomorrow. The country’s leaders are seeking to prevent the
flight of money from the island’s lenders, which have been
closed for almost two weeks. Countries from  Argentina  to Iceland
have used similar measures in the past to defend against
devaluation.  Russian Losses  “I don’t fully understand which concrete measures will be
implemented,” Dmitriev said. “But it’s becoming clear the
interests of Russian business -- both companies and banks --will
be hit by measures being adopted under pressure from the
European Union.”  Russia last week turned Sarris away after failing to agree
on easing the terms of its 2011 loan or provide a new one.
President  Vladimir Putin  ordered the government on March 25 to
start talks with Cypriot authorities on restructuring a 2.5
billion-euro loan granted by Russia. Terms sought by Cyprus
would amount to a 10 percent writedown of the loan, according to
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  has threatened renouncing a
double-taxation treaty with Cyprus and reconsidering the level
of euros held in Russia’s $520 billion foreign-currency and gold
reserves. European governments including Germany have insisted
that Russia bear some of the cost of rescuing Cyprus, arguing
that Russian businesses were using the island to launder money.  Bond Placement  VEB, whose supervisory council is chaired by Medvedev,
postponed a Swiss franc-denominated Eurobond placement because
of the developments in Cyprus, Dmitriev said.  Cyprus’s plans to tax uninsured deposits amounts to theft,
Medvedev said March 25, in a reprisal of a comment attributed to
 Vladimir Lenin , who used it to refer to Bolshevik expropriation
of property belonging to the wealthy.  “They’re continuing, I think, to plunder the loot,”
Medvedev said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  