-- S.F. Museums Tap Colin Bailey, Frick No. 2, as New Chief
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2013-03-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/s-f-museums-tap-colin-bailey-frick-no-2-as-new-chief.html
The  Fine Arts Museums of San
Francisco , operator of the de Young and Legion of Honor museums,
named Colin Bailey as director yesterday after a 15-month
search.  Bailey, 57, is deputy director of the  Frick Collection , the
small, wealthy Manhattan museum that he joined as chief curator
in 2000. A highly regarded specialist in 18th- and 19th-century
French art, Bailey holds a doctorate from Oxford University and
previously served as deputy director of the  National Gallery of
Canada  in Ottawa.  The  San Francisco  museums are among the largest on the West
Coast, together attracting about 1.6 million visitors a year and
ranking them fourth in attendance among U.S. museums.  The modernist de Young, in Golden Gate Park, houses
temporary exhibitions and art of  Asia  and the Americas. The
neoclassical Legion, in  Lincoln Park , displays European art and
smaller traveling shows.  In a statement yesterday, Bailey praised the museums’
“distinct personalities,” saying that they offer “an
opportunity to do the larger blockbuster projects and also the
more focused and scholarly undertakings.”  The museums are overseen by the city and a private board of
trustees. The appointment follows the December 2011 death of the
previous director,  John Buchanan , and a period of upheaval that
followed.  Staff Upheaval  Under President Diane Wilsey, an art collector and
philanthropist who led a $190 million campaign to finance a new
building for the de Young that opened in 2005, the board oversaw
a staff reorganization. The moves included hiring or promoting
five senior managers: a deputy director, a chief curator and new
heads of fundraising, marketing and public relations.  The San Francisco Chronicle reported that at least four
staffers, including a longtime curator of European art, two
exhibition designers and a photographer, were  forced out .  In addition to restoring staff confidence, Bailey will need
to develop an exhibition lineup that matches the successes of
his predecessor. A Southerner with close ties to French museums,
Buchanan attracted a steady stream of well-attended traveling
shows during his six-year tenure.  The museums’ current exhibition schedule has been depleted.
The latest show the de Young has formally announced, “Richard Diebenkorn: The Berkeley Years, 1953-1966,” opens June 22 and
runs through Sept. 29. The Legion will present “Impressionists
on the Water” from June 1 through Oct. 13, to coincide with the
 America’s Cup  sailing championship, to be held this year in  San
Francisco Bay .  Former Finalist  Deputy director of the Frick since 2011, Bailey has
organized more than two dozen exhibitions and published catalogs
and scholarly articles throughout his career. He previously
worked at the J. Paul  Getty Museum  in  Los Angeles , the
Philadelphia Museum of Art and the Kimbell Art Museum in  Fort
Worth ,  Texas .  Bailey was one of three finalists for the director’s job at
the Frick, according to a  New York  Times report. The job went to
Ian Wardropper, a curator at the  Metropolitan Museum , in 2011.  A major challenge for Bailey will be shifting from a small,
wealthy museum to a larger, less richly endowed one.  The Frick’s endowment was valued at $242.5 million for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, while its operating budget for
that year totaled about $23 million. Its professional staff of
curators, education staff, conservators and others totals less
than 25, according to the Frick website.  The San Francisco museums, by contrast, have about 550
employees and an operating budget of $54 million -- less than a
quarter funded by the city -- and an endowment of $113 million
as of June 30.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Greg Evans 
on television.  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 