-- SAIC Shares Rise on Cash Dividend Decision: Washington Mover
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-03-27T21:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/saic-shares-rise-on-cash-dividend-announcement-washington-mover.html
SAIC Inc. (SAI) , a provider of
engineering and technology services, gained the most in more
than nine months after announcing a special $1 a share dividend
to be paid in late June.  SAIC, the 10th-largest defense contractor for the U.S.
government, rose 50 cents, or 3.9 percent, to close at $13.32 in
 New York  trading and earlier touched $13.65. The one-day
increase was most since June 15, 2012.  Cai von Rumohr, an analyst with Cowen & Co. in  Boston  who
rates McLean, Virginia-based SAIC “outperform,” said Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer John Jumper is taking the right
steps by cutting costs, planning to split the company into two
publicly traded units and instituting the special dividend.  “This is our favorite defense stock,” he said in a phone
interview. “He’s doing the types of things that should increase
 shareholder value .”  Analysts including Robert Stallard at RBC Capital Markets
LLC disagree. Stallard is one of two analysts who downgraded the
stock in February because of looming federal government budget
cuts. Automatic spending reductions known as sequestration took
effect March 1 and will trim $85 billion through September
across all federal agencies.  ‘Limited Potential’  Stallard reiterated his “underperform” rating on SAIC,
citing “limited potential for the stock beyond” the dividend
in a note to investors today. SAIC depends on the U.S.
government for about 90 percent of its revenue, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Pentagon must cut its 2013 budget by $46 billion,
representing about 54 percent of the $85 billion in planned
reductions planned by Sept. 30, when the fiscal year ends.  The Defense Department reductions are in addition to $487
billion in cuts already planned over a decade.  Still, the special $1 a share dividend was an “upside
surprise,” said  Jason Kupferberg , an analyst with New York-
based Jefferies LLC, who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  “The company is increasingly committed to returning cash
to shareholders,” Kupferberg said in a phone interview. “I
think that was the biggest reason for the stock’s move today.”  SAIC yesterday forecast full-year per-share earnings of
$1.16 to $1.33.  Jennifer Gephart, an SAIC spokeswoman, didn’t provide a
comment about the gain for the shares today.  -- With assistance from Nick Taborek. Editors: Steve Geimann,
 David Ellis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  