-- Saudi Riches Don’t Reach Entrepreneurs as Bankers Shun Startups
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-03-27T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/saudi-riches-don-t-reach-entrepreneurs-as-bankers-shun-startups.html
When Saleh Al-Zaid decided it was
time to expand  Twitmail.com , the Saudi Arabian entrepreneur
figured it wasn’t even worth trying to get a bank loan.  “Saudi banks don’t want to take the risk with early stage
startups,” Al-Zaid said over coffee and donuts in  Riyadh .
Instead, the 28-year-old obtained 1 million riyals ($267,000)
from an investor in local venture-capital group  Oqal , financing
a trip to Silicon Valley for training. He left his part-time
job, and now his website, which helps Twitter users share e-
mails, has 400,000 visitors on a busy day.  The banking blind-spot may be an obstacle for  King Abdullah ’s efforts to create jobs and diversify the economy away
from oil, which brings 90 percent of government revenue. The
kingdom, the world’s biggest crude exporter, is investing $500
billion on industry, transportation and housing, a program
Abdullah expanded after watching revolts sweep across other
high-unemployment Arab countries two years ago.  The Saudi plan is for private business to take over the
growth baton from  government spending . Smaller companies may
struggle to play their part so long as they’re constrained by a
lack of financing. Just 2 percent of Saudi bank loans go to
small and medium-sized businesses, compared with an 8 percent
 Middle East  average that’s itself low by global standards,
according to the International Finance Corp., the  World Bank ’s
private lending arm.  “In a country like Saudi Arabia, where relationship
banking is very important, there has been a tendency for banks
to focus on big corporates,” said James Reeve, an economist at
 Samba Financial (SAMBA)  Group in Riyadh. “Some observers feel the needs
of small and medium-sized businesses have been overlooked.”  Extra Risk  Saudi corporations are enjoying a lending boom, with the
fastest credit growth since the global economic crisis. Saudi
Arabian Mining Co. was the biggest borrower last year with $2.9
billion, while  Jabal Omar Development Co. (JOMAR)  and Sahara
Petrochemical Co. got loans of more than 1.2 billion riyals.  While the terms for such loans typically aren’t disclosed,
banks demand higher rates from smaller companies, adding to the
risks of getting a new business of the ground, said Shadi al-
Zahery, chief executive officer of property developer iZ Group,
which is building homes in the eastern city of al-Khobar.  “They kill you with interest,” he said in an interview at
the Jeddah Economic Forum this month. “I’ve been to a few
banks, the restrictions that they give you, the return on
investments they are asking for are very high.”  King Abdullah, who turns 89 this year, has eased curbs on
financial flows as he seeks to increase the private sector’s
role in an economy that grew 6.8 percent last year.  No Progress  Non-Gulf investors have been allowed more access to the
stock market, and some bankers expect further liberalization.
The  benchmark equity index  dropped 7.5 percent in the past year,
erasing most of the gains from a first-quarter surge in 2012.  Still, equity-market financing “is more for mid-sized
companies,” said Emad Mostaque, a London-based strategist at
Noah Capital Markets. “There’s not been significant progress in
encouraging small-business formation,” even though state
“megaprojects” were designed to spur private investment.  The government understands the importance of small
businesses, especially for  job creation , and has started a
program to improve their access to financing and offer advice,
Reeve said. He said Samba Financial is participating.  Riyad Bank (RIBL) 
is also among lenders that have set up special centers for
small-business customers.  ‘Early Stages’  Advice is coming from outside, too.  Endeavor , a  New York- 
based nonprofit that helps entrepreneurs, has recently started
operations in  Saudi Arabia , according to Walt Mayo, its senior
vice president for international expansion.  “Even with the wealth of the country, its entrepreneurial
environment is still in its early stages,” Mayo said in a phone
interview. “There is a growing recognition of the need for risk
capital, for entrepreneurs.”  With banks largely out of the picture, there’s an
opportunity for venture-capital groups such as Oqal to play a
key role, said Yasser Almisfer, a board member.  “The object is to provide financing that supports young
businesses and the economy,” said Almisfer, dressed in a
traditional white robe, in an interview in Riyadh. “We also
help them by providing advice about their businesses and how to
expand it.”  Oqal, a collective with 85 members, sets a range of 50,000
riyals to 2 million riyals for its investments, and the
investors get a stake in the companies in return.  Saw Potential  It has advanced 4.5 million riyals to six start-up ventures
since 2011 including  Shakwa.net , a website where consumers post
complaints against companies and government ministries. This
year, Oqal wants to “diversify its projects, into food,
education and other sectors,” Almisfer said. The group also
plans to expand to  Kuwait  and the  United Arab Emirates , he said.  For Internet entrepreneur Al-Zaid, the venture capitalists
are filling a gap.  Oqal was able to look beyond the revenue-generation
problems that startups typically experience and “saw potential
in me,” he said. “This is something Saudi banks would never
do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  