-- Serb Raiffeisen Unit to Focus on Consumer Loans, Petrovic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-27T12:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/serb-raiffeisen-unit-to-focus-on-consumer-loans-petrovic-says.html
Raiffeisen Banka AD , a unit of
Raiffeisen SEE Region Holding GmbH, will focus on  Serbia ’s
underdeveloped consumer market as bad loans plague corporate
lending, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Zoran Petrovic said.  “Serbia still ranks low by household lending versus the
gross domestic product indicator, and that’s where we see room
for growth even though unemployment is still high,” Petrovic
said in an interview in Belgrade yesterday. “In the corporate
sector, the space is very restricted because of a big share of
bad loans and a weak economic recovery after a recession.”  Premier  Ivica Dacic ’s eight-month-old Cabinet wants to
narrow the fiscal gap to 3.6 percent of GDP from 6.7 percent in
2012, lead the economy out of its second recession in three
years and bring down unemployment of around 25 percent.  Bad loans account for 19.9 percent of the total credit
portfolio in Serbia, making banks reluctant to lend, especially
when investments in government securities offer higher returns,
Petrovic said.  “The reality is such that we can hardly expect banks to
give a boost to economic growth, considering that  Europe  is
still in recession, that  capital requirements  on banks are
significantly increased and that some banks in Serbia come from
countries severely hit by the economic crisis,” he said.  Policy Relaxation  Even if the dinar weakens in response to “expected
monetary-policy relaxation” in Serbia, the impact will be
offset by unchanged monetary policies by the  European Central
Bank  and the U.S. Federal Reserve and their low base rates,
Petrovic said.  “Any surplus bank liquidity will continue to flow toward
 government securities  and the National Bank of Serbia as bad
loans remain high,” Petrovic said.  Raiffeisen Banka, ranked fourth among 33 lenders by assets
in the Balkan nation according to central bank data, wants to
increase its dinar-denominated loan portfolio because of ample
dinar liquidity and doesn’t plan to issue a local-currency bond
this year, he added.  Foreign banks held 74 percent of $32.7 billion of banking
assets in Serbia at the end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  