-- Sharp Said to Consider Seeking Buyout Fund Investment
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-03-28T06:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/sharp-said-to-consider-seeking-investment-from-buyout-funds.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese
electronics maker  forecasting  a record loss, is considering
seeking investments from private equity funds to replenish
dwindling cash, two people familiar with the matter said.  The company is also considering selling shares to the
public, the people said, asking not to be identified as the
discussions are private. Details of the funding will possibly be
included in Sharp’s mid-term plan, which may be released in
early May, the people said. The  shares  fell.  Sharp’s cash pile tumbled to 164 billion yen ($1.7 billion)
as of Dec. 31, the lowest level based on records stretching back
to 1992, amid slumping earnings. The Osaka-based company,
bracing for 200 billion yen of convertible bonds maturing this
year, has agreed to sell stakes to  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and Samsung
Electronics Co. A deadline for an investment from Foxconn
Technology Group expired yesterday without a deal.  “The funding issue will continue to be a focus for Sharp
going forward,” said Koki Shiraishi, an analyst at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. “It may be hard to raise funds through a public
offering of common shares, given the current stock price and
investors’ sentiment,” he said.  Sharp fell 3.6 percent to 268 yen at the close in Tokyo
trading today, the lowest since Dec. 13. Japanese exporters
including Sony Corp. and  Canon Inc. (7751)  also declined as the yen
strengthened, dragging the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
down 1.3 percent.  “Sharp is looking at various measures to raise funds,”
spokeswoman  Miyuki Nakayama  said by phone yesterday, declining
to elaborate.  Earnings Focus  Sharp is also trying to develop business alliances and
include them in its next business plan to revive earnings, one
of the people said.  In September, Sharp signed an agreement with Japanese banks
for a 360 billion yen loan. The company secured 30 billion yen
in funds from three banks this month, three people familiar with
the matter said March 14.  Five straight quarters of losses eroded Sharp’s equity to
10 percent of its assets by the end of 2012, compared with 30
percent a year earlier. Japanese manufacturers including  Olympus
Corp. (7733)  and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  sold new shares last year  to
protect their credit ratings after their so-called equity ratio
fell below 20 percent.  In December, Sharp said Qualcomm, the biggest maker of
mobile-phone chips, would pay as much as 9.9 billion yen for a
stake and would cooperate on display technology.  Samsung, the world’s biggest smartphone maker, said March 6
it would spend 10.4 billion yen buying Sharp stock to secure a
supply of liquid-crystal displays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  