-- Singer Piling Up Legal Victories Sinks Bonds: Argentina Credit
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-03-27T12:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/singer-piling-up-legal-victories-sinks-bonds-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s dollar bonds are
extending the steepest losses in  emerging markets  after a U.S.
appeals court rejected a request to rehear a case against
holders of defaulted debt, increasing the likelihood the
government will lose the battle.  The government’s $3 billion of bonds due 2033 that were
issued in the country’s 2005 debt restructuring fell 1.9 cent to
54.07 cents on the dollar yesterday, the lowest since Nov. 28.
The cost to protect Argentina against non-payment over the next
five years with credit-default swaps surged 197 basis points, or
1.97 percentage points, the most in the world, to 3,129 basis
points, according to CMA Ltd.  The pressure on Argentina to pay so-called holdouts from a
restructuring after a record $95 billion default in 2001 has
never been greater. A decision yesterday by the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Manhattan leaves in place an Oct. 26 ruling that
compels the nation to repay investors including billionaire Paul Singer’s hedge fund Elliott Management Corp. when making
payments on restructured debt. Bonds fell on concern Argentina
will opt to cease payments on all of its debt if the court, in a
related appeal, forces Argentina to pay holdouts in full.  “Argentina’s strategy for many years has been to prolong
the process, and this closes a door,” Diego Ferro, co-chief
investment officer at Greylock Capital Management LLC, said in a
telephone interview from New York. Ferro’s firm oversees more
than $500 million in emerging-market bonds, including Argentine
debt, and is not involved in the litigation. “Argentina’s case
is lost. The question now is how much they have to pay.”  Supreme Court  The question of the equal treatment of creditors, known as
pari passu, now can only be debated further by the U.S. Supreme
Court, the highest federal appeals court, which is unlikely to
consider the case because the ruling is based on New York State
contract law, Ferro said.  Norma Madeo, a spokeswoman for the Economy Ministry,
declined to comment on the appeals court decision.  Argentina’s average  borrowing costs  rose 30 basis points
yesterday to 14.88 percent, three times the average for
developing-nation bonds in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
index and the highest of 55 developing nations after Belize.
This year, Argentine bonds have lost 18 percent, the worst
performance in JPMorgan’s index.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of Treasuries widened 13 basis points to 1,306 basis
points at 8:29 a.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan.  ‘Not Good’  “It is certainly not good news for Argentina,” Guillermo Nielsen, Argentina’s former finance secretary who oversaw the
2005 exchange and now works as a consultant in Buenos Aires,
said in an e-mail. “With more judges involved, the chances of
changing the ruling are higher. Nobody sees the three judges
already involved writing a new ruling contradicting, even softly
contradicting, their previous orders,” he wrote.  The decision also goes against a request by the U.S.
government, which in December filed a friend-of-the-court brief
supporting Argentina’s request for a rehearing, citing concern
about its assets and foreign relations.  In October, the three-judge panel of the appeals court
affirmed a decision by U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa that a
pari passu clause in the original bond agreements prevents
Argentina from treating holders of defaulted bonds less
favorably than the holders of the restructured bonds. The
appeals court also said Griesa may bar Argentina from servicing
restructured debt without also making payments on the defaulted
bonds.  Payment Proposal  Following an oral hearing on Feb. 27, the court asked
Argentina to provide a suggested payment formula by March 29
since the nation’s lawyer “appeared to propose” an alternative
to the formula devised by the lower court.  In November, Griesa, an 82-year-old judge who has been
involved in the case for a decade, said Argentina must pay the
entire $1.3 billion claimed by the defaulted-bond holders in
principal and past due interest.  The country claims that a ruling forcing it to pay
creditors who hold defaulted bonds would open it up to more than
$43 billion in additional claims it can’t pay and trigger
another default.  In the hearing last month, the nation’s attorney, Jonathan Blackman, said Argentina would offer holdouts the same terms as
the ones rejected in the previous 2005 and 2010 swaps, which
imposed a loss to investors of about 70 cents on the dollar.
Argentina will have to be willing to negotiate a better offer to
keep the court from upholding the lower court ruling, according
to Joe Kogan, the head of emerging-market debt strategy at
Scotia Capital Markets.  ‘Other Ways’  “They start offering something low but signal to the court
that they’re willing to pay more,” Kogan said in a telephone
interview from New York. The so-called en banc rehearing to a
larger group of appellate judges “was always such a long shot.
I don’t think it should matter much. There are other ways out.
Some that are more likely to materialize, some less likely.”  Kogan said Argentina could offer new par bonds due 2038
that have a higher coupon than those offered in the previous
debt swaps of 2.5 percent. He recommends investors make a short-
term bet on Argentine bonds and buy after yesterday’s losses.  While Argentina can still file a petition for an en banc
rehearing on the outcome of the payment decision, full-court re-
hearings are granted by the New York-based appeals court in only
about 0.03 percent of cases from 2000 to 2010, according to a
2011 study by the Federal Bar Council.  ‘Trade Reactively’  Volatility in Argentine bonds since the appellate court’s
decision in October has more than doubled from the degree of
prices swings in the six months prior, according to Bloomberg’s
Riskless Return index. The nation’s debt securities have posted
the worst losses in emerging markets in two consecutive
quarters, dropping 20 percent in the period.  “There’s sensitivity to negative headlines and a knee-jerk
reaction of selling first and asking questions later because of
the complexity of the case,” Siobhan Morden, the head of Latin
America fixed income strategy at Jefferies Group Inc., said in a
telephone interview from New York. “You’re forced to trade
reactively because it’s too difficult to predict the outcome.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  