-- Slovenia Pledges Austerity in Bid to Avoid Same Route as Cyprus
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-03-27T10:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/slovenia-pledges-austerity-in-bid-to-avoid-same-route-as-cyprus.html
Slovenia’s week-old government
pledged to continue with austerity measures to avoid becoming
the euro region’s sixth member to require a bailout.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek, in her first major policy
speech since taking office, told Parliament that while the
situation in the Alpine nation isn’t comparable with Cyprus,
state finances are still in “bad shape” and the Cabinet is
working “vigorously” to rebuild ailing banks and considering
tax increases.  European Union officials are striving to contain a debt
crisis that prompted Cyprus to join  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland
and  Spain  in agreeing on a bailout. Slovenian banks such as Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. are struggling with surging bad loans
that equal a fifth of economic output, fueling investor fears
that it may be next to seek help.  “Slovenia won’t need aid, we can do this on our own,” she
said today in Ljubljana. “Our banking system is stable and safe
and comparisons with Cyprus aren’t valid. Deposits here are safe
and the government is guaranteeing them.”  Yields Rise  Concern that Slovenia’s banking woes will trigger a bailout
request boosted the yield on the country’s benchmark dollar-
denominated bonds, which mature in 2022. The yield rose 23 basis
points to an all-time high of 5.97 percent at 11:15 a.m. in
Ljubljana, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  With the  European Central Bank  threatening to cut off
emergency financing for Cyprus’s tottering banks, Cypriot
leaders agreed March 25 to shut the country’s second-largest
lender, Cyprus Popular Bank Plc, also known as Laiki Bank, as
part of a 10 billion-euro ($12.8 billion) emergency aid accord
with the EU and the  International Monetary Fund .  Slovenia needs about 3 billion euros of funding this year,
while banks need an additional 1 billion euros of fresh capital,
the Washington-based IMF said last week. The previous government
of Janez Jansa, which fell Feb. 27 amid a corruption scandal,
had proposed a 4 billion-euro plan to deal with bad assets at
financial institutions that Bratusek pledged to follow with some
unspecified changes.  Bank Plan  “The anti-crisis push means we will continue with the bad
bank plan, with the creation of a state-asset holding company
and with the consolidation of finances,” Bratusek said today.  Nova Ljubljanska d.d., Slovenia’s biggest lender, reported
a loss of 275 million euros in 2012, its fourth-consecutive
negative result.  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor (KBMR) , which had a 205
million-euro loss last year, fell to the lowest level since its
2007 listing after a debt-equity swap increased the government’s
stake to 79 percent. The shares plunged more than 40 percent
last week and were down 0.2 percent today at 80 euro cents in
Ljubljana.  Moody’s Investors Service on March 25 cut Nova Kreditna
Banka Maribor d.d.’s long-term deposit rating two levels to Caa2
from B3, with a negative outlook, on a weakened credit profile
and the need for additional capital.  Nova Ljubljanska needed 381 million euros last year, with
Slovenia and its agencies providing all of the money, after its
second-largest owner,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , withdrew from the
transaction because it failed to win approval from the European
Commission.  Tapping Markets  The government plans to tap international markets to help
its finances “depending on  market sentiment ” and “in line
with the program of financing with instruments foreseen in the
program,” the  Finance Ministry  said in a response to e-mailed
questions from  Bloomberg News  today. It gave no details.  Slovenia, rated A- at S&P, last tapped the U.S. debt market
in October with a $2.25 billion bond sale. It considered selling
more dollar-denominated debt in January, according to former
Deputy Finance Minister Dejan Krusec.  The country adopted the euro at the start of 2007, becoming
the first post-Communist European nation to make the switch.
Pumping out exports such as household appliances from Gorenje
d.d., the small open economy outperformed that of  Europe ’s
common currency area for most of the past decade.  A debt crisis that has swept the continent since 2008
damped demand for  consumer goods , pushing the economy into two
recessions over the past four years. Gross domestic product
shrank 3 percent from a year earlier in the fourth quarter, its
third consecutive contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  