-- Slovenian Austerity After Cyprus Fails to Stem Yield Gain
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-03-28T16:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/slovenian-austerity-after-cyprus-fails-to-stem-yield-gain.html
Slovenia’s pledge to continue
austerity measures failed to stem a rise in bond yields to
record highs as investors worry the Alpine nation will follow
Cyprus as the next euro-region member requiring a bailout.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek, in her first major policy
speech since taking office, told Parliament yesterday that her
week-old government would rebuild ailing banks and improve state
finances that are in “bad shape” so the country won’t become
the sixth euro member to need aid.  European Union officials are striving to contain a debt
crisis that prompted Cyprus to join  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland
and  Spain  in agreeing on a bailout. Bratusek’s lack of specifics
on how to avoid foreign support helped push the country’s
benchmark dollar-denominated bonds to an all-time high at a time
when Slovenia is looking to tap bond markets.  “Developments in Cyprus have translated into concerns that
Slovenia will struggle to access the Eurobond market over the
coming months as it moves to recapitalize its banking sector and
shift reliance for budget financing away from the domestic
banking sector, with an increased risk of a haircut in
deposits,” Gillian Edgeworth, chief economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
in London, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 rose to a record 6.382 percent yesterday before dropping
33 basis points today to 6.05 percent by 5:20 p.m. in Ljubljana,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The cost of protecting
Slovenian bonds with credit-default swaps surged 93 basis points
to 411, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Different Circumstances  Smaller euro countries such as Malta and Slovenia have been
quick to distance themselves from the banking crisis that forced
Cyprus to accept a 10 billion-euro bailout ($12.8 billion)
emergency-aid accord with the EU and the  International Monetary
Fund  on March 25.  Slovenia isn’t in a position to ask for international
assistance, central bank Governor Marko Kranjec said in an
interview with STA newswire today. Kranjec, who’s also a member
of the governing council of the  European Central Bank , called on
the government to continue with fiscal consolidation and the
sale of state assets to help avert a crisis, according to STA.  Economic Woes  Slovenia’s economy has struggled with two recessions over
the past four years, boosting bankruptcies. Banks such as Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. are struggling with surging bad loans
after the collapse of the  construction industry , which fueled
growth before the crisis. Bad loans account for about a fifth of
economic output.  The country needs about 3 billion euros of funding this
year, while banks need an additional 1 billion euros of fresh
capital, the Washington-based IMF said last week. The previous
government of Janez Jansa, which fell Feb. 27 amid a corruption
scandal, had proposed a 4 billion-euro plan to deal with bad
assets at financial institutions that Bratusek pledged to follow
with some unspecified changes.  Invalid Comparison  “Slovenia won’t need aid, we can do this on our own,”
Bratusek said yesterday. “Our banking system is stable and safe
and comparisons with Cyprus aren’t valid. Deposits here are safe
and the government is guaranteeing them.”  Bratusek’s words were of little comfort to the market,
which wants to see concrete details on how the government will
fix the bank industry and when, said Abbas Ameli-Renani, an
emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in London.  Citizens too appear to have little confidence in the
government or the banking industry. One in three Slovenians
trust Bratusek’s Cabinet, while one in five have faith in the
nation’s banks according to a survey conducted by RM Plus. The
survey was carried among 700 people between March 22-25 with a
3.5 percent margin of error and published in the Maribor-based
Vecer newspaper today.  “Slovenia has its problems, and if the  euro zone  had not
completely messed up the Cyprus bailout, it could have got
through under its own steam,” added Timothy Ash, chief
emerging-markets economist at Standard Bank Plc in London. “Now
though, all bets are off and it seems increasingly likely that a
bailout will be required.”  Banking Losses  State-owned Nova Ljubljanska, Slovenia’s biggest lender,
reported a loss of 275 million euros in 2012, its fourth-
consecutive negative result. The bank needed 381 million euros
last year, with Slovenia and its agencies providing all of the
money after its second-largest owner,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , withdrew
from the transaction because it failed to win EU approval.  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. , which had a 205 million-
euro loss last year, was one of four banks that failed last year
to meet the European capital targets set by banking regulators.
Bank of Cyprus Pcl, Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, known as Laiki
Bank, and  Italy ’s  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  were the
other three. Laiki was closed as part of the island nation’s
bailout.  Nova Kreditna shares fell more than 40 percent last week
and dropped again today 8.6 percent to close at 75 euro cents in
Ljubljana.  Moody’s Investors Service on March 25 cut Nova Kreditna
Banka’s long-term deposit rating two levels to Caa2 from B3,
with a negative outlook, on a weakened credit profile and the
need for additional capital.  Bond Plans  The government plans to tap international markets to help
its finances “depending on  market sentiment ” and “in line
with the program of financing with instruments foreseen in the
program,” the  Finance Ministry  said yesterday in a response to
e-mailed questions from  Bloomberg News . It gave no details.  “Time is not on Slovenia’s side as shown by the rising
bond yields,” Ameli-Renani said by phone yesterday. “The
government hasn’t been specific on how they will proceed with
the bank plan and fiscal consolidation, they need to clearly
spell it out. Some investors have been spooked by developments
in Cyprus and will be biased toward applying a harsh treatment
to Slovenia given its underlying banking-sector problems.”  Slovenia, rated A- at S&P, last tapped the U.S. debt market
in October with a $2.25 billion bond sale. It considered selling
more dollar-denominated debt in January, according to former
Deputy Finance Minister Dejan Krusec.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  