-- SMA Solar Drops as CEO Sees ‘Tough’ Year Ahead: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-03-27T10:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/sma-solar-drops-as-ceo-sees-tough-year-ahead-frankfurt-mover.html
SMA Solar Technology AG (S92)  dropped the
most in more than five months after  Germany ’s biggest solar-
energy company by market value predicted a “tough year” for
the industry and confirmed it may lose money in 2013.  SMA fell as much as 14 percent, to 17.485 euros a share in
 Frankfurt , the steepest intraday decline since Oct. 19, after
the Niestetal-based company said in a statement today that while
it may reach a break-even result, it “cannot exclude the
possibility of a loss,” in line with a forecast in October.  Earnings before interest and taxes and a dividend proposal
fell short of analyst expectations, Stefan Freudenreich, an
analyst at Equinet, said in an e-mailed note. “SMA reported
disappointing results this morning which should pressure the
stock today.”  Ebit fell 58 percent to 102 million euros ($131 million) in
2012 after subsidy cuts implemented late last year damped sales
in  Europe , including in Germany, the biggest solar market by
installed capacity. The company proposed a dividend of 0.60
euros a share, from 1.30 euros last year. SMA, the biggest
supplier of inverters that convert power from photovoltaic
panels for use in the grid, expects sales and profit to further
decline this year.  “2013 will be a tough year for the solar sector,” Chief
Executive Officer Pierre-Pascal Urbon said in the statement.
“Due to our development of innovative system technology and
energy management solutions, companywide efforts to reduce costs
and consistent internationalization, we believe that SMA is
well-positioned to take the opportunities arising in the
international photovoltaic markets.”  SMA’s net liquidity of 446.3 million euros helps it last
through “stormy weather” and increase sales in the medium term
as competitors struggle with pricing pressure, Urbon told a
conference call with analysts. “We have the financial strength
to really be ahead of the pack.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  