-- SocGen Leads Structured Note Sales Tied to Global Dividend Index
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-03-27T09:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/socgen-leads-structured-note-sales-tied-to-global-dividend-index.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP)  are leading $635 million of sales of structured notes tied to
a global index of companies that pay the highest dividends
relative to their share price.  SocGen sold 253 million euros ($325.7 million) of notes
linked to returns on the Stoxx Global Select Dividend 100 Index
since it began selling them this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. BNP Paribas issued 125 million euros of
the notes, which are tied to the performance of the  stock index 
rather than the dividend payouts themselves.  The securities typically mature in six to eight years and
offer a fixed coupon along with a final cash settlement. The
Stoxx index, which is trading near a five-year high, includes
London-based  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , which yields 4.96 percent.  “Our clients are more and more looking for indexes linked
to high dividend stocks,” said Laurent Besnainou, Societe
Generale’s head of cross asset sales for France.  The Stoxx Global Select Dividend 100 Index climbed to
2258.1 at 8 a.m. in London, the highest level since June 5,
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Structured notes tied to equities, such as reverse
convertibles and auto-callable securities, typically do not give
investors any of the dividends paid on the underlying stock.
Dividend index-linked securities allow investors to benefit from
the share price gains of companies listed on the benchmark.  Structured notes package debt with derivatives to offer
customized bets to investors while earning fees and raising
money. Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  