-- South Africa’s Construction Industry to Settle Antitrust Fines
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-03-27T11:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/south-africa-s-construction-industry-to-settle-antitrust-fines.html
South Africa ’s construction
companies should expect a relatively lenient fine from the
country’s  Competition Commission  when its investigation into
collusion in the industry ends later this year.  “Leniency will vary from company to company, depending on
level of cooperation, projects won, and value of projects,”
Trudi Makhaya, deputy commissioner of the antitrust body, said
by phone today. The fine “will be lower than normal
circumstances,” she said.  The Competition Commission is investigating construction
companies over cartel-style collusion on prices for contracts
issued back as far as three years, Makhaya said last month.  Companies including  Wilson-Bayly Holmes-Ovcon Ltd. (WBO)  and
 Murray and Roberts Holdings Ltd.  have put cash aside to pay
potential penalties.  Basil Read Holdings Ltd. (BSR) , which said today
it would return to profit this year after a loss-making 2012,
has increased provisions to 75 million rand ($8.1 million) from
65 million rand a year ago.  The commission has entered talks with 18 companies
including the “major ones” with an aim of reaching a
settlement, according to Makhaya. The process is expected to
conclude by the end of June.  “It’s about cleaning the slate and giving the industry the
chance to become more competitive,” she said.  The seven-company  FTSE/JSE Africa Construction and Building
Materials Index  was down 0.4 percent by 1:52 p.m. today in
Johannesburg. PPC Ltd., South Africa’s biggest cement maker with
a 29 percent weight in the index, declined 0.1 percent, while
 Aveng Ltd. (AEG) , the second largest member, was down 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  