-- Spain Revises Up 2012 Deficit Amid Data-Change Request: Economy
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-03-27T12:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/spain-revises-up-2012-deficit-amid-data-change-request-economy.html
The Spanish government revised up
the first estimate of its 2012  budget deficit  after the European
Union requested that it changes the way it computes tax claims.  The budget shortfall excluding aid to the banking sector
was 6.98 percent of gross domestic product last year, higher
than the 6.74 percent predicted on Feb. 28, Deputy Budget
Minister Marta Fernandez Curras told reporters in Madrid today.
That compares with 8.96 percent in 2011.  “This isn’t surprising given they announced in January
that the budget deficit would be below 7 percent of GDP before
they even had sufficiently reliable data,”  Ricardo Santos , an
economist at BNP Paribas in  London , said by phone. “There are
questions about Spain’s exact figures, which is why it’ll have
to wait until Eurostat data are released while  Portugal  is being
given more time already to cut its deficit.”  Spain is seeking an extension from other euro-region
governments to reorder its  public finances  as Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  says output may shrink more in 2013 than the 0.5
percent he initially predicted. That’s a third of the
contraction forecast by the  International Monetary Fund . Spain
is due to submit budget plans through 2014 to the European
Commission next month.  Weaker Euro  The central government’s deficit for the first two months
of the year widened to 2.22 percent of GDP from 1.95 percent
last year, according to data calculated using the new
methodology, Curras said.  The euro weakened to less than $1.28 today for the first
time since Nov. 21. The single currency dropped 0.7 percent and
traded at $1.2777 at 12:41 p.m. in Madrid. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index declined 0.8 percent to 291.45.  Economic confidence in the euro area fell more than
economists forecast in March, adding to signs that the recession
in the 17-nation region continued into the first quarter.  In the U.K., disposable income fell 0.1 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months as the economy
contracted 0.3 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today in London. The country’s lenders must raise at least 25
billion pounds ($38 billion) to plug a shortfall in capital and
cover higher estimates for expected loan losses, potential fines
and better risk calculations, the  Bank of England  said.  In the Asia-Pacific region,  Vietnam ’s economic growth
slowed in the first quarter, while  consumer confidence  in  South
Korea  climbed, reports showed today. In the U.S., data on
mortgage applications and pending home sales are due.  Tax Refunds  Eurostat, the EU statistics office, told Spain to compute
tax refunds in its national accounting as and when they are
claimed instead of waiting for the claims to be checked by tax
authorities, Curras said. That means  Spain  must revise its
budget-data series that starts in 1995, she said, without
commenting on when the figures will be released.  “Bond markets need to know the country’s exact fiscal
metrics,” Justin Knight, a London-based rates strategist at UBS
AG, said by telephone. “It’s so difficult to tell what the real
numbers are. We’ll have to wait for Eurostat’s release.”  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond rose 12 basis at 12:29
p.m. to 5.05 percent, widening the spread with similar German
maturities to 3.77 percentage points. European Central Bank
support has shielded Spain from a full bailout since the yield
rose to a euro-era high of 7.75 percent last year.  Stricter Controls  The Budget Ministry delayed tax refunds in the fourth
quarter as it intensified controls. Cash-basis data released
this month by the national tax agency showed refunds surged 83
percent in  January  from a year ago after dropping 62 percent in
 December . Tax refunds declined an average of 7.9 percent in
2012, more than twice as much as in 2011.  “It is a bit of an accounting game,” said  Ignacio Conde-
Ruiz , a Madrid-based economist who works for the economic
research institute Fedea. In the end, the changes come “with a
cost for companies because they have to wait for their money.”  The Bank of Spain said yesterday a return to growth in 2014
is possible if the country’s total deficit -- including those of
the regions, town halls and the tax-funded pensions and
unemployment benefits system -- remains around 6 percent of GDP
between 2012 and 2014, excluding European aid for banks last
year.  Still, the country is far from stabilizing its debt, the
bank said, as the EU’s current deficit limits set for Spain are
4.5 percent of output this year and 2.8 percent in 2014. That
compares with actual overspending of 10 percent of GDP last year
including bank aid.  The central government’s interest bill surged 15 percent
last year to 26 billion euros, while tax receipts slumped 21
percent. The cost of servicing debt represented 30 percent of
the taxes collected at the end of December, up from 20 percent a
year earlier.  The European Commission forecasts Spain’s debt-to-GDP ratio
will rise above the euro region’s average this year for the
first time since the single currency was created, after its
borrowings jumped 20 percent last year to 84.1 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  