-- Sri Lankan Cricketers Barred From Indian State Amid Tamil Anger
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-03-27T04:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/sri-lankan-cricketers-barred-from-indian-state-amid-tamil-anger.html
The Indian Premier League,
cricket’s richest sporting competition, said Sri Lankan players
will not take part in matches in the southern state of Tamil
Nadu amid anger over alleged war atrocities against Tamils in
the island nation’s civil war.  “The security of all involved in the IPL, whether players,
spectators or those working in the stadiums, is of paramount
importance,” the league said in a  statement  yesterday. “The
governing council decided that Sri Lankan players will not
participate in the Pepsi IPL 2013 League matches in Chennai and
will advise the nine franchises accordingly.” Chennai is the
capital of Tamil Nadu.  The state’s Chief Minister J. Jayalalitha wrote to Indian
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh yesterday asking that Sri Lankan
cricketers not play in Tamil Nadu because their presence risked
inflaming tensions. Players, including Lasith Malinga and Mahela
Jayawardene, are due to appear in the competition that draws
competitors from around the world.  Tamil Nadu shares cultural and religious ties with Sri
Lankan Tamils, who fought a 26-year war in the northern and
eastern provinces of Sri Lanka. The country’s army defeated the
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam in May 2009 in a bloody
offensive that killed its chief Velupillai Prabhakaran and ended
the group’s fight for a separate homeland. About 100,000 people
were killed in the conflict.  The United Nations Human Rights Council last week endorsed
a U.S.-sponsored resolution calling on Sri Lanka to investigate
alleged violations and war crimes that occurred during its civil
war. Sri Lanka denied the charges and said the calls for a probe
amount to interference.  Coalition Stability  The alleged war crimes in Sri Lanka are threatening the
stability of the coalition government in  India , Sri Lanka’s
northern neighbor and biggest trade partner. The ethnic Tamil
 Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam  party withdrew from Singh’s government
on March 19 accusing it of not taking a stronger stand against
Sri Lanka. The DMK was Singh’s largest ally.  “In such a hostile and tense environment, we apprehend
that the participation of Sri Lankan players in the IPL
tournament, with many games to be played in Chennai, will
aggravate an already surcharged atmosphere,” Jayalalitha wrote
in her letter to Singh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  