-- State Department Won’t Release Comments on Keystone Study
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-03-27T21:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/state-department-won-t-release-comments-on-keystone-study.html
The U.S. State Department will not
make public the responses it receives to a draft analysis that
found the Keystone XL pipeline posed no significant risks to the
environment.  The department is accepting comments to a draft study,
which environmental groups have criticized for underplaying
Keystone’s potential effect on greenhouse gas emissions.
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  is proposing to build the project to link
Alberta’s  oil sands  with refineries in the  Gulf Coast .  “Consistent with past practice, the department does not
plan to make individual comments public,” the State Department
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Comments will be summarized in an appendix to the final
version of environmental impact analysis, the department said.  “By not posting public comments online, they’re limiting
the level of dialogue and public participation,” because
stakeholders often respond to one another, Sofia Plagakis, an
environmental right-to-know policy analyst at the Center for
Effective Government in  Washington , said in an interview.  Other agencies are “more proactive and transparent in
posting public comments,” Plagakis said.  Daniel Kessler, a spokesman for 350.org, an environmental
group that supports public policies to lower carbon dioxide
emissions in response to  climate change , said the organization
is is planning to collect comments and deliver them to the State
Department on Earth Day, April 22 -- end of the comment period.  Million Comments  Kessler said the group expects to collect more than a
million comments critical of State Department analysis.  Environmentalists oppose the project in part because
producing fuel from oil sands produces more carbon dioxide than
most forms on conventional drilling.  The draft assessment, released this month, makes no
recommendation as to whether the Keystone pipeline should be
built. It said the oil sands would be developed with or without
Keystone, so the pipeline’s effect on total emissions would be
negligible.  Some supporters see the draft analysis as an indication
President  Barack Obama  will eventually approve the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  