-- Stockton Creditors Say It Didn’t Try to Avoid Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h ,   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   J a r e d   G o y e t t e
-- 2013-03-28T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/stockton-bankruptcy-decision-will-come-on-monday-judge-says-1-.html
Stockton,  California , shouldn’t be
allowed to reorganize under court protection because it can’t
prove it negotiated in good faith to avoid bankruptcy, creditors
told a judge who said he will rule by April 1.  When the city did engage in talks, it told parties, “in
essence, to take it or to leave it,” said Matthew Walsh, a
lawyer for creditors, at the end of a three-day trial. “That’s
not the mark of a good faith negotiation strategy.”  If U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Christopher M. Klein in  Sacramento ,
California, decides that Stockton can remain in bankruptcy, it
will be protected from creditor lawsuits and other actions
designed to force it to immediately repay its debts.  Norman Hile, an attorney for the city, said in closing
arguments yesterday that there was no evidence Stockton didn’t
negotiate in good faith, and that it met the criteria for
bankruptcy because it was insolvent in three ways: it couldn’t
provide the services needed to protect the health and safety of
its citizens, it couldn’t present a balanced budget, and it had
no cash to pay its employees,  “The focus is on cash insolvency, not whether city could
have made better budget decisions in the past,” Hile said.
Creditors had said Stockton should have handled its taxes
differently and cut another $24 million from its budget. The
city only had $2 million in cash as of its June 28 petition for
court protection, Hile said.  Good Faith  Creditors, including Assured Guaranty Corp. and  Franklin
Resources Inc. (BEN)  had argued that Stockton didn’t qualify for
bankruptcy because the city isn’t truly insolvent, and that its
leaders didn’t negotiate a potential settlement in good faith.  Stockton is among three municipalities that have said they
will try to force creditors, including bondholders, to take less
than the principal they are owed. The other two are San
Bernardino, California, and Jefferson County,  Alabama . No city
or county since at least the 1930s has used the power of a U.S.
bankruptcy court to force a reduction in its debt principal.  Without bankruptcy court protection, Stockton’s creditors
would be free to sue the city of 300,000 in state court, where
it’s easier to force asset sales, cuts in city services or a
boost in revenue to pay debt. While in bankruptcy, Stockton,
located 80 miles (129 kilometers) east of San Francisco, is
shielded from such tactics and has more power to choose which
bills to pay.  Take Less  Before filing for bankruptcy in June under Chapter 9 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the city asked bondholders and other
lenders owed more than $300 million to take less than full
repayment. The city listed assets of more than $1 billion and
debt of more than $500 million in its bankruptcy petition.  Creditors claimed that the city failed to meet at least one
of three primary tests specified in Chapter 9 or California law.
Before turning to bankruptcy, a city must be insolvent, have
permission from its state government, and have tried in “good
faith” to negotiate a deal with creditors.  “Does your honor want to tell future municipalities that
it’s OK to negotiate with some creditors, but only go through
the motions with others?” Walsh argued to the judge yesterday.  Assured, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , argued in court papers
that the city, in an effort to become insolvent, manipulated its
budget process by refusing to raise taxes and limiting service
cuts.  Bond Payments  The insurer would be on the hook for tens of millions of
dollars in bond payments if the city wins permission to
eliminate the debt.  Guy Neal, an attorney for Assured, argued yesterday that,
as the bonds Assured had don’t mature until 2048, it has a long-
term interest in the city’s wellbeing.  “Assured cares about Stockton’s financial condition,” he
said. “It cares immensely.”  “The city simply wants to wipe out its debt for good,”
Neal told the judge, “but hold on to the proceeds that the debt
provided and continues to provide to its citizens.”  On the good faith test, Assured and the other bond insurer
in the case,  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  unit National Public Finance Guarantee
Corp., claim the city wasn’t serious about striking a deal
during months of pre-bankruptcy talks required by California law.  Franklin’s subsidiary, Franklin High Yield Municipal Fund,
and Wells Fargo Bank NA filed court papers saying they support
the objections of Assured and National Public Finance.  The city never held talks with the California Public
Employees’ Retirement System, or Calpers, which provides
retirement plans for city employees. The biggest U.S. public
pension fund refused to negotiate with Stockton, claiming that
under state law it isn’t authorized to reduce the city’s
contributions to the fund.  “By failing to seek impairment of its single largest
unpaid liability, the city is forcing creditors to fight over a
reduced pool,” Walsh said yesterday.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-32118, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net 
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  