-- Dave Barry’s ‘Insane City’ Stars Stoned Hedgies, Hookers
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2013-03-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/stones-hedgies-hookers-orangutan-star-in-barry-novel.html
Dave Barry’s latest novel, “Insane
City,” features mad hookers, an orangutan named Trevor, Russian
gangsters, billionaires dressed as flamingoes and a guru from
New Jersey who discovered “how much easier it was to get laid if
you were a holy man.”  Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist and author of 30 books,
Barry says his most enduring achievement is establishing
September 19 as International Talk Like a Pirate Day.  Barry spoke to me by phone from his home in Miami.  Lundborg: Do you live in Florida just so you can make fun
of it?  Barry: It’s a very good reason if you are a humor writer
since it’s a never-ending source of material. I appreciate the
residents of Florida. They work hard: Just when you think they
have come up with every possible way to amuse you, they figure
out something even newer.  Lundborg: There are a couple of big shot financiers in your
book. One has a $380,000 watch he can barely control.  Barry: Have you seen those watches? They’re advertised in
the  New York  Times with 48 dials. I don’t know what we need a
watch like that for except to say: Look how much extra money I
have!  Lundborg: There’s also Wendell Corliss, an even richer guy,
with “all the personal charm of an iguana,” who runs the
Transglobal Financial Capital Funding Group.  Medical Marijuana  Barry: Wendell grows. Once he accidentally ingests medical
marijuana and is exposed to Marty, who has absolutely no
redeeming economic value at all, Wendell starts to see another
side of the world and likes it.  Lundborg: You have a lot of fun with this billionaire who
gets the munchies.  Barry: He has never had the munchies in his life, but
Wendell is a ruthless man used to getting things done. When he
finds out the best pizza place around doesn’t deliver, he swings
into action and purchases it right there on the beach for cash.  Lundborg: But he doesn’t get any pizza so he’s still
hungry.  Barry: Wendell and Marty decide Chinese would be a good
idea. They have to negotiate to buy the Majestic Rooster, which
is even trickier, because this requires a call to the president
of China.  The places are renamed Majestic Transglobal Rooster and
Stan’s Transglobal Pizza of Key Biscayne.  Warren Buffett  Lundborg: The two financiers belong to the Group of Eleven,
an association so exclusive  Warren Buffett  was deemed too
nouveau and Donald Trump’s letters were returned unopened. But
the trick here is that all they want is to get into the Group of
Six.  Barry: It’s the one thing money can’t buy.  Lundborg: A lot of humor is generated by the big
destination wedding central to your novel. What’s happened to
marriage?  Barry: The wedding-industrial complex. Brides get swept up
in this world of obsession -- it has to be your perfect day.  Lundborg: As you say, the bride is coordinating the
Normandy invasion while the groom is remembering to zip up his
fly.  Barry: I’m surprised the groom even gets invited to some of
these weddings, he’s become such a minor appendage.  Tweet Whore  Lundborg: Your bride is a gorgeous, smart, rich lawyer with
a killer body. Your groom is an unambitious tweet whore. Why
would she marry him?  Barry: She wants to dominate everything, and the hero is
good-looking but malleable. That becomes the essence of the
plot.  Lundborg: The groom creates online buzz for douche. Is this
the lowest job one can have without actually being unemployed?  Barry: Since the book came out, I have received some
critical mail from the social media community. Apparently big
companies employ people to tweet about their products. Who would
follow that kind of tweeter?  But in the world that we are in, I am the one who looks
stupid because this is a very serious business.  Lundborg: Why did you decide to include an orangutan?  Barry: They are very weird animals but they look very
soulful. I originally intended for the orangutan to appear only
in one scene, but I liked him so much, he just sort of stuck
around and became not only kind of an action hero, but also a
love interest.  Lundborg: Aside from your year-end roundup, you don’t do
much political satire anymore. Why not?  Barry: I went to both conventions last year and wrote
columns daily from there. Those two weeks gave me my fill. It’s
so crazy now. It’s become purely sports -- politics and sports
are the same thing now.  There is just nothing really meaningful happening and there
are no personalities anymore. It’s all point scoring, so I can
only take so much of it.  I just want to be in the world where I really live, where
nobody cares about that stuff.  To buy this book in North America, click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Craig Seligman on  books  and Ryan
Sutton on  dining .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 