-- Study Shows RINs Not Factor in Higher Gasoline, Fuel Group Says
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-03-27T19:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/study-shows-rins-not-factor-in-higher-gasoline-fuel-group-says.html
A surge in the value of Renewable
Identification Numbers for ethanol compliance isn’t one of the
reasons for higher gasoline retail prices, the Renewable Fuels
Association said, citing a study by Informa Economics Inc.  The value of RINs, which are used by refiners and the
Environmental Protection Agency to determine compliance with
government biofuel mandates, reached a record $1.06 on March 8
for the corn-based variety, compared with 7.1 cents Jan. 7, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Biofuel proponents and oil industry interests differ over
the impact of the higher RINs values and their effect on
gasoline prices. The American Petroleum Institute says that a
U.S. law requiring increasing amounts of ethanol in a shrinking
gasoline pool is behind the rise and that the mandate should be
repealed.  “A fact-based review of developments in the gasoline,
ethanol and Renewable Identification Number markets indicates
that the Renewable Fuels Standard in general and RINs in
particular have not been a demonstrable factor in the rise in
retail gasoline prices that has occurred in early 2013,”
Informa said in the report, commissioned by the ethanol lobby.  RINs for conventional grain-based ethanol  rose 9.9 percent
to 66.5 cents yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Advanced RINs, which cover biodiesel and Brazilian sugarcane-
based ethanol, climbed 2.7 percent to 75 cents.  Federal Mandate  A 2007 energy law requires the U.S. to use 13.8 billion
gallons of ethanol this year and 14.4 billion next year. Each
gallon of ethanol produced is assigned a RIN, and once refiners
blend the biofuel with gasoline they can either retain the
certificate to show compliance or they can trade it.  The effect of RINs on gasoline retail prices is 0.0004 cent
a gallon and when adjusted to reflect ethanol’s discount to
gasoline, consumers are receiving just under a 0.04 cent per
gallon benefit at the pump, Scott Richman, senior vice president
at Informa, based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , said today on a
conference call with reporters.  U.S. Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat and chair of the
Senate’s Energy and Natural Resources Committee, sent a letter
to the EPA on March 22 asking for data to explain the recent
volatility in the RIN market.  “We would absolutely support more visibility and more
transparency into this market,” Geoff Cooper, vice president of
research and analysis at the Renewable Fuels Association, a
Washington-based trade group, said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  