-- Sugar Output in India to Drop on Drought, Pushing Imports
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-03-28T08:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/sugar-output-in-india-to-drop-on-dry-weather-boosting-imports.html
Sugar output in India, the biggest
producer after Brazil, is set to decline for a second year as a
drought curbs planting, potentially increasing imports. Prices
in New York advanced.  The harvest will fall 6.5 percent to 23 million metric tons
in the year starting Oct. 1 from 24.6 million tons this year,
according to the median of estimates of four traders, an analyst,
a producer and an industry official compiled by Bloomberg. That
would be less than the local demand of more than 24 million tons
in 2013-2014, said  Narendra Murkumbi , managing director of  Shree
Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) , India’s biggest refiner.  Sugar has slumped about 50 percent in New York since
reaching a three-decade high in February 2011 as production from
Brazil to Thailand and  China  increased, widening a glut. Falling
Indian output after three years of surpluses may boost imports
and help curb the slide in prices, which has contributed to
global food costs tracked by the United Nations’ Food &
Agriculture Organization falling for a fifth month in February.  “India affects the world market through imports and
exports, so next year’s crop will definitely have an impact,”
said  Charlotte  Kingsman, a New Delhi-based sugar analyst at
broker and researcher Kingsman SA. “If the production is very
low, imports are likely to happen.”  Global Glut  The global  surplus  for the 2012-2013 season started Oct. 1
will be 8.5 million tons, 38 percent bigger than estimated in
November, partly because of more supplies from  Brazil , the
International Sugar Organization said Feb. 21. World production
will climb to a record 180.4 million tons, while consumption
will total 171.8 million tons, the London-based group said.  “India’s production will be significantly less than the
expected demand,” Shree Renuka’s Murkumbi said. Planting is
“distinctly low” in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and
Andhra Pradesh states because of the dry weather, he said.  Parts of Maharashtra and Karnataka, which together account
for 45 percent of India’s output, have faced drought in the past
24 months, hurting planting, according to the farm ministry.
Maharashtra’s output may slump to 4 million tons in 2013-2014
from an estimated 8 million tons this season, according to
Pandurang Shelke, joint director at the Sugar Commissionerate of
Maharashtra.  “The current drought situation will reflect as a drop in
country’s total production next year,” Rahil Shaikh, managing
director of ED&F Man Commodities India Pvt., said by phone.  Rising Inventories  India may still be able to avert  imports  next year as
inventories may total about 7.5 million tons on Oct. 1, said
Abinash Verma, director general of the  Indian Sugar Mills
Association . Refiners, seeking to profit from the slump in
global prices, have contracted to import about 1 million tons of
raw sugar since Oct. 1, including as much as 300,000 tons for
sale in the local market, said Vinay Kumar, managing director of
 National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd.   “Local prices are falling because of a surplus and imports
are hurting the sentiments in the market,” Kumar said.
“Exports can’t happen as global prices are too low.”  The May-delivery contract climbed as much as 0.6 percent to
17.95 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S, and traded at 17.87
cents at 2:06 p.m. in Mumbai.  Futures have fallen for six straight months in Mumbai after
climbing to a 20-month high in August. The contract for delivery
in April dropped 0.6 percent at 2,897 rupees ($53.29) per 100
kilograms on the National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Ltd.  Stockpiles in  India  will jump to 9.2 million tons at the
beginning of October from 6.7 million tons a year earlier,
leaving a surplus of 3.4 million tons for exports, Kumar said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  