-- Syrian President Urges BRICS Leaders to Help End Conflict
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-03-27T13:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/syrian-president-urges-brics-leaders-to-help-end-conflict.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
called on leaders of the so-called BRICS group of emerging-
markets nations to help end the country’s two-year civil war
after the Arab League further isolated his government by handing
membership to the opposition.  Syria has suffered from “terrorism that is supported by
Arab, regional and Western countries,” Assad said in a letter
to the leaders of  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and South Africa
and published on the website of the state-run  Syrian Arab News
Agency . He said the five countries, which are meeting in South
Africa, offered hope to oppressed peoples experiencing foreign
interference.  Russia and China have stymied attempts by the U.S.,  France 
and Britain to force United Nations Security Council action
against Assad. The civil war has killed about 100,000 people,
displaced a quarter of the Syrian population and left 200,000
people in government captivity, opposition leader Moaz al-Khatib
said during yesterday’s Arab League summit in Doha.  At the same meeting on March 24, Arab foreign ministers
agreed to give Syria’s vacant seat in the 22-member group to an
executive body to be formed by the Syrian National Council.  The Syrian and Iranian governments rejected the league’s
decision.  Syria ’s representative at the Arab League, Ahmed Youssef, described it as an “illegal precedent.” The decision
was a “bad innovation” and will make “problems for the
decision makers,” the Iranian Students News Agency said, citing
Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi.  Meanwhile, al-Khatib, who announced on March 24 that he was
resigning from his post, said today that an opposition panel
will make a final decision on the issue. He gave no further
details when asked whether he would withdraw his resignation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  