-- U.K. Sets Up Cybersecurity Center to Coordinate Computer Defense
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-27T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/u-k-sets-up-cybersecurity-center-to-coordinate-computer-defense.html
The U.K. has set up a secret
cybersecurity control center staffed by experts from the
intelligence services and some of Britain’s largest companies to
coordinate the defense of their computer systems.  The existence of the “Fusion Cell,” which operates at an
undisclosed location in  London , will be announced in a speech
today by Cabinet Office Minister Francis Maude. It was
established last year with 80 companies from five sectors:
finance, defense, energy, telecommunications and
pharmaceuticals. There are now 160 companies involved.  Along with a secure web portal, the Fusion Cell enables
security experts from the companies, working alongside
intelligence officers, to monitor and share information about
developing threats, according to an official familiar with its
operations who spoke on condition of anonymity.  “This innovative partnership is breaking new ground
through a truly collaborative partnership for sharing
information on threats,” Maude said in a statement. “The
initiative meets a key aim of our cybersecurity strategy to make
the U.K. one of the safest places to do business in
cyberspace.”  The volume of attacks against both government and corporate
computer systems is increasing rapidly, the official said.
Different businesses face different kinds of threat, with the
finance industry seeing large numbers of attempted frauds and
pharmaceutical companies experiencing a smaller number of more
targeted attempts to steal intellectual property. The official
declined to comment on the origin of these attacks.  The Fusion Cell is staffed by around 12 analysts. The
intelligence services are represented by officers from
 Government Communication Headquarters , the U.K.’s signals
intelligence unit, and the  Security Service , known as MI5. The
corporate partners provide computer experts on secondment.  While some companies were initially cautious about passing
on details of incidents in which their security had been broken,
the official said that over the course of the pilot project
they’d become willing to share more information with each other.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  