-- U.K. Fourth-Quarter Disposable Income Falls as GDP Shrinks
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-27T10:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/u-k-fourth-quarter-disposable-income-falls-as-gdp-shrinks-1-.html
Britons’  disposable income  fell in
the fourth quarter, underlining the pressure on consumers as the
economy teeters on the brink of an unprecedented triple-dip
recession.  Household incomes adjusted for  inflation  declined 0.1
percent from the previous three months, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.3
percent, the same as previously estimated.  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  cut its growth
forecasts last week and Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said it will take longer than previously thought to
bring debt under control, prompting Fitch Ratings to move a step
closer to stripping the country of its top credit rating. GDP is
at risk of contracting again this quarter, marking the third
recession in five years. Concern over the economy has weighed on
the pound this year.  “Today’s figures confirm that the U.K. economy finished
last year on a very weak footing and keep alive the risk of a
triple-dip recession,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “The figures are therefore a
timely reminder of how much progress still needs to be made
towards getting the economy back to a sustainable path.”  A separate statement from the Bank of England said U.K.
lenders must raise 25 billion pounds ($38 billion) to make up a
shortfall in capital to cover higher estimates for expected
loan losses, potential fines and better risk calculations.  Trade, Investment  The pound fell against the dollar after the reports and
was trading at $1.5132 as of 9:58 a.m. in  London , down 0.2
percent on the day. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.K.
government bond dropped 5 basis points to 1.74 percent.  Today’s ONS report confirmed that trade and investment
acted as the biggest drag on the economy in the fourth quarter,
casting doubt on Prime Minister David Cameron’s claim to be
rebalancing the economy away from spending by consumers and the
government.  Exports fell 1.6 percent and net trade contributed 0.2
percentage point of the overall decline in GDP, suggesting
exporters are seeing little benefit from the pound’s decline.  The current-account deficit narrowed to 14 billion pounds
in the fourth quarter from 15.1 billion pounds in the previous
three months, the ONS said separately today. While the trade
balance widened, Britain swung to a surplus on its income
balance.  Business Investment  Business investment fell 0.8 percent in the quarter instead
of the 1.2 percent decline previously estimated, wiping 0.1
point from GDP. Consumer spending rose 0.4 percent instead of
0.2 percent.  On the output side, there was a downward revision to
industrial production, which fell 2.1 percent, the most since
2009, amid shutdowns of North Sea oil production. Services were
unchanged, revised from a drop of 0.1 percent. GDP excluding oil
and gas extraction fell 0.1 percent on the quarter.  The household savings ratio fell to 6.7 percent in the
final three months of 2012 from 7.9 percent in the previous
quarter. Net disposable income rose 2.1 percent last year, the
biggest increase since 2003. While total employee compensation
rose 3 percent, just above the rate of consumer-price inflation,
 basic wages  are rising at a slower pace. Earnings were also
boosted by sources such as social benefits, dividends and
property income.  Lagging Behind  The weak economy is hampering Osborne’s efforts to narrow
the budget deficit. In his budget last week, the chancellor
conceded borrowing will be more than 50 billion pounds higher
than previously estimated over the coming years after the OBR
cut its forecasts.  Britain has recovered only half of the output lost in the
2008- 2009 recession, and the country forfeited its top credit
rating at Moody’s Investors Service on Feb. 22. By contrast,
output in the U.S. is back above its pre-slump peak and the
recovery is gaining pace. The OBR estimates the British economy
will grow 0.6 percent this year, half the pace predicted in
December.  With exports to the euro region falling and freezing
weather keeping shoppers at home this month, Britain is relying
on a strong performance from the service sector, which accounts
77 percent of GDP, to prevent a further contraction in the first
quarter. Figures tomorrow are forecast to show services shrank
0.2 percent in the three months through January, according to a
Bloomberg survey. The initial estimate of GDP in the first
quarter is due on April 25.  Monetary Activism  Osborne is relying on the Bank of England to pursue
“monetary activism” to aid the economy as his budget cuts, the
euro-region crisis and the squeeze on incomes from above-target
inflation depress demand.  Governor Mervyn King and two other officials were defeated
for a second month in their bid to add to the 375 billion pounds
of assets bought as part of quantitative easing since March
2009.  In 2012, GDP rose 0.3 percent, revised from a previous
estimate of 0.2 percent. The current-account  deficit  almost
tripled to 57.7 billion pounds. That’s 3.7 percent of GDP, the
most since 1989. The increase was due to a widening trade
deficit and the loss of investment income.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  