-- U.K. Developing Livestock Vaccine That May Ease Shortage
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-03-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/u-k-developing-livestock-vaccine-that-may-ease-shortage.html
Scientists in the U.K. are
developing a vaccine against foot-and-mouth disease in livestock
that may be safer to produce than current inoculations that use
the live virus, according to research.  The finding may help ease a global shortage of vaccines for
foot-and-mouth disease, which is potentially fatal for young
livestock, because the new products use synthetic materials that
are easier to store and monitor than the live virus, according
to a statement from Diamond Light Source, a nonprofit research
company funded by the U.K. government and the Wellcome Trust.
The study, carried out by Diamond, the Pirbright Institute and
Oxford and Reading universities, was published today in the
journal  PLOS Pathogens .  “The vaccine doesn’t need the live virus for its
production, so it’s an intrinsically safer vaccine,” Bryan
Charleston, head of Pirbright’s livestock viral diseases program
and a lead researcher on the study, said at a news conference in
 London . Under current methods “there’s an ongoing threat of
production facilities causing the release of a live virus, so
very expensive control measures have to be in place to ensure
releases don’t occur. That limits the level of production that’s
possible and increases the expense of establishing new plants.”  Foot-and-mouth  disease , which is highly contagious among
livestock including cattle, sheep and pigs, is endemic in parts
of  Africa , the  Middle East  and  Asia . An outbreak in the U.K. in
2001 led to the slaughter of 6 million livestock, costing the
country about 8 billion pounds ($12 billion), according to the
study.  Three billion live-virus vaccines are administered globally
every year to livestock, and the disease costs about $5 billion
annually, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 