-- U.K. Fourth-Quarter Disposable Income Falls as Economy Shrinks
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-27T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/u-k-fourth-quarter-disposable-income-falls-as-economy-shrinks.html
Britons’ disposable income fell in
the fourth quarter, underlining the pressure on  consumer
spending  as the economy stands on the brink of another
recession.  Real disposable income declined 0.1 percent from the
previous three months, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today in London. Gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent, the
same as previously estimated.  The Office for Budget Responsibility cut its growth
forecasts last week and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  said it will take longer than previously thought to cut
Britain’s debt, prompting  Fitch Ratings  to move a step closer to
stripping the country of its top  credit rating . GDP is at risk
of contracting again this quarter, marking the third recession
in five years. Concern over the economy has weighed on the pound
this year.  “The economy currently continues to find it hard to
generate even modest sustainable growth, and its task is not
being made any easier by the increased pressure on consumers’
purchasing power,”  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global
Insight in London, said before the data was released.  Today’s report confirmed the trade and investment acted as
the biggest drag on the economy in the fourth quarter, casting
doubt on Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s claim to be rebalancing
the economy away from spending by consumers and the government.  Exports fell 1.6 percent and net trade contributed 0.2
percentage point of the overall decline in GDP, suggesting
exporters are seeing little benefit from the pound’s decline.  Trade Balance  The current-account deficit narrowed to 14 billion pounds
($21.2 billion) in the fourth quarter from 15.1 billion pounds
in the previous three months, the ONS said separately today.
While the  trade balance  widened, Britain swung to a surplus on
its income balance.  Business investment fell 0.8 percent in the quarter instead
of the 1.2 percent decline previously estimated, wiping 0.1
point from GDP. Consumer spending rose 0.4 percent instead of
0.2 percent.  On the output side, there was a downward revision to
industrial production, which fell 2.1 percent, the most since
2009, amid shutdowns of North Sea oil production. Services were
unchanged, revised from a drop of 0.1 percent.  The household savings ratio fell to 6.7 percent in the
final three months of 2012 from 7.9 percent in the previous
quarter. Net disposable income rose 2.1 percent last year, the
biggest increase since 2003.  Budget Cuts  The weak economy is hampering Osborne’s efforts to narrow
the  budget deficit . In his budget last week, the chancellor
conceded borrowing will be more than 50 billion pounds higher
than previously estimated over the coming years after the OBR
cut its forecasts. The economy will grow 0.6 percent this year,
half the pace predicted in December, the fiscal watchdog said.  Britain has recovered only half of the output lost in the
2008- 2009 recession, and the country forfeited its top credit
rating at Moody’s Investors Service on Feb. 22. By contrast,
output in the U.S. is back above its pre-slump peak and the
recovery is gaining pace.  Osborne is relying on the  Bank of England  to pursue
“monetary activism” to aid the economy as his budget cuts, the
euro-region crisis and the squeeze on incomes from above-target
inflation depress demand.  Governor  Mervyn King  and two other officials were defeated
for a second month in their bid to add to the 375 billion pounds
of assets bought as part of quantitative easing since March
2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  