-- U.S. Earns 0-0 Draw in Mexico in Qualifying for Soccer World Cup
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-03-27T05:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/u-s-earns-0-0-draw-in-mexico-in-qualifying-for-soccer-world-cup.html
The U.S. held host Mexico to a 0-0
tie in qualifying for next year’s soccer World Cup after  Panama 
beat  Honduras  2-0 and Costa Rica defeated  Jamaica  by the same
score in other group games in the region.  Panama leads the final round of qualifying in North and
Central America and the Caribbean, or Concacaf, with six points
from three games. The U.S., Costa Rica and Honduras are tied on
four points, one more than Mexico, while Jamaica is in last
place with two points.  “We showed a tremendous attitude, a willingness to
sacrifice for one another on the field,” U.S. midfielder
Herculez Gomez said in a televised interview. “It’s something
else. It’s really impressive.”  The top three teams advance to the World Cup, with the
fourth-place finisher entering a two-game playoff against New
Zealand, the winner of the Oceania group.  In an exhibition match on Aug. 15, the U.S. earned its
first victory on Mexican soil, 1-0 at the Estadio Azteca in
 Mexico  City. The U.S. had lost 23 of the other 24 games it had
played in Mexico before last night. The only other time the U.S.
avoided defeat in 15 World Cup qualifying games in Mexico was
when it earned a scoreless draw in 1997.  Mexico was denied two penalty claims last night at the
Estadio Azteca, when Javier Hernandez was bundled over by
Michael Bradley in the first half, and when Javier Aquino was
tackled from behind by Maurice Edu with 15 minutes to play.  Mexico Chances  Mexico pressed hard for a goal in the closing minutes, with
Giovani dos Santos firing just wide in the 82nd minute and
Hernandez failing to find the net from about two yards (1.8
meters) five minutes later.  The host’s last chance came in the third minute of added
time, when Diego Reyes forced a diving save from U.S. goalkeeper
Brad Guzan.  Before last night, Mexico was 68-1-6 in World Cup
qualifying at home.  The U.S. prepared for the game at the Azteca, which is
7,200 feet (2,194 meters) above sea level, with a 1-0 win
against Costa Rica four days earlier in Commerce City,  Colorado .
World Cup organizer FIFA yesterday dismissed a protest by Costa
Rica over playing conditions at snow-covered Dick’s Sporting
Goods Park, which is at an elevation of about 5,200 feet, or
about a mile.  Next Games  The next World Cup qualifier for the U.S. is in Jamaica on
June 7, followed four and 11 days later by home ties against
Panama and Honduras.  Also last night, Michael Umana and Diego Calva scored at
the Estadio Nacional in San Jose as Costa Rica earned its first
win against the visiting Jamaicans.  Panama won at home against Honduras, which led the
standings going into last night’s games, with goals after two
minutes by Luis Tejada and in the 75th minute from Blas Perez.  After failing to qualify for the World Cup from 1954
through 1986, the U.S. has played at every edition since 1990,
making the quarterfinals in 2002 and the round of 16 in 1994 and
2010. In nine appearances, the U.S. has a 7-5-17 record at the
quadrennial tournament.  Soccer’s global championship is scheduled from June 12 to
July 13, 2014, in  Brazil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 