-- UBS Commercial Mortgage Bond Head Cohen Departing for BofA
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-03-28T18:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/ubs-commercial-mortgage-bond-head-cohen-said-to-depart-for-bofa.html
Kenneth Cohen, the head of
commercial real estate finance at  UBS AG (UBSN) , is leaving to join
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  after  Switzerland ’s largest lender
overhauled its compensation rules to limit risk.  The banker will become the global head of commercial real
estate at the second-biggest U.S. lender, said Michael Nierenberg, head of the global mortgages and securitized
products business at Bank of America. He will report to
Nierenberg in New York.  Cohen, who arrived at UBS less than two years ago and
previously oversaw commercial mortgage-backed securities at
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., is joining Bank of America as it
seeks to build market share in packaging loans linked to
skyscrapers, hotels and shopping malls into bonds. Eighth-ranked
Bank of America underwrote $2.3 billion in mortgages in 2012,
compared with $4.1 billion for No. 4  UBS (UBS) , according to
Commercial Mortgage Alert, an industry newsletter.  “Our plans are to grow this business,” Nierenberg said in
a telephone interview today. “We have a strong existing team
and will continue to make more hires over time.”  Brett Ersoff and John Herman, who joined UBS in mid-2011
along with Cohen, are taking over as co-heads of real estate
finance and mortgage-backed securities at UBS, according to
Megan Stinson, a New York-based spokeswoman for the lender.  Demand Grows  Sales of the debt are soaring as investors seek riskier
assets with the  Federal Reserve  holding its benchmark lending
rate close to zero into a fifth year. Issuance is forecast to
climb by more than 50 percent to $70 billion in 2013, according
to Credit Suisse Group AG. Almost $22 billion of the debt has
been sold this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  UBS cut its 2012 bonus pool, including pay deferred into
future years, by 7 percent to 2.5 billion Swiss francs ($2.75
billion), the Zurich-based bank  said  Feb. 5. About 500 million
francs of bonuses will be paid in contingent capital bonds,
which will be written off if the common equity ratio falls below
7 percent or UBS needs a bailout.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  is reconstructing
UBS as stricter  capital requirements  and sluggish client
activity hurt the investment bank’s profits. UBS in November
announced plans to eliminate 10,000 jobs, paring down capital
intensive businesses such as fixed-income trading.  UBS last year moved about 20 commercial-mortgage bond
bankers to Lewis Ranieri’s Situs, a commercial real estate
consulting firm, to reduce headcount in the unit in an effort to
cut costs while maintaining its presence in the $550 billion
market, Cohen said in a Nov. 12 interview.  ‘Fully Serve’  Bank of America plans to increase loan originations in
2013, working closely with the commercial bank and the wealth
management business, Nierenberg said.  “This gives us the opportunity to grow our real-estate
footprint in the investment bank as well as work closely with
our colleagues in other parts of the bank to fully serve our
clients,” he said.  Bank of America’s push into commercial-mortgage bonds
contrasts with cuts in other areas. The equities staff was hit
when the lender eliminated more than 30 people from trading and
sales this month to lower costs while pursuing selective hires,
according to people familiar with the moves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  