-- UBS Ascends G-3 Bond Ranks on Contacts With Rich: China Credit
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-03-27T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/ubs-ascends-g-3-bond-ranks-on-contacts-with-rich-china-credit.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  used contacts with  China ’s
richest people to help it climb into the top-five arrangers of
G-3 bonds in Asia for the first time since 2011.  The Swiss lender, which runs the Asia-Pacific region’s
second-largest private bank, has jumped five spots from last
quarter to become the third-biggest arranger of notes in
dollars, euros and yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Citic Telecom International Holdings Ltd., a unit of China’s
largest state-owned investment firm, picked UBS among managers
of its inaugural U.S. currency bond, while China Vanke Co., the
country’s largest developer, also hired the bank for its debut
dollar offering.  “We’ve had the right focus on the right clients and have
had a pretty high hit rate in terms of focusing marketing,”
said Paul Au, the head of syndicate at UBS in Hong Kong. “We
work extremely well with our wealth management colleagues in
terms of deal origination and identifying the right product for
our clients.”  UBS helped arrange high-yield bonds for Chinese issuers as
dollar offerings in Asia excluding Japan have risen to a
quarterly record of $42.6 billion. Yields on dollar debt from
China have fallen 226 basis points, or 2.26 percentage points,
in the past 12 months to  5.51 percent , according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes. That’s a bigger decrease than the 64 basis
point decline to  4.34 percent  for notes in the currency sold by
all Asian companies, the indexes show.  HSBC Leads  Asia is a bright spot for Switzerland’s largest lender,
which announced in October that it would largely exit fixed-
income trading and fire a total of 10,000 workers from that and
other divisions. The bank has fallen 2 spots to 14th in U.S.
bond rankings this quarter from the previous three-month period,
Bloomberg-compiled data show.  In Asia, HSBC Holdings Plc held its No. 1 position in
arranging debt in G-3 currencies, taking 15.2 percent of all
deals, up from 14.7 percent in the last three months of 2012.  “We have a large and diversified client base in Asia who
regard us as being a safe pair of hands to lead manage their
bond deals,” said Stephen Williams, head of debt capital
markets for the Asia-Pacific region at HSBC. “Connecting with
different parts of the organisation is critical. We have had
several deals this quarter that have emanated from referrals
from our private banking business.”  Standard Chartered Plc followed with an 11.2 percent market
share, up from 5.9 percent last quarter when it ranked seventh
among arrangers, according to the data. UBS had 8.9 percent this
year.  Private Bank  “Clients understand we are product agnostic and can deploy
a range of alternatives, depending on their requirements,” said
Aaron Russell-Davison, the global head of bond syndicate at
Standard Chartered. “Bonds have been attractive in the first
quarter, but issuers also appreciate that we bring other
products to their table.”  Citigroup Inc. is the fourth-largest underwriter in Asia so
far this year, with an 8.5 percent share, down from 10.6 percent
last quarter when it ranked third, the data show. JPMorgan Chase
& Co. is in fifth place with 8.2 percent of issuance, down from
fourth with 10.5 percent in the three months ended Dec. 31.  “We aren’t targeting to be a certain number on the league
tables,” said Murlidhar Maiya, the Hong Kong-based head of debt
capital markets for Asia ex- Japan  at JPMorgan. “What we are
targeting is generating good solutions for our clients and at
the same time running a profitable business.”  Developer Debt  James Griffiths, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on the bank’s position in the league table.
Citigroup was the biggest private bank in the Asia-Pacific
region by assets in 2011, followed by UBS, according to a
Private Banker International survey released in October last
year.  Chinese developers have sold dollar debt as authorities
stepped up a three-year campaign to avert a bubble in property
prices. The State Council, now led by Premier Li Keqiang, called
for higher down payments and interest rates for second-home
mortgages in cities with “excessively fast” price gains,
according to a statement on March 1. Bond investors have
speculated the measures will help discourage the builders from
excessive investment.  Hong Kong-listed Greentown China Holdings Ltd. hired UBS
along with other arrangers to sell $300 million more of its
existing February 2018, 8.5 percent bonds on March 26. Wharf
Holdings Ltd., controlled by the family of billionaire
Chairman Peter Woo, invested HK$5.1 billion in June buying
shares and convertible bonds in Greentown.  Economic Growth  Outside of the real estate sector, steelmaker Citic Pacific
Ltd. was marketing a seven-year dollar bond to yield 6.375
percent through lenders including UBS yesterday, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Faster growth in the world’s second-biggest economy is
fueling demand for assets from the nation and leading to rises
in the currency. Gross domestic product expanded 7.9 percent in
the three months through December, up from 7.4 percent in the
previous period.  The  yuan  touched 6.2095 on March 25, its strongest level
since the government unified official and market exchange rates
at the end of 1993. It was at 6.2140 per dollar as of the close
in  Shanghai  yesterday, prices from the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System show.  High-Yield Bonds  The yield on China’s benchmark 10-year government note was
little changed at  3.57 percent  compared with 3.58 percent at the
end of last year. Average yields on top-rated onshore corporate
bonds with similar maturities have declined 11 basis points to
5.17 percent, narrowing the premium to  160 basis points .  The cost of insuring China’s sovereign bonds from non-
payment for five years has fallen 4 basis points to 69 from a
high for the year in February, according to data provider CMA.
The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government or
company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  UBS led underwriting of high-yield notes in dollars, euros
and yen in Asia this year as of 5:30 p.m. yesterday in Hong
Kong, with 11.7 percent of the market compared with 11.4 percent
for HSBC, which ranks second, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  “Unlike previous years, bond issuance year-to-date has
shifted from investment-grade to high yield,” said UBS’s Au.
“We had a plan to cover some of our Chinese property clients
which worked out well in terms of the market trend.”  Shifting Bias  For all of 2012, HSBC led the high-yield category with 15.5
percent, trailed by UBS with 12.8 percent, according to the
data. Investors have shifted funds into higher-yielding asset
classes as policy rates in  Europe , the U.S. and Japan remain
near zero.  “With credit spreads at all time lows, the demand
especially from the retail bond community has been towards
higher-yielding notes,” said Desmond Soon, a Singapore-based
senior portfolio manager at Western Asset Management, which
managed $461.9 billion of assets globally as of Dec. 31. “This
has shifted the composition of newly issued Asia dollar bonds
towards high-yield this year.”  Aside from China, UBS was also hired to help arrange the
debut dollar offering for billionaire Sunil Mittal’s Bharti
Airtel Ltd. and for Petron Corp., the largest refiner in the
 Philippines .  The Swiss bank’s use of its wealth management business to
help boost its bond underwriting comes after it posted a second
straight quarterly loss at the end of 2012. The lender is
cutting group risk-weighted assets by about 100 billion francs
by the end of 2017 as it shrinks the fixed-income business at
the investment bank. The unit will need three to five years to
fully transform itself,  Andrea Orcel , CEO of the investment
bank, told staff at town-hall meetings in November, according to
two people who heard him speak.  “We are exiting some part of our fixed income businesses,
but client-facing and credit businesses remain core for us,”
said UBS’s Au. “UBS is quite unique in Asia - whereby as a firm
we have a very strong presence in wealth management and we are
able to connect the dots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  