-- Ukraine Slump Hurts Microsoft Sales Growth, Shymkiv Says
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-03-27T13:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/ukraine-slump-hurts-microsoft-sales-growth-shymkiv-says.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s sales growth to
Ukrainian companies this year will slow along with the economy,
said Dmitry Shymkiv, the U.S. company’s Ukrainian general
manager,.  “Sales in the corporate sector increased by more than 30
percent in 2012,” Shymkiv said in an interview in his Kiev
office. “It is going to be slower this year.”  Microsoft expects sales of hosting services for businesses
to increase by more than 50 percent this year, according to
Shymkiv. There are around 2,000 corporate clients in Ukraine who
are actively using cloud-computing service, he said.  Ukraine’s economy slipped into recession last year as
demand for chemistry and steel fell on global markets.  Goldman
Sacks Group Inc. (GS)  expects the economy to contract 1.8 percent
this year. Gross domestic product slipped 0.5 percent in
January, according to the central bank, while Prime Minister
 Mykola Azarov  wants 2013 growth of between 3 and 4 percent.  Sales potential for the Redmond, Washington-based company
is highest in the public sector, where more than 74 percent of
software used is unlicensed, Shymkiv said.  “For Microsoft, Ukraine remains a country of high
potential for growth,” he said.  Piracy remains a problem in Ukraine and has not been
properly addressed, he said. Between 2 percent and 5 percent of
unlicensed software is used in the telecommunications industry,
while copyright compliance in the banking industry is between 65
percent and 70 percent and overall corporate compliance is
between 60 percent and 70 percent, he estimated.  Windows phone sales in Ukraine is also a “very dynamic”
market, with sales of Windows phone and Windows 8 software
expected to be boosted by a higher supply of touch-screen
devices on the market, Shymkiv said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  