-- UN Chemical Inspectors Said Heading to Syria Next Month
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-03-27T16:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/un-chemical-inspectors-said-heading-to-syria-next-month.html
The United Nations will dispatch
four to five inspectors at a time to  Syria  next month to
investigate conflicting reports on alleged use of chemical
weapons in the country’s civil war, according to a UN official.  Ake Sellstrom, a Swedish scientist who once investigated
whether Iraq had weapons of mass destruction, will head a team
of eight to 10 investigators to be picked from Scandinavia,
Latin America and Asia to avert suspicions of bias, said the
official, who asked not to be identified in advance of an
announcement. The U.S.,  Europe ,  Turkey  and Arab nations have
sided with rebels seeking the ouster of President Bashar al- Assad, while Russia and  China  support the regime.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon is negotiating access to
sites with the Syrian authorities and has received additional
information from the U.K. on three alleged incidents, two that
took place March 19 in Aleppo and near Damascus and one on Dec.
23 in Homs. The Syrian government and the opposition have blamed
each other for the Aleppo incident, which will be the focus of
the initial investigation.  Rather than establishing who carried out any attacks, the
priority for investigators will be to discern whether a caustic
agent such as chlorine or a home-cooked detergent was used
rather than banned chemical weapons such as sarin and VX gases,
which are both nerve agents, or mustard gas.  Sellstrom was the chief inspector with the UN mission that
in the 1990s investigated and dismantled  Iraq ’s biological and
chemical weapons. He also was a senior adviser on the UN group
that went back to Iraq in 2002 and found no weapons of mass
destruction despite U.S. claims to the contrary by President
George W. Bush’s administration.  ‘Red Line’  Assad is increasingly desperate as he clings to power and
may be testing the limits of Western powers that have said
proven use of deadly chemical agents would cross a “red line,”
the UN official said. Russia has said that claims by the
opposition may be an attempt to draw in outside military
intervention and overthrow the regime.  Given skepticism surrounding the allegations by specialists
on chemical weapons, such as Jean Pascal Zanders of the European
Union Institute for Security Studies, it’s also unclear how much
UN investigators will be able to deduct from samples of blood,
soil and debris.  Getting answers in Syria, where few journalists and aid
workers are allowed entry, won’t be easy. A UN team monitoring
the conflict departed last year, unable to leave their hotels or
keep track of abuses committed on the ground.  Assad has been repeatedly warned to keep chemical weapons
out of the conflict. As chaos increases in the country’s two-
year-old war, other nations have voiced increasing concern about
the safekeeping of the region’s largest chemical arsenal.  “The world is watching; we will hold you accountable,”
President  Barack Obama  said in  Jerusalem  this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  