-- United Engineers Seeks WBL to Ease Profit Swings: Southeast Asia
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-03-28T10:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/united-engineers-seeks-wbl-to-ease-profit-swings-southeast-asia.html
United Engineers Ltd. (UEM) , which is
bidding S$710 million ($570 million) for a Singapore-based car
distributor, said the addition of Bugatti and Jaguar dealerships
would smooth volatility from its property business.  The company said it’s bidding for WBL Corp. because the
“recurring  income ” from the luxury car dealerships would
counter the choppiness from real estate and construction, which
are driven by the timing of contracts, United Engineers Chief
Executive Officer Jackson Yap said in an interview yesterday.
He’s also seeking acquisitions to expand his environmental
engineering and water unit.  “We have been looking to grow at a faster clip,” Yap, 61,
said in Singapore, where his company is based. “We said we
would look for opportunities to buy something and buy something
substantive. This allows us to diversify, and expand in a market
that’s more exuberant than  Singapore .”  United Engineers, founded in 1912 as an engineering company
that helped build Singapore’s historic supreme court and
Shangri-La hotel, has been scouting for businesses to broaden
its revenue sources, Yap said. Its 2012  net income  dropped to
S$72 million from S$269 million a year ago, when it completed
the sale of its properties in the city.  The property development unit contributed almost nothing to
its revenue in 2012, compared with about 65 percent the year
ago, the company said last month.  United Engineers raised its bid for WBL to S$4.15 a share
in cash on March 12 and said yesterday the offer closes on April
24. The earlier offer of S$4 topped a rival bid from  Straits
Trading Co. (STRTR) , which has since lapsed. The revised bid values  WBL (WBL) 
at S$1.19 billion.  Bentleys, Bugattis  WBL has dealerships in six Asian markets, where it sells
Volvos in China, Bentleys in  Indonesia , and Bugattis in
Singapore, according its  website .  Straits Trading more than doubled its stake in WBL to 45
percent after buying stock from two shareholders, emerging as
the biggest investor. It made a S$3.41 per share offer for WBL,
prompting United Engineers’s bid at the end of January.  WBL’s shares, which have risen 6 percent this year, fell
0.5 percent to S$4.23 at the close in Singapore and traded above
the revised price every day since the offer was announced.
United Engineers dropped 0.3 percent to S$3.18.  “WBL shareholders will probably let this lapse unless
there’s a better offer,” said Alison Fok, an analyst at Maybank
Kim Eng Holdings. “United Engineers will be business as usual.
They are still growing their recurrent business and are on the
look out for acquisitions.”  Fair Value  Yap said WBL  shareholders  should consider government
measures to curb homes sales in  China  and car loans in
Singapore. WBL has property projects in five Chinese cities, and
also sells Bentley and Jaguar vehicles in the city-state.  KPMG Corporate Finance Pte., a financial adviser to WBL’s
independent  directors , said in February it valued the company at
between S$4.56 to S$5.30 per share. It’s expected to release a
valuation report based on United Engineers’s revised bid. Fok
said yesterday she’s not changing her Jan. 31 valuation of
between S$5.04 and S$5.59 for WBL with the government measures
in China and Singapore.  “This is the million-dollar question,” Yap said, when
asked if he would raise his offer. “This is a good price, at a
premium to various indicators, and it’s a thinly traded stock.”  Yap’s bid has the backing of Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.
and partners of Singapore’s second biggest bank, which jointly
own 40 percent of WBL. They plan to keep the stake if the
acquisition is successful.  Acquisition Funding  United Engineers, which has S$452 million in cash, will
fund the acquisition through its own resources, bank loans and
through its medium-term note program, Yap said.  United Engineers is also seeking more acquisitions to boost
its environmental engineering and water business. In Singapore,
the biggest contract was a S$250 million venture that’s part of
a S$2 billion project to centralize sewage for the eastern half
of the island, Yap said. It also built a system to circulate
water stored in the downtown Marina Bay reservoir, and cleans
water at  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) ’s Marine Life Park, touted as the
world’s largest oceanarium.  In China, its plants currently treat about 100,000 cubic
meters of water a day. Yap said this would need to increase to 1
million cubic meters to be “a critical size” for the business.
He also looking to expand in  Vietnam , Indonesia and  Malaysia .  Pigs, Ducks  “If we want to grow, we would need to buy something,”
said Yap, who’s looking for acquisitions in China. “Many
countries in this part of the world continue to grow, and they
haven’t really been spending enough attention or money on
environmental infrastructure,” adding that “dead ducks and
dead pigs floating in the river” in China show there are
opportunities for environment companies.  More than 1,000 dead ducks were found in a river in the
southern Chinese province of Sichuan this week, while more than
11,000 dead pigs were retrieved from  Shanghai ’s Huangpu river
this month.  United Engineers’s environmental engineering and water unit
has increased to 50 engineers from five in the past eight years,
and has an annual revenue of S$70 million. The appetite for his
next acquisition will depend on whether its WBL bid is
successful.  “We could do more, but we probably have to lower our
target because this is quite a big one,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  