-- UnitedHealth Unit Accused of Failing to Monitor Doctor
-- B y   V a l e r i e   M i l l e r   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-03-28T00:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/unitedhealth-unit-accused-of-failing-to-monitor-doctor.html
A  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  unit put
money ahead of people by failing to properly monitor a Las Vegas
doctor who gave colonoscopy patients hepatitis C by mishandling
the anesthetic  Propofol , a lawyer told a state court jury.  UnitedHealth’s Health Plan of Nevada subsidiary didn’t
provide adequate oversight of  Dipak Desai , a gastroenterologist
accused of infecting patients with hepatitis C by employing
substandard medical practices, because it wanted to hold down
costs to boost revenue,  Robert Eglet , an attorney for women who
contracted the disease, told a Las Vegas jury today.  The insurer’s “primary concern was profit, not safety,”
Eglet said in closing arguments at the case filed by two of
Desai’s former patients.  The trial is the first against the unit of Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based UnitedHealth over the 2007 hepatitis C  outbreak 
linked to Desai’s practices. Patients contend the outbreak was
tied to Desai’s reuse of vials of Propofol, an anesthetic used
in colonoscopies, and failure to sterilize equipment.  Nevada 
officials were forced to notify 50,000 patients they may have
contracted the potentially fatal blood disease from Desai’s
actions.  ‘Attorney Greed’  Lawyers for Bonnie Brunson and Helen Meyer, the two former
patients of Desai suing the insurer for allegedly failing to
properly vet the doctor and his practices, said in jury
selection that they may ask jurors to award $1 billion in
punitive damages over the UnitedHealth unit’s lack of oversight.
They are seeking more than $25 million in compensatory damages.  Lee Roberts , a lawyer representing the insurer, told jurors
today that Brunson’s and Meyer’s attorneys hadn’t produced any
evidence that the company failed to provide proper oversight of
Desai.  “The sheer weight of unsupported allegations cannot make
up for the lack of evidence and proof,” he said in his closing
statement.  The insurer’s officials said on a  website  created to
provide information about the trial that they believed Brunson’s
and Meyer’s cases were being “driven only by attorney greed.”  Nevada juries already have handed down multimillion-dollar
punitive awards against  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
which made the Propofol used by Desai. Three juries awarded
colonoscopy patients more than $750 million in punitive damages
over the drugmaker’s decision to sell the anesthetic in
oversized vials that could be reused.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , agreed last year to
pay $250 million to settle more than 80 lawsuits over Propofol
sales.  Murder Charges  Desai, 62, and two nurse anesthetists are facing second-
degree murder charges over the death of a colonoscopy patient.
The former doctor also faces federal fraud charges.  Meyer and Brunson are suing under a Nevada law that
requires HMO officials to file annual reports showing they have
reviewed the quality of  health services  provided to consumers
covered by their plans.  Jurors will be asked to decide whether officials of the
UnitedHealth unit knew Desai had a reputation for sloppy
practice before giving him a contract to handle colonoscopies
and then didn’t check the quality of his work. At one point,
Desai was a member of Nevada’s Board of Medical Examiners, which
oversees the licensing of doctors in the state.  The plaintiffs contend the insurer didn’t properly monitor
Desai’s practices and procedures even though they received
complaints about his operation.  During the trial, witnesses said Desai adopted a cavalier
attitude toward patient safety, speeding through procedures so
he could see as many as 20 patients in a three-hour period.  Nine Minutes  Performing colonoscopies every nine minutes left no time to
properly sterilize equipment between procedures and didn’t
provide proper recovery time for patients, Melvin Hawkins, a
former operating-room technician who worked with Desai, told
jurors, according to court transcripts.  Eglet said today internal memos from Desai’s practice
showed the doctor trained his staff to move patients through
quickly. That help boost profits for Desai and the insurer, he
added. “Quick patient turnaround was their priority, not
patient care,” he added.  The UnitedHealth unit’s executives had an obligation to
insure Desai was providing quality care to their members and
could have reviewed his operations at any time.  ‘Right to Inspect’  “They had the right to inspect at any time they wanted,
but they never” visited Desai’s clinic, he added.  Lee countered in his closing argument it wasn’t reasonable
to hold Health Plan of Nevada officials liable for Desai’s bad
medical practices.  “The question is not what we know now, but what we did
back then” in deciding to give Desai the colonoscopy contract
in the  Las Vegas  area, Roberts said. He argued the insurer
properly reviewed Desai’s work and credentials at the time it
hired him.  The company contends in court papers health insurers
shouldn’t be responsible for providing full-time monitoring of
physicians hired as part of an HMO network. It noted that Desai
had been credentialed at several Nevada hospitals when it hired
him.  The case is Meyer v. Health Plan of Nevada Inc., A5837999
(Consolidated), Clark County District Court (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Valerie Miller in Las Vegas at  valeriemusicmagic@yahoo.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  