-- Uribe Says Colombian Rate Cut Caution Can Weaken Transmission
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-03-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/uribe-says-colombian-rate-cut-caution-can-weaken-transmission.html
Colombian  interest rate  cuts may
have only a “subdued” impact on the economy if they are
carried out cautiously, central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe
said.  “Market participants may perceive that movements in the
policy rates are too timid to concentrate macroeconomic
scenarios around a more favorable path,” Uribe said in a March
15  speech  posted on the central bank’s website yesterday. “In
these circumstances, additional, stronger movements in the
policy rate may be warranted to achieve the goals of monetary
policy.”  The central bank unexpectedly accelerated the pace of
 interest rate  cuts at its March 22 policy meeting with the first
half point cut in nearly three years, saying that monetary
stimulus is reaching the economy at a slower pace than it wants.
After the meeting, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  told
reporters the government is “pushing” banks to cut their
lending rates, after six quarter point cuts to the policy rate
failed to reach Colombian consumers.  The average annual interest rate on consumer loans rose to
19.2 percent in January, from 19.1 percent in June before the
bank began cutting rates. Average  mortgage rates  rose 7.7
percentage points above the government’s benchmark 10-year peso
bonds last month, the most since 2009, according to data from
Titularizadora Colombiana SA, which issues mortgage-backed
bonds.  ‘Closely Monitor’  “A simple examination of the current cycle of reductions
of policy rates reveals a transmission to loan and deposit rates
that is slower that in the past two cycles of changes in the
monetary policy stance,” Uribe said. The central bank needs to
“closely monitor the transmission in the near future to assess
the convenience of further loosening policy,” he said.  Colombia  has cut its policy rate 2 percentage points since
June, to 3.25 percent, the lowest rate among major Latin
American economies. Gross domestic product expanded 3.1 percent
in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, the slowest growth in
the Andean region.  Annual inflation eased to 1.83 percent last month, the
lowest rate since 1955, which is outside the central bank’s 2
percent to 4 percent target range. Colombia and  Chile  are  Latin
America ’s only major economies with below-target inflation.  In a separate speech posted by the central bank yesterday,
dated March 17, Uribe said Colombia will step up its
accumulation of international reserves, “to counter a higher
probability of misalignment of the  exchange rate , help curb the
risks of the recent slowdown of the global economy, and aid the
current Colombian expansionary monetary policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  