-- Turkey’s Promising Shift to the West
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-27T22:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/turkey-s-promising-shift-to-the-west.html
The recent drama over the euro
area’s bailout of Cyprus diverted attention from two important
events, both of which feature the island’s old nemesis,  Turkey .  The first was a cease-fire  declaration  on March 21, made by
the imprisoned leader of the Kurdish Workers’ Party, or PKK,
Abdullah Ocalan. His decision was the result of overtures made
by Turkey’s government, after more than a year of escalated
conflict in one of the world’s longest and bloodiest
insurgencies.  The second signal event came a day later, March 22, when
Israel apologized for its killing of nine Turks onboard a Gaza-
bound ferry in 2010. Turkey’s acceptance of the apology, on
lesser terms than it had demanded, was no less significant. It
suggests Turkey wants to do more than simply humiliate Israel.  Each of these developments is a response to the
deteriorating security situation in Turkey’s neighborhood, as
the conflict in  Syria  is radicalized; the rift between mainly
Sunni nations, including Turkey, and the Shiite governments in
 Iran  and  Iraq  widens; and the differences over Syria dim
prospects for deeper Turkish ties with Russia.  Any form of U.S.-backed intervention in Syria, which Turkey
wants, would require cooperation between Turkish and Israeli
security forces. Indeed, Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  publicly justified his apology on grounds of the
threat in Syria. Intervention would also be less dangerous for
Turkey if it were no longer at war with the PKK, which is
closely allied to the main Kurdish organization in Syria.  Domestic Influence  Politics being local, domestic triggers for these moves
were paramount, including, for Israel, a new government and a
visit by U.S. President  Barack Obama . Turkish Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan , meanwhile, needs to gain the support of
ethnic Kurdish voters ahead of presidential elections in 2014. A
peace deal with the PKK would help.  Still, it’s clear that Turkey is rebalancing its foreign
policy, embracing old allies in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization while moving away from the Turkey-Iran-Russia
 triangle  it nurtured in the 2000s. The confrontation with Israel
has been a hindrance, especially to improved relations with
 Washington . The latest moves follow Turkey’s  decision  to host
the radar for NATO’s missile defense system (angering Iran and
Russia), and to place NATO Patriot missile batteries on its
border with Syria.  Turkey deserves credit for these actions, but they are only
beginnings. Erdogan has pronounced the Israeli apology a victory
and says he will visit Gaza in April. He should understand that
he can’t influence a settlement with Palestinians if he uses the
occasion just to lob insults at  Israel , as he did in a recent
United Nations speech in which he  described  Zionism as a crime
against humanity. Instead, he should lean on Hamas to reverse
its position on Israel’s right to exist.  As relations are gradually restored, Erdogan should also
include Israel in the annual joint NATO  Anatolian Eagle  military
exercises, conducted in Turkish airspace. Israel was disinvited
in 2009, when relations were already deteriorating. That would
help re-establish a functional security relationship between the
nations.  Turkey’s rebalancing offers opportunities to others, too.
The European Union should pull its collective head out of the
sand and end its blockade of Turkey’s  membership  negotiations.
Moving the accession talks forward can only help the EU and
Turkey, both economically and in security terms, regardless of
whether Turkey eventually joins the bloc.  Growth Possibility  Turkey’s shift also creates opportunity for Cyprus. The
terms of the Cypriot bailout will destroy the country’s offshore
finance business, dooming its economy to years of Greek-style
contraction. The only readily available growth substitute lies
in the unexploited natural-gas reserves that surround the
island.  Israel and Cyprus have begun to explore these reserves,
much to Turkey’s fury. The island has been divided ever since
Turkish troops occupied the northern, ethnic Turkish part in
1974. That makes exploitation of the waters around Cyprus open
to dispute; the uncertainty is one reason that  Russia  declined
to bail out Cyprus in exchange for exploration rights.  Cyprus should have reunified in 2004, when the Turkish
north voted for a UN-brokered  plan , but the Greek south voted
against. Reunification now would bring Cyprus real investment,
new tourism and the potential to benefit quickly from gas
reserves that the Cypriot government estimates at 60 billion
cubic feet. That represents a fortune for the island’s 1.1
million people.  It was Turkey’s conflict with Israel over the Mavi Marmara
ferry incident that led Israel to boost ties with Cyprus as well
as  Greece , Turkey’s old rivals in the Mediterranean. All four
have an interest in repairing relations now.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 