-- Turkey Yields Rise as Central Bank Says Policy Is Tightening
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-03-27T10:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/turkey-yields-rise-as-central-bank-says-policy-is-tightening.html
Turkish benchmark  bond yields  rose
to the highest in more than four months after the central bank
sought to end confusion over its monetary policy, saying the
measures should have a damping effect on credit growth.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds climbed seven basis
points to 6.4 percent at 12:23 p.m. in Istanbul, headed for the
highest close since Nov. 16. They extended their surge in March
to 71 basis points, the biggest monthly jump since October 2011.
The current-account deficit will probably increase in the short-
term, and the existing monetary policy framework will help to
limit further deterioration, the central bank said in a
statement on its website today.  “The central bank is saying it will tighten the
liquidity,” Onder Turker, a fixed-income trader at Finansbank
AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “Market players who
had thought that the last two weeks’ tightening in lending might
be temporary are now convinced that this will be a permanent
tightening.”  Economists were split on whether policy is looser or
tighter after central bank Governor Erdem Basci cut one of his
three interest rates while saying he’d use an experimental tool
to manage liquidity.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Oyak Securities and Ata
Invest interpreted the move as loosening policy to focus on
boosting growth, while BGC Securities said it was
contractionary.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  described it as “neither here
nor there” and Finansbank called it “confusing.”  The lira depreciated 0.5 percent to 1.8218 a dollar,
extending its loss this quarter to 2.1 percent, the biggest such
retreat since the three months to the end of September 2011.  The Monetary Policy Committee in Ankara yesterday cut the
upper end of its interest-rate corridor, the overnight lending
rate, to 7.5 percent from 8.5 percent, while leaving the lower
end, the overnight borrowing rate, unchanged at 4.5 percent. It
also left the benchmark one-week repurchase rate unchanged at
5.5 percent. None of the economists in a Bloomberg survey
correctly predicted the changes.  The overnight cost of borrowing jumped to 6.14 percent
yesterday, the highest since March 15, before easing to 5.94
percent today, as the bank seeks to curtail annual loan growth
to 15 percent. Turkish loans grew 19.9 percent in the 12 months
to March 15, according to banking regulator data released this
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  