-- Luxembourg Opposes Steps to `Renationalize' EU Banking
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-03-27T10:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/luxembourg-opposes-steps-to-renationalize-eu-banking.html
Luxembourg warned that the European
Union risks hurting financial stability if it moves to isolate
banking systems within national borders.  “Luxembourg will therefore not adhere to policies that
intend to renationalize elements of the single market,” the
government said in an e-mailed statement.  The Luxembourg statement counters recent remarks from Dutch
Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, that countries need to rein in
their banking sectors or face EU consequences. “Push them back.
You deal with them,” Dijsselbloem said this week in comments on
how the EU should respond to banks in trouble.  Dijsselbloem’s comments in an interview with Reuters and
the Financial Times, made after the euro area approved a bailout
program for Cyprus that included imposing losses on uninsured
 bank deposits , roiled markets already bracing for the potential
of capital flight from the island.  Asked about the implications of a policy of “pushing back
the risks” on banks for countries including Luxembourg,
Dijsselbloem  said : “It means: deal with it before you get in
trouble. Strengthen your banks, fix your balance sheets, and
realize that if a bank gets in trouble, the response will no
longer automatically be we’ll come and take away your
problems.”  Countries shouldn’t be judged solely on the size of their
banking sectors in relation to gross domestic product, nor
should they be penalized for the business model of international
finance, according to the Luxembourg statement.  ‘Restrictive Approach’  “As a matter of principle, Luxembourg is therefore
concerned about recent statements and declarations that were
made since the  crisis in Cyprus ,” the government said.
Luxembourg said it supports the Cyprus program while disagreeing
with comments accompanying the rescue effort.  Banking systems should be judged by their quality,
“solidity” and size relative to the euro area as a whole,
Luxembourg said. A more “restrictive approach” runs counter to
the EU’s single market and toward the currency bloc’s move to
establish common banking supervision.  “It is precisely also in this spirit that Luxembourg has
agreed to establishing a fully fledged banking union in the euro
area, starting with common supervision, but inevitably leading
to guarantee deposits and a common resolution mechanism,” the
Luxembourg statement said.  EU lawmakers and national governments on March 19 agreed on
a provisional deal to turn the  European Central Bank  into a
supervisor for banks in the  euro zone  and other willing nations.
The EU also is working on proposals to standardize procedures
for insuring deposits and shutting down banks, and proposals for
a common bank resolution framework are due later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  