-- Wal-Mart Expects to Incur More Costs in Bribery Probes
-- B y   K e v i n   O r l a n d
-- 2013-03-27T20:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/wal-mart-expects-to-incur-more-costs-in-bribery-probes.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, said it expects to continue incurring costs
related to its investigations of possible bribery in its
international operations.  The cost related to the probes was $157 million in the year
ended Jan. 31, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said
yesterday in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Wal-Mart last year began investigating allegations that
executives in Mexico paid more than $24 million in bribes to
speed the retailer’s expansion there and has since said it also
is probing operations in  Brazil ,  India  and China. The retailer
said yesterday that it is spending money on its internal probes,
responding to information requests from government investigators
and defending shareholder lawsuits.  The shares were  little changed  at $74.77 at the close in
New York. Wal-Mart has added 9.6 percent this year, compared
with an 11 percent gain for the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  While Wal-Mart doesn’t expect the matters to have a
material adverse effect on its business, the company said it
can’t reasonably estimate the potential loss from the situation.  Mexican Expansion  The U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC as well as
federal and local government agencies in  Mexico  are
investigating the allegations that Wal-Mart systematically
bribed Mexican officials. The allegations were first outlined in
a New York Times article in April 2012. Democratic
Representatives Henry Waxman of  California  and Elijah Cummings
of  Maryland  also are probing the retailer.  Wal-Mart in December named Karen Roberts general counsel as
her predecessor, Jeff Gearhart, focuses on global compliance
efforts. That followed the company combining its compliance
office with ethics, investigations and legal functions to form
one organization in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Orland in Chicago at 
 korland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  