-- Welsh Carson Said to Shop Triple Point for $750 Million
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s ,   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-03-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/welsh-carson-said-to-shop-triple-point-for-750-million.html
Buyout firm Welsh, Carson, Anderson
& Stowe is seeking to sell Triple Point Technology Inc. 18
months after buying the software provider, according to people
familiar with the matter.  Welsh Carson, which purchased Triple Point for $500 million
in October 2011, has engaged Barclays Plc and Deutsche Bank AG
to run an auction for the Westport, Connecticut-based company,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
process isn’t public. The firm is seeking $750 million to $1
billion, two of the people said.  Potential buyers may include  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  IBM Corp. (IBM)  as
well as private-equity firms, one person said. The sale process
began a month ago, and final bids are due in mid- to late April,
this person said.  Triple Point, with more than 400 customers in over 35
countries, provides software that companies use to manage
commodities and risks tied to commodities. Welsh Carson acquired
the company from ABRY Partners LLC, a Boston-based private-
equity firm that kept a minority stake, according to a  press
release  announcing that deal. JMI Equity, a buyout firm with
offices in Baltimore and San Diego, invested in Triple Point at
that time as well.  Jonathan Rather, chief financial officer for New York-based
Welsh Carson, Mayura Hooper, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank,
and Candice van der Laan, a spokeswoman for Oracle, didn’t
return calls seeking comment. Triple Point Chief Executive
Officer Peter Armstrong,  Kerrie Cohen , a spokeswoman for
Barclays, and Clint Roswell, a spokesman for IBM, declined to
comment on the sale.  Welsh Carson is seeking a sale for at least 10 times the
$75 million Triple Point is estimated to earn this year before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, one person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  