-- Two Fed Presidents Call for Pressing on With QE
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-03-28T15:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/two-fed-presidents-call-for-pressing-on-with-qe-through-2013.html
(Corrects that Rosengren has FOMC vote in eighth paragraph
of story that ran on March 27.)  Two regional Federal Reserve
presidents said they want the Fed to keep buying bonds through
the end of 2013, while a third official said the central bank
isn’t doing enough to spur economic growth.  “We should continue our  large-scale asset purchases  of
Treasury and mortgage-backed securities through this year --
although the amount may need to be adjusted up or down,
depending on how the economic situation evolves,” Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren  said today in a speech in Manchester,
 New Hampshire . “This is a point when we have to be patient and
let our policies work,” with stimulus “firing on all
cylinders,” Chicago’s  Charles Evans  said to reporters.  The comments by Evans, Rosengren and Minneapolis’ Narayana Kocherlakota reinforce Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s push to
sustain record easing even as some policy makers voice concern
the stimulus is ineffective or harmful. The Fed affirmed a plan
last week to buy $85 billion in bonds each month in quantitative
easing that has ballooned its assets beyond $3 trillion.  “ Monetary policy  is currently not accommodative enough,”
Kocherlakota said today in Edina, Minnesota. He said he favored
easing policy by reducing to 5.5 percent from 6.5 percent the
threshold at which the Fed will consider raising the main
 interest rate .  Uphill Battle  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell 0.07 percentage
point to 1.85 percent at 3:32 p.m. in New York as investors
sought refuge amid concern Italy faces an uphill battle in
forming a government coalition to resolve a deadlock caused by
elections last month. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little
changed at 1,563.68.  “I’m going to have a lot more confidence if I begin to see
indications that growth is well above trend and it’s going to be
sustainable,” Evans, a voting member of the  Federal Open Market
Committee , said at the Chicago Fed. “We have gone through this
type of thing before, where we saw improvements in the labor
numbers” only to watch job growth slow “to unhelpful levels.”  Since reducing its benchmark  interest rate  almost to zero
in December 2008, the FOMC has experimented with large-scale
asset purchases to bolster growth. The Fed started a third round
of quantitative easing in September, specifying neither an end
date for the program nor a total amount officials plan to buy.  Rosengren holds a vote on monetary policy this year, while
Kocherlakota does not.  The presidents supported sustained easing even as some FOMC
participants express concern the growing balance sheet will
impair Fed efforts to reverse course and exit from stimulus,
said  Laurence Meyer , co-founder and senior managing director at
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC and a former Fed governor.  ‘Far Away’  “Exit may be quite far away, but everybody recognizes
including the FOMC the challenges they face” in withdrawing
accommodation, Meyer said today on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Hays
Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “The larger the balance sheet,
the greater the risk you won’t be able to smoothly unwind.”  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  is among officials who
have argued for an immediate tapering of bond purchases, while
Kansas City’s Esther George has dissented at both meetings this
year, saying further easing risks creating financial
instability.  Bernanke said last week the central bank would alter
monthly buying in response to gains in the job market,
underscoring a need for flexibility. He said further gains would
be needed to be sure “this is not a temporary improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  