-- Won Weakens for First Time in Three Days on North Korea Threat
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-27T01:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/won-weakens-for-first-time-in-three-days-on-north-korea-threat.html
The won fell for the first time in
three days as the risk of conflict on the Korean peninsula
spurred sales of South Korea’s shares by global funds. Three-
year bonds were steady, keeping their yield at a record low.  North Korea  put its artillery forces on their highest
combat level yesterday and reiterated threats to attack the U.S.
and South Korea. It’s the highest-level combat status adopted by
the communist state and the South’s  Defense Ministry  said it is
analyzing the threat. Overseas investors sold more Korean shares
than they bought today, adding to net sales of $1.7 billion this
month through yesterday. Demand for emerging-market assets
cooled in the past two weeks as Cyprus became the fifth euro-
area member to seek financial aid.  “Potential risks including concerns from North Korea
threats, Cyprus are keeping the won low,” said Lee Dae Ho,
analyst at Hyundai Futures Corp. in Seoul. “Limiting further
declines, exporters are looking to sell their dollar income
earned from overseas.”  The won dropped 0.3 percent to 1,108.58 per dollar as of
10:04 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, fell one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 7.71 percent.  South Korea’s military lifted an earlier “Jindo Dog 1”
alert near the border area with North Korea, Yonhap News
reported today, without citing anyone. The Defense Ministry
declined to comment on whether the alert, the highest, had been
issued.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due December
2015 held steady at 2.58 percent, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc.  That is the lowest for a benchmark three-year
note in Bloomberg data going back to 2000.  Consumer confidence 
in South Korea reached a 10-month high in March, according to a
 Bank of Korea  report published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  