-- World’s Biggest Private School Operator GEMS Seeks $1 Billion
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-03-27T11:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/world-s-biggest-private-school-operator-gems-seeks-1-billion.html
GEMS Education Ltd. is seeking to
raise between $650 million and $1 billion as the world’s biggest
privately owned provider of school education aims to expand
before considering an initial public offering.  The company, based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, is
raising funds from debt, equity and real estate partnerships to
build 21 new schools, including in the U.S. and U.K., in the
next three years, Chief Operating Officer Dino Varkey said in an
interview in Dubai last week. Some 130,000 students attend GEMS
network of 100 schools in 11 countries. The company will also
use money raised to boost capacity at 10 existing institutions.  “There is a significant amount of demand in the U.A.E.,
but also huge demand across  Africa , across east and south
Asia,” Varkey, 32, said. “Governments on their own cannot fund
this demand, they cannot move fast enough to meet this demand.”  Private schools are expanding to bridge a widening divide
left by the public school system. The funding gap to achieve a
2015 target for universal primary education in low-income
countries has increased to  $26 billion  in the past three years
from $16 billion, according to the  United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization . Some 61 million children
don’t have access to primary school, UNESCO estimates show.  “To look at the potential growth of the private sector in
education, you only need to look at the growth of the private
sector in the health care industry over the last 40 years,”
Varkey said. The industry shares “the same fundamentals, the
same need, the same challenge,” which private companies have
helped to address.  ‘Next Challenge’  GEMS Education has seized upon growing demand for private
education since 1980, when Dino’s father and current GEMS
chairman, Sunny Varkey, took over the business his parents
established in 1959 and started opening new schools. At the
time, GEMS operated one school with 300 students.  Now it employs 11,000 people and offers a variety of
curricula -- including American, British, Indian and
International Baccalaureate -- charging fees ranging from $750 a
year to $40,000 a year to serve different income segments. GEMS
makes about $500 million in revenue a year and is the biggest
privately owned provider of school education, Varkey said.  “We are trying to figure out what a $250 to $300-a-year
quality model school looks like,” Varkey said. “That is the
next challenge.”  Private Education  Borrowing costs for Dubai-based entities have tumbled over
the past year as key government-owned companies successfully
refinanced or repaid debt and the economy recovered. The
emirate’s government sold $750 million of 10-year Islamic bonds
in January, paying 40 percent less than the previous sale.  The burgeoning private school industry has attracted the
attention of investors. The Abraaj Group, the Middle East’s
biggest buyout fund, bought 25 percent of GEMS in 2007,
restructuring the stake five years later into a three-year
convertible loan instrument, according to Abraaj’s 2011 annual
report. GEMS Education’s operating profit more than doubled
during Abraaj’s holding period, according to the report.  The education provider is in talks with several companies
about potentially taking on another strategic partner, although
none of the negotiations are “mature,” Varkey said.  GEMS also won’t make a decision on an IPO until it
completes the current round of expansion since the payback
period for a school is about seven years, Varkey said. “Four or
five years from now, when the organization is a different size
and scale, that’s a decision we make at that point,” he said.  ‘Resilient’ Business  The company is also looking at new funding avenues such as
educational real estate investment trusts in countries like
 Singapore , Varkey said. In Dubai, home to the world’s tallest
building and artificial islands, GEMS also continues to grow as
it caters to an expatriate population that accounts for more
than 80 percent of the U.A.E.’s 8.3 million people.  Growth in the second-largest Arab economy, which comprises
seven emirates including Abu Dhabi and Dubai, is picking up
after a real estate crash triggered by the 2008 global financial
crisis. Dubai’s economy is projected to expand 4.6 percent, on
average, between 2012 and 2015, more than double average growth
in the prior four years, according to government estimates.  Education is a “resilient” business and GEMS managed to
boost revenue by 7 percent even during a downturn in Dubai in
2009 and 2010, Varkey said. GEMS has “access and support from
the leading banks locally and regionally,” he said. The company
is establishing partnerships with developers whereby they build
schools and then lease them to GEMS, Varkey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  