-- Hyundai Risks Losing Southeast Asia by Ignoring Indonesia: Cars
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-03-28T05:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/hyundai-risks-losing-southeast-asia-by-ignoring-indonesia-cars.html
If  Indonesia  is the doorway to
Southeast Asia’s 650 million inhabitants,  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) 
looks like it handed the key to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   South Korea’s largest automaker and its Seoul-based
affiliate,  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , say they have no plans to build
factories in Southeast Asia’s largest economy -- set to overtake
Thailand as the region’s biggest car market next year, industry
researcher IHS Automotive forecasts. The companies made up about
2 percent of light-vehicle sales in Indonesia last year,
compared with 95 percent held by Japanese rivals led by Toyota,
LMC Automotive estimates.  Indonesia is the biggest market Hyundai is forgoing, an
increasingly risky decision as growth in U.S. auto sales slows
and competition intensifies in China. Demand in Indonesia, with
twice  Japan ’s 127 million population, is projected to expand
faster than in China over the next seven years as a booming
economy generates new car buyers.  “At this rate, Hyundai is going to lose not just
Indonesia, but all of Southeast Asia,” said Kim Pil Soo, a
professor of automotive engineering at Daelim College in South
Korea and an adviser to the government. “One of Hyundai’s
biggest problems in Indonesia is lack of appealing models.”  Toyota is investing $1.3 billion to double output in the
country whose 250 million people make up almost 40 percent of
Southeast Asia’s population and where annual economic growth
hasn’t fallen below 4 percent in a decade. Hyundai says it is
allocating resources elsewhere rather than challenging Japanese
makers, General Motors Co. and India’s  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)   ‘Other Markets’  “Hyundai Motor has been expanding rapidly worldwide in
recent years, forcing us to allocate our resources in other
markets first,” the automaker said in an e-mailed response to
questions. In Southeast Asian markets, “we do not have plans to
build more plants in any region.”  Kia Motors Corp., which is 34 percent owned by Hyundai,
also said in an e-mail it did not have any plans to make further
investments in Southeast Asia.  “Eventually, we will need to set up a plant in Southeast
Asia,” said Lee Soon Nam, Kia’s vice president heading the
overseas marketing group, in an interview today. “We are not
shirking from putting in intensive marketing efforts in the
region.”  Kia will introduce the new Carens minivan in Indonesia,
 Philippines , and  Malaysia  in May, Lee said.  To some extent, the problem is that Toyota has a decades-
long head start.  “In  Thailand  and Indonesia, Toyota started 50 years ago,
so people are connected to the brand,” said Jessada Thongpak, a
Bangkok-based analyst at IHS Automotive.  Chicken, Egg  Hyundai now would have to build a plant in Indonesia
without the immediate demand to support it. Hyundai’s smallest
factory is in  Turkey , where it has capacity to produce 100,000
units a year. Hyundai and Kia combined sold 19,748 units last
year in Indonesia, according to LMC data.  “It’s sort of a chicken and egg situation because you
can’t have a huge manufacturing plant unless you’ve got the
volumes to justify it,” Ammar Master, a Bangkok-based analyst
at LMC Automotive, said by phone. “Unless they achieve
considerable amount in volume sales to warrant a big investment
in a plant, it will be difficult for Hyundai and Kia.”  Still, adding production in Indonesia would give Hyundai
economies of scale as an export base for all of Southeast Asia,
said Alan Richardson, a Hong Kong-based fund manager who helps
oversee about $110 billion for Samsung Asset Management Co.
“The potential is expanding, and this is driven through both
domestic demand as well as using it as a manufacturing base for
exports to other markets, as labor costs are low,” he said.  Right Models  Without local production, Hyundai probably can’t develop
the kind of utilitarian, capacious vehicles craved by Southeast
Asian car buyers, said Wilianto Ie at Nomura Indonesia.  “For Indonesia, you need a low-priced, seven-seater
multipurpose vehicle, which Hyundai doesn’t have,” said Ie,
head of research at Nomura in Jakarta. “If you don’t have the
right product, then it’s going to be very tough.”  Indonesian demand for light vehicles is expected to grow 88
percent by 2019 from last year’s level, IHS estimates.  GM Southeast Asia Executive Director Martin Apfel said the
large population and steady economic growth make it the key to
the regional car market.  “The deck of cards is stacked in favor of Indonesia,”
Apfel said in an interview. “There is so much intrinsic power
in the market and as the population grows, we see exponential
growth in the Asean region.”  GM began regular production at its Indonesia plant this
week, Apfel said, where it makes the Spin multipurpose vehicle.
The Spin will also be exported to Thailand from Indonesia, and
the plant has the capacity to make 40,000 cars a year.  Knock Downs  Hyundai sells cars assembled in Indonesia from kits made in
South Korea, known as knock downs. Vehicles made that way have
to pay a 15 percent import duty, versus zero percent for cars
manufactured locally, when exported anywhere in Southeast Asia,
according to the European Chamber of Commerce.  The relative success of the Korean automaker’s rivals in
Indonesia contrasts with the U.S. and  China , where Hyundai is
taking market share from competitors.  In China, Hyundai outsold both Toyota and Nissan Motor Co.
last year. In the U.S., Hyundai and Kia gained 6.8 percentage
points in market share among buyers aged 18 to 24 and 5.1 points
among those between 25 and 34 since 2008, according to R.L. Polk
and Edmunds.com. Japanese makers have lost 9.8 percentage points
and 7.7 points in those categories, the data show.  Hyundai’s  market value  has almost tripled over the past
five years, compared with an 18 percent decline for Toyota, as
the South Korean automaker’s compacts and luxury cars lured
buyers in the U.S. and China.  Share Discount  Investors haven’t been as bullish recently as the outlook
for Hyundai’s profit growth relative to Toyota’s wanes. The
South Korean carmaker’s shares trade at about six times
projected annual earnings compared with about 12 times for
Toyota and a median multiple of 11 for the world’s 50 biggest
automakers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia is targeting economic expansion of 6.5 percent to
6.8 percent this year after gross domestic product rose 6.1
percent last quarter. The outlook for growth, and interest rates
held at a record low 5.75 percent for a 13th straight month have
helped drive the benchmark Jakarta Composite Index up 21 percent
in the past 12 months.  Ready Consumers  “Record low interest rates, a tight job market, and
soaring stock prices are boosting consumers’ ability and
willingness to spend in Indonesia,” Master of LMC said.  Indonesia’s auto market expanded 25 percent last year,
compared with 4.2 percent for China,’s according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. South Korea’s, where Hyundai gets more
than 60 percent of its operating profit, shrank 1.7 percent.  “We expect Indonesia to emerge as the largest auto market
in Southeast Asia in 2014,” said Thongpak of IHS.  The combined population in Southeast Asia is about 650
million people now and Southeast Asia is going to become more
interconnected ahead of the planned formation of the 2015 Asean
economic committee, Richardson of Samsung Asset said.  Necessity and exchange rates may yet compel Hyundai into
Indonesia, said  Yuuki Sakurai , president of Fukoku Capital
Management Inc., which manages about $17 billion in  Tokyo .  The won gained 9.1 percent against the dollar in 2012,
raising costs in dollar terms of manufacturing in South Korea.  Strong Won  “The strong Korean won is a good opportunity for Korean
carmakers to set up manufacturing in Southeast Asia,” Sakurai
said by phone. “They have to. People in Indonesia and Thailand
are getting richer and are buying more expensive cars.”  Minivans were the most sold segment in Indonesia, taking up
48 percent of all vehicles last year, according to LMC. Hyundai
only offers the Starex van, and Kia the Carens in the minivan
segment, neither of which are made in Indonesia.  Taking market share from Japanese rivals, as Hyundai has
done elsewhere, remains a possibility, said Ferry Wong, head of
equity research at Citigroup Inc.’s Indonesia unit.  “It’s very difficult to fight the Japanese in Indonesia,
but I think if Hyundai tried, they could actually put in some
competition,” Wong said by telephone. “To build a multipurpose
vehicle is not too difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  