-- Zloty Strengthens as Policy Makers Signal No Further Rate Cuts
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-03-27T13:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-27/zloty-strengthens-as-policy-makers-signal-no-further-rate-cuts.html
Poland ’s currency strengthened
against the euro, paring the worst quarterly decline in 18
months, after two Monetary Policy Council members signaled the
central bank wasn’t considering further interest rate cuts.  The zloty gained less than 0.1 percent to 4.1817 per euro
at 1:47 p.m. in Warsaw. It has lost 2.4 percent against the
European currency this year, the worst performance since the
third quarter of 2011, when it weakened 11 percent.  A further decline in Poland’s inflation rate to 1 percent
“won’t be a decisive factor” for rate cuts in the coming
months, Monetary Policy Council member Andrzej Bratkowski said
in an interview with Radio PiN yesterday. There is no room for
further rate cuts, fellow member Jan Winiecki was quoted as
saying yesterday by PAP newswire.  While “short-term downside risks to an already low
inflation forecast will keep rate-cut expectations alive,”
 Agata Urbanska , a London-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc,
“marginally favours” no change to rates by the end of 2014,
she wrote in a report today.  Poland’s central bank signaled this month a pause in its
easing cycle after cutting  interest rates  by 150 basis points
since November to a record 3.25 percent. Policy makers are
battling to keep the European Union’s largest eastern economy
from falling into its deepest slump in 12 years, with inflation
at its lowest level since 2006.  Reducing the main VAT rate in 2014 to 22 percent from 23
percent, as planned by the government earlier, is “unlikely”,
Prime Minister Donald Tusk said at a news conference after a
cabinet meeting yesterday. This announcement “could be used as
an argument against additional interest rate cuts this year,”
Jaroslaw Janecki, Societe Generale SA’s chief economist in
Poland, wrote in a note today.  The yield on Poland’s 10-year bonds rose one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.87 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  