-- ‘Hunger Games’ Leads Box Office Again With $61 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-04-02T22:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/-hunger-games-leads-box-office-again-with-tk-million.html
“The Hunger Games” was the top
film for a second weekend in the U.S. and  Canada , taking in
$58.6 million in ticket sales for distributor  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF)   The movie, about teenagers forced to fight to the death on
live television, has taken in $248.5 million since it opened on
March 23, making it the year’s top-grossing film. “The Wrath of
the Titans,” from  Warner Bros ., debuted in second place with
$33.5 million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Demand for “The Hunger Games” has sustained a 23 percent
increase in movie attendance this year and a 20 percent rise in
ticket sales. The film, based on the Suzanne Collins novel,
follows hits including  Universal Pictures ’ “Dr. Seuss’ The
Lorax” and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “The Vow.” Sales have risen every
weekend except one from the year-earlier period.  “The quality of films is exponentially better this year,”
said  Jeff Bock , a box-office analyst for Exhibitor Relations Co.
in Los Angeles, in a telephone interview. “Studios have done
really a good job marketing their films using different social
media networks to appeal to very specific demographics.”  “The Hunger Games,” set in a post-apocalyptic  North
America , recorded the third-best opening ever last weekend with
$152.5 million in ticket sales in the U.S. and Canada.  ‘Mirror Mirror’  Oscar nominee  Jennifer Lawrence  (“Winter’s Bone”) stars
as Katniss Everdeen, a girl from an impoverished region who
volunteers to take her younger sister’s place in the annual
competition. “The Hunger Games” cost about $80 million to
make, according to Lions Gate Chief Executive Officer  Jon Feltheimer .  “The Wrath of the Titans,” a sequel to 2010’s “The Clash
of the Titans,” features  Sam Worthington  as the part-god
Perseus, who must rescue his father, Zeus, from the underworld.
Liam Neeson co-stars as Zeus and  Ralph Fiennes  plays Hades.
“The Clash of the Titans” took in $493.2 million worldwide.  “Mirror Mirror,” a tongue-in-cheek take on the story of
Snow White, opened third with $18.1 million in receipts. The
film from Relativity Media stars  Julia Roberts  as the evil queen
and Lily Collins, the daughter of rock ‘n’ roll singer Phil Collins, as Snow White.  ‘21 Jump Street’  “Unfortunately, they opened in the wake of ‘The Hunger
Games’ huge debut,” Bock said. “Even their combined grosses
weren’t as high as the second weekend gross for ‘The Hunger
Games.”  Among the weekend’s returning films, “21 Jump Street,” a
spoof of the 1980s TV show, fell to fourth from second with
$14.8 million in ticket sales for Sony’s  Columbia Pictures .  “Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax” dropped to fifth from third with
$7.8 million in receipts for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures,
and has generated $189.3 million since March 2.  Weinstein Co.’s “Bully,” a documentary about kids who are
tormented by classmates, opened in five theaters in Los Angeles
and  New York , taking in $116,472. The studio released the film
without an rating from the  Motion Picture Association  of America
after the group’s independent board of parents assigned it an
“R” for language.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 23 percent to
$140.4 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
For the year-to-date, box-office sales have risen 20 percent to
$2.62 billion while attendance is up 23 percent. The amounts
below are based on tickets sales for March 30, 31 and yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  