-- Mahan Targets Masters Success as U.S. No. 1 After Houston Win
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-04-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/mahan-wins-houston-open-last-pga-tour-event-before-masters.html
Hunter Mahan  heads to the  Masters
Tournament  as the top-ranked American golfer in the world after
a one-shot victory at the Houston Open.  With his fifth career U.S. PGA Tour win and second this
season, Mahan climbs to No. 4 in the Official World Golf
Ranking, supplanting  Steve Stricker  as the top American.  Mahan, 29, will now look to join another select group. Only
Sandy Lyle in 1988 and  Phil Mickelson  in 2006 have won in the
week prior to the Masters and gone on to wear the champion’s
green jacket at the Augusta National Golf Club.  “I take a lot from this week but Augusta is its own animal
so I’m looking forward to the challenge,” Mahan told reporters.
“I feel very capable of playing great golf and I feel like I
showed myself I don’t need to be perfect to win.”  In five previous trips to the Masters, Mahan’s best results
were a tie for eighth place two years ago and a tie for 10th in
2009. He missed the cut for weekend play last year and in 2008,
and tied for 28th place in his debut in 2003.  Mahan missed the cut in three of four majors last year.  “This week, my mind was the strongest part of my game, and
that’s a great thing to feel,” Mahan said. “When you play a
major, you’re going to need all facets of your game, especially
your mind.”  Tiger Woods , who ended a 2 1/2-year wait for a 72nd win on
the tour at the Arnold Palmer Invitational March 25, is listed
as the Masters favorite at the Las Vegas Hotel and Casino’s
sportsbook, with 4-1 odds. A week earlier, he was the 7-1
second-choice behind U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy.  First Multiple Winner  In his 240th tour start, Mahan earned $1.08 million with a
final round 1-under-par 71 at Redstone Golf Club in Humble,
 Texas . He finished at 16-under par and tapped in for par on the
final hole yesterday to beat Carl Pettersson by one stroke.  Having also won the World Match Play Championship in
February, Mahan is the first multiple winner on the  PGA Tour 
this season.  Pettersson, who shot a 1-under-par 71, missed the chance to
tie Jesper Parnevik for the most titles on the tour for a Swede,
with five.  “I’m a little disappointed,” said Pettersson, who needed
a win to qualify for the Masters. “Overall my game was good.
Hopefully I can build on this and probably get a win soon.”  Louis Oosthuizen from  South Africa , the 2010 British Open
champion, was third, a shot behind Pettersson.  Mickelson, who also won the Masters in 2004 and 2010, was
fourth at 12-under alongside fellow Americans  Jeff Overton  and
Keegan Bradley, the PGA champion, and  Brian Davis  from  England .  Ernie Els failed to secure a place at the Masters after
finishing in a tie for 12th place at 10-under. Els had to win to
take his run of consecutive appearances at Augusta to 19 and
said he’d reject an invitation if Masters organizers extend one.  “To go through all of this and then get an invite, I
wouldn’t take it,” he said. “They can keep it.”  Fred Couples , the 1992 Masters champion who was playing in
his 600th PGA Tour event, had two double bogeys in a round of
74, leaving him in a tie for 47th place at 3-under.  The Masters begins April 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 