-- Australian Budget Surplus Gives Rate Cut Flexibility, Swan Says
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-04-01T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/australian-budget-surplus-gives-rate-cut-flexibility-swan-says.html
Australia’s best defense against the
global economic outlook is to return the budget to surplus and
provide flexibility for  interest rate  cuts to ensure growth,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  A budget in surplus “ensures that we won’t be adding to
the price pressures,” Swan said in his economic note yesterday.
“This in turn provides more flexibility for the  Reserve Bank  to
cut interest rates if they think this is warranted.”  The government is working hard to find extra savings in its
next budget because tax revenue, as a share of the country’s
gross domestic product, will be lower and there will be very
little room for any new spending, he said.  Swan, who is preparing Australia’s budget for release on
May 8, faces the challenge of balancing a drop in revenue
against a government pledge to deliver a surplus in the 12
months through June next year. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said
yesterday returning the budget to surplus is “the right thing
to do” while pledging to support jobs.  “This is the appropriate strategy for an economy moving
back toward trend growth with relatively low unemployment and a
record pipeline of investment,” Swan said in his note.  Mining investment in Australia, the world’s biggest
exporter of iron ore and coal, is estimated to reach A$120
billion next year, an increase of around 155 percent in two
years, Swan said last month.  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 4.25 percent on March 6 and reiterated that it
has scope to lower borrowing costs if demand weakens
“materially.” The next rate decision is due tomorrow.  Swan also said that while  Australia ’s net debt will peak
this year, it will be less than a 10th of the level of major
advanced economies.  “Maintaining our credible fiscal policy sends a strong
message of confidence to investors across the world in these
uncertain times,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  