-- Bahraini Shiite Group Blames Government for Death of Protester
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-04-01T07:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/bahraini-shiite-group-blames-government-for-death-of-protester.html
Bahrain’s largest Shiite political
group, Al-Wefaq, blamed militiamen loyal to the regime for the
weekend death of a 22-year-old anti-government protester.  Ahmed Ismael Abdulsamad was shot in the right thigh before
dawn yesterday as he filmed a protest in the Shiite village of
Salmabad that plainclothes security forces tried to break up
with tear gas and rubber bullets, Al-Wefaq said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. It said one of several “militiamen”
accompanying security forces fired live bullets at the
protesters from a civilian car, hitting Abdulsamad.  Authorities are investigating Abdulsamad’s death, Chief of
Public Security Major-General Tariq al-Hassan said yesterday,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Information Affairs
Authority. He said preliminary details revealed that Abdulsamad
was shot by a person driving a civilian car.  Abdulsamad’s death adds to tensions that have simmered in
the island nation since the Sunni monarchy cracked down on one
month of mass protests last year by mostly Shiite demonstrators
demanding democracy and equal rights. At least 35 people were
killed between Feb. 14 and April 15 last year, according to the
Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry, which investigated
the unrest. The opposition says more than 30 other people died
from tear gas inhalation and torture. Small-scale protests still
taking place daily in Shiite villages and sometimes spill over
into the capital of Manama.  The  Interior Ministry  said on Twitter late yesterday that
activist Nabeel Rajab, head of the Bahrain Center for Human
Rights, has been arrested for participation in an unauthorized
rally and referred to the public prosecutor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  