-- Bats Pushes Derivatives, New Markets as It Reviews IPO
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-04-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/bats-pushes-derivatives-new-markets-as-it-reviews-ipo.html
Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS)  will offer
derivatives trading in  Europe  and push growth in markets such as
 Brazil  as the third-largest U.S. equity-exchange operator seeks
to re-establish credibility after a technical glitch forced it
to cancel its initial public offering.  Bats, which also runs the biggest pan-European market after
its purchase of Chi-X Europe, could trade derivatives in London
as soon as the fourth quarter, Mark Hemsley, chief executive
officer of Bats Chi-X Europe, said in an interview. The Lenexa,
Kansas-based company is pressing ahead with its plans and will
decide on a European clearinghouse to process the transactions
in the third quarter. Equity-based contracts will probably be
the first to be introduced, he said.  “The best thing the company can do is focus on the
underlying business and look at future business-growth
opportunities,” Hemsley said. “We are looking at Brazil, at
expanding into foreign exchange and bonds -- especially U.S.
Treasuries. In Europe, we are focused on the Chi-X integration
and looking at derivatives.”  The six-year-old equity exchange canceled its initial
public offering on March 23, stunning  Wall Street  after errors
on its computer systems kept its own stock from trading and
forced a halt in  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. shares.  Data received by Bloomberg around 11 a.m. in New York
showed the stock, the first ever listed on its market, quoted at
less than a penny after being priced in the IPO at $16. Around
the same time, a 100-share transaction in Apple was executed on
Bats so far away from the market price that it triggered a halt.  ‘No Change’  “We are looking at driving the profitability of the
existing business” as Bats reviews the events of that day,
Hemsley said. “Secondly, we are looking at growth in new
markets, through new geographies and new products. There is no
reason to change the business strategy.”  Bats, whose name stands for Better Alternative Trading
System, rose to prominence in tandem with the proliferation of
electronic firms that now dominate the buying and selling of
equities in the U.S.  The canceled stock offering was intended to raise money for
Bats’s owners, which include underwriters Morgan Stanley, Credit
Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. Others that expected to see
proceeds from the deal were Chicago-based Getco LLC, Wedbush
Inc. in  Los Angeles , and high-frequency firm Tradebot Systems
Inc., whose chief executive officer founded Bats. The estate of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is also among the biggest owners.  ‘Logic Still There’  “The logic for an IPO is still there,” Hemsley said. “If
we hadn’t had a technical issue we’d be a publicly listed
company today.”  Bats planned to make its own shares the first corporate
listing on its exchange. NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.
own the home venues for the rest of the U.S. stock market.  “We’ll review what we do in listings in the U.S.,”
Hemsley said. “In Europe, our thinking was that if we offer
listings it will be around exchange traded funds. The business
is different in Europe than the U.S. because in the U.S. there
at least there’s a single regulator, a single legal framework, a
single set of listing requirements and a single language.”  Founded by a high-frequency trader in 2005, Bats was
steered to prominence by brokers trying to hold down fees as the
 New York  Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market bought their
biggest electronic rivals.  New Markets  Bats plans to enter at least two new markets by the end of
2014, according to a February Securities and Exchange Commission
filing, and is considering an expansion into Treasuries, foreign
exchange and U.S. futures. The company has also said it’s
exploring the possibility of creating a Brazilian exchange with
a Sao Paulo-based asset manager.  The company was trying to raise money less than two years
after a crash erased $862 billion in 20 minutes from U.S. share
values, a plunge that critics linked to the fragmented market
structure that helped Bats thrive. The company was initially
built to service high-frequency firms like Tradebot Systems.
Automated trading firm Getco and Wedbush., owner of an
investment bank whose clients include high-speed firms, bought
equity stakes.  Bats is talking to clearinghouses including LCH.Clearnet
Group Ltd. and Deutsche Boerse AG’s Eurex Clearing as it seeks
to offer derivatives trading in  London .  “With the opportunities for derivatives, the key is
sorting out clearing in Europe,” Hemsley said. “I don’t think
we want to go down the route of setting up our own clearinghouse
-- that’s not where our expertise is. If we did something it
would be in partnership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  