-- Funds Cut Bullish Bets, Goldman Goes Neutral: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-02T15:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/bullish-futures-exceed-one-million-contracts-commodities.html
Investors pared bullish commodity
bets on signs of slowing growth in China and as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. cut its recommendation on raw materials.  Hedge funds  and other money managers reduced combined net-
long positions across 18 U.S. futures and options by 1.8 percent
to 1.14 million  contracts  in the week ended March 27, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show. Bullish  wagers  on hogs
fell the most, dropping 31 percent to the lowest since June,
while those on gold had the biggest gain, rising 15 percent, the
largest increase since the end of January.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
tumbled 2.1 percent last week, paring this year’s advance to 6.8
percent. Goldman cut its three-month recommendation on March 28,
warning that the economy will “soften” this quarter. Societe
Generale SA said March 27 that Chinese corporate profits won’t
grow at all this year, and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said two days later that the pace of the U.S recovery
has been “extremely sluggish.”  “The story over the near term is probably one of
weakness,” said Anthony Valeri, a market strategist at  LPL
Financial  in  San Diego , which oversees $330 billion of assets.
“There are some renewed concerns over China’s economic growth.
That’s been the negative for commodities.”  Price Swings  The S&P GSCI fell 2.1 percent in March, the most since
September, while the MSCI All-Country World Index of  equities 
rose 0.4 percent. The  Dollar Index  gained 0.3 percent against a
basket of six major trading partners last month, and Treasuries
lost 1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Fifteen of the raw materials tracked by the S&P GSCI fell
last week. Sugar slumped 7.1 percent, natural gas dropped 6.5
percent and cattle declined 4.1 percent.  China ’s benchmark stock
index retreated to a 10-week low on March 29 on concern the
slowing economy will erode company earnings. Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said March 5 that the nation’s gross domestic product target is
now 7.5 percent, the slowest since 2004.  Open interest , or contracts outstanding, in the GSCI gauge
rose 2.5 percent as the 100-day moving average of  volatility  in
prices dropped to the lowest since October 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That combination may be “a good
sign” for commodities,  James Paulsen , the chief investment
strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management, said
March 28.  Hard Landing  “We do not expect a  hard-landing  scenario for China,”
said Nelson Louie, the global head of commodities at  New York- 
based Credit Suisse Asset Management who helps manage $11
billion of assets. “The fact that they’re looking to promote
consumer-oriented growth bodes well for a lot of raw-material
prices. This may lead to rising imports for commodities such as
crude oil and grains.”  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators trimmed
bullish wagers by 1.5 percent to 719,872 contracts. Corn
holdings dropped 14 percent to 224,557 in the week ended March
27, the biggest slide since Jan. 17. Futures in Chicago surged
6.6 percent on March 30, the most in 21 months, after U.S.
inventories slumped more than analysts forecast. Prices jumped
1.7 percent today to $6.55 a bushel at 10:54 a.m. in  Chicago .  Hog futures fell 2 percent last week, a third consecutive
decline, on signs of increasing pork supplies. The U.S. hog-
breeding herd on March 1 was 0.6 percent larger than a year
earlier, exceeding analyst estimates, as lower feed costs
spurred producers to expand, the government said on March 30.  Industrial Metals  Goldman’s commodity research team, led by  Jeffrey Currie  in
 London , said it was reducing the three-month recommendation
because prices already reached its targets. While raw materials
may drop or be little changed in the near term, they probably
will gain 10 percent over the next 12 months, the analysts said.
Goldman’s target for crude oil is $123.50 a barrel, 20 percent
higher than the close on March 30, and gold may reach $1,940 an
ounce, up 16 percent.  Holdings (.GLDTONS)  in gold-backed exchange-traded products increased
0.3 percent to 2,396.5 metric tons last week, valued at $128.5
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s within
0.6 percent of the record reached March 13. Prices rose for a
second week, advancing 0.6 percent. Silver futures added 0.7
percent, rallying from a four-week decline. Speculators cut
their bullish bets for a fourth week and to the lowest since
January, CFTC data show.  Bearish Bets  Crude oil declined 3.6 percent in New York trading,
retreating for a third consecutive week. Hedge funds trimmed
their net-long position for a second week, to the lowest since
mid-February, according to the CFTC data. Bearish bets on
natural gas increased to the most since December as prices
slumped 6.6 percent and reached their lowest in a decade.  Investors added $79 million to commodity funds in the week
ended March 28, according to data from Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. Gold and precious-
metals outflows totaled $12 million, said  Cameron Brandt , the
director of research.  “The blue-skies scenario at the beginning of the year that
the  euro zone  would muddle through, the U.S. recovery would gain
steam, and China would continue to chug along at close to
double-digit growth, while none of them have collapsed, they all
certainly have been tested in recent weeks,” Brandt said.  European Firewall  European finance ministers agreed on March 30 in Copenhagen
to increase rescue funds for indebted nations in the region,
bringing the size of the firewall to 800 billion euros ($1.07
trillion). The 17-nation euro economy will contract for three
consecutive quarters through September, the median of 15
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Europe  accounts for about 18 percent of global copper
demand and 22 percent of oil use, data from  Barclays Capital  and
BP Plc show. It also consumes 18 percent of the world’s wheat
and has about 9 percent of its cattle, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show.  “People are questioning the growth story,” said  Jeffrey Sherman , who helps manage $30 billion of assets for DoubleLine
Capital LP in  Los Angeles . “There’s just fear in general on
where is growth going to come from.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  