-- Camargo Correa Bids for Full Control of Portugal’s Cimpor
-- B y   J i m   S i l v e r
-- 2012-04-02T10:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/camargo-correa-bids-3-3-billion-for-67-stake-in-rival-cimpor.html
Camargo Correa SA, Brazil’s No. 2
construction company, offered 2.48 billion euros ($3.32 billion)
to buy full control of affiliate  Cimpor-Cimentos de Portugal
SGPS SA  to combine cement operations.  Camargo Correa, through its Intercement Austria subsidiary,
bid 5.50 euros a share for Cimpor, the Vienna-based unit said in
a filing with the Portuguese securities regulator after markets
closed on March 30. The offer is 10 percent more than Cimpor’s
closing share price of  5 euros  in Lisbon that day.  Cimpor shares climbed as much as 10 percent, the biggest
gain since December 2010, and was trading up 8.8 percent at 5.44
euros at 11:50 a.m. in Lisbon. Camargo already owns 33 percent
of Cimpor, which is based in the Portuguese capital.  Camargo Correa and Brazilian competitor Votorantim Cimentos
SA, both closely held and based in  Sao Paulo , bought separate
stakes in Cimpor in early 2010, helping derail a hostile bid for
 Portugal ’s largest cement company by Brazilian steelmaker  Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA. (CSNA3)  Votorantim owns 21 percent of Cimpor
and is considering teaming up with Camargo for a joint bid, two
people familiar with the matter said.  Camargo Correa said that, in addition to gaining control of
Cimpor, it’s seeking to create “a coherent and stable
shareholder structure” in the company. It also plans to combine
its South American and Angolan operations with Cimpor, which
does business on four continents.  Mafalda Correia, a Cimpor spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the bid. Erik Burns, a spokesman for Banco Comercial
Portugues, whose pension fund owns 10 percent of Cimpor,
declined to comment.  ‘Below Consensus’  The “price offered is below our valuation and below
consensus,” Teresa Martinho, a Lisbon-based analyst at Banif
Investment Bank, said in a research report today. “The key
point is whether Correa will be able to grab control of Cimpor
by acquiring relevant stakes from current key shareholders at
the current bid price,” which “seems feasible.”  Portuguese state-owned bank  Caixa Geral de Depositos SA 
said in a separate statement on March 30 it would sell its 9.6
percent stake to Camargo Correa, provided Caixa and Votorantim
agree to end a shareholders’ accord, which gives each party the
right of first refusal to buy the other’s stake.  Votorantim doesn’t plan to top the offer for Cimpor, while
it may consider buying a stake in the cement maker and teaming
up with Camargo Correa to take control, the two people familiar
said. Votorantim may buy Caixa’s stake under its right of first
refusal or decide to sell its existing stake, they said,
declining to be identified because the talks aren’t public.  Evaluating ‘Alternatives’  Votorantim will analyze Camargo Correa’s offer and evaluate
“all alternatives,” it said in a statement.  Camargo Correa and Votorantim held talks last October about
buying the rest of Cimpor and dividing its assets, two people
familiar with the situation said at the time. Camargo would keep
Cimpor’s  Brazil  plants and Votorantim would take the rest, they
said.  Brazil accounted for 30 percent of Cimpor’s revenue last
year, overtaking the Iberian peninsula as the company’s biggest
source of sales. Cimpor also has operations in the  Middle East ,
 Africa  and  Asia .  Infrastructure spending in Brazil is increasing as the
country prepares to host the 2014 soccer  World Cup  and the 2016
Olympics. The government has said infrastructure investment of
140 billion reais ($77 billion) will be needed for the two
events.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA’s bid of 6.18 euros a share
for Cimpor failed in February 2010 after garnering 8.57 percent
of the stock. The offer valued the company at 4.15 billion
euros. In 2000,  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  and Portuguese partner Semapa-
Sociedade de Investimento e Gestao SGPS SA made an unsuccessful
hostile bid for Cimpor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Silver in New York at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Skillman at 
 bskillman1@bloomberg.net  