-- Cameron’s Support Drops as Britons Say Government Has Lost Touch
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-01T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/cameron-s-support-falls-as-britons-say-government-has-lost-touch.html
Support for U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  fell as the majority of Britons said the
government is “out of touch” and blamed his administration for
causing panic buying of gasoline, polls showed.  Sixty-one percent of Britons said Cameron was doing
“badly” as prime minister compared with 34 percent who said he
was doing “well,” according to a survey of 1,567 British
adults in a  poll  carried out March 30-31 for the Sunday Times
newspaper by London-based YouGov Plc and published yesterday.
That compares with readings of 53 percent and 42 percent
respectively in a survey conducted March 22-23.  Last week was one of the worst Cameron has had since coming
to power in May 2010. Ministers contradicted each other on
whether motorists should stockpile gasoline as a fuel-truck
drivers’ strike loomed, his party’s co-treasurer quit over
allegations of selling access to the prime minister and the
opposition and press criticized budget measures. U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  called it “a controversial week.”  A separate survey of 1,127 British adults showed the
proportion who agreed with the statement “this government is
out of touch with ordinary voters” was 72 percent, ComRes Ltd.
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The share of respondents who agreed with the statement
“the government has created an unnecessary panic over the fuel
crisis” was 81 percent, the pollster said. ComRes  polled  people
between March 30 and April 1 for the Independent on Sunday and
Sunday Mirror newspapers. No margin of error was provided.  Labour Lead  With local elections, including that for the mayor of
 London , scheduled for May 3, the Labour opposition holds a lead
over Cameron’s  Conservative Party  in opinion polls.  Yesterday’s YouGov survey found 42 percent of voters would
select Labour if a general election were held now, with 33
percent supporting the Conservatives. That compares with 44
percent and 34 percent respectively in a separate YouGov study
published in the Sun newspaper on March 30. The company didn’t
provide a margin of error for yesterday’s poll.  ComRes said its survey yesterday showed a measure of the
gap in voters’ trust in Conservatives and Labour to “make the
right decisions about the economy” was 4 points in favor of the
government, compared with 25 points before the March 21 budget.
The share of people who said the government was “out of touch”
with the public was 49 percent in a February study, ComRes said.  The Conservative share of the vote in a House of Commons
special election on March 29 in Bradford,  England , fell to 8
percent from 31 percent in the 2010 general election.  Cameron’s Decline  Still, Labour failed to retain the seat in a district with
a large Muslim electorate, losing to a former Labour lawmaker,
George Galloway, who now represents the anti-war Respect Party.  Cameron’s decline in opinion polls followed a week of
negative headlines in the U.K. media. Labour said a cut in the
top  tax rate  in last month’s budget only helped the wealthy. The
government was also portrayed as out of touch on other budget
measures as a tax slapped on hot, take-out snacks was dubbed
“pastygate” and the media branded a freezing of pensioners’
tax allowances a “granny tax.”  Conservative co-treasurer Peter Cruddas resigned on March
25 after the Sunday Times newspaper broadcast footage apparently
showing him suggesting access to Cameron could be bought by
making donations to the party.  In response, the prime minister’s office published details
of donors who dined at his private apartment in February and
November last year and in January 2012, as well as a post-
general election event in July 2010 and meals at his country
residence, Chequers.  Private Briefings  In a follow-up article, the Sunday Times  reported  yesterday
that donors have been invited to at least 15 lunches and dinners
with government ministers and other Conservative officials where
they received private policy briefings.  Ministers are also anxious to avert a possible fuel-tanker
strike that could hit supplies to 90 percent of the U.K.’s 8,700
gas stations, aware of the damage to business and the government
in 2000 when petrol-price protesters blockaded refineries.  Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude said on March 28 that
Britons would be wise to keep their cars topped up and have a
spare jerry can of gasoline or diesel at home to prepare.  Roads Minister Mike Penning said the next day that Maude’s
advice “was a mistake” after television footage showed long
queues forming outside many gas stations amid fears stocks would
run out. A woman in the English city of York was  hospitalized 
the same day with 40 percent burns after gasoline that she was
decanting from one container to another in her kitchen ignited.  ‘One-Term Haul’  Hague yesterday defended the government’s actions, telling
the  BBC ’s “Andrew Marr Show” that “the country is in a better
state of preparedness now than it was a week ago for the
eventuality of a tanker strike, so I think they’ve handled that
correctly.”  In an interview published yesterday by the Observer
newspaper, Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said the events of last
week represent “the end of the Cameron project” and the
Conservatives will lose the next national election.  “It is going to be a one-term haul, I am confident about
that,” the newspaper reported Miliband as saying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  