-- China Manufacturing Gain Masks Exporters’ Woes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-02T09:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/china-s-manufacturing-expands-at-fastest-pace-in-12-months-1-.html
A stronger reading for a Chinese
manufacturing gauge failed to end predictions for policy
loosening as analysts described the gain as seasonal and a
separate survey showed exporters struggling.  A  Purchasing Managers ’  Index (CPMINDX)  rose to a one-year high of
53.1 in March, China’s logistics federation and the National
Bureau of Statistics said yesterday. The gauge has a pattern of
rising each March. In contrast, a PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics showed manufacturing contracting and export
orders falling.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged to “fine-tune” economic
policies as needed as weakness in export demand and a cooling
housing market restrain an economy that probably grew at the
slowest pace in almost three years in the first quarter.
Analysts in a Bloomberg News survey last week unanimously said
that banks’ reserve requirements will fall this year, while nine
of 20 predicted lower benchmark borrowing costs.  “Policy easing is still needed to avoid a hard landing,”
said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist for Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., who previously worked for the
 International Monetary Fund  and  European Central Bank . Fiscal
spending will be “the driving force” and more cuts in bank
reserve requirements are needed, he said.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index declined for a fourth day,
slipping 0.2 percent to a two-month low. Sany Heavy Equipment
International Holdings Co., a Chinese maker of construction
equipment, sank 3.9 percent.  ‘Purely Seasonal’  Bank of America Corp. economist Lu Ting yesterday predicted
two cuts by year-end in the proportion of deposits that lenders
are required to set aside as reserves, a ratio now at 20.5
percent for the biggest lenders, such as  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd.  The government may step up the construction
of low-cost housing and the central bank could encourage lenders
to reduce rates for loans, including mortgages, he said.  “The rebound in the government PMI is purely seasonal,”
said Joy Yang, chief  China  economist at Mirae Asset Securities
(HK) Ltd., who previously worked at the IMF. “Flexible and
paced easing” is needed, she said.  The government-backed PMI is skewed toward large
enterprises and affected by seasonality, with the gauge climbing
an average of 3.2 points each March from 2005 to 2011 as
production returned to normal after a Lunar New Year holiday,
HSBC said in a note.  Export Weakness  The HSBC and Markit data indicated that export orders fell
for a second month. At UBS AG, Hong Kong-based economist  Wang Tao  said that logistics federation data also showed a decline if
seasonally adjusted.  “As inflation pressures continue to ease, weaker export
growth is likely to prompt further easing measures,” said  Qu Hongbin , a Hong Kong-based economist for HSBC. “Once the easing
measures filter through, growth is likely to start bottoming out
in the second quarter and rebound modestly in the second half.”  HSBC forecasts reserve-ratio cuts of at least 1 percentage
point in the first half as well as additional tax breaks and
fiscal spending, Qu said.  The Shanghai Composite Index has dropped about 9 percent
from this year’s high on Feb. 27 on concern that the world’s
second-biggest economy is faltering, while the yuan was little
changed in the first quarter at 6.2980 per dollar. Chinese
markets were closed today for a holiday.  In a statement released March 31, the central bank
reaffirmed a “prudent” monetary stance and said that economic
growth is stable and  Europe ’s debt crisis is easing. Wen pared
this year’s expansion target to 7.5 percent from an 8 percent
goal in place since 2005, he announced March 5 at the
legislature’s annual conference.  Trade Shortfall  China had its largest trade deficit since at least 1989 in
February as Europe’s sovereign-debt turmoil damped exports and
imports rebounded after the weeklong holiday. Exports fell for
the first time in two years in January.  Mixed signs for the economy last week ranged from ICBC
reporting higher-than-estimated net income for the fourth
quarter, widening the bank’s lead as the world’s most profitable
lender, to a slide in industrial companies’ profits.  Morgan Stanley joined Nomura Holdings Inc. and  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  in raising its forecast for China’s economic growth this
year even as Societe Generale SA told clients to expect a slump
in corporate profits. The world’s second-biggest economy will
expand 9 percent, higher than a previous estimate of 8.4
percent, said Helen Qiao, a Morgan Stanley economist.  Such projections, still below last year’s 9.2 percent rate,
offer little comfort for Australian mining company  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , seeing slower steel production in China, or German
automaker  Daimler AG (DAI) , whose Mercedes dealers in the nation are
giving record discounts.  Steel, Iron Ore  Curbs on property sales and plans to tilt the economy
toward consumption and away from a dependence on  capital
spending  have reduced production of steel and cement and helped
push down  iron-ore  prices. Prices of new apartments fell in 45
of 70 major cities in February from January, according to
government data.  Gross domestic product probably expanded 8.4 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, down from 8.9
percent in the fourth quarter.  The logistics federation’s PMI “indicates that economic
growth is in an apparent rebound state,”  Zhang Liqun , a senior
researcher at the Development Research Center of the State
Council, said in a statement. At the same time, the expansion
may still slow based on market demand, Zhang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  