-- Clinton Builds Gulf Military Ties While Urging Democracy
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-01T21:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/clinton-builds-gulf-military-ties-while-urging-democracy.html
A raid on pro-democracy groups in
the United Arab Emirates underscores a contradiction at the core
of the Obama administration’s response to the Arab Spring.  As the U.S. advocates for freedom in Libya and  Syria , its
closest allies in the Persian Gulf region consider democracy a
threat to their stability.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  was the only
representative of a democracy when she met Persian Gulf allies,
including the UAE, in Saudi Arabia on March 31 to discuss a
common defense against Iran and support for Syria’s anti-regime,
pro-democracy uprising.  “While the U.S., European Union and  Turkey  are keen to
support more secular forces and democratic ones, there is no
reason why the Gulf states would do the same thing,” Aram
Nerguizian, a visiting fellow at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a Washington research and policy
organization, said in an interview.  The political divide over the Arab Spring movement for
change in the region was most evident when Clinton expressed
regret about the UAE’s March 28 raid on the offices of several
foreign pro-democracy groups. They included a U.S. organization,
the National Democratic Institute, whose members are among those
charged with breaking laws in  Egypt . The raid came a week after
Clinton waived a congressional requirement that Egypt advance
democracy before receiving $1.3 billion in annual U.S. aid.  Strategic Forum  Clinton was attending the inaugural meeting of the Gulf
Cooperation Council’s Strategic Cooperation Forum, where foreign
ministers discussed the creation of a shared missile-defense
system based on technology from U.S. defense contractors
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   The missile-defense plan, proposed by the U.S. to shield
the oil-rich region from Iran’s missiles, marks a departure from
the usual one-on-one U.S. defense and diplomatic negotiations
with those nations, according to a State Department official who
was authorized to discuss the plan only on condition of
anonymity.  Iran  “continues to threaten its neighbors and undermine
regional security” and could endanger freedom of navigation in
the Gulf, Clinton said in Riyadh at the close of the meeting.  Fear of Iran and of unleashing sectarian hostility underlie
the anxieties that Sunni Muslim monarchies in the Gulf have
toward democratic movements, according to David Ottaway, a
senior scholar at the Wilson Center, a Washington policy group.
In  Bahrain , Shiite Muslims make up about 60 percent of the
population, while in Saudi Arabia they represent about 10
percent.  Fifth Column  These Gulf countries see their Shiite populations as a
potential fifth column for Shiite-ruled Iran, Ottaway said in a
telephone interview. The monarchies clamped down as pro-
democracy protests swept across the region and began to inspire
Shiites in the Gulf to agitate for greater opportunities.  Saudi Arabia  has shut down protests in its oil-rich,
largely Shiite Eastern Province by force, with state security
shooting and killing some protesters. Shiites there have long
pushed for equal treatment in government jobs and security
forces without much success, Ottaway said.  When Shiites began protesting in neighboring Bahrain, where
the U.S. has pushed the ruling Sunni royal family to grant the
restive minority greater rights, Saudi Arabia rushed troops in
to help quell the unrest. Watchdog groups such as New York-based
Human Rights Watch say Bahrain has failed to follow through on
reforms recommended by a panel that investigated the crackdown
and ensuing deaths.  Activist Barred  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, has also
focused on smaller-scale activism. It barred a human-rights
advocate, Waleed Abu al-Khair, from leaving the country to
attend a six-week State Department leadership and democracy
program in the U.S. last month.  President  Barack Obama  and his White House predecessor,
 George W. Bush , “believed the monarchies’ salvation lay in more
democracy at home and in integration of their respective defense
forces to establish a more credible deterrent to Iran,” Ottaway
wrote in a 2011 analysis. The Gulf monarchies “viewed
democratic reform as the principal threat to their power, even
survival, at only Iran’s gain.”  Kissinger’s Caution  Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said last week
that the U.S. urge to back “democratic reconstruction” must
not obscure the need to counter Iran and protect American
interests such as the free flow of oil and a “durable peace
between Israel and its neighbors.”  “A process that ends with regional governments either too
weak or too anti-Western in their orientation to lend support to
these outcomes, and in which U.S. partnerships are no longer
welcomed, must evoke U.S. strategic concerns -— regardless of
the electoral mechanisms by which these governments come to
power,” Kissinger wrote in an opinion article for the
Washington Post on March 30.  The Gulf countries have been pursuing cooperation largely
among their security and intelligence forces and not their
militaries until now, Ottaway said in the interview. The aim of
the  Riyadh  meeting was to entrench military cooperation,
according to the State Department.  The shared missile-defense system would help Gulf countries
protect each other, and the new strategic forum would advance
discussions about weapons proliferation, weapons of mass
destruction and maritime security, the State Department official
said.  Regional Shields  The missile system -- similar to one in  Europe  that has
caused friction with  Russia  -- is one of at least three regional
arrays the U.S. wants to build. Shields under discussion also
would cover  Japan  and  South Korea , and Japan and  Australia , to
counter threats seen emanating from North Korea.  Clinton re-emphasized the U.S. commitment to the Gulf
region in her remarks in Riyadh, expressing hope that the
Strategic Cooperation Forum becomes a permanent structure that
helps the U.S. and Gulf Cooperation Council militaries pursue
practical steps to improve shared operations, cooperate on
maritime security and missile defense, and coordinate responses
to crises.  The missile-defense system would be based on a variety of
systems, using existing architecture and recent weapons
purchases, the State Department official said.  Lockheed, Raytheon  Lockheed Martin, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , received a
$1.96 billion contract from the Pentagon to supply the  United
Arab Emirates  with a missile-defense system.  The order is for two Terminal High Altitude Area Defense,
or THAAD, systems that include interceptors, launchers and
radar, the Pentagon announced Dec. 30. Batteries of land-based
interceptors would be linked with the U.S. Navy’s detection and
control systems on Aegis-class destroyers and cruisers.  Raytheon said in June that it received a $1.7 billion order
from Saudi Arabia to upgrade the kingdom’s Patriot anti-missile
system. The order includes supplying hardware, training and
support to improve the country’s existing system to Patriot
Configuration-3, the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company said
in a statement.  Congress was notified in August 2010 about the possible
sale to  Kuwait  of 209 Patriot Gen-T missiles for an estimated
cost of $900 million, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  