-- Clinton Says Assad Is Ignoring UN’s Plan to End Syria Violence
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-01T09:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/clinton-says-assad-is-ignoring-un-s-plan-to-end-syria-violence.html
The United Nations effort to broker
an end to violence in Syria is faltering as President Bashar al- Assad ignores his commitment to adhere to the agreement,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today.  Assad pledged to implement Special Envoy Kofi Annan’s six-
point plan to pull back forces, end the use of heavy weapons,
allow peaceful demonstrations and access for humanitarian aid
and journalists and begin a political transition, Clinton said
at an Istanbul meeting of the so-called “Friends of Syria.”  “The time for excuses is over,” Clinton told her
counterparts. “Nearly a week has gone by, and we have to
conclude that the regime is adding to its long list of broken
promises.”  We “cannot sit back and wait any longer,” Clinton
said.  Clinton offered no concrete plan for ousting Assad and
instead outlined an intensified slate of pressure tactics.
The U.S. will create an umbrella group to tighten sanctions,
increase funding for humanitarian aid, supply opposition forces
with communications gear and create a group to monitor Syrian
“atrocities” so members of the regime can eventually be held
accountable for the violence there, Clinton said.  Clinton was speaking at a meeting of the “Friends of
 Syria ,” a grouping of politicians from about 80 nations meeting
in Istanbul today to discuss a political transition in Syria to
replace Assad’s government and end fighting that has left more
than 9,000 people dead. Violence has continued since the Syrian
commitment on March 27, adding more than 200 to the death toll.  Declined Invitation  Russia and  China  declined an invitation to join the group,
with the Foreign Ministry in Moscow saying it seeks foreign
intervention, not dialogue.  “Together we must hasten the day that peace and freedom
come to Syria,” Clinton said. “That solution cannot come fast
enough, and we grieve for every lost day and every lost life.”  The U.S. will lead the creation of a ‘sanctions working
group’ that will coordinate and expand penalties against the
Syrian regime, Clinton said. The idea, according to a State
Department official who was not authorized to speak publicly, is
that if one country has information about an individual or
entity that needs to be sanctioned, it can be quickly shared
with the wider group.  Another initiative the “Friends” are discussing is how
they can use publicity and social media to “name and shame”
individuals and entities that are evading the sanctions, the
official said.  U.S. Efforts  To ensure that there are consequences for Syrian regime
officials driving the crackdown, the U.S. will provide $1.25
million to form an accountability group to track human rights
violations and atrocities, Clinton said.  The group would train and mentor Syrian investigators and
lawyers, establish a secure database to store the information,
and establish a prosecutor’s unit to collect and analyze
evidence that could be used against regime officials in Syrian
or international courts, the State Department official said.  “Our message must be clear to those who give the orders
and those who carry them out,” Clinton said. “Stop killing
your fellow citizens or you will face serious consequences. Your
countrymen will not forget, and neither will the international
community.”  The U.S. will also pledge another $12 million for
humanitarian aid including field hospitals, clean water and
tents, bring the total U.S. humanitarian aid contribution to $25
million.  In addition, the U.S. is supplying communications equipment
“that will help activists organize, evade attacks by the
regime, and connect to the outside world,” Clinton said. She
said that the U.S. is also talking to other members of the
‘Friends’ group about how best to expand this support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Istanbul at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  