-- Diageo Said to Hire Goldman, HSBC for Jose Cuervo Talks
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-04-01T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/diageo-said-to-hire-goldman-hsbc-for-jose-cuervo-negotiations.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest
liquor maker, appointed  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  for advice on gaining control of Jose Cuervo from
family owners, people familiar with the plans said.  Cuervo, owned by Mexico’s Beckmann family, is expected to
be valued at more than $3 billion and family sellers may gain
cash or shares in Diageo as part of the deal, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  Diageo, the maker of Johnnie Walker Scotch and Smirnoff
vodka, has an option to buy the company because of its
international distribution rights to the Cuervo brand, a person
with knowledge of the discussions said in May. Diageo’s
agreement to distribute Cuervo in countries outside Mexico
expires in 2013.  Discussions between Diageo and Beckmann family members may
not lead to a deal because it’s unclear whether all of the
family members are committed to a process, the people said.  A spokesman for Diageo declined to comment, as did
spokesmen for Goldman and HSBC.  Diageo, based in London, is pushing into emerging markets
and last year acquired Turkey’s Mey Icki to add the country’s
largest maker of Raki liquor for about $2.1 billion.  Supply, notably around the agave plant used to make
tequila, are among issues being discussed, one of the people
said. A competitor,  Brown-Forman Corp. (BF/A) , in 2007 gained agave
plants through the purchase of Mexico’s Grupo Industrial
Herradura SA, maker of Herradura and El Jimador tequilas.  Agave  Brown-Forman in 2008 wrote down the value of dead agave
plants, used to make tequila, due to weather, insects and
disease, a spokesman said at the time.  Paul Walsh , Diageo’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview with the Wall Street Journal on March 26 that he
“wouldn’t take anything less than control, or a route to
control,” when asked about Cuervo. Walsh has previously said
Diageo wouldn’t distribute the brand under the same terms after
the agreement lapses, and would seek a more lucrative agreement.  The value of  Jose Cuervo  works out to about $3.1 billion,
 Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG in London, wrote in a note
published on March 27.  An all-stock deal would be mostly neutral to Diageo’s
earnings per share in the second year, while a cash deal would
be about 3 percent accretive to EPS, the report shows.  Cuervo is a global leader in tequila with 19 percent volume
share, twice the size of Sauza, the No. 2 player owned by
Fortune Brands Inc., according to the UBS report.  The Sunday Telegraph earlier reported Diageo hired Goldman
to finalize talks with Jose Cuervo.  Cuervo is using  Barclays Capital  to explore options and
negotiate a potential sale, people familiar with the matter said
in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  