-- Novak Djokovic Beats Murray to Repeat as Sony Ericsson Champion
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-04-02T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/djokovic-defeats-murray-to-claim-third-sony-ericsson-open-title.html
Novak Djokovic beat  Andy Murray  in
straight sets to repeat as Sony Ericsson Open champion and win
his third title at the Miami tennis tournament.  The 6-1, 7-6 (7-4) victory gives top-ranked Djokovic of
Serbia his 11th Masters Series title and second success this
year after winning the Australian Open. He’s the first player to
take the Miami trophy without losing a set since accomplishing
the feat in 2007.  “I have been really playing well in the last couple of
years here, so this is going to be very encouraging for me prior
to the clay-court season,” Djokovic, 24, told reporters.  Djokovic won the past three Grand Slams -- Wimbledon, and
the U.S. and Australian Opens -- and can become the first player
in 43 years to hold all four major titles if he wins the  French
Open  for a first time.  Seven of Djokovic’s  30 career titles  have been won on clay,
including three last year. He’s been a three-time semifinalist
at the French Open, the only clay-court major, which begins May
27 in Paris.  Only Djokovic, Rafael Nadal,  Roger Federer ,  Pete Sampras 
and  Rod Laver  have won three Grand Slams in a row since tennis
went professional in 1968. Australian Laver swept the Slams in
1962 and 1969, while  Don Budge  of the U.S. achieved the feat in
1938.  Budge, Laver, Federer, Nadal,  Andre Agassi , Roy Emerson and
Fred Perry have won all four majors at least once.  Djokovic, who joined Sampras and Agassi as the only players
with at least three Miami titles, now holds an 8-5 lead in
career meetings against world No. 4 Murray, a 24-year-old Scot.  “I feel that being No. 1 and having the best year of my
career in 2011, I’m playing at the peak of my form and I’m
playing the best tennis that I have played,” Djokovic added.
“I have to use that as much as I can, coming into every
tournament that I play. The competition is getting stronger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  