-- Drake & Scull to Bid for Abu Dhabi Louvre as Projects Resume
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-04-01T07:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/drake-scull-to-bid-for-abu-dhabi-louvre-as-projects-resume.html
Drake & Scull International PJSC (DSI) , a
Dubai-based construction company, plans to bid for construction
work on the Louvre museum in  Abu Dhabi  as the Persian Gulf
emirate resumes work on suspended projects.  “We are trying to pre-qualify at the moment, we will be
bidding,” Chief Executive Officer Khaldoun Tabari said in a
phone interview March 29. “With the recent announcement in Abu
Dhabi, things are back on track. Not as it used to be but a lot
of projects are back.”  Abu Dhabi, home to one of the world’s biggest sovereign
wealth funds, in January announced plans to restart real-estate
projects including branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums
after reviewing their viability for about two years. The global
credit crisis caused a speculation-driven property boom to
burst, forcing the sheikhdom to put on hold plans to transform
itself into a business and cultural hub.  Drake & Scull, which sought refuge in  Saudi Arabia ’s
booming construction market after the crash in Abu Dhabi and its
neighbor Dubai, secured visas for 3,000 workers it plans to move
to the kingdom in the next six months, Tabari said. The company
already has 5,000 workers in Saudi Arabia, which is spending
more than $500 billion on infrastructure and other projects, he
said.  Drake & Scull expects to secure contracts valued at 2
billion dirhams ($545 million) in Saudi Arabia this year, Tabari
said. The company has about 4 billion dirhams worth of work
there currently, he said.  Saudi Revenue  “We will see a 25 percent increase in revenue in 2012 and
50 percent of that will come from Saudi Arabia,” Tabari said.
“We are bidding for a lot of projects in Saudi Arabia and in
the second quarter we should hear the results of those bids.”  Drake & Scull posted a 36 percent increase in profit last
year to 220 million dirhams and this month reported contract
wins in Algeria and  India .  The shares  have gained 31 percent
this year after declining 24 percent last year.  Drake & Scull plans to approach banks as the company seeks
 financing  for expansion, Tabari said. “These are opportunistic
times where the  interest rates  are very low. We are trying to
fix our borrowing,” he said. “I’m not sure how much money we
need because we haven’t decided on any numbers. We are still
talking about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  