-- Dubai Shares Extend Best Start to Year Since 2005; Egypt Drops
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-04-01T13:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/dubai-s-shares-extend-best-start-to-year-since-2005-on-earnings.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index rose,
extending its best start to a year since 2005, amid investor
optimism corporate earnings may beat expectations as the emirate
recovers from the debt crisis. Egyptian shares fell.  Gulf Navigation Holding PJSC (GULFNAV) , Dubai’s only publicly traded
tanker owner, climbed to the highest in week after reporting
results.  Dubai Financial Market PJSC (DFM)  rose to the highest in two
weeks. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  advanced 0.8 percent to 1,661.67 at
the 2 p.m. close in the emirate, taking this year’s rally to 23
percent. The measure is the third-best performing gauge in the
 Middle East  this year after Egypt’s and  Saudi Arabia ’s. The  EGX
30 Index (EGX30)  tumbled the most in a week amid rising political
tension between the military and the dominant Islamist group.  Three years after Dubai almost defaulted on about $25
billion of debt, corporate earnings are improving as the economy
recovers. Dubai Financial Market, the only publicly traded stock
market in the Persian Gulf, is forecast to return to profit this
year as trading volumes rise.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the
developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper, may report a 10
percent increase in net income this year, according to the  mean
estimate  of 12 analysts on Bloomberg.  “The global macro picture is more positive than in 2011
and strong corporate results and dividend announcements in the
 United Arab Emirates  are also helping,” said Samer Darwiche, an
associate at Dubai-based Gulfmena Investments Ltd.  Oil Reserves  U.S. stocks advanced last week, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index completing the biggest first-quarter rally since 1998,
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said he will keep
stimulating the world’s biggest economy and  Europe  agreed to
increase rescue funds. Brent oil climbed 14 percent last
quarter. The Gulf Cooperation Council, a grouping of Saudi
Arabia, the U.A.E., Oman, Bahrain, Kuwait and Qatar, sits on one
fifth of the world’s proven oil reserves.  Emaar has proposed a 10 fils cash dividend a share for
2011.  Emirates NBD (EMIRATES)  PJSC, Dubai’s biggest lender, is trading at a
dividend yield of 6.5 percent, while the 31 companies listed on
the index were trading at a dividend yield of 4 percent on March
29. Emaar, which has the biggest weighting on the benchmark
index, advanced 1.3 percent and Emirates NBD gained 1.3 percent.  Gulf Navigation rose 2.3 percent to 36.4 fils, the highest
since March 26. The company’s full-year loss narrowed as
expenses related to asset sales fell. Dubai Financial Market
gained 2.6 percent to 1.18 dirhams, the highest since March 15.  Egypt’s Drop  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200) , which tracks the biggest 200
companies in the Gulf Cooperation Council, added 0.7 percent and
Saudi Arabia’s gauge gained 0.9 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark,
Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  and Oman’s MSM30 Index climbed 0.6 percent,
while Kuwait’s measure was little changed. Bahrain’s gauge was
unchanged.  Egypt’s  benchmark measure  dropped 1.4 percent, the biggest
decline since March 25, after the Muslim Brotherhood nominated
Khairat el-Shater as its presidential candidate, raising
investors’ concern that tension between the dominant power in
parliament and the interim military rulers will rise. The group,
which has criticized the military for not firing the cabinet of
Prime Minister Kamal El Ganzouri, had pledged not to field a
candidate for president.  “The nomination of el-Shatter is a signal for some that we
may be getting closer to a clash between the Brotherhood and the
military council,” said Wafik Dawood, director of institutional
sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities. “Also, on the
corporate level, the withdrawal of land from Sodic is raising
uncertainty about the future of the real estate sector.”  Sodic, as  Six of October Development & Investment Co.  is
known, said a government agency withdrew a plot of land it had
awarded for Sodic’s Eastown project on the outskirts of Cairo.
Sodic said it plans to appeal the ruling. The shares tumbled 3.7
percent to 15.83 Egyptian pounds, the lowest since March 19.  Israel Shares Rise  Israel’s TA-25 benchmark index advanced 0.4 percent, led by
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  The yield on the nation’s
benchmark Mimshal Shiklit government bonds due January 2022 rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.68 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  