-- Egypt’s Secularists Criticize Brotherhood Presidency Run
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-04-02T17:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/egypt-s-muslim-brotherhood-nominates-president-candidate.html
Egyptian secular groups and
politicians accused the Muslim Brotherhood of seeking to
monopolize power after the Islamist group reversed course and
nominated a candidate for the presidential vote.  The nomination of Khairat el-Shater, a millionaire
businessman who supports free-market policies, comes at a time
when disputes between the ruling military, the Brotherhood and
other groups vying to shape the country’s future are stymieing
efforts to revive the economy.  Net international reserves fell to $15.1 billion at the end
of March, down over 50 percent since the start of the uprising
that toppled  Hosni Mubarak , according to central bank data
released today. A $3.2 billion  International Monetary Fund  loan
is also still pending amid criticism from the Brotherhood and
others over the government’s economic program.  The presidential race in May will be the first since
Mubarak’s ouster from power last year, and the entry of el-
Shater makes him a frontrunner among a wide group of candidates,
including two other Islamist candidates.  El-Shater’s nomination, announced on March 31, “was not
surprising” after the Brotherhood indicated it would “follow
in the footsteps” of the former ruling  National Democratic
Party  in seeking to control decision-making, Ahmed Saeed, the
head of the secular Free Egyptians Party, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “Who will truly govern  Egypt  if el-Shater takes on the
post of head of state? Would he govern in the name of the people
or under orders from the Muslim Brotherhood,” Saeed said.  The Wafd Party said the Egyptian people “would pay a hefty
price” for the decision, the official Middle East News Agency
reported, citing the party’s head.  ‘Threats to the Revolution’  The Brotherhood, whose Freedom and Justice political party
holds 47 percent of the seats in the parliament’s lower house,
said it was putting forward a candidate because of “threats to
the revolution.”  Group officials said nominating a candidate was a step
taken to preserve the momentum of the uprising after the
government failed to address the needs of Egyptians, including
the economy.  The Freedom and Justice party head, Mohamed Morsi, said
concerns that the group was trying “to control all leadership
positions in the state” were unfounded, according to a
statement e-mailed late yesterday. The group, along with the
Salafist Al-Nour Party, commands a majority in both houses of
parliament.  ‘Never Happened’  A Facebook page opposing el-Shater’s candidacy, created
after the decision was announced, has garnered over 89,000
“likes,” while his official Facebook campaign page, has
received a 10th of the interest.  Presidential contender Amre Moussa, a former foreign
minister and Arab League head under Mubarak, said a win by el-
Shater, coupled with the Brotherhood’s dominance in parliament
and on the committee charged with drafting the country’s new
constitution, would make it seem as though “the revolution had
never happened,” MENA quoted him as saying.  If el-Shater, who served as the deputy to the Brotherhood’s
leader Mohamed Badie were elected, would Badie then “be the
president of the president of Egypt?” MENA quoted Moussa as
asking.  El-Shater spent years in and out of Mubarak’s jails amid a
crackdown on the group. He was released early in March 2011
following his latest conviction, less than a month after
Mubarak’s ouster. To run for office, he would need a pardon from
the military.  Brotherhood lawyer Abdel Monem Abdel Maqsoud said in a
phone interview yesterday that the military judiciary had
expunged the candidate’s convictions and that el-Shater now
“has the right to fully exercise all his political rights.”  The nomination marked a clear determination by the
Brotherhood that it is “ready to assume sole responsibility for
governing Egypt, and that in its power struggle with SCAF, it
enjoys a slight edge,” said Hani Sabra, Mideast analyst with
the New York-based Eurasia Group, in an e-mailed note that
referred to the ruling military council by its acronym.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Digby Lidstone in Cairo at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  