-- Egypt Sells 10-Year Bonds for 1st Time Since Mubarak Ouster
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-04-02T12:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/egypt-to-sell-10-year-bonds-for-first-time-since-mubarak-ouster.html
Egypt  sold 10-year bonds for the
first time since the start of its revolution more than a year
ago at an average yield of 17.03 percent, in line with
forecasts, as the nation moves closer to securing foreign aid.  The average estimate of six fixed-income analysts and
traders surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a yield of 17.28
percent. The government auctioned 1 billion Egyptian pounds
($166 million) of the notes maturing in April 2022, according to
central bank data on Bloomberg. The nation last issued similar-
maturity bonds in January 2011 yielding 13.04 percent. Egypt
also sold three-year and seven-year notes today.  The offering is part of a  Finance Ministry plan  to raise
27.5 billion pounds from bond sales in the fiscal fourth-quarter
that started yesterday, 18 percent of its total target. The
nation halted sales of longer-term bonds and resorted to selling
shorter-term bills after the start of the revolt that ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak  to avoid paying higher yields.  Yields Fall  The 10-year offering is a “positive move because it could
signal a return of investor confidence even if the bonds only
attract domestic buyers,” Moustafa Assal, head of fixed-income
at Cairo-based Beltone Financial, said by phone yesterday. The
issue of longer-term bonds would provide more stability over
short-term treasury bills, he said.  The most-populous Arab country also offered 2 billion
pounds of three-year securities and 1 billion pounds of seven-
year bonds. The country raised its target amount for each of the
maturities, according to central bank data on Bloomberg.   The average yield on three-year notes fell eight basis
points to 16.17 percent from the last sale of similar-maturity
notes on March 26. The seven-year securities yielded 16.88
percent. The mid-yield on 10-year bonds in the secondary market
was at 16.89 percent today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Today’s sales represent new issuances, rather than re-
openings, or roll-overs on maturing debt.  Egypt’s borrowing costs surged over the past year as
foreign investors dumped $7.5 billion of domestic debt following
the uprisings, central bank data until the end of September
show. Average yields on  one-year notes  jumped 512 basis points,
or 5.12 percentage points, since the popular uprising in January
2011 to 15.709 percent at the March 29 sale. The yield reached
15.975 percent on Feb. 14, the highest level since Bloomberg
started tracking the data in 2006.  Holding Off  Local banks bore the brunt of government financing and four
credit rating cuts by Moody’s Investors Service effectively shut
the country out of global markets. The central bank lowered the
reserve requirement ratio on local-currency deposits by two
percentage points last month to 12 percent to “ease credit
conditions in the market.”  The cost of insuring Egypt’s  sovereign debt against  default
for five-years fell 80 basis points in the first quarter to 560,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group and compiles data
from the privately negotiated market. That’s still the highest
rate in the  Middle East , more than 100 basis points over second-
place Lebanon.  IMF Visit  The  Muslim Brotherhood , the dominant power in Egypt’s
parliament, on March 31 chose its deputy leader Khairat el-
Shater to be a candidate for president in the country’s May
election, making him one of the favorites to win. The group has
clashed in recent weeks with the military rulers who took over
after Mubarak was ousted.  The government and political parties are holding talks with
the  International Monetary Fund  about a $3.2 billion loan to
reduce borrowing costs and stem the decline in the country’s
foreign-currency reserves, which plunged more than 50 percent
since the uprising to $15.7 billion in February.  The IMF sent a technical committee to Egypt last week to
discuss the loan and an 18-month economic program proposed by
the government,  Al Ahram newspaper  reported on March 29, citing
Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed. The program focuses on the
 budget deficit  and revamping tax and customs laws, and won’t
have a negative impact on the poor, the newspaper said.  The yield on the 5.75 percent dollar bonds due April 2020
fell three basis points to 6.52 percent at 2:39 p.m. in Cairo,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The rate dropped 145
basis points in the last three months, the biggest quarterly
decline since the notes were sold in April 2010. The Egyptian
pound strengthened less than 0.1 percent to 6.0395 a dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  