-- Lending in Indonesia Falters as Central Bank Curbs Take Effect
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-04-01T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/lending-in-indonesia-falters-as-central-bank-curbs-take-effect.html
Syndicated loans in  Indonesia  fell
to the least in a year last quarter as the number of market
participants shrank and lenders face central bank restrictions.  Bank loans to companies totaled $2.7 billion since Jan. 1,
a 16 percent decline from the three months ended Dec. 31 and the
least since the first quarter of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Ten banks helped to arrange loans in the
three months ended March 31, compared with 27 in the fourth
quarter of 2011 and 35 in the third, the data show.  Lending declined after Bank Indonesia said banks must set
aside 8 percent of their total foreign-exchange holdings as
reserves with the central bank, an increase from 5 percent in
June and 1 percent in February 2011.  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
economy also put a 30 percent cap on lenders’ short-term
overseas borrowings in January last year after scrapping the
requirement in 2008 during the global financial crisis.  “The central bank’s moves last year to control the pace of
foreign capital inflows are having a real effect and U.S. dollar
funding is tight for most banks based in Indonesia,” Eugene
Szeto, the head of Southeast Asia loans syndicate at  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , said in a phone interview from Singapore. “It’s
created a situation where aside from the local banks which
prefer to lend in rupiah, some foreign banks now prefer to lend
in local currency too.”  Tower Bersama Loan  HSBC, which makes more money in  Asia  than the rest of the
world combined, was Indonesia’s second-biggest arranger of loans
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowers in Indonesia have given banks the option this
year of extending funds in rupiah and dollars. PT Tower Bersama
Infrastructure, the Jakarta-based provider of telecommunication
infrastructure to wireless carriers, hired five banks to help
arrange a $250 million loan last month. The facility includes an
option to raise an additional $75 million and both portions can
be partly funded in the local currency, according to a March 21
e-mailed media release from Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., one
of the loan’s arrangers.  PT Bank Mandiri may join PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal’s
$1 billion of financing, being arranged by Standard Chartered
Plc, if it can lend in rupiah, a person familiar with the matter
said in January, asking not to be identified because the details
are private.  Borrowers with local currency requirements, including those
whose assets and revenue are in rupiah, would do well to take
advantage of the pools of local liquidity, according to Siong
Ooi, the Asia-Pacific head of loan syndication at Bank of
America Corp.  Libor, Jibor  “The tightness in liquidity is in U.S. dollars,” Ooi said
in a phone interview from  Hong Kong . “Most local  currency
markets  in Asia are still quite strong.”  The gap between the three-month dollar interbank lending
rate and interest-rate swaps, a  key gauge  of the ease of raising
funds in dollars, reached an almost three-year high in January
of 50.35 basis points. The three-month  Jakarta interbank offered
rate , or Jibor, the average rate banks charge in the wholesale
money market for rupiah, fell to the lowest in at least 15 years
on March 15 at 4.115 percent.  The three-month London interbank offered rate for the U.S.
currency, or Libor, was 0.46815 percent on March 30. While that
is down from a high this year of 0.5825 on Jan. 3, it’s almost
double the 0.245 percent in June, data from the British Bankers’
Association show. Libor is the most widely used measure of bank
lending costs.  European Lenders  Bank Indonesia ’s enhanced restrictions, initially outlined
in December 2010, and their staggered introduction coincided
with a sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  last year that prompted
many banks to reduce their lending in Asia to preserve capital,
amid a jump in the difficulty in raising dollars.  Three European-based banks participated in the syndicated
loans market in Indonesia last quarter, down from seven in the
fourth quarter of 2011 and seven in the third quarter, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The main reason why companies are borrowing at a higher
rate is due to the increase in the cost of dollars,” Samuel
Tan, the Singapore-based vice president of Nomura Holdings
Inc.’s fixed income syndicate, said in a phone interview.
“Indonesia’s credit fundamentals are better following the
increase in the sovereign rating so that would not warrant an
increase in loan pricing.”  Fitch Ratings  upgraded Indonesia’s sovereign-debt rating in
December, followed by Moody’s Investors Service a month later.
Indonesia’s economy grew at the fastest pace since before the
Asian financial crisis last year as rising investment and
domestic spending countered a slowdown in export demand due to
Europe’s debt crisis.  Bond sales in the U.S. currency from Indonesian borrowers
jumped 41 percent to $2.9 billion last quarter and totaled just
$61 million in the third quarter of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The lack of U.S. dollar liquidity onshore would
ultimately see Indonesian banks looking to raise dollars in the
 bond market ,” Tan said. U.S. dollars “aren’t the natural
denomination of deposits and it’s become more expensive to raise
them,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  