-- Euro Leaders Seek Global Help After Firewall Boosted
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-04-02T09:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/euro-leaders-seek-additional-global-help-after-firewall-boosted.html
Efforts to resolve the two-year-old
European debt crisis swung back to world leaders after euro-area
officials boosted a firewall designed to overcome doubts about
their crisis response and to lure additional emergency aid.  Finance ministers from the 17-member monetary union
unveiled a package over the weekend that included 500 billion
euros ($667 billion) in fresh bailout funds on top of 300
billion euros already committed to rescue programs, which
together topped the symbolic $1 trillion mark. The total doubles
when more than 1 trillion euros lent by the  European Central
Bank  to aid the region’s banks is included.  “The political commitment to the  euro zone  is increasingly
clear, and the ECB has shown that, in the final analysis,
they’ll do what they have to do,”  Erik Nielsen , chief global
economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , wrote in a note yesterday.  Group of 20 nations that rebuffed German-led pleas for more
aid in February will be asked to decide this month whether
European leaders have done enough to warrant increased resources
from the  International Monetary Fund . Euro-area finance
ministers insisted at a meeting that ended March 31 in
Copenhagen that they’ve fulfilled their side of the bargain.  “Europe has done its part” and that augurs well for talks
at the IMF spring meeting on April 20, French Finance Minister
 Francois Baroin  said at the meeting in the Danish capital.  ‘Strengthen Confidence’  European stocks were initially buoyed by the news today,
with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  adding as much as 0.6 percent
before sliding 0.7 percent at 10:54 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The euro
climbed 0.1 percent to trade at $1.3362.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said March 30 that
Europe’s upgraded strategy will “support the IMF’s efforts to
increase its available resources for the benefit of all our
members.” The same day, the  U.S. Treasury  said that Europe’s
decision on financing will “strengthen confidence.”  “Today’s announcement by the Eurogroup reinforces a
trajectory of positive efforts to strengthen confidence in the
euro area,” the Treasury said in a statement in  Washington .  Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, speaking today at a
conference in Hainan, China, said he “very much appreciated”
China’s support for the euro. He urged the audience to “relax a
bit about the eurozone crisis,” which is “being overcome.”  First-Quarter Agreements  With finance ministers offering differing arithmetic to
defend the firewall, it was unclear whether emerging nations
including  China  and  India  would be persuaded to help bolster the
IMF’s anti-crisis war chest at the fund’s meeting.  The weekend gathering capped a first quarter in which euro-
area leaders agreed on a fiscal treaty outlining new budget
rules, completed a second bailout program for  Greece  and
bolstered their bailout funding. Along with the ECB’s three-year
loans, the activity helped to ease borrowing costs in the
monetary union and calm markets.  Even as euro officials pledged to exploit the time they’ve
bought with the measures, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  criticized an excessive focus on the volume of bailout
funding at the expense of structural overhauls like budget cuts
and labor market changes.  “My irritation over a lot of stupid talk over the last few
days has to do with the fact that it’s as if only the firewall
is important,” Schaeuble told reporters in Copenhagen March 30.
“You could have put in 10 trillion, but if you don’t solve the
problem, it’s worth nothing.”  Forced Compromise  The meeting featured a spat as to which European minister
would present the package to the media.  Austria ’s Finance
Minister Maria Fekter later apologized for speaking before a
scheduled press conference.  The increased euro firewall derives from the ability of the
500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism, the euro-area’s
permanent rescue fund scheduled to go into operation from July,
to use its full capacity. Had ministers not acted, that figure
would have been reduced by funds already committed by the
temporary European Financial Stability Facility.  The new fund’s firepower fell short of a draft proposal to
top it up with some 240 billion euros in EFSF funds not yet
committed. Instead, that amount will only be used to ensure that
the permanent ESM can lend its full 500 billion euros before it
becomes fully resourced in two years.  The compromise was forced by a group of German-led creditor
countries that balked at a potential 940 billion euros of
bailout funds, saying that such a sum couldn’t be justified to
their countries’ lawmakers and taxpayers.  Bolder Action  “Finland is ready to increase the capacity, but 940
billion is not possible for our side -- it’s too high,” Finnish
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said on March 30.  It’s questionable whether the lesser amount will win over
investors and G-20 leaders who have demanded bolder action from
the euro area, according to Malcolm Barr, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London . He said the funding was still
too meager potentially to rescue Italy and Spain, which have
combined borrowing needs of 800 billion euros in the next three
years -- or to deal with additional bank recapitalizations.  Europe ’s move “is likely to be a disappointment not only
to some within the euro area, but also to those outside who
wanted to see ‘the color of European money’ before being
prepared to commit more resources to the IMF,” Barr said
yesterday in an e-mailed note.  Backstop Funding  At a meeting in Mexico City in February, the G-20 said that
a European review of its backstop funding is “essential”
before any consideration of bulking up IMF resources. Officials
at that meeting, including those from  Japan ,  Brazil ,  Russia  and
the U.K., sided with the President Barack Obama’s
administration, which has said that Europe is rich enough to do
more.  Euro-region national central banks plan to steer 150
billion euros to the IMF as a down payment toward other
countries chipping in. That sum was left out of Europe’s
firewall calculation because it would be managed by the global
powers that run the Washington-based IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  