-- Euro Was Flawed at Birth and Should Break Apart Now
-- B y   C h a r l e s   D u m a s
-- 2012-04-01T22:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/euro-was-flawed-at-birth-and-should-break-apart-now.html
Since the launch of the euro in
January 1999,  Germany  and the Netherlands have experienced a
growth slowdown and loss of wealth for their citizens that would
not have happened had they never joined the euro.  We know this to be true, because we can compare the
progress of these two Northern European economies with that of
 Sweden  and  Switzerland , which kept their freely floating
currencies in 1999 and continued to grow as before. Indeed, over
the period of the euro’s existence, the German and Dutch
economies have grown significantly more slowly than those of the
U.S. and the U.K., despite the debt crisis now engulfing the
“Anglo-Saxons.”  Sweden and Switzerland grew as fast or faster in 2001-11 as
they did in 1991-2001. The German and Dutch economies, by
contrast, not only slowed down in 2001-2011 (to 1.25 percent
from 3 percent in the case of the Netherlands), they also
suppressed wage growth to adjust for the effects of the euro. As
a result, real  consumer-spending  growth fell to a feeble one
quarter of a percent a year in these countries. A recent report
on the Netherlands’ experience in the euro calculated that if
growth and consumer spending had followed the pattern of
Sweden’s and Switzerland’s in the decade from 2001, Dutch
consumers would have been 45 billion euros ($60 billion) a year
better off.  Angry, of Course  No wonder the Germans and Dutch are angry. But their anger
should be directed at the governments that took them into the
euro, not at the hapless citizens of Mediterranean Europe, who
now are also suffering the effects of the common currency.  Sweden and Switzerland didn’t have to make any such
sacrifice of ordinary people’s prosperity, while at the same
time they enjoyed stronger employment as well as budget and
current-account balances. That leads to only one conclusion: The
euro was a mistake from the outset. It should be abandoned in
unison and soon. Nobody should be surprised by the persistence
of divergent cost and price inflation that has occurred among
the 17 countries that have adopted the euro. That divergence
produced major discrepancies in competitiveness that continued
to grow over the euro’s 13-year existence.  Italy ’s relative
unit-labor costs, for example, are now 37 percent higher than in
1998, before the euro’s introduction, while Germany’s are 11
percent lower.  At the same time, wide disparities in the sustainable
growth rates of the common currency’s economies have created a
natural source of imbalances. These include a buildup of
excessive private-sector debt that has crippled nations with
fast-growth potential, such as Spain and Ireland, since the
financial crisis. Contributing to this imbalance, the  European
Central Bank ’s “one size fits none” short-term  interest rate ,
though nominally the same for all member countries, has varied
widely and counterproductively in real terms. Real interest
rates in low-inflation, slow-growth Germany were higher, further
inhibiting its economy. In high-inflation, fast-growth  Spain ,
real rates were lower, encouraging the excessive accumulation of
private debt.  The blithe assumption that such imbalances would be evened
out by the ready mobility of labor was always flawed: In the
absence of a common language, tax structure and social-security
entitlements, workers were never likely to cross borders to take
up job opportunities in sufficient numbers. The policy focus on
keeping the budget deficits of euro members to common targets
was irrelevant to these problems, and in any case was ignored
even by the policy’s main proponent: Germany.  Abysmal Result  So 13 years later, where are we? Greece, if you look at the
government’s monthly cash figures rather than the massaged
numbers of the troika, now has a budget deficit of more than 11
percent of gross domestic product, a 4 percent to 5 percent
primary deficit (excluding interest), and total debt of 135
percent of GDP net, 168 percent gross. The austerity program the
Greeks are following -- their only option, given that without
control of their own currency they cannot devalue -- has made
both the deficit and debt ratios greater. Austerity has caused
deflation of nominal spending and incomes, which have fallen by
more than 5 percent, cutting  tax revenue . Government debt will
surge under any scenario within the euro: If Greece stays in,
the correct “haircut” for its debt is 100 percent. But it could
well be forced to leave later this year.  On current prospects, Italian net government debt, which is
now 100 percent of GDP, according to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, will be 110 percent by the
end of 2013. There is no prospect of improvement, owing to
Italy’s negligible growth trend within the euro. Other euro-area
economies are in worse shape.  Portugal ’s government-debt ratio is close to Italy’s, but
business debt is, on average, 16 times net  cash flow . That means
the vast majority of Portuguese corporate debt is now junk,
given that junk classification occurs at 10 times annual pretax-
and-interest cash flow. A recession could sharply shrink
business cash flow and cause a banking crash, meaning that
Portugal will probably have to leave the euro shortly after
 Greece .  Spain’s business sector is also in the junk zone, because
Spanish corporate debt stands at 12 times net cash flow. Real-
estate and other asset prices, meanwhile, are heavily
overvalued. Spain’s recession may slash asset values and wither
cash flow, leading again to a banking crisis and soaring
government debt. Spain, Portugal and Ireland have much greater
total debt, once the private sector is included, than Italy or
Greece -- and austerity programs are drying up the cash flow
needed to return to solvency. Austerity can only work for these
countries -- with the exception of Ireland -- if they leave the
euro.  Artificially Competitive  All these symptoms of the euro’s poor design are linked.
Wage suppression in Germany and the Netherlands has created
artificial cost competitiveness, boosting exports to, and
exacerbating inflation in, Mediterranean Europe. Lower wages in
Northern Europe, meanwhile, have ensured weak demand for imports
from the South. The resulting trade surpluses enjoyed by Germany
and the Netherlands were, and will be, wastefully invested in
such assets as U.S. subprime-mortgage paper and Greek  government
bonds .  In the future, the euro can survive only if these surpluses
are given away as unrequited transfers -- more or less what is
happening now, in the form of bailouts. With 2012-13 prospects
for global growth much weaker than in 2010-11, dependence on the
German “export machine” will blight the whole European economy,
heightening the malignant effects of the euro.  To prevent a meltdown, the ECB has engaged in unprecedented
and dubious practices to expand the euro system’s central-bank
balance sheet, accepting junk collateral against the provision
of banking liquidity. The risks are increasingly confined to the
central bank of the host country, which may make future exits
from the euro easier. But liquidity provision will not stop
fiscal tightening from deepening recessions in Mediterranean
Europe, widening deficits and debt ratios, and threatening
banking crises.  Most support for deficit countries so far has been
indirect, coming via the ECB, the European Financial Stability
Facility and the  International Monetary Fund , but it’s likely to
become more explicit in the future. And the totals are large.
Taking care of the virtually worthless debts of Greece and
Portugal, and the budget deficits of Italy and Spain over the
next four years could amount to a total of 1.25 trillion euros.
If Italy and Spain additionally have to be helped to refinance
maturing bonds issued in the past, this cost may double. That
would threaten the financial position of some of the core euro-
area countries -- including downgrades of their credit ratings.  Simultaneous Exit  Sequential disorderly exits from the euro need to be
avoided because of the huge and extended financial turbulence
they would cause. Yet it is likely that the politicians running
euro-area economies will be driven to make the fundamental
reforms required for a return to long-term growth only if some
countries do leave the currency. As a result, the simultaneous
return to freely floating national currencies offers both the
best economic outlook for the  member states , and the least
damaging euro-decommissioning process.  This would be challenging, of course, but it could be done.
All domestic deposits, transactions and obligations (including
home mortgages) would be converted 1-to-1 into each new home
currency. The ECB would become the guardian of a legacy
“European Transition Currency” into which cross-border euro
contracts would be converted at the 1:1 ratio, but without
money-creating powers. The ECB would have to be recapitalized by
euro members that are financially strong. Major transition loans
to deficit countries would be needed to permit them to re-
establish national currencies that would then float freely.  And leaving the euro area is likely to be cheaper than
staying in it. A recent  report  on the Netherlands and the euro
estimated the net initial cost to that country of leaving would
be 51 billion euros, an amount the economy would more than
recoup within two years, by not having to continue contributing
to euro-area bailouts.  The need for radical action is urgent. Spain, for example,
already has an unemployment rate of 23 percent -- and 49 percent
among youth -- and yet within the euro, it is engaged in a
savage further fiscal deflation that is bound to raise
joblessness much higher. The politics of Mediterranean Europe
could soon be seriously destabilized. It is less than 40 years
since the dictatorships of Franco in Spain, Salazar and Caetano
in Portugal, and Papadopoulos in Greece ended. Their equivalents
may not be about to return yet, but the risk of turmoil is
increasing rapidly.  ( Charles Dumas  is chairman of Lombard Street Research, a
London-based independent consulting firm committed to monetarist
economics. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on why the U.S. should
ratify the  nuclear-test ban  and regulate  money-market funds .
William D. Cohan on the government hiding  public information on
banks .  Albert R. Hunt  on  murder in New Orleans .  To contact the writer of this article:
Charles Dumas at  pippa@lombardstreetresearch.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  