-- Euro-Doom Is Fantasy, Why the Currency Won’t Collapse
-- B y   C h a r l e s   W y p l o s z
-- 2012-04-01T22:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/euro-doom-is-fantasy-why-the-currency-won-t-collapse.html
When the euro was being  created , the
economics profession split into three groups -- enthusiasts,
opponents and realists -- that predicted wildly different costs
and benefits for the project. By 2007, when the young currency
was thriving, the enthusiasts declared a premature victory. Now
it’s the turn of the opponents, and they are, of course, wrong.  I say “of course” because currencies are meant to exist
for centuries. Their performance cannot be judged after five or
15 years. It’s understandable that people who felt a strong
prejudice for or against the euro’s existence should feel the
itch to make a point when things turn their way, but the point
is bound to be misleading, and intentionally so. The reality,
however, is that changes in the broad flow of history, which the
euro certainly was, require a much longer view. If you want to
prove your case early, you need to abuse the data.  Consider the growth performance of four relatively small
and comparable European countries, two of which are in the euro
area ( Finland  and the Netherlands), and two of which ( Sweden  and
Switzerland) kept their own currencies. With the right tricks,
you can use the experience of these four countries to prove what
you will about the euro’s viability. One trick is to choose the
right period from which to draw your data. Another is to
normalize the data on a particular year to create the impression
that you want to project.  Picking Periods  Chart A covers the period 2001-2011, which is convenient if
you wish to show the euro’s failure, because in that period
Sweden and Switzerland largely outperformed the Netherlands. But
doing so ignores the very relevant fact that Sweden and
 Switzerland  underwent their own housing-price bubbles, complete
with banking crises, in the early 1990s. Chart B shows that
since those crises, these two non-euro economies have struggled
to make up the ground they lost. Switzerland, in particular,
failed massively in this respect.  Add in Finland, a euro-area member that underwent a similar
crisis in the 1990s, and the problem becomes clear. A comparison
of Finland with fellow Nordic country Sweden suggests that
adopting the euro made no difference at all to economic
performance. The correct conclusion is that selecting countries
and years is simply not an acceptable way of building an
argument. There may be a case against the single currency’s
viability, but it has to be based on firmer ground.  There is such a case, plain for all to see, and it’s fiscal
indiscipline. A monetary union cannot last if fiscal discipline
is not respected in every member country. Once individual
countries give up their monetary policies, their public debts
are effectively issued in a foreign currency, as Paul de Grauwe
 has shown . A government that has allowed its debt to become so
large that it loses  market access  must be either helped or
allowed to default.  Help can be in the form of inflation, loans or even grants,
from other governments or the common central bank. The problem
with help is that it generates perverse incentives, otherwise
known as moral hazard. So once fiscal indiscipline has occurred,
there are only bad options. And, indeed, here we are. But what
does this failure mean?  The view of many euro opponents is that because the euro
area has failed to establish fiscal discipline, the project is
now doomed. There is no doubt that fiscal discipline has been
lost, but that does not mean the problem can’t be fixed. In
fact, the governments involved believe that it can be fixed,
right now.  Show of Faith  Bearing responsibility for the explosion of  public debts 
(more than 80 percent of gross domestic product in France and
 Germany , for instance), policy makers now exhibit a zealot-like
faith that the necessary discipline can be established over the
next two or three years. As they impose austerity on countries
that lost market access and are in a recession, they make
matters worse, of course, but more ominously they also show they
still fail to grasp that fiscal discipline is a long-run
concept.  The reality is that a few years of surpluses or deficits
hardly tell us anything about fiscal discipline. Thus the
zealots, who are broadly part of the euro-enthusiast group,
provide the euro’s opponents with a solid argument: namely, that
the euro area is unable to deal with its own flaws. This case,
however, is not made loudly by the euro’s opponents because they
fear they might be listened to, and that the euro area would end
up fixing its most glaring flaw. (They should relax, the euro
has many other failings, some potentially lethal, but now is not
the time to list them).  That the euro area suffers from flaws is nothing
particularly damning. It is a complex undertaking and the real
surprise would be to have it 100 percent right the first time.
This is where history comes into play. The euro will survive if
the flaws are eventually fixed, but we’ll probably have to wait
a few years or decades to know.  Dollar History  Everybody likes to refer to the U.S. as the model of a
successfully assembled federal system. Yet the U.S. went through
a succession of  state defaults  until 1840, at which point the
federal government mustered the courage to put an end to
bailouts. True, a handful of states defaulted after this
watershed, too, but by then fiscal discipline had been firmly
established as a requirement of dollar membership. It’s worth
remembering that 1840 was 50 years after the creation of the
Union, which itself was almost dissolved at the time of the
Civil War. So the mighty U.S. dollar’s success wasn’t so instant
or smooth, either.  The euro’s opponents also tend to suggest that sovereign
default will be followed by an exit from the euro area. Many
euro enthusiasts do the same, though for the opposite reason.
The opponents hope a default will lead to an exit, proving the
currency’s failure. The enthusiasts hope that fear of an exit
will prevent a default. But what is the link that leads from
default to exit? There is no legal procedure for a country to
leave the single currency, nor for the other countries to eject
a defaulting country. There is no economic logic, either.  People note that defaulting countries usually undergo a
deep  currency devaluation , which helps greatly in recovering
growth and re-establishing fiscal discipline. This is
indisputably true. Defaulting within a monetary union is bound
to be more painful than when the currency can be devalued, as
the American states now understand well enough to have
themselves adopted stringent fiscal rules. But “easier” does not
mean necessary, or sufficient. The short-term benefits of
leaving the euro would soon be eroded by inflation, which
eventually would have to be fought. Exiting would also create a
particularly arduous breakup of all contracts denominated in
euros, with massive wealth redistribution.  This is where, one more time, a historical perspective is
needed. A country does not join a monetary union for a few
years, when it is convenient and benefits accrue, only to leave
once some of the fully predictable costs occur. Like a marriage,
monetary union is for the long term, in sickness and in health.
Of course, some marriages do end up in divorce, but there is
nothing automatic about it. This is why the euro is ultimately a
political decision. Economists can point out costs and benefits,
but they can’t estimate them with any remotely credible degree
of precision.  All that we do know about monetary unions is that the costs
will strike sporadically, while the benefits will accrue drop by
drop over the duration of the currency’s existence. This is why
the presumption is that, as in any good marriage, over the long
term the benefits must outweigh the costs. In the case of the
euro, the honeymoon is certainly over, but it’s far too early
for a breakup.  ( Charles Wyplosz  is a professor of economics at the
Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies in
Geneva. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on why the U.S. should
ratify the  nuclear-test ban  and regulate  money-market funds .
William D. Cohan on the government hiding  public information on
banks .  Albert R. Hunt  on  murder in New Orleans .  To contact the writer of this story:
Charles Wyplosz at  charles.wyplosz@graduateinstitute.ch   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  