-- Finding Burgundy Bargains as Prices Surge: Elin McCoy
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-04-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/finding-burgundy-bargains-as-prices-surge-elin-mccoy.html
Sipping samples of Louis Jadot’s
superb 2010 Burgundies downstairs at  New York ’s Bar Boulud, I
breathe a sigh of relief. It looks like I can still afford to
buy a few of the region’s seductive bottles at reasonable
prices.  Why had I been worried? Because Burgundy has been on a hot
streak. New Chinese buyers are falling in love with the region’s
“grands crus.” At Hart David Hart’s March 24 Burgundy auction,
some lots went for double their high estimates.  Liv-ex’s (LIVX100)   March (LIVXFWIN)  report says demand has surged in the last
six months, and two back-to-back excellent vintages in 2009 and
2010 are now goosing sales.  Oh, and reports have surfaced of alleged fakes turning up
at auctions, usually an indication that the clamoring for these
wines is pushing prices to ridiculous levels.  All are ominous signs that Burgundy will get even more
expensive than it is now.  Picking wines from this complicated French region has never
been easy. A 60-kilometer (37 mile) strip of the Cote d’Or,
running from Dijon to the north to Santenay in the south, it is
made up of a mosaic of individual “climats.”  The Burgundian term refers to plots or a group of plots of
vines that have been known under the same name for several
centuries. There are 1,247 of them. Only 33 are designated as
grands crus.  Search Strategy  One good strategy when tacking this huge array of choices
is to seek out bottles from negociants Maison  Louis Jadot  and
Maison Joseph Drouhin.  The two historic firms are always reliable and often
underrated. They own and control sections of many premiers and
grands crus vineyards and their quality has never been higher.
Drouhin’s vineyards are certified organic from the 2009 vintage.  Yet their grands crus often cost half the price of more
sought-after producers like Rousseau and Roumier.  Another strategy is to buy 2010 Burgundies now, before they
arrive in shops. I’ve been previewing samples of the 2010
vintage at New York tastings since early February, and both
whites and reds are outstanding, displaying amazing purity,
freshness, and elegance. Still, I’d give a slight edge to the
reds.  “In Burgundy we like 2010 because it has a difficult story
with a happy ending,” says tall, lanky Jadot winemaker Frederic
Barnier, as we savor plates of wild striped bass over a few
stellar older vintages at Bar Boulud.  Crop Destroyed  Terrible winter frosts at the end of 2009 killed off some
of the vines, followed by a rainy and cold late spring while
July and August were cooler than usual. A hailstorm destroyed 50
percent of the Jadot crop in Santenay. Still, ideal September
weather saved the remaining vines.  The resulting small crop means continued upward pressure on
prices. Jadot harvested 30 to 50 percent less than usual for
their reds.  “2009 was perfect for rich reds, but some whites are too
ripe,” Barnier says. “I prefer the 2010s - they have lower
alcohol, more precise flavors, and their delicacy opens the
window onto terroir.”  That’s not entirely marketing speak. Subtle differences of
aroma and taste in wines from different patches of soil are
worshipped by Burgundy vintners and prized by collectors.  One outstanding 2010 from Jadot is the graceful and complex
Gevrey-Chambertin Clos Saint-Jacques premier cru ($150). While
that’s not cheap, I’m not the only critic one who thinks this
prized red plot deserves to be classified as a grand cru.  Bargain Budgets  For the more budget minded, Jadot’s fresh, intense  Pernand-
Vergelesses  Clos de la Croix de Pierre red, a premier cru, is a
bargain at $36.  A top buy from  Drouhin  is the 2010 Beaune Clos des Mouches
blanc, a premier cru boasting a laser-like focus. A New York
merchant was offering it last week for the pre-arrival price of
$83. Its silky red twin, the 2010 Beaune Clos des Mouches rouge,
all cherries and beetroot, was on sale for $75.  Still, let’s not forget the great 2009s. One well-priced
example is Jadot’s Beaune premier cru. Elegant and delicious
with a special 150th anniversary label, it costs just $35 a
bottle.  The Domaine de la Romanee-Conti, which only previews its
wines just before bottles are released, held its annual tasting
at the New York Palace Hotel, in a large room where the Pope
once stayed.  Beautiful Grapes  “The red grapes we saw on the sorting table in 2009 were
beautiful,” said DRC co-director Aubert de Villaine, with a
small smile at the tasting.  He compares the vintage’s style to the rich, lavish 1959s,
but with more density. Pure seduction characterizes the entire
range, which for many justifies the ransom-level prices the DRC
always commands.  To me, though, the Domaine’s most fascinating wine was its
first Corton 2009, made from a patch of vines at the heart of
this grand cru vineyard leased from the Prince Florent de Merode
family. This deep, earthy and lingering red costs $300 to $350 a
bottle. Compared to other DRC wines costing up to $4,500, the
price-tag seems almost consumer-friendly.  De Villaine said that starting with the 2009 vintage, the
Domaine will no longer bottle wines in formats larger than
magnums.  “Ninety five percent ended up at auction,” he explained.
“We want people to drink our wines.”  I can’t help thinking this decision is also a reaction to
the alleged fakes of DRC, de Vogue, and  Ponsot  pulled from
auctions of older Burgundies recently.  The DRC has made more serious efforts than most producers
to ensure the authenticity of its wines. Distribution is tightly
controlled and after press tastings the importer’s staff use
black indelible ink to scribble over labels and then smash the
empty bottles.  Fortunately, nobody seems to be rushing to fake Jadot and
Drouhin bottles -- yet.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 