-- General’s Bribe Bombshell Adds to India Leadership Disarray
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-04-01T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/general-s-bribe-bombshell-adds-to-india-leadership-disarray.html
His striped cravat tucked inside a
heavily decorated uniform,  India ’s army chief last week sent
tremors through one of the few government ministries to have
escaped 17 months of scandal and intrigue.  A day after the general said he’d been offered a bribe to
approve a contract, Defense Minister A.K. Antony told parliament
he’d known of the claim since 2010 yet hadn’t ordered an inquiry.
The flap deepened a perception of mismanagement pervading Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s cabinet that began with auditors in
2010 vilifying the handling of sales of mobile-phone licenses.  Antony, whose personal probity helped him win charge of a
department where graft scuttled an earlier government, joined
cabinet colleagues engaged in fighting fires rather than making
policy. With two years left before a national election is due,
the vacuum of leadership has helped fuel a surge in support for
regional parties now crippling efforts by the federal government
to shrink a fiscal deficit and embrace foreign investment.  “The government is just limping from crisis to crisis,”
said Satish Misra, a political analyst at  Observer Research
Foundation , a policy-research group based in New Delhi. “Just
as it tries to get some traction, another problem drags it
down.”  The political impasse has stymied an agenda that envisioned
building on the economic transformation that Singh, 79, first
helped engineer as finance minister in the early 1990s. Efforts
to overhaul the tax system, usher foreign retailers including
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and strengthen the rail system by boosting
passenger fares, have proved fruitless.  Limiting Ambition  In the proposed budget for the fiscal year that began this
month, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  targeted a deficit in
excess of 5 percent, after last year seeking to shrink the
shortfall to 4.6 percent. India is paying a price for the lack
of ambition: yields on benchmark 10-year  government bonds  rose
15 basis points to 8.57 percent since the budget’s March 16
release.  “The government should be coming up with more radical
policies but it was stopped from doing so by the increasing
power of regional parties,” said  Sonal Varma , India economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “This was a status quo
budget, it was just an accounting statement.”  Among the biggest beneficiaries of discontent with the
Congress Party, which has led the nation for most of the period
since independence in 1947, is the  Samajwadi Party . The group
swept to victory in  Uttar Pradesh , India’s most populous state,
last month and has the third-highest number of seats in the
national parliament’s lower house.  Gearing Up  Samajwadi’s leader, Mulayam Singh Yadav, has signaled
greater ambitions, telling his colleagues to prepare for a
national election ahead of the 2014 schedule. In West Bengal,
the fourth-most populous state, the  Trinamool Congress  party
contributed to shooting down efforts by the federal government
to allow Wal-Mart and other foreign companies to hold majority
stakes in multi-brand retailers.  Even with support seeping away, a near-term reckoning for
Singh’s administration may not materialize. The only other
political group that can claim a nationwide following, the
 Bharatiya Janata Party , has failed to capitalize on Congress’s
slide, and has an equal incentive of avoiding an early election.  The BJP came third in  Uttar Pradesh  last month, and is
battling its own corruption scandal in the southern state of
Karnataka. Between them, the two biggest parties control 320
seats in the 545-seat lower chamber.  Reckoning Prolonged  “The government is likely to last,” said  Sanjay Kumar , a
New Delhi-based analyst at the Centre for the Study of
Developing Societies. “Congress and the BJP have so far shown
little appetite for mid-term polls.”  Meantime, other institutions are exercising power.  The  Supreme Court  in February canceled 122 mobile-phone
licenses after the country’s auditor found a 2008 sale of
second-generation spectrum lacked transparency, with permits
awarded to ineligible bidders at “unbelievably low” prices.
Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  is among companies that may seek damages as
a result.  The government also has had to fend off media reports,
based on an incomplete official audit, that it underpriced coal
blocks by $211 billion.  “You can throw anything at this government and it will
stick, even the most outlandish accusations because it can’t
defend itself,” said Surjit Singh Bhalla, chairman of New
Delhi-based Oxus Fund Management. “It has lost all sense of
which direction it should be heading.”  Singh’s administration passed just 22 laws last year, the
second-lowest number since 1952, according to New Delhi-based
PRS Legislative Research.  Growth Outlook  Even with the leadership vacuum,  India’s economy  will
probably sustain growth in excess of 8 percent in the coming
four years, according to International Monetary Fund’s estimates
in September. An expanding labor force and rising middle class
demand for cars, dwellings and household goods may continue to
grab foreign investors’ interest.  “The headlines can be quite loud and noisy but at the
grassroots India’s growth story is still intact,” said Rajat Jain, chief investment officer with Principal PNB Asset
Management Co. in Mumbai, who helps to manage $1.2 billion.
“India’s story has always been about good bottom-up companies
and that has not changed in spite of what the government does.”  Even so, a perception that the government has failed to
tackle corruption has lowered investment and contributed to a 15
percent slide in its stock market since early 2008, according to
a report by the Bank of Singapore Ltd. published in February.  Latest Blaze  Army Chief V.K. Singh’s allegation he was offered a $2.75
million bribe to purchase 600 vehicles he says he found “sub-
standard” and the media criticism of Antony’s failure to act is
the latest blaze that needs extinguishing.  Arun Jaitley , a BJP leader, led the attacks on the
government last week saying Antony’s negligence left the
impression that graft is an acceptable part of Indian life.
Failing to order a probe “means that we’re learning to live
with corruption,” he said in parliament’s upper house on March
27.  Oxus Fund Management’s Bhalla likens India’s government to
a relaxed tourist taking a holiday.  “It is the ultimate laid back government; it is so laid
back that it can’t get up again,” Bhalla said. “Calculations
about the attractiveness of India as a place to put your money
have to assume this government doesn’t have any will or
vision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  