-- Greek Crisis Spurs War on Health Fraud Rooted in Gifts
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-04-01T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/greek-crisis-spurs-war-on-health-fraud-rooted-in-gifts.html
Greece ’s financial crisis is forcing
the country to stamp out health-care corruption that began
decades ago with gifts of cheese and chickens from farmers
grateful for the care they received.  The urgency to fix the Greek health-care system has grown
as the country’s finances have teetered on the brink of
insolvency. Corruption, including prescription fraud and bribery
for surgeries, has run rampant, costing the government hundreds
of millions of dollars. The crisis has become so widespread that
hospitals are considered the most corrupt public sector in the
country, ahead of tax offices and town planning authorities,
according to a recent nationwide  survey .  “It is certain that wherever there is honey, somebody will
dip their finger in it,” George Patoulis, chairman of the
Medical Association of  Athens , said in an interview.  The honey, though, is no longer flowing so freely. One of
the unexpected consequences of the Greek debt crisis is that
austerity measures are forcing the government to tackle once and
for all health-care corruption described by doctors, policy
officials and patients as endemic.  Exactly how much money Greece loses to health-sector
corruption isn’t clear, said Costas Bakouris, chairman of the
Greek branch of  Transparency International , an anti-corruption
organization based in Berlin that conducted a 2010 survey on
Greek attitudes toward health-care institutions.  “You’re talking about numbers in the billions” for
corruption and mismanagement together, Bakouris said in a
telephone interview.  Reducing Waste  To get a handle on the crisis, Greece promised as part of
its debt-financing deal with the European Commission,  European
Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  to reduce public
spending on medicine to 2.8 billion euros ($3.7 billion) this
year from 5.2 billion euros in 2009. Hospitals’ drug costs are
supposed to drop to 870 million euros from 1.38 billion euros,
according to the Health Ministry.  It won’t be easy for a small country with a reeling economy
to hit those numbers. To get there, Greece needs to pare its
drug bills by 1 billion euros this year, on top of the 1 billion
euros it has already cut in outpatient drug spending since 2009.
To achieve the next round of cuts, the government is pinning its
hopes on a massive reorganization to reduce mismanagement,
including stamping out health-care fraud and abuse, according to
a report by the three agencies, known as the troika.  To that end, Greece promised to reorganize its health
system to increase use of cheaper generic drugs and reduce
waste. Some of those measures will also help curb corruption,
including an electronic system to prevent fake prescriptions,
eliminating under-the-counter payments in hospitals and making
it easier to sanction doctors who don’t follow the rules.  Outright Bribery  Doctors traditionally have gotten a bonus, a practice that
in the last 30 years has deteriorated into outright bribery,
Bakouris said. Payments to doctors to schedule treatments ranged
from 150 euros to 7,500 euros in his group’s survey. Envelopes
of cash passed to doctors, known as fakelaki, ranged from 50
euros to 1,500 euros.  Ending the practice of fakelaki will not solve Greece’s
health-care money woes. But reining it in, officials hope, will
help change the cultural forces that have encouraged corruption
to thrive.  Private Hospitals  Thirty-five percent of the public-sector cases in 2010 in
which ordinary Greeks were asked to pay a bribe to speed service
were in hospitals, according to the survey of 6,114 people.
Hospitals, in addition to being seen as the most corrupt public
sector, also led in the private sector, with 19 percent of
reported cases of corruption, ahead of lawyers and private
doctors.  “For the last five years that we’ve done the research,
health is number one in terms of cases of corruption,” Bakouris
said.  The day after Greek lawmakers approved austerity cuts in
medical care in a midnight vote, Health Ministry general
secretary Antonis Dimopoulos said Greece’s runaway spending
problem is grounded in three factors: a poorly organized public
health system, too many doctors and corruption. Between sips of
frappe in his sparsely furnished office, where a secretary gave
visitors their own toilet paper for the unheated bathroom, the
official sketched out the numbers on a piece of paper.  Glut of Doctors  Public-sector drug spending doubled in the five years
leading up to 2009, Dimopoulos said. Greece has a glut of
doctors --  6.1 doctors  per 1,000 residents in 2009, the most of
any country tracked by the Organization for Economic Co-
operation and Development. Physicians looking for profit were
susceptible to pressure from drugmakers to prescribe the newest,
most expensive medicines, even when cheaper drugs would have
been just as good, the health ministry’s Dimopoulos said.  “You bring a brand new drug and you push the doctor to
write it because it’s more expensive than the other one,” he
said. “That’s the main problem.”  Some doctors wrote prescriptions for patients who didn’t
exist, or who weren’t sick at all. A portion of those drugs are
then shipped out of the country and resold in markets where they
garner higher prices than in Greece. Exports of fraudulently
prescribed treatments may amount to as little as 50 million
euros or as much as 200 million euros a year, Dimopoulos said.  Reimbursement Fraud  Drugmakers say that in the murky market for Greek
medicines, that figure could be much bigger. Reimbursement fraud
in Greece, including but not limited to exports that are resold,
amounts to as much as 500 million euros a year, Richard
Bergstrom, director-general of the  European Federation of
Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations , said in an
interview.  “I don’t think anyone really knows what it is,” Bergstrom
said. “The figures aren’t reliable. It’s a nightmare to figure
out what’s going on.”  Drugmakers have been making allegations of fraud for years,
said Manolis Katsaris, chairman of the Panhellenic Association
of Drug Wholesalers. That’s mostly because they don’t like being
undersold in expensive markets through parallel trade, a legal
practice in the European Union, he said.  As Katsaris spoke, about a dozen workers in his Athens
warehouse were organizing the inventory after a move to a new
headquarters. Boxes labeled with the names of drugmakers
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  were
stacked next to racks of personal-care products. One man made
printouts on a machine filled with pastel paper.  Tracking Medicines  If the troika and the Greek government have their way, such
paper forms may soon give way to a computerized prescription
system for all doctors -- another way to track medicines and
prevent duplicates and fraud. The government has begun a bidding
process to expand a temporary system first designed two years
ago, said Dimitris Tasias, sales manager for the public sector
in southeast  Europe , at  Intracom Holdings SA (INTRK)  unit Intrasoft
International. Intracom is one of the companies bidding for the
new system.  An e-prescription system would link scrips with specific
doctors and patients. Less than half the doctors in Greece use
the temporary system, Tasias said. Once the new program is up
and running, though, Greece would be ahead of most of Europe, he
said. Only  Denmark ,  Estonia ,  Iceland  and Sweden already have
comprehensive e-prescription.  Medical devices are another part of Greece’s corruption
problem.  A Greek doctor in private practice, who declined to be
named because of fear of retribution from other doctors,
explained how bribes from device manufacturers work. Companies
would ask doctors to order specific materials at prices that
could vary as much as several hundred euros from hospital to
hospital, then give doctors a cut of the revenue, he said in an
interview in Athens.  Bribery Settlement  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) , a London-based maker of joint
replacements, admitted in February that its U.S. and German
units bribed Greek doctors from 1997 until June 2008 to win
business. Smith & Nephew agreed to a $22.2 million settlement
after allegations from the U.S. Justice Department and
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Court filings in the Smith & Nephew case show the company
wasn’t the only device manufacturer bribing doctors.  In a March 2002 e-mail, a Greek distributor who used shell
companies to hide the bribes to a Smith & Nephew vice president
complained that the “marketing services” payments weren’t big
enough. Competitors were paying 30 percent to 40 percent more,
the distributor said in the e-mail.  Cheese and Chickens  The financial crisis may already be slowing the flow of
under-the-table money to doctors, research by  Transparency
International  shows. A survey to be released next week by the
group shows that this is the second year in a row that
corruption has declined, Bakouris said. While corruption in the
public sector is still high, it’s decreasing in some areas of
the private sector, he said. Fakelaki are also dropping in size,
though the practice still persists, he said.  “It’s part of our culture,” said Nikolaos Economopoulos,
head of a private optometry clinic in Athens.  Economopoulos, who says he doesn’t accept fakelaki,
recalled how his father, a doctor in rural Greece, would be
given gifts of cheese or chickens by grateful patients. Over
time, such displays of appreciation conditioned many doctors to
expect, or even demand, gifts or money, he said.  “It got worse and worse,” he said in an interview in his
office. “Now it’s better because nobody has any money.”  A generational shift may also be under way.  Gifts used to help patients feel closer to their doctors,
said Mihalis Karatzias, 57, who said he had just tried that day
to give some money to a doctor at the hospital.  “They told me off,” he said. “We’ve changed our
mentality. I shouldn’t have done it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  