-- Greek Pasok Party Increases Support Under Venizelos, Poll Shows
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-04-01T09:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/greek-pasok-party-increases-support-under-venizelos-poll-shows.html
Greece ’s socialist Pasok party has
jumped to second place from fifth in public estimation since
former Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos was elected the
party’s leader, a poll showed.  Pasok, the biggest party in parliament, has 15.5 percent
support, up from 11 percent in a poll on March 16, according to
the survey of 1,017 eligible voters by Public Issue SA for
Kathimerini newspaper and Skai TV. Venizelos was elected Pasok
leader on March 19.  While Antonis Samaras’s conservative New Democracy party
continues to attract most voter preferences, support fell to
22.5 percent from 25 percent, according to the poll which was
published today by Athens-based  Kathimerini . Neither New
Democracy, the second-biggest party in the Greek parliament, nor
Pasok would attract enough votes to win a majority, the poll
indicated.  While the personal approval rating of Venizelos slipped to
29 percent from 30 percent and rose to 31 percent from 28
percent for Samaras, the two men each had 18 percent of voter
support as to who would be the best candidate for prime
minister, the poll showed.  The Coalition of the Radical Left remained in third place
with 12.5 percent support while the Democratic Left party
dropped from second place to joint fourth, along with the
Communist Party, with each political movement attracting 12
percent support. Fotis Kouvelis, who leads the Democratic Left,
had the highest personal approval rating with 54 percent.  Other Parties  Support for the Independent Greeks party, set up on Feb.
24 by Panos Kammenos after he was expelled from  New Democracy 
for voting against a second aid agreement that came with tough
austerity measures, increased to 8.5 percent from 6.5 percent.  The poll found that the Green-Ecologist Party and the
Chryssi Avghi, or Golden Dawn, party would both have members of
parliament for the first time.  The nationalist Laos party, which withdrew from Greece’s
coalition government, would lose all its current 15 seats with
support falling to 2 percent from 4 percent, below the 3 percent
threshold that is necessary to enter parliament.  The survey was conducted between March 22 and March 26 and
had a margin of error of 3.2 percentage points. Elections are to
be held in Greece later this month or in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  