-- Gulf Navigation Full-Year Loss Narrows as Expenses Decline
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-04-01T05:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/gulf-navigation-full-year-loss-narrows-as-expenses-decline-1-.html
Gulf Navigation Holding PJSC (GULFNAV) ,
Dubai’s only publicly traded oil-tanker owner, said losses in
2011 narrowed as expenses related to asset sales declined.  The loss narrowed to 73 million dirhams ($20 million) from
237 million dirhams a year earlier, the company said in a
 statement  to the Dubai bourse today. Expenses related assets
held for sale or disposed of declined to 25 million dirhams from
211 million dirhams a year earlier. Revenue fell 18 percent to
256 million dirhams due to the removal of income from its Probos
fleet and low Very Large Crude Carrier freight rates.  Reduced charter rates because of an oversupply of ships
have lowered the value of vessel fleets, while funding is harder
to obtain as capital pressures spur banks to withdraw from ship
financing, according to  Fitch Ratings . The surplus will probably
last through next year as demand stagnates and vessels ordered
in 2008 leave yards, the agency said in a March 29 report.  Last year was “a very difficult and challenging year for
all sectors of the shipping industry,” Gulf Navigation Chairman
Abdullah Al Shuraim said in  the statement . “The company remains
focused on the key strategic targets that we have set ourselves;
in particular the continued expansion of the VLCC fleet as part
of a new Saudi VLCC company, and re-alignment of the
organization.”  Gulf Navigation’s talks with potential equity partners to
invest in its Saudi venture are progressing, it said. The
company plans to expand its VLCC fleet to nine vessels and
chemical tankers to 12 ships.  Gulf Navigation shares have gained 66 percent this year
after losing 49 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 