-- Libya Names Military Governor in Conflict-Ravaged South
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l e h   S a r r a r
-- 2012-04-01T20:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/libyan-tribal-clashes-leave-147-dead-health-minister-says.html
The head of  Libya ’s interim
government said a “military governor” had been appointed for
the country’s south after almost a week of inter-tribal clashes
left 147 people dead, the official Libya News Agency reported
today.  National Transitional Council head Mustafa Abdel Jalil said
the region that includes Sebha, the oil-rich nation’s fourth
largest city, was a “military area,” the agency said. Abdel
Jalil said a military governor had been appointed after a
reconciliation agreement was reached and resulted in a cease-
fire, the agency reported.  The clashes in Sebha began after members of al-Tibu tribe
reportedly kidnapped and killed a member of another tribe,
spotlighting the difficulty the interim government is facing in
stabilizing the nation after the civil war that ended Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s regime. In the several days of fighting
that continued despite periods of a cease-fire, 147 people were
killed and another 395 wounded, Health Minister Fatma al-
Hamroush said in a press conference in Tripoli aired on state
television late yesterday.  Stabilizing Efforts  The NTC, which is running the country after the toppling
and killing of Qaddafi, moved more than 1,500 soldiers into
Sebha to try to end the fighting. The Libyan news agency cited
the country’s military chief of staff as saying that the
security situation was stable.  It also said that the prime minister and other officials
including the defense minister were in the town to stay abreast
of developments there.  The violence is the latest in Libya, home to  Africa ’s
largest proven reserves of crude, as the NTC tries to stabilize
the country. The militias that led the fight during the uprising
against Qaddafi are resisting efforts to disband and hand over
their weapons, demanding more benefits for their various regions
from the Tripoli government.  Youssef al-Manqoush, chief of staff of the Libyan National
Army, said the southern “military area” is part of 10 such
areas that are being formed, the agency said. The purposes of
naming a military governor for the south include to “fully
control” all forces in the area and to put a plan to secure all
“military and vital” targets, he was cited as saying. Any
party that breaks the ceasefire will be confronted by force, it
cited him as saying.  During a meeting with the citizens of Sebha today, Libyan
Prime Minister Abdurrahim el-Keib said his country “will not
allow anyone to intervene in its internal affairs,” the agency
reported. Libyan authorities are following the movements of
Qaddafi regime “remnants” residing abroad and warned them
against attempts to destabilize the country, the agency cited
him as saying.  “Our presence here affirms that the south is an intrinsic
part of this country and of its stability,” he said, according
to the  news agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  