-- Miguel de la Madrid, Who Led Mexico Amid Inflation, Dies at 77
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-04-01T16:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/miguel-de-la-madrid-who-led-mexico-amid-inflation-dies-at-77.html
Miguel de la  Madrid , the Harvard
University-trained economist who was president of  Mexico  during
a period of triple-digit inflation, has died. He was 77.  Mexico’s Foreign Affairs Ministry confirmed de la Madrid’s
death today in an e-mailed statement. The ministry said he died
today in Mexico City.  De la Madrid’s rule, from 1982 to 1988, was a period
blighted by the aftermath of Mexico’s credit default and ensuing
inflation that peaked at a record  180 percent . Wage and price
controls helped slow inflation to 71 percent by the time his
term ended in November 1988.  A member of the once-dominant  Institutional Revolutionary
Party , or PRI, de la Madrid failed to react promptly to two
powerful earthquakes in Mexico City in 1985. He refused foreign
aid for a couple of days following the tremors that claimed more
than  9,500  lives, undermining support for his party, which came
close to losing the presidency when his term ended in 1988.  “The earthquake toppled Mexico City, but it also toppled
the PRI’s empire,” Ilan Semo, a historian at the  Iberoamerican
University  in Mexico City, said in a Dec. 19 interview. “It
killed two birds with one stone.”  Many Mexicans believe the opposition candidate, Cuauhtemoc
Cardenas, lost the 1988 presidential race only because massive
vote-rigging by the PRI made sure that its choice to succeed de
la Madrid, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, emerged on top. The PRI
did lose its two-thirds majority in Congress that year for the
first time in almost five decades, meaning it couldn’t change
the constitution without support from the opposition.  Troubled Economy  In 2000, the PRI surrendered its 71-year hold on the
presidency to Vicente Fox of the  National Action Party .  Miguel de la Madrid Hurtado was born on Dec. 12, 1934, in
the western state of Colima. He became deputy director of the
state-owned oil company  Petroleos Mexicanos  in 1970 and served
as budget minister under the administration of his predecessor
Jose Lopez Portillo, according to “Presidents of Mexico,” a
2001 book by Jose Manuel Villalpando and Alejandro Rosas.  He studied law at Mexico’s National Autonomous University
in Mexico City and received his master’s degree in public
administration from Harvard in 1965.  De la Madrid inherited a troubled economy after President
Lopez Portillo defaulted on the government debt and nationalized
Mexico’s banks months before he left power. During his
inauguration speech, de la Madrid announced a devaluation of the
peso.  As the currency weakened, inflation reached 180 percent in
February 1988, the fastest-ever pace, according to Bloomberg
data going back to 1974.  Asset Sales  De la Madrid initiated the sale of some of the country’s
1,200 government-owned companies, starting with banks, Semo
said.  De la Madrid was one of the first foreign-trained leaders,
called technocrats, to gain power in Mexico. He was followed by
Salinas, who crafted the North American Free Trade Agreement
with the U.S. and  Canada , and President  Ernesto Zedillo , who bet
Mexico’s economic future on the free markets by allowing the
peso to float freely for the first time.  De la Madrid’s death was erroneously reported Dec. 17 on
the Twitter accounts of the PRI, the party’s presidential
contender Enrique Pena Nieto and President Felipe Calderon,
according to media reports. Calderon later corrected himself,
saying that de la Madrid was alive, although in grave condition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 