-- Iraq March Crude Exports Rise to Highest Since 1980
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-04-01T15:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/iraq-s-march-crude-exports-rise-to-2-317-million-barrels-a-day.html
Iraq ’s crude oil exports in March
rose to the highest level since 1980, a year after former
President Saddam Hussein came to power, an Oil Ministry
spokesman said.  The Middle East country exported 71.827 million barrels, or
2.317 million barrels a day, in March, Asim Jihad said in an e-
mailed statement. The exports generated $8.475 billion, with an
average price of $118 a barrel, he said.  “The exported quantities in March reached a level that
Iraq hadn’t seen since 1980,” Jihad said, adding shipments were
boosted by a new offshore terminal started operating in
February.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest oil reserves,
according to data from  BP Plc (BP/)  that include Canadian  oil sands .
The Arab nation depends on crude exports for money to rebuild
the economy after decades of war and sanctions. Iraq has awarded
15 licenses for oil- and gas-drilling rights to foreign
companies in the post-Saddam Hussein era, and it plans a new
licensing auction in May.  The gain in exports came even as the semi-autonomous
Kurdistan region isn’t supplying the agreed quantities, sabotage
attacks targeted the northern export pipeline and bad weather
slowed tanker shipments in the south, Jihad said.  Record Revenue  Iraq in March exported 59.427 million barrels, or 1.917
barrels a day, by sea from its southern Basra terminal and 12.42
million barrels, or 400,000 barrels a day, from the northern oil
hub of Kirkuk through a pipeline to  Turkey , Jihad said.  The nation’s revenue in March was the highest level in the
nine years since the U.S.-led invasion that toppled  Saddam Hussein , according to Falah al-Amri, the head of the country’s
State Oil Marketing Organization. Iraq generated $6.6 billion
selling oil in February, according to the organization’s data.  “We expect export levels to increase further this month,”
al-Amri said in a telephone interview in Baghdad today.  Export volumes had decreased in January and again in
February because bad weather halted marine shipments for several
days each month, he said.  Asim Jihad said on Feb. 23 that Iraq expects to export more
than 2.6 million barrels a day by the end of 2012. The third-
largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries plans to increase daily oil production to 3.4 million
barrels a day by the end of the year, up from about 3 million
barrels in 2011, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in  Baghdad , Iraq, at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  