-- Hitler Had Something Lehman Lacked -- Gobs of Dumb Luck
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-04-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/hitler-had-something-lehman-lacked-gobs-of-dumb-luck-books.html
In 1931, two men were hit by cars,
one in  New York , the other in Munich.  Winston Churchill  and
 Adolf Hitler  survived to tell the tale and change the fate of
nations.  “For a few seconds, perhaps, I held the history of  Europe 
in my rather clumsy hands,” John Scott-Ellis, the late baron
and racehorse owner, liked to say, describing the day his red
Fiat almost mowed down the future Fuhrer in the Bavarian
capital.  “He was only shaken up, but had I killed him, it would
have changed the history of the world.”  Lives can turn, for better or for worse, on the outcome of
such chance encounters, writes  Ed Smith  in “Luck: What It Means
and Why It Matters.”  Serendipity molds everything from sports and schooling to
politics and finance, argues Smith, a former international
cricketer who went on to write editorials for the London-based
Times. No matter how hard we work or how much faith and
willpower we muster, the vicissitudes of chance are with us.  “The intervention of luck is like a boulder that diverts
the course of a stream: the course is changed -- and stays
changed forever, whatever happens downstream,” he writes. “By
then it is a different life that is being altered. Luck not only
intervenes; it persists.”  Baseball Burnout  Employing a technique and style that will be familiar to
readers of  Malcolm Gladwell , Smith illustrates his argument with
personal anecdotes and piquant stories from athletic contests,
academia, history and literature.  We learn how being born in a small city increases a boy’s
chance to play major league baseball: He’s exposed to less
competition, reducing the risk of premature specialization,
injury and burnout.  We’re reminded, too, of why oil was found off Norway in
1969: A prospector had prepaid for a rig and, unable to sublease
it, kept drilling long after being ordered to stop. A hole-in-
one on the golf course, it turns out, results from a less-than-
perfect shot.  Some of what Smith calls “luck” boils down to the good
fortune of being born in an advanced nation -- what  Warren Buffett  calls winning the “ovarian lottery.” Nor does he
dispute the view that practice makes perfect, allowing hard
workers to make some of their own luck.  Roger Federer  Yet toil and sweat aren’t enough, Smith says. He cites the
international tennis circuit that  Ivan Lendl  once dominated
because he worked the most. Now that everyone trains hard,
natural talent is what often gives a player such as  Roger
Federer  an edge, he writes.  The downfall of hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management LP
in 1998 illustrates the danger of ignoring chance, Smith shows,
while electoral victories depend more on the strength of the
world economy than on the competence of politicians at home.
References are made to the works of investor  Nassim Nicholas Taleb , playwright Tom Stoppard and scientist  James Watson .  As in Smith’s previous three books, the lessons of sports
dominate, and the recourse to cricket -- which entertained this
reader -- may alienate those with little interest in Andrew Strauss’s random walk to the England captaincy. The placing of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s collapse in 2007 rather than
2008 also jars.  ‘Bad Luck’ Banned  Smith’s thesis -- that the role of luck carries more weight
than we care to admit -- is one he himself dismissed in his days
as a professional athlete, which included a brief spell batting
for England. For him, luck could be conquered with more
practice, superstition or both. One season, his team banned its
players from saying “bad luck” to each other.  A few years later a broken ankle ended his cricket career.
Forced to retire, he now accepts it may have been a lucky break:
Without the accident he may have prolonged his time as a paid
sportsman beyond when it made sense.  “Sometimes something bad must happen before something good
can happen,” he says.  Smith’s embrace of kismet was complete when he met the
woman who would become his wife -- on a train neither had
planned to catch.  “There was no guiding hand of fate,” he concludes. “It
was much more interesting than that.”  “Luck” is from  Bloomsbury  (244 pages, 16.99 pounds). It’s
now available in the U.K. and will be released in the U.S. in
June. To order this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Simon Kennedy  is chief international economics
correspondent for Bloomberg News in  London . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 