-- Japan Tankan Stagnates With Yen Seen as Threat: Economy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-04-02T03:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/japan-tankan-confidence-failing-to-improve-undermines-rebound.html
Sentiment among Japan’s largest
manufacturers failed to improve in March as executives predicted
the yen will rebound against the dollar, hurting exporters’
sales and profits.  The quarterly  Tankan index  was unchanged from minus 4 in
December, the  Bank of Japan  said today in Tokyo. That was less
than the median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News for a reading of minus 1. A negative number means
pessimists outnumber optimists.  A weakening currency and gains in stock prices this year
are giving only a limited boost to confidence as exporters
struggle to regain ground lost when the yen surged to a postwar
record in October. Today’s report showed that executives expect
the sentiment index to remain negative at minus 3 in June and
the yen to strengthen about 6 percent from today’s level to
average 78.14 per dollar this fiscal year.  “The Tankan signals business managers think it will take
awhile for the economy to regain momentum,”  Hideo Kumano , chief
economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo and a
former BOJ official. “They’re still concerned about the risk of
the yen appreciating again because they’ve been traumatized by a
strong currency.”  The yen weakened 0.3 percent to 83.18 per dollar as of
12:02 p.m. local time. It slid 10.4 percent last quarter versus
nine developed-nation peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.8 percent after
reports of stronger-than-forecast consumer sentiment and
spending in the U.S.  Currency Forecast  The currency forecast was the strongest since comparable
data was made available starting from the March 1997 survey, the
BOJ said. The level is also stronger than the 82 break-even
point companies said they can remain profitable at in a
government survey released in February.  Large companies surveyed in the Tankan said  capital
spending  would be unchanged this year from last year, today’s
report showed.  Sony Corp. (6758)  more than doubled its annual loss forecast,
while  Panasonic  Corp. (6752)  and Sharp Corp. predicted record losses.
The survey indicated the nation’s largest service providers
fared better in the quarter, with their sentiment rising to 5,
the highest since June 2008, today’s report showed.  In  South Korea , consumer prices rose 2.6 percent in March
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in 20 months and Moody’s
Investors Service raised the outlook on the country’s A1 credit
rating to positive from stable, citing nation’s fiscal strength
and increased resilience to market turmoil.  China PMI  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index rose to a one-year high
of 53.1 in March,  China ’s logistics federation and the National
Bureau of Statistics said yesterday. The gauge has a pattern of
rising each March. In contrast, a PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics showed manufacturing contracting and export
orders falling.  Home-building approvals in  Australia  unexpectedly declined
in February by the most in four months. A report later today is
forecast to show exports in  Indonesia  climbed 6.4 percent in
February from a year earlier, according to economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  The  unemployment rate  in the Euro region probably rose to
10.8 percent in February while a PMI manufacturing gauge was
unchanged at 47.7 in March, according to Bloomberg surveys. In
the U.S., the ISM’s factory index probably rose to 53 last month
from 52.4 in February, economists said.  Japan Output  A government report last week showed that  Japan ’s
industrial production unexpectedly dropped in February after
previously rebounding as disruptions from flooding in  Thailand 
faded away. Policy makers are counting on reconstruction
spending after last year’s earthquake and tsunami to help propel
a rebound from a contraction in 2011.  “Companies are concerned about global demand,  oil prices 
and the slow boost from reconstruction,” said Hidenobu Tokuda,
an economist at Mizuho Research Institute Ltd., who accurately
predicted large manufacturer sentiment. “Recent economic data
and financial markets have shown Japan’s recovery is underway,
but that can’t instantly erase corporate pessimism.”  Gross domestic product may have expanded an annualized 1.7
percent last quarter after a 0.7 percent contraction in the
final three months of last year, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Postwar High  The Japanese currency hit a post-World War II high of 75.35
against the dollar in October, eroding profits of exporters
earned abroad and jeopardizing their competitiveness. Expanded
monetary stimulus by the central bank on Feb. 14 aided
weakening.  Sony, Japan’s largest electronics exporter, said in
February that it predicted its loss in the year ended on March
31 would widen to 220 billion yen, more than double its previous
estimate. Panasonic, Japan’s biggest appliance maker, also
widened its annual net-loss forecast to a record 780 billion
yen, it said in February. Sony earned 70 percent of its revenue
outside Japan and Panasonic 48 percent.  BOJ may consider expanding its asset-purchase program if
the yen moves “drastically,” Dai-Ichi Life Research’s Kumano
said.  BOJ policy board members are scheduled to meet April 9-10
and April 27. The central bank held off from expanding asset
purchases at its meeting in March as it monitored improvements
in the economy. It expanded bond purchases by 10 trillion yen
and set a 1 percent inflation goal in February. Consumer prices
excluding fresh food rose 0.1 percent in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  