-- Japan’s Azumi Supports Jim Yong Kim to Head World Bank
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-04-01T05:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/japan-s-azumi-supports-jim-yong-kim-to-head-world-bank.html
Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
said he supports U.S. nominee Jim Yong Kim’s bid to lead the
 World Bank .  Kim’s work on HIV/AIDS in the  World Health Organization 
shows the 52-year-old physician has expertise on developing
nation issues, Azumi said today.  “He is a highly competent individual who spearheaded
efforts and contributed to AIDS issues,” Azumi spoke to
reporters today in Tokyo after meeting Kim. “We judge he’s an
appropriate candidate for the World Bank and support his bid.”  Kim was head of the Department of Global Health and Social
Medicine at Harvard Medical School and also served as director
of the World Health Organization’s HIV/AIDS department. In 1987,
he co-founded Partners in Health, a nonprofit organization that
has opened clinics in countries including Haiti and Peru.  Before meeting Azumi, Kim also met with Chinese Vice
Premier  Wang Qishan  in Shaoxing,  China , as part of a global tour
to solicit “priorities and ideas” for the bank’s future,
according to a statement yesterday from the  U.S. Treasury .  President  Barack Obama  proposed Dartmouth College President
Kim, who would be the first Asian-American to head the body. The
World Bank plans to pick its new president April 16 after
interviewing the three candidates for the post the previous
week, according to three officials at the lender’s board.  Kim’s Challengers  Nigerian Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala is scheduled
to meet the 25-person board April 9, according to the officials,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the dates haven’t
been made public. Former Colombian finance minister Jose Antonio Ocampo is to be interviewed on April 10, followed by Kim on
April 11, the officials said.  The candidacies of Ocampo and Okonjo-Iweala are a challenge
to American control of the job under an informal agreement that
also gives the leadership of the  International Monetary Fund  to
a European. The U.S. is the bank’s largest shareholder, and an
American has always held the top job.  Ocampo, in a phone interview last week, said he and Okonjo-
Iweala have a chance to win if the selection “respects the
rules of being an open, transparent process based on merit.”  “Maybe it will not change this time,” Ocampo said. “But
in that case we’re putting up the fight so that that system will
be changed forever.”  The new president will succeed Robert Zoellick, whose term
ends June 30. The new president will take over an institution
that lent $57 billion last year, as private investors step up
their funding for development projects, turning the World Bank
into more of a technical adviser.  The World Bank and the IMF were founded at the end of World
War II to promote international development and economic
cooperation with loans and advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  