-- Japan Must Overhaul Tax to Avoid Bond Rout, Bank Lobby Says
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-04-02T05:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/japan-must-overhaul-taxes-to-avoid-bond-rout-bank-lobby-says.html
Japan  must quickly overhaul the tax
system to prevent government borrowing costs from spiraling in
the next decade, the new head of the nation’s bank lobby said.  “The risk of a tumble in government bond prices would
increase if taxation and social security reform are left
unsolved for years,” said  Yasuhiro Sato , whose tenure as
chairman of the Japanese Bankers Association began yesterday.
“The country’s financial assets are dwindling with the aging
population dipping into savings.”  Japanese banks hold a record amount of the nation’s bonds,
prompting central bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa to warn in
February that lenders risk incurring trillions of yen in losses
if yields rise. Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda faces opposition
to his plan to double the  sales tax  by 2015 to pay for swelling
welfare costs and contain the world’s biggest public debt.  “Any delays to the reform that’s being debated may raise
concern that bonds may be unable to be absorbed domestically in
the long run, say, in 2022,” Sato, president of  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411) , said in an interview last month. “But
there are no signs of a JGB price plunge in the near term.”  Japan’s benchmark bond yields have remained below 1.1
percent this year. The  yield  on 10-year notes rose 2.5 basis
points to 1.01 percent at 1:52 p.m. in Tokyo. The cost to insure
Japan’s debt against nonpayment has been falling, with CMA data
showing five-year credit default swaps declined to 99.8 basis
points on March 30 from a record 154.8 on Oct. 4, indicating
perceptions of creditworthiness are improving.  Hoarding Cash  Shirakawa said in February that a 1 percentage-point
increase in benchmark yields would cause losses of about 3.5
trillion yen ($43 billion) on notes held by major banks. With
households and companies hoarding cash rather than borrowing,
lenders have been buying bonds, holding a record 167.8 trillion
of sovereign debt in February, according to central bank data.  The  International Monetary Fund  dispatched a mission to
Tokyo last month as part of a regular review it’s conducting
this year into the stability of Japan’s financial sector. While
the IMF’s  Financial Sector Assessment Program  contains a  stress
test  for banks, brokerages and insurers, it’s unclear whether it
will examine risks from their government bond holdings.  “Japan’s financial system is strong and stable,” Sato
said. “It’s hard to imagine that the IMF would make any kinds
of requirements for Japan” based on any examination of bonds
held by financial institutions, he said.  Bond Profits  The nation’s three biggest lenders --  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and
Sato’s Mizuho -- earned a combined 231 billion yen from trading
bonds and other securities in the quarter ended December, almost
double from a year earlier, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on their latest earnings figures.  Japan’s government bond sales have largely been absorbed by
the domestic market, with about 92 percent of the debt owned by
investors at home, central bank data show. The capacity of
households to fund public spending may decline in coming years
as the growing ranks of  pensioners  withdraw assets.  Households had 1,483 trillion yen of  financial assets  at
the end of December, down 0.3 percent from a year earlier,
according to the  Bank of Japan. (8301)  Government borrowings will climb
to 1,086 trillion yen in the year ending March 2013, the  Finance
Ministry  forecast in January.  Prime Minister Noda is seeking parliament’s approval of his
tax bill in the current Diet session, while opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party  leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  has suggested
elections should be called first. Noda’s Cabinet on March 30
approved the proposal to raise the sales levy to 8 percent in
April 2014 and 10 percent in October 2015.  “Japanese banks conduct their own simulations and
assessments of various risks such as those arising from bonds
and stocks,” Sato said. “We are now far from the situation
where a bomb may explode in the near future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  