-- JetBlue Pilot’s Family Asks for Privacy, Says He Meant No Harm
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-04-01T18:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/jetblue-pilot-s-family-asks-for-privacy-says-he-meant-no-harm.html
The wife of  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) 
Captain Clayton Osbon, who was subdued by passengers while his
plane was in flight last week, said the family is declining
interviews and they don’t believe he intended to hurt anyone.  Connye Osbon asked the media to respect its privacy and
said the family won’t be granting any interviews or making any
further public comments, according to the statement released by
JetBlue on the family’s behalf.  “We would like to recognize the crew and passengers of
Flight 191 for their effective yet compassionate handling of the
situation,” the family’s statement said. “It is our belief,
as Clayton’s family, that while he was clearly distressed, he
was not intentionally violent toward anyone. We know you were
placed in an awful situation and we appreciate your ability to
respond professionally.”  The captain began acting erratically during a flight from
 New York  on March 27 and was locked out of the cockpit by his
co-pilot as the plane, JetBlue Flight 191, was diverted to
 Texas .  Osbon, 49, was tackled and sat upon by passengers when he
tried to re-enter the cockpit after briefly stepping out, the
company and federal officials said. An off-duty pilot, who had
entered the cockpit while Osbon was gone, helped land the Las
Vegas-bound flight in Amarillo, Texas.  Osbon is being treated at  Northwest Texas Healthcare System 
hospital in Amarillo. He faces as many as 20 years in prison and
a $250,000 fine after being charged with interfering with the
plane’s flight crew, U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldana said in a
 statement  last week.  ‘Leap of Faith’  The JetBlue pilot is being evaluated after he turned off
the plane’s radios, dimmed his monitors and told the first
officer on board that “we need to take a leap of faith,”
according to court documents.  After the plane left John F. Kennedy International Airport,
Osbon “started trying to correlate completely unrelated numbers
like different radio frequencies, and he talked about sins in
 Las Vegas ,” according to court filings. “At some point, Osbon
told the first officer, ‘We’re not going to Vegas.’ He then
began giving what the first officer described as a sermon,”
according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  