-- Juventus Sets Record Run as Inter Gets Win; Valencia Draws
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-04-02T11:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/juventus-sets-record-unbeaten-run-as-inter-wins-valencia-ties.html
Juventus won 3-0 against Napoli to
trail Serie A leader AC Milan by two points, while Andrea
Stramaccioni’s first game as Inter Milan coach ended with a 5-4
win over Genoa. Valencia and Levante tied 1-1 in  Spain .  Leonardo Bonucci, Arturo Vidal and  Fabio Quagliarella 
scored in Turin last night as Juventus set a club record of 31
straight unbeaten league games going back to last season. Milan
drew 1-1 at Catania two days ago to move to 64 points.  “We must be ready in the event of their possible slip
ups,” Juventus coach Antonio Conte told his club’s website.
“Being so close gives us further drive.”  Inter boosted its chances of a spot in next season’s Europa
League, with Diego Milito scoring a hat trick at the San Siro in
the team’s second win in 11 soccer matches. The game had four
penalties and red cards for Inter goalkeeper Julio Cesar and
Genoa’s Fernando Belluschi.  Stramaccioni took charge this week after Claudio Ranieri
was fired March 26.  Also yesterday, Roma defeated Novara 5-2 and Udinese
slipped to a 1-0 loss at Siena, while Lazio was beaten 3-1 by
Parma on March 31.  In La Liga, third-place Valencia ended a run of two
straight defeats, though remains winless since March 18. It has
a one-point advantage over Malaga, which lost 2-0 against Real
Betis two days ago, with Levante another two points back.  Real’s Win  Real  Madrid  maintained its six-point lead over Barcelona
atop the standings as it reached 100 league goals this season.
 Cristiano Ronaldo  scored twice in a 5-1 win at Osasuna to take
his tally to 37. Barca’s  Lionel Messi  has 36 after he netted in
a 2-0 victory against Athletic Bilbao.  “We did two things very well:  we adapted to Osasuna’s
style and we didn’t lose our identity in attack,” Real coach
 Jose Mourinho  said on the team’s website. “We did well overall
and we reacted after Osasuna gained some strength with their
goal.”  Borussia Dortmund’s German Bundesliga lead was cut to three
points following this weekend’s matches after it was held to a
4-4 tie by Stuttgart on March 30. Second-place  Bayern Munich 
then beat Nurnberg 1-0 two days ago.  Yesterday, Schalke drew 1-1 at Hoffenheim, while Hannover
beat Borussia Moenchengladbach 2-1.  Paris Saint-Germain remains behind leader Montpellier on
goal difference in  France  following a 2-1 loss at Nancy two days
ago, with an 89th-minute goal from Yohan Mollo giving coach
 Carlo Ancelotti  a first defeat in Ligue 1. Montpellier has
played one game fewer, with its match against Marseille
rescheduled to April 11.  Defending champion Lille beat Toulouse 2-1 to be four
points off the lead. Its grip on third place was strengthened by
Lyon’s 1-1 draw at Rennes.  Ajax moved atop Dutch soccer’s Eredivisie after routing
Heracles 6-0, with AZ Alkmaar one point back as it was held to a
2-2 tie at  Vitesse Arnhem . Third-place FC Twente beat  Roda JC  2-
0 two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 