-- Knicks’ Jeremy Lin Out for Regular Season After Knee Surgery
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-01T06:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/knicks-jeremy-lin-out-for-regular-season-after-knee-surgery.html
Jeremy Lin, whose playmaking finesse
mesmerized  New York  Knicks’ fans after he sat on the bench for
most of his National Basketball Association career, will miss
the rest of the regular season after knee surgery.  Lin, 23, will have arthroscopic surgery to fix a small
chronic meniscal tear in his left knee that flared up during the
Knicks’ 101-79 victory over the  Detroit Pistons  on March 24. He
will miss about six weeks, the team said.  “It is a big blow,” interim coach  Mike Woodson  told
reporters before last night’s 91-75 victory over the  Cleveland
Cavaliers  at New York’s Madison Square Garden. “He was starting
to come as a player.”  Lin and the Knicks tried to put off the surgery until the
end of season. The injury, diagnosed by an MRI last week, didn’t
respond to treatment.  “I can’t really do much, can’t really cut or jump,” Lin
said at a news conference. “So it’s pretty clear that I won’t
be able to help the team unless I get this fixed right now.”  Lin’s surgery has been scheduled although the date hasn’t
been released by the Knicks, team spokesman Jonathan Supranowitz
said in an e-mail.  Lin, an undrafted player who was cut by his first two NBA
teams before signing with New York on Dec. 27, invigorated the
Knicks on Feb. 4 when he came off the bench and scored 25 points
in the victory over the  New Jersey Nets .  ‘Linsanity’  Then-coach  Mike D’Antoni  gave him the nod as the Knicks
struggled to overcome the absence of two of the team’s top
scorers,  Carmelo Anthony  and Amar’e Stoudemire. Lin’s prowess on
the court helped save the Knicks’ season with a seven-game
winning streak.  Ticket prices to home games at Madison Square Garden
tripled as fans got caught up in “Linsanity,” a term coined to
encompass the excitement surrounding the first Chinese- or
Taiwanese-American to play in the league.  His worn jerseys sold for as much as $42,388 at auction,
while his rookie NBA card went for $21,580.  Sports retail outlets couldn’t keep his jerseys on the
shelves. Even Madison Square Garden stock rose 16 percent from
the day before Lin left the Knicks’ bench to reach a high of
$34.33 on March 26.  Record Ratings  The Harvard University graduate spurred record ratings on
MSG Corp.’s MSG network. Two weeks after he started for the
Knicks, the cable outlet ended a seven-week stalemate with Time
Warner Cable Inc. that kept the provider’s 2.8 million New York-
area subscribers from seeing the Knicks.  Since Lin’s game Feb. 4, the team has gone 16-10 through
the Detroit game on March 24 when his injury put him out of
action. The Knicks (27-26) own the eighth and final playoff spot
in the Eastern Conference.  Besides Lin, the Knicks (27-26) are also without forward
Amar’e Stoudemire who will miss two to four weeks with a bulging
disk in his lower back. Stoudemire is averaging 17.6 points and
eight rebounds a game.  Baron Davis  will move into Lin’s spot on the active roster.
The 33-year-old point guard is recovering from a herniated disk
and a strained hamstring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  