-- MTN’s Former CEO Nhleko Says Iran Bribery Allegations Untrue
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-04-01T17:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/mtn-s-former-ceo-nhleko-says-iran-bribery-allegations-untrue-1-.html
Phuthuma Nhleko, former chief
executive officer of  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest wireless
operator, said allegations that MTN paid bribes and promised
votes in exchange for a license in Iran aren’t true.  “I can state quite categorically that during my tenure as
group CEO of MTN, no bribes were authorized or paid by the MTN
Group to any South African or Iranian government officials to
secure the mobile license in Iran,” Nhleko said today in an e-
mailed statement about Johannesburg-based MTN’s role in Iran.
“The allegations made by Turkcell are far-fetched and without
foundation.”  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS alleged in a lawsuit,
reported on March 29, that MTN bribed officials, arranged
meetings between Iranian and South African leaders, and promised
 Iran  weapons and United Nations votes in exchange for a license
to provide mobile-phone service in the Islamic Republic.
Turkcell, which was initially awarded the Iranian mobile-phone
license, is suing MTN in federal court in  Washington  for $4.2
billion in damages.  “MTN’s conduct was not unlawful or corrupt and MTN was
certainly not in a position where it could influence or fetter
the decisions made by the South African government or any other
sovereign state,” Nhleko said in the statement.  While MTN has said it will oppose the claim, the company
may be investigated by South Africa’s Hawks police unit, the
Johannesburg-based  Sunday Times  newspaper reported today,
without identifying its sources. South African opposition party,
the Democratic Alliance, has also called for a criminal
investigation into MTN’s activities in Iran.  The case is  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  v. MTN Group
Ltd, 12-cv-479, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  