-- New Reading Teachers Should Pass a Reading Test
-- B y   S a n d r a   S t o t s k y
-- 2012-04-01T22:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/new-reading-teachers-should-pass-a-reading-test.html
Imagine a physics program that won’t
teach the theory of relativity. Or an English department that
shuns Shakespeare. That would be equivalent to how  U.S. schools
of education  treat the most effective method for teaching
beginning reading.  That method is called decoding, the shorthand word for the
scientifically tested techniques for teaching children the
relationships between symbols and sounds, often just called
phonics. Reformers have fought for generations to have  decoding 
skills taught systematically and directly, but schools of
education will have none of it.  Instead, the education establishment prefers to teach
beginning readers to guess at the identification of a written
word using its context -- the so-called  whole-language approach .
The people who run education schools hate the “code” because
they say it requires a repetition of boring exercises -- “drill
and kill” -- turning children off and discouraging them from
“reading with meaning.” There has never been evidence for this
view, however.  The whole-language advocates pitch their approach as being
on the side of “meaning,” not the “code.” Similarly, math
educators have long used the goal of “deep conceptual
understanding” to justify requiring children to  invent their
own methods  for performing basic arithmetical operations instead
of teaching them to understand and use the standard algorithms,
which mathematicians note are more efficient, effective and
general.  Wisconsin Battle  The educators’ biases have held sway for decades. But a new
coalition is trying to find a way to make sure prospective
teachers have some instruction in what decoding strategies are
and why they are effective.  The latest action has been in  Wisconsin . The  state
Legislature passed  a bill that will help ensure that teachers no
longer receive inadequate training in their preparation and
professional development. The Wisconsin Reading Coalition, the
Wisconsin branch of the International Dyslexia Association, and
a group of parents, educators, psychologists and other
professionals supported the measure. I was among the many
experts submitting testimony for it.  The group had begun looking carefully at beginning
instruction after noting Wisconsin children’s stagnant reading
scores on the National Assessment of Educational Progress, or
 NAEP , and comparing those results with the scores in
Massachusetts.  Why Massachusetts? Because children there are doing better
than pupils in most other states on reading tests.  As  noted  by Kathleen Porter-Magee in a 2012 Fordham
Institute analysis of the impact of high standards on student
achievement, the 2009 NAEP reading tests showed that “students
scoring in  Massachusetts ’s bottom 25 percent score higher than
students in the bottom 25 percent of any other state in the
nation. And students scoring in the top 25 percent perform
better than students in the top 25 percent of any other state.”  She attributed this performance to the effective
implementation of its highly rated English-language-arts
standards, first adopted in 1997 and then re-adopted in a
slightly revised form in 2001.  But the Wisconsinites zeroed in on a more specific
explanation for the Massachusetts results: the state’s licensing
test, in place since 2002, for all aspiring teachers of
elementary-age children. The content of the test includes
knowledge of code-based beginning-reading instruction.  Education Schools Balk  Education schools whose coursework was once limited to
whole-language approaches now have to explain the research
support for a code-emphasis method and what systematic
instruction in phonemic awareness and phonics means in practice.
The schools have done this grudgingly, limiting their effort to
test preparation workshops or including it as a small part of a
“balanced literacy” approach that allows teachers to teach
phonics but only in context, thereby ensuring that it can’t be
taught systematically.  Supported by their state Department of Public Instruction,
Wisconsin’s legislators followed the path taken first by
Massachusetts, then by  Connecticut  in 2008, and most recently by
 Minnesota  in 2011, to require the tests. Several other states
are considering the requirement, as well.  Their efforts have broad implications. Many states are
looking for objective ways to evaluate teachers at all levels.
But the efforts by federal education officials to prod states
into working out sound teacher-evaluation plans seem to be
missing an important connection.  The policy makers in  Washington  want states to develop an
appropriate professional way to determine which teachers are
ineffective -- a reasonable goal. But they have not made it
clear that such evaluations need to judge whether a lack of
adequate progress in children’s beginning-reading skills is the
result of teacher incompetence or of deficient training.  Common Core  The licensure test that the Wisconsin bill will mandate is
not only based on reading science; it is also aligned with the
foundational skills in the national Common Core reading
standards for the elementary school.  Once the bill is signed into law and begins to affect
training, Wisconsin will be able to evaluate teachers of
beginning reading on their skills without worrying if they lack
professional knowledge that could easily have been taught in
their coursework. Let’s hope the work of the reformers in
Wisconsin spreads to most other states.  (Sandra Stotsky is a professor of education reform at the
 University of Arkansas  and was senior associate commissioner in
the Massachusetts Department of Education in 1999-2003.  She is
the author of “The Death and Resurrection of a Coherent
Literature Curriculum: What Secondary English Teachers Can Do,”
to be published in June. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on why the U.S. should
ratify the  nuclear-test ban  and regulate  money-market funds .
William D. Cohan on the government hiding  public information on
banks .  Albert R. Hunt  on  murder in New Orleans .  Charles Dumas  on
why the  euro should be abandoned , and  Charles Wyplosz  on why the
 euro should be kept .  To contact the writer of this article:
Sandra Stotsky at  sstotsky@uark.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  