-- Spurs End 5-Match Winless Run in League, Newcastle Has Victory
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-04-01T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/newcastle-beats-10-man-liverpool-2-0-in-soccer-s-premier-league.html
Tottenham beat Swansea City 3-1
yesterday to end a five-match winless run in soccer’s Premier
League, while Papiss Cisse got two goals for a second straight
game as Newcastle defeated Liverpool 2-0.  Emmanuel Adebayor scored twice, while  Rafael van der Vaart 
also got a goal for Spurs, who are level on points with third-
place Arsenal and five points clear of Chelsea and Newcastle in
the next two spots.  “We’ve been playing well,” Tottenham winger Gareth Bale
told  Sky Sports . “We’ve had quite a bit of bad luck but we
showed what we can do on the pitch against a great footballing
side like Swansea.”  Third position secures direct entry into the group stage of
 Europe ’s Champions League, while the fourth-place team will play
in qualifying. Fifth position guarantees a place in the second-
tier Europa League, while as many as two extra spots could be
available depending on whether the domestic cup winners qualify
through their league positions.  Manchester United  leads the standings on 73 points,
Manchester City has 71, with Arsenal and Tottenham 13 points
further back.  Adebayor, on loan from Manchester City, got two goals in
the final 20 minutes at White Hart Lane as Tottenham ended a run
of three defeats and two draws.  Adebayor headed into the net from a Van der Vaart corner on
73 minutes, then scored again with four minutes remaining --also
with a header.  Halftime Lead  Van der Vaart had given Spurs a halftime lead with a shot
from the edge of the penalty area, his 11th goal of the season.  Swansea replied in the 60th minute as Gylfi Sigurdsson’s
volley bounced over  Brad Friedel  and into the net, with the
visitor’s goalkeeper Michel Vorm then preventing Van der Vaart
restoring Tottenham’s soon after with a diving save.  Adebayor then ended his run of three games without a goal
to boost Tottenham’s chances of Champions League qualification.  “It’s going to be tight,” Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  told
Sky Sports. “I wouldn’t write Chelsea off, I wouldn’t write
Newcastle off, they’ve done a miracle, and Arsenal obviously are
bang there.”  Newcastle extended its winning run to three league matches,
as Liverpool slipped to a third straight defeat in the
competition. Cisse, with seven goals in seven games since
joining the Magpies in January, scored in each half for the
hosts.  Red Card  Liverpool finished the match with 10 men after goalkeeper
Pepe Reina was red-carded in the 82nd minute.  Liverpool had early chances, including a Jonjo Shelvey shot
deflected over the bar and a close-range header from  Martin Skrtel . Andy Carroll, signed by Liverpool from Newcastle in
January 2011, was yellow-carded for diving in the penalty area.  Newcastle, mainly threatening on the counterattack in the
early stages, took a 19th-minute lead as Cisse scored for a
third straight game. The Senegal forward headed into the net off
a post after collecting a lofted cross from Hatem  Ben Arfa .  Carroll headed over the bar on 27 minutes, while at the
other end a Demba Ba shot took a deflection off Reds defender
Skrtel and fell just wide.  Newcastle’s  Mike Williamson  headed against a post just
after halftime, before Cisse doubled the advantage in the 59th
minute when he cut inside to wrong-foot Reina before sliding the
ball past a couple of defenders on the line.  Missed Opportunity  Luis Suarez  missed an opportunity to reply for Liverpool
two minutes later when, with keeper Tim Krul out of his goal, he
saw a shot blocked by James Perch.  Cisse was replaced by  Shola Ameobi  with 15 minutes
remaining, denying him the chance of a hat-trick. Four minutes
later Carroll also departed, bringing cheers from the home fans.  Reina was dismissed for aiming a head butt at Perch and
fullback  Jose Enrique  went into goal with the Reds having
already used all their substitutions.  Liverpool, in eighth, now trails Newcastle by 11 points.
The Reds already have a spot in the Europa League next season
after winning the Carling Cup. Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew 
said he wants to join Liverpool in that competition.  “If someone said ‘you are going to be in the Europa
League,’ I would snap their hands off,” Pardew told reporters.  Two days ago, Chelsea won 4-2 at  Aston Villa , Arsenal lost
2-1 at Queens Park Rangers, while  Manchester City  was held to a
3-3 tie by Sunderland. United can move five points clear if it
defeats Blackburn today.  Last-place Wolverhampton Wanderers lost 3-2 against Bolton,
Wigan beat Stoke City 2-0, Everton defeated West Bromwich Albion
2-0, and Fulham beat Norwich 2-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  