-- Nickel-Ore Exports From Philippines Seen Rising on Indonesia Ban
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-04-01T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/nickel-ore-exports-from-philippines-seen-rising-on-indonesia-ban.html
     April 2 (Bloomberg) --Nickel-ore production and exports
from the  Philippines  are set to increase this year as the nation
benefits from Indonesia’s plan to halt shipments of unprocessed
material next month, the Mines and Geosciences Bureau said.  Ore exports may climb from last year’s 20.1 million metric
tons, which yielded 253,247 tons of refined metal, Leo Jasareno,
acting bureau director, said in an interview, without giving an
estimate. Four companies are awaiting government approval to
start mining, Jasareno said in  Manila  on March 29.  Ore from Indonesia and the Philippines accounted for 26
percent of global refined output last year, making them the
joint second-largest origins, according to the  U.S. Geological
Survey . Stock in  Nickel Asia Corp. (NIKL) , the biggest Philippine ore
producer, gained to record, rising 61 percent this year, as it
may benefit from the Indonesian curb on exports.  “Our exports and production will be far better this
year,” Jasareno said, predicting higher shipments to  China .
“Indonesia’s ban would create opportunities for our miners. The
processing plants will be looking for raw-ore sources.”  Refined-nickel prices on the London Metal Exchange have
slumped 33 percent over the past year to $17,405 a ton at 4:08
p.m. in  Singapore  on March 30. Global refined output will exceed
demand by 45,000 tons this year, up 73 percent from 2011,
according to a Feb. 16 estimate from  Barclays Capital .  China (CNOIIQTL) , the world’s largest metal user, bought 53 percent of
its nickel ore from Indonesia last year, and 46 percent from the
 Philippines (CNOIIQPH) , customs data showed. Indonesia’s ore ban may prompt
the country to seek increased refined imports, Barclays Capital
said last month.  Largest Economy  Indonesia, which shipped 33 million tons of ore last year,
will enforce the ban on exports in May, bringing forward a plan
originally set for 2014. Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy, also
rich in copper and tin, is seeking to increase the value of its
commodity exports.  The Philippines and Indonesia each produced ore equivalent
to 230,000 tons of refined nickel in 2011, second only to Russia,
which had an output of 280,000 tons, according to USGS data. The
metal is used to strengthen stainless steel in everything from
kitchen sinks to aircraft-fuel tanks.  Nickel Asia, which runs four of the 18 operating nickel
mines in the Philippines, mined about 20 percent of the nation’s
ore in 2011, data from the bureau showed. That makes the company
the largest Philippine producer.  Stock in the company, which reached a record close of 34.45
pesos on March 29, rallied 41 percent last month. Nickel Asia
will be the main beneficiary of the Indonesian ban, according to
George Ching, an analyst at CitisecOnline.  Among the other producers in the Philippines are  Benguet
Corp. (BC)  and  Marcventures Holdings Inc. (MARC) , according to government
data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  