-- No. 1 Kentucky Meets Second-Seeded Kansas in NCAA Title Game
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-01T05:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/no-1-kentucky-meets-second-seeded-kansas-in-ncaa-title-game.html
No. 1 seed  University of Kentucky 
and second-seeded University of Kansas will meet tomorrow to
decide the national men’s college basketball championship.  Kansas (32-6) rallied from a 13-point deficit to defeat No.
2 seed Ohio State 64-62 in the final minutes of their game and
 Kentucky  defeated rival and fourth-seeded Louisville 69-61 to
reach the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  final at the
Superdome in  New Orleans .  Kansas took a 2-0 lead in the opening minute, then trailed
Ohio State through most of the game. The Jayhawks got their
largest lead of the game, 62-59, on Elijah Johnson’s layup with
one minute, five seconds left to play.  William Buford dunked to bring the Buckeyes (31-8) within a
point at 62-61 with nine seconds remaining. Two seconds later,
Tyshawn Taylor sunk two free throws, restoring  Kansas ’ three-
point lead 64-61.  With two seconds left in the game, Aaron Craft was fouled.
He hit the first free throw to narrow the gap to 64-62. In his
attempt to grab the rebound when his second shot hit the rim,
Craft rushed the ball and stepped over the foul line early,
causing a turnover and giving Kansas the victory.  “It’s a dream for these kids to play on the biggest stage
for college basketball and to play the No. 1 team,” Kansas
coach Bill Self said in a televised press conference.  ‘No Energy’  The Jayhawks fought back from 13-point deficits five times
in the first half. They ended the half behind 34-25.  “We were awful,” Self said. “There was no energy, we
were tight. That was not who we were in the first half. We were
much more aggressive in the second half.”  Thomas Robinson had 19 points and Travis Releford added 15
for Kansas, which is seeking its fourth NCAA title.  “It feels great,” said Releford who hit four free throws
in the final three minutes. “We’ve been in those situations
before throughout the season, where we played from behind,
played grind-it-out games. We still got another goal. We can’t
be too excited about this win.”  Buford led the Buckeyes with 19 points and Jared Sullinger
had 13, while Craft had 11.  Kentucky is going to its first championship game since
winning its seventh NCAA title in 1998.  ‘Closer to Dream’  “We’re one game closer to our dream and our goals,”
Kentucky’s  Anthony Davis  said in a televised interview after he
scored a game-high 18 points and 14 rebounds. “We’ve got to
come out Monday night and perform.”  The Wildcats (37-2) had a 13-point lead in the second half
before the Cardinals chipped away at their advantage. Back-to-
back baskets by Russ Smith started Louisville (30-10) on a 15-3
run that tied the game at 49-49 on Peyton Siva’s 3-pointer with
nine minutes, 13 seconds left in the game.  Kentucky’s Michael Kidd-Gilchrist scored a layup and dunked
within a 40-second span as Kentucky started to pull away a
minute later.  Siva led the Cardinals with 11 points.  “They never stopped playing,” Kentucky coach  John Calipari  said of the in-state rival. “They got up into our
bodies, created turnovers and gave themselves a chance to win.”  Kentucky shot 57 percent from the field while Louisville
was held to 35 percent.  “It took so much energy to get us back in the game,”
Louisville coach  Rick Pitino  told reporters. “Our conditioning
was awesome the whole year. The difference was that Anthony
Davis is the best player in the year.”  Freshman Davis was named the winner of the Wooden Award as
the nation’s top player yesterday, one day after being tagged as
the Associated Press player of the year. The Wooden Award is
voted on by members of the national college basketball media.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  