-- Hollande Lead Over Sarkozy Is Shrinking, LH2-Yahoo Poll Shows
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-04-01T10:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/hollande-lead-over-sarkozy-is-shrinking-lh2-yahoo-poll-shows.html
Socialist Francois Hollande’s lead
over  Nicolas Sarkozy  for the first round of the French
presidential election dropped to 1 percentage point, and the gap
also narrowed in the second round, a poll showed.  The survey by LH2 published today for Yahoo, shows Hollande
winning 28.5 percent in the first round of elections, 2 points
lower than in the previous poll, while Sarkozy remained stable
at 27.5 percent. The poll, conducted on March 30 and 31, also
shows the anti-free market leader Jean-Luc Melenchon gaining 4
points to 15 percent in the first round, putting him ahead of
the anti-euro candidate Marine Le Pen and centrist  Francois Bayrou , LH2 said in an e-mailed release.  Hollande would win the decisive round of elections with 54
percent, compared with 45 percent for the incumbent president,
according to the poll. Support for the  Socialist Party  candidate
declined by 1 percentage point from the March 18 survey.  French voters will pick their president for the coming five
years in two rounds of votes. The two winners of the 10-
candidate first round on April 22 will square off on May 6.  Hollande has consistently led Sarkozy in second-round polls
since he declared his candidacy last year. The Toulouse killings
last month, in which a self-proclaimed jihadist murdered seven
people, including three children, “helped strengthen Sarkozy’s
presidential image but doesn’t appear to have brought gains in
the electoral plan,”  LH2  said in today’s statement.  The latest poll points to “Jean-Luc Melenchon emerging as
the ‘third man’ of the elections,” while Le Pen and Bayrou
“are losing influence” in the presidential debate, it said.  The poll questioned 973 people and has a margin of error of
plus or minus 4 points for all vote intentions ranging between
40 percent and 60 percent, the release said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  