-- London City Job Vacancies Fell 11% in March, Recruiter Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-04-02T08:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/london-city-job-vacancies-fell-11-last-month-recruiter-says.html
Job vacancies at London’s financial-
services companies fell 11 percent last month as banks delayed
plans to hire, and investment bankers held on to their existing
jobs, recruitment firm  Astbury Marsden  said.  New vacancies in the British capital’s City and Canary
Wharf financial districts dropped to 3,180 in March from 3,585
in February, the recruiter said in a statement today. There were
5,900 City job vacancies in March 2011.  “Those who were hoping that an easing of the euro zone
crisis would lead to a sudden, sustained and obvious recovery in
the City jobs market have been wrong-footed,” said  Mark Cameron , chief operating officer at Astbury Marsden in the
statement. “Trading conditions may be healthier but banks have
seen too many false dawns over the last few years to get carried
away now.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest
government-owned lender, is cutting 3,500 investment banking
jobs in total after the sovereign debt crisis and increased
regulation trimmed revenue. Britain’s economy probably fell back
into recession in the first quarter, shrinking 0.4 percent
following a 0.3 percent contraction in the last three months of
2011, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said last week.  Weak Confidence  “Confidence is weak, a lot of investment bankers doubt
that they are going to find a new home that easily so they are
prepared to live with the shock of a low, and in many instances,
zero bonus for at least a few months more,” said Cameron.
“They are biding their time.”  London, Paris, Tokyo and Hong Kong trail  New York  as a
business center in the Global Cities Index, released today by
Bloomberg Rankings. Beijing and   Shanghai  emerged as potential
rivals within 10 to 20 years, according to the index. The survey
examined 66 of the world’s business commercial urban centers.  Separately, a study by the  Confederation of British
Industry  today said banks, insurers and asset managers probably
added 5,000 jobs in the first quarter, and may hire 9,000
workers in the three months to the end of June. Revenue at banks
may have risen in the first quarter, while still lagging normal
levels, the survey by the U.K.’s biggest business lobby group
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  