-- Money-Market Funds Should Kick Their Buck-a-Share Habit
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-01T22:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/money-market-funds-should-kick-their-buck-a-share-habit.html
Object loudly, lobby Congress and
predict horrible consequences for the economy and investors.
Money-market funds, like their Wall Street banking kin, are
learning how to fend off new regulations meant to prevent a
replay of the financial crisis of 2008. One fund company,
Federated Investors Inc., is even threatening to sue.  The ploys seem to be working, and might even derail
proposals to make the $2.6 trillion  industry  safer. That would
be a shame because the Securities and Exchange Commission, which
regulates the funds, is only halfway through a job it started
more than two years ago. The agency should finish its work by
adopting additional measures to prevent the sort of panicked run
on the funds that helped kick the credit crunch into high gear.  Here’s where we stand: In 2010, the SEC ordered money-
market funds to hold more cash, have investments that mature
more quickly and diversify their portfolios.  To the lobbyists and some of the biggest fund companies,
this stopgap was  enough . They say they have all the evidence
they need: Money-market funds withstood the turmoil of  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis, last summer’s congressional debt-ceiling
stalemate and the loss of the U.S.’s prized AAA credit rating.  True, money funds weathered these threats. But let’s be
honest: At no time were  markets  on the verge of matching the
2008 global financial meltdown, when disaster was averted only
through intense government and central bank intervention.  Market Freeze  The Reserve Primary Fund, one of the oldest money-market
funds, was at the heart of the crisis. It held $785 million in
commercial paper, essentially short-term IOUs, from Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Once Lehman went bust, Reserve investors
rushed to withdraw their money. It soon became clear the fund
couldn’t pay back everyone’s money and maintain the traditional
$1 share price. In Wall Street lingo, it broke the buck.  What followed was a freeze in the commercial-paper market.
Many companies rely on this short-term funding method to
finance, for example, inventories and payrolls. Only when the
 Federal Reserve  and the  U.S. Treasury  said they would stand
behind the money funds was an industry collapse prevented. The
2010 Dodd-Frank Act has since barred another rescue of the
funds, so it’s up to the SEC to devise a fix.  The artificially pegged share price is the industry’s
greatest vulnerability. The illusory $1 a share holds out the
promise that investors will receive a dollar for each dollar
they put in (plus interest) -- just like a bank. But at the
first sign that a fund’s underlying assets no longer justify $1
a share, investors have an incentive to bolt. Naturally, money-
market funds love that investors perceive them as stable as
banks, which must pay into the federal  deposit  insurance fund
for their guarantees, and say they will wither away without that
perception.  Mary Schapiro , the SEC’s chairman, was on the right track
in February when she offered several proposals, the best of
which would require a floating share price. She also raised the
idea of requiring money-market funds to hold capital as a buffer
against losses, as banks must do, and imposing redemption
freezes when investors panic.  The floating share price is preferable because it does the
most to end the illusion that money-market funds match banks for
safety. It would also serve as a reminder that funds are an
investment, not a demand deposit, and lack federally guaranteed
insurance.  This is a less radical idea than it might seem. Funds
already provide a “shadow” share price in SEC filings that
reflects the underlying value of their investments.  Tax Rules  A floating share price might require some minor adjustments
to tax laws. Fund investors could be subject to capital-gains
taxes if they took money out and the share price was higher than
$1. For individual investors who don’t move their cash around a
lot this wouldn’t be a big issue. But for many companies, which
move cash in and out of money-market funds on a daily basis, it
could result in extra expenses and paperwork hassles.  To prevent companies from avoiding money funds in order to
sidestep those burdens, Congress should consider exempting
money-fund investors from these tax rules.  It’s also worth considering a two-tier system, in which
some funds would stick with a fixed share price. Those funds
would only be able to invest in short-term Treasury securities
and agency bonds that are safe but offer very low yields. These
funds should also be backed by an explicit promise from the
sponsoring fund management company that investors will be able
to redeem their shares at full value. Stand-alone money funds
would have to offer a floating share price.  Any significant rule changes would require an SEC  vote .
Because of intense industry lobbying, there’s a chance nothing
will happen.  Luis Aguilar , a Democratic commissioner, has said
he’s worried that additional rules will drive investors to
unregulated investments. If Aguilar voted no, Schapiro, an
independent, and the other Democratic member, Elisse Walter,
wouldn’t have a majority. The two Republicans on the five-member
commission oppose more regulation.  Rather than threatening lawsuits, the industry would be
better served by cooperating with the SEC to draft rules to
ensure that money-market funds are less susceptible to runs
while still appealing to investors. At least one major
 investment company ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset
manager, has dropped its earlier opposition and now backs
floating share prices. That’s a sensible stand and one the rest
of the industry should adopt.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on why the U.S. should
ratify the  nuclear-test ban . William D. Cohan on the government
hiding  public information on banks .  Albert R. Hunt  on  murder in
New Orleans .  Charles Dumas  on why the  euro should be abandoned ,
and  Charles Wyplosz  on why the  euro should be kept .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 