-- Spain Record Home Price Drop Seen With Bank Pressure
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-04-02T16:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/mortgage-column.html
Spanish  home prices  are poised to
fall the most on record this year, leaving one in four
homeowners owing more than their properties are worth, as the
government forces banks to sell real-estate holdings.  Home prices will decline 12 percent to 14 percent,
according to research and advisory company R.R. de Acuna &
Asociados, after Economy Minister Luis de Guindos in February
gave lenders two years to make 50 billion euros ($67 billion) of
additional provisions and capital charges for losses linked to
real estate. That’s the most since the National Statistics
Institute started tracking values in 2007.  Standard & Poor’s 
forecasts borrowers with negative equity may rise to 25 percent
this year from 8 percent in 2010, based on an analysis of
800,000 mortgages.  “There will be more serious price drops this year because
of the government decree,” said Fernando Rodriguez de Acuna Martinez, a partner at the Madrid-based firm. “Banks are now
prepared to incur big losses on real estate to shift all they
can.”  Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  and his  People’s Party 
are betting the overhaul will help bolster confidence in the
country’s banks without undermining a drive to tackle its budget
deficit that’s threatening to reignite  Europe ’s debt crisis. The
move is likely to force banks to sell assets cheaply,
accelerating a four-year decline in residential property prices
that are already 30 percent below the peak.  Government Decree  The government’s Feb. 2 decree on real-estate provisions is
already leading to reduced sales prices. In the week after the
plan was announced, more than 10,000 homeowners who use
Idealista.com,  Spain ’s largest property website, lowered their
asking prices. That’s 30 percent more than the weekly average
during the previous month.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s largest lender, and  CaixaBank
SA (CABK) , the fourth-largest, are offering homes at discounts of as
much as 50 percent on their Altamira and Servihabitat property
websites.  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the No. 3 bank, went even further on March
15 by announcing that the company aimed to sell 9,000 properties
this year at discounts of as much as 60 percent.  Spain’s IBEX 35 benchmark index, which fell as much as 1.8
percent in intraday trading today, closed up 0.4 percent. Shares
of Santander rose 0.2 percent to 5.78 euros, erasing an earlier
3 percent drop.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , the
country’s second-largest lender, rose 0.1 percent.  Spanish banks account for five of the top six worst-
performing stocks on the 48-member  Euro Stoxx 600 Banks Index (SX7P) 
this year.  ‘Can’t Compete’  Theresa Legarra, a 33-year-old sales manager from  Madrid ,
said she can’t compete with the banks when it comes to selling
real estate. She and her ex-husband bought an 85 square-meter
(915 square-foot), two-bedroom home in Pozuelo de Alarcon, one
of Madrid’s most affluent suburbs, in 2006 for 385,000 euros. To
pay for the property, they took out a mortgage with  Caja Madrid 
for 85 percent of the purchase price. Caja Madrid is one of the
seven Spanish savings banks that merged to form Bankia in 2010.  Six months ago, the apartment was put on the market for
350,000 euros, about 20,000 euros more than the outstanding
mortgage on the property.  “The telephone hasn’t rung once,” Legarra said during an
interview in Madrid. “Three separate real-estate agents say I
need cut the price to 300,000 euros to have a hope of selling.”  About 20 percent of Spanish mortgage borrowers owe more on
their loan than their property is worth, up from about 8 percent
in October 2010, according to a study by Andrew South, the
London-based head of European structured finance research at
S&P.  ‘Negative Equity’  “If  house prices  were to continue to decline at their
current rate this year, the number of borrowers in negative
equity by the end of 2012 could be closer to 25 percent,” he
said in an e-mail.  The S&P study was based on an analysis of 800,000 Spanish
mortgages, two thirds of which were granted between 2006 and
2008, and includes loans predating 2000. In January,  residential
mortgages  fell 41 percent from a year earlier, the 21st straight
decline, according to the National Statistics Institute.  Asking prices have fallen by an average of almost 30
percent from their high in April 2007, according to a March 1
report by Fotocasa.es, a real-estate website, and the IESE
business School.  Spanish  home prices   fell 11.2  percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, the most on record, the National Statistics
Institute in Madrid said on March 15. By their measure prices
are down about 22 percent from the market’s peak in the third
quarter of 2007. Home prices in  Ireland (IHPINARP)  and the  U.S. (SPCSUSA)  have fallen
49 percent and 34 percent respectively from their highs.  ‘Delayed Declines’  “We suspect house prices have fallen by more than 30
percent since the peak, but accept that some of the downward
price adjustment may have been delayed by banks hoarding large
portfolios of repossessed properties,”  Raj Badiani , an
economist at IHS Global Insight Inc. in  London , said in a March
15 note.  Financial institutions have foreclosed on 328,720 homes
since 2007, according to Plataforma de los Afectados por la
Hipoteca, a group known as PAH that campaigns against evictions.
That number may balloon to as many as 600,000 in the years ahead
as unemployment increases, Taurus Iberica Asset Management
estimates. The Madrid-based company manages 35,000 foreclosed
properties for 25 lenders.  Banks have also acquired properties from developers to
cancel debt and may have as many as 900,000 finished, unfinished
and foreclosed homes on their books, according to Borja Mateo,
author of “The Truth About the Spanish Real Estate Market”  Aversion to Risk  In Spain, which has euro region’s fourth-largest  budget
deficit , bond yields have surged and  banking stocks  have plunged
as investors shun risk. According to  Fernando Encinar , co-
founder of Idealista.com, the biggest problem is that investors
distrust the valuation of real-estate assets held by banks and
the government has offered a solution by pushing them to sell
assets at market price.  Spanish 10-year borrowing costs have jumped 44 basis points
to 5.33 percent since March 2, when Rajoy raised the country’s
budget deficit target for this year defying his European Union
Allies.  He’s struggled to cut the funding gap since he was elected
in December and his government faced its first general strike on
March 29.  Mario Monti , Rayoy’s Italian counterpart, said on
March 24 that Spain could reignite the European debt crisis if
the country’s fails to control its finances. Its gross domestic
product fell 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter, as the country
suffers its second recession since 2009.  Reduce the Deficit  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro presented the 2012 budget
on March 30. The government aims to reduce the deficit to 5.3
percent of gross domestic product from 8.5 percent last year
even as the economy contracts.  Investor confidence in the 182 billion euros of bonds tied
to Spanish residential-mortgage backed securities trails
securities from  Italy , the Netherlands and U.K., including
that’s country’s version of subprime home loans.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish RMBS above
benchmarks has held at 500 basis points since the end of
February, 155 basis points higher than a year ago, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Spanish banks’ average net borrowings from the  European
Central Bank  surged in February to a record 152.4 billion euros
from 76 billion euros in October as the central bank stepped up
its emergency lending to avert a credit crunch, according to
data published by the Bank of Spain.  ‘Bring Transparency’  The extra yield investors demand to hold bonds from Spanish
financial companies is 483 basis points, almost twice the 242
basis points average for the U.S. and 257 basis points globally,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “This will bring transparency,” Encinar said by phone.
Spanish banks will be able to absorb the losses better than
individual homeowners, he said.  Rajoy’s efforts to shrink the banking industry will be
helped by CaixaBank SA’s plan, announced on March 27, to buy
Banca Civica SA, a group of former savings banks, for 977
million euros. That will be the industry’s biggest transaction
since three of Banco Pastor SA’s largest shareholders accepted a
1.35 billion-euro bid from  Banco Popular Espanol SA. (POP)   The word “mortgage” originates from Law French and
literally means “death contract,” or a pledge that ends when
either the obligation is fulfilled or the property is taken
through foreclosure.  For Legarra, who can’t sell her home to start a new life in
another property or move back to her birthplace in Pamplona, the
word’s meaning is significant. “It definitely feels like a
hefty sentence for me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 