-- Partner, Cellcom Drop as Phone Competition Grows: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-04-01T11:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/partner-cellcom-drop-as-phone-competition-grows-tel-aviv-mover.html
Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  and  Partner
Communications Ltd. (PTNR)  fell, leading declines in Tel Aviv shares,
on bets growing competition will compel  Israel ’s largest mobile-
phone providers to keep prices low.  Shares of Netanya, Israel-based Cellcom retreated 2.2
percent to 45.97 shekels, set for the lowest close on record, at
2:18 p.m. in Tel Aviv. Partner’s  stock  dropped 2.5 percent to
27.90 shekels, poised for the biggest drop since March 19.  Protests since July against rising prices from housing to
cottage cheese have spurred Israeli policy makers to zero in on
implementing measures to reduce the cost of living. Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s government is forcing telecom
providers to cut fees and encouraging new players in a market
where the three biggest companies control 95 percent of sales.
Netanyahu announced yesterday that a tax on gasoline will
increase by less than planned to ease the burden on consumers.  “They are in a very-competitive market and if they raise
prices they will lose market share,” said Ilanit Sherf, an
analyst at Psagot Investment House Ltd in  Tel Aviv . “The name
of the game in the cellular market today is price. Consumers
want the cheapest product.” Sherf has a sell recommendation on
Partner and Cellcom.  The Hallo 015 mobile-phone service, operated by Hilat-The
Israeli Communication Co., began marketing Israel’s first
unlimited telephone package last week. Hallo said it would be
able to compete in the local market, countering doubts about the
feasibility of its operations, Globes reported today, citing a
marketing executive at the company.  Cellcom shares slumped 26 percent in the first three months
of the year, their biggest quarterly decline on record,
according to Bloomberg data going back to the last quarter of
2007. Six analysts  recommend selling  the stock, while eight have
a hold rating and one a buy rating.  Five  analysts recommend  buying Partner’s shares while six
holding it and three selling  rating on the stock, which fell 15
percent in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  