-- Peru CPI Quickens to Eight-Month High on Food, School Fees
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-04-01T05:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/peru-cpi-quickens-to-eight-month-high-on-food-school-fees-1-.html
Peruvian  consumer prices  rose in
March at the fastest pace in eight months on increases in the
cost of food, fuel and schooling.  Consumer prices rose 0.77 percent from February and 4.23
percent from the same month a year earlier, the national
statistics agency said in an e-mailed report. Economists
expected increases of 0.6 percent on the month and 4.1 percent
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg (PRCPMOM) .  Peru ’s central bank raised its forecast for 2012 growth in
a March 23 report and said inflation won’t slow to the mid-point
of its 1 percent to 3 percent target range until next year. It
previously saw inflation falling to 2 percent this year. The
central bank will probably keep rates on hold in 2012 as
activity picks up without stirring demand pressures, said Pedro Tuesta, a senior Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc.  “They won’t change the monetary stance unless the global
economy worsens or oil prices rise and affect inflation
expectations,” Tuesta said in a phone interview from  Washington 
before the report was released.  The central bank, which has held its  benchmark lending rate 
at 4.25 percent since May, sees the economy expanding 5.7
percent this year, compared with an estimate of 5.5 percent
three months ago.  The government’s consumer price index is based on a survey
of establishments conducted in the Lima Metropolitan area. Food
and drink prices constitute 38 percent of the index.  Chicken prices rose 8.8 percent last month, vegetables
gained 4.9 percent while schooling fees climbed 7.5 percent and
gasoline rose 3.7 percent, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  