-- PetroChina’s Oil Output Trumps Exxon, Rosneft: Chart of the Day
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-01T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/petrochina-s-oil-output-trumps-exxon-rosneft-chart-of-the-day.html
PetroChina Co. surpassed global
rivals  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and OAO Rosneft to become the biggest
oil producer among publicly traded companies last year.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows crude output by PetroChina
compared with production of the world’s largest listed energy
companies, in million barrels a day, based on Bloomberg
calculations from company statements. The lower panel tracks
Beijing-based PetroChina’s quarterly net income in million yuan,
including the final three months of 2011 reported on March 29.  PetroChina plans “large scale” acquisitions to secure
more oil and natural gas to help fuel the world’s second-biggest
economy, Chairman Jiang Jiemin told reporters after the earnings
report. The Hong Kong-listed company aims to spend at least $60
billion on global assets this decade to boost the share of
overseas output to half of total production.  “There isn’t enough organic growth that can support such a
growth, so PetroChina has to acquire the capacity through major
acquisitions,” said  Neil Beveridge , a senior analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong. For PetroChina to reach its
overseas production goal, Beveridge said the company needs to
add capacity equivalent to that of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which
produced a combined 3.2 million barrels a day of oil and gas
last year.  PetroChina’s oil and gas production outside  China  rose 18
percent last year, five times faster than that of domestic
fields, data from the company’s earnings statement show.
Overseas output climbed to 120.8 million barrels, less than a
tenth of the total of 1.3 billion barrels, or 3.5 million
barrels a day of oil and gas. Based on both crude and gas, Exxon
Chairman  Rex Tillerson  said on a teleconference March 8 that his
company remains the biggest listed producer at 4.5 million
barrels equivalent a day.  While PetroChina has emerged as the top publicly traded oil
producer, the company still has “huge” potential to expand its
output, Jiang said. Unlisted Saudi Arabian Oil Co. produces
almost 10 million barrels a day of crude.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  