-- Tribune Says Stations Pulled From DirecTV U.S. Markets
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-04-01T20:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/tribune-says-programming-was-pulled-from-directv-u-s-markets.html
Tribune Co. (TRB)  said some of its
television stations went off the air for  DirecTV (DTV)  subscribers in
19 U.S. markets, including Chicago,  New York , Washington and
Philadelphia, after a contract lapsed at midnight.  The blacked-out stations include WPIX-TV in New York, WPHL-
TV in Philadelphia, WGN in Chicago and WDCW-TV in Washington.
DirecTV said it has 19.9 million subscribers in the U.S. Tribune
has set up a  website  for DirecTV viewers affected by the
shutdown.  Negotiations have gone on for more than two months on an
agreement to allow DirecTV to carry Tribune’s 23 local broadcast
stations in various markets. In those markets, Tribune owns
either the local Fox or CW affiliates. The lack of an accord
leaves viewers unable to see shows that include “ American
Idol ,” Major League Baseball broadcasts, “America’s Next Top
Model” and “Gossip Girl.”  “DirecTV has never compensated Tribune for the rebroadcast
of its television stations and Tribune is asking for an
agreement that is similar to those that DirecTV already has in
place with hundreds of other broadcasters and program
providers,” Tribune said in a statement late yesterday.  “We’re fully prepared to pay Tribune fairly for their
stations,” Darris Gringeri, a DirecTV spokesman, said today in
an e-mail. “This issue is that they are asking for a price that
is far above market value and that’s not fair to our
customers.”  ‘Puzzled’  Yesterday, DirecTV said the two sides reached a “handshake
deal” on March 29. Tribune said later in the day that that
statement by DirecTV left them “puzzled,” while denying an
accord was reached.  Tribune spokesman  Gary Weitman , asked yesterday whether the
two sides were still talking, said in a telephone interview, “I
don’t want to comment upon or characterize the negotiation
process.”  Michael McCormack , an analyst at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York, said in February, at the time of
DirecTV’s fourth-quarter earnings release, that programming
costs will be exacerbated when it negotiates new contracts with
CBS Corp. and Discovery Communications Inc. this year.  Tribune, the Chicago-based owner of the Los Angeles Times
and the Chicago Tribune newspapers, filed for bankruptcy in
December 2008, one year after a leveraged buyout led by real-
estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  Since then, the company and  hedge funds  holding Tribune’s
senior debt have fought for approval of a plan to divide
ownership among the lenders that financed the $8.3 billion
buyout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  