-- Romney Works to Win Wisconsin, While Looking to November
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-04-01T20:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/romney-works-to-win-wisconsin-while-looking-to-november.html
Mitt Romney  is shifting his focus to
challenging President Barack Obama in the general election as
Rick Santorum struggles to regain momentum for his campaign amid
urging from party leaders to bring a swift conclusion to the
Republican presidential nominating contest.  Romney’s campaign is moving to lock up the party
nomination, seeking victories in a trio of primaries this week
as a first step to effectively ending the primary campaign.  “I think the chances are overwhelming that he will be our
nominee,” Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky
said of Romney in an interview on CNN’s “State of the Union”
today. “It seems to me we’re in the final phase of wrapping up
this nomination.”  Faced with pressure to withdraw from the race, Santorum
vowed to continue his campaign if even he loses contests in
 Wisconsin , Maryland and the District of Columbia on April 3.  “Look, this race isn’t even at halftime yet,” Santorum
said on “Fox News Sunday.”  Trailing in delegates, Santorum faces an uphill battle for
the nomination. With about half of the Republican nominating
contests complete, Romney has 568 of the 1,144 delegates needed
to capture the nomination at the party’s convention in August,
according to an Associated Press tally. Santorum, a former U.S.
senator from Pennsylvania, has 273 delegates and would need to
win about three-quarters of those remaining to become the
party’s nominee.  Romney Endorsements  Romney, 65, has also accelerated efforts to win the support
of Republican officials across the party. Today, he picked up
the endorsement of Wisconsin Senator  Ron Johnson , who described
him as “ready, willing and able” to lead the country.  Johnson’s endorsement, along with the backing of other Tea
Party favorites such as Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida ,
demonstrates that Romney is broadening his support beyond the
establishment party figures that have long supported his
candidacy.  “I just want to reassure every conservative: I’ve spoken
to Mitt, I totally believe he is committed to saving America,”
Johnson told voters at a pancake breakfast in  Milwaukee  today.  As he campaigns across Wisconsin this weekend, Romney has
largely ignored his Republican rivals, keeping his message
focused on the general election. He has framed the election as a
fight for economic freedom, blaming Obama for a “tepid”
recovery and saying the president’s economic strategy is a
“bust.”  American Exceptionalism  At a Republican Party dinner in Pewaukee last night, Romney
promised to revive America, saying Obama has failed to recognize
the country’s unique place in the world.  “It is always a great gift to remember that we have
something no one else in the world has: We’re American,” he
said. “I want to make sure we bring back that conviction to
every man, woman and child around the world.”  As Romney’s campaign is focusing on November, so too are
the Democrats. Vice President Joe Biden criticized Romney in an
interview broadcast today on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” saying
he “seems not to understand” the struggle of the middle-class
Americans.  “ Governor Romney ’s a little out of touch,’ he said.  Wisconsin Primary  After losing primaries to Santorum in Mississippi,  Alabama 
and  Louisiana , Romney is casting Wisconsin as the state that can
deliver a knock-out punch.  ‘‘We’re looking like we’re going to win this thing on
Tuesday,” he said in Fitchburg, Wisconsin, yesterday,
suggesting he could come out ahead in all three of this week’s
contests. “If I can get that boost also from Wisconsin, I think
we’ll be on a path that’ll get me the nomination well before the
convention.”  The Wisconsin primary is Santorum’s last opportunity to
demonstrate his strength in the industrial Midwest, a region
where he has said he can compete effectively against Obama.
Santorum held Romney to wins of three percentage points in
 Michigan  and one percentage point in  Ohio .  Santorum raised questions yesterday about Romney’s
competitiveness against Obama in the general election, saying he
couldn’t make a strong case against the national health-care law
championed by Obama because of his support for a similar state
law as governor of  Massachusetts .  “It’s important to stand behind principled
conservatives,” Santorum told voters in Pewaukee, Wisconsin.
“It’s our best chance of winning.”  Lead in Poll  In a NBC News/Marist poll released March 30, Romney led
Santorum in Wisconsin, 40 percent to 33 percent. Representative
Ron Paul of  Texas  was third with 11 percent, and Gingrich was
last at 8 percent. The telephone survey of 740 likely Republican
primary voters was conducted March 26-27 and has a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.  The next contests will be on April 24 in  Rhode Island ,
 Connecticut ,  New York  and  Delaware  -- states expected to favor
Romney -- and in  Pennsylvania , which Santorum represented in the
House and the Senate.  Santorum is looking ahead to the April 24 primaries. He
scheduled his April 3 election night party in Mars,
Pennsylvania, near his hometown of Butler, and not in Wisconsin.  The Wisconsin primary is not “do or die,” he said today
on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “We have to win Pennsylvania.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Milwaukee at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  