-- Romney Says Wisconsin Win Will Knock Santorum Out of Race
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-04-01T04:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/romney-says-wisconsin-win-will-knock-santorum-out-of-race.html
Mitt Romney  predicted victory in
next week’s Wisconsin primary, projecting new confidence that
such a win would clear the way for him to lock up the Republican
presidential nomination.  “We’re looking like we’re going to win this thing on
Tuesday,” he said in Fitchburg, Wisconsin yesterday, suggesting
he could also come out ahead in two other contests in  Maryland 
and the  District of Columbia  on April 3. “If I can get that
boost also from Wisconsin, I think we’ll be on a path that’ll
get me the nomination well before the convention.”  A trio of victories would demonstrate Romney’s ability to
win across the country, while also expanding his lead toward
securing the 1,144 convention delegates needed to capture the
party nomination.  Romney has 568 delegates, according to an Associated Press
tally. Former U.S.  Pennsylvania  Senator  Rick Santorum  has 273,
followed by former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  with 135 and
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  with 50.  “If you do your job and I do mine, I might be able to pick
up all three of those, and that would be obviously a big
statement,” he told voters at a call center for Republican
Governor Scott Walker, who is facing a recall election.  Romney wins could also mark the beginning of the end for
Santorum, who’s struggled to maintain momentum amid endorsements
for Romney and calls from numerous prominent party leaders to
complete the primary process and begin preparation for the
contest in November against President  Barack Obama . Romney on
March 29 was endorsed by former President George H.W. Bush.  Santorum’s Pitch  At a Republican party dinner in Wisconsin last night,
Santorum raised questions about Romney’s general election
competitiveness, saying he didn’t share their views on such
issues as a health-care mandate. Romney, Santorum said, couldn’t
make a strong case against the national health-care law
championed by Obama because of his support for a similar state
law as governor of  Massachusetts .  “It’s important to stand behind principled
conservatives,” he told voters in Pewaukee, Wisconsin. “It’s
our best chance of winning.”  The Wisconsin primary is Santorum’s last opportunity to
demonstrate his strength in the Midwest, a region where he has
said he is better than Romney to compete against Obama. In
Michigan and Ohio, Santorum held Romney to wins of 3 percentage
points and 1 percentage point.  Romney Polling Ahead  In a NBC News/Marist  poll  released yesterday, Romney had an
advantage over Santorum, 40 percent to 33 percent. Paul was
third with 11 percent, and Gingrich was last at 8 percent, in
the survey of likely  Wisconsin  primary voters conducted March
26-27 with a margin of error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage
points.  The next contests will be on April 24 in  Rhode Island ,
 Connecticut ,  New York  and  Delaware  -- states expected to favor
Romney -- and in Pennsylvania, which Santorum represented in the
House and Senate.  Santorum is looking ahead to the April 24 primaries. He
scheduled his election night party in Mars, Pennsylvania, near
his hometown of Butler, rather than Tuesday in Wisconsin.  On the campaign trail yesterday, Romney ignored his primary
rivals, keeping his message focused on the general election. He
framed the election as a battle for economic freedom, blaming
Obama for “the most tepid, weakest recovery” and labeled his
economic strategy a “bust.”  “This is a time for freedom, for economic freedom,” he
said in his remarks before the Faith and Freedom Coalition. “It
is not a time for a government dominated society or economy.”  Revive America  At the party dinner in Pewaukee last night, Romney promised
to revive America, accusing Obama with failing to recognize the
country’s unique place in the world.  “It is always a great gift to remember that we have
something no one else in the world has: We’re American,” he
said. “I want to make sure we bring back that conviction to
every man, woman and child around the world.”  Even as he pivoted to the November election, Romney
highlighted positions that appeal to evangelical and born-again
Christian voters who make up the primary base of the  Republican
Party .  “I will restore and protect religious freedom,” he said.
“We are one nation under God and that must be maintained.”  Romney, 65, struck an upbeat tone as he toured the state,
joking with voters and praising Wisconsin U.S. Representative
Paul Ryan, who has endorsed Romney.  Joking Romney  In Fitchburg, Romney teased an aide about his gray plaid
jacket, saying that it was made out of the fabric of an old
couch once owned by Ryan. “People always wondered what happened
to that sofa,” Romney told voters.  After losing primaries to Santorum in  Mississippi ,  Alabama ,
and  Louisiana , Romney is casting Wisconsin as the state that can
deliver a knock-out punch.  “I’m not counting the delegates before they hatch,”
Romney said. “But I’m going to keep working very hard and hope
I get a good strong send off from Wisconsin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Pewaukee, Wisconsin at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  