-- Romney May Win ‘A Lot of Delegates’ This Week, Ryan Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-04-01T18:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/romney-may-win-a-lot-of-delegates-this-week-ryan-says-1-.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  was endorsed today by Wisconsin Senator Ron Johnson,
a favorite of the conservative Tea Party movement, as
Representative Paul Ryan predicted that the former Massachusetts
governor would capture “a lot of delegates” this week.  With primaries in Wisconsin,  Maryland  and the District of
Columbia on April 3, “I think Mitt has a really good chance of
winning a lot of delegates,” Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, said
on ABC’s “This Week.” Romney has 568 of the 1,144 delegates
needed for nomination, according to an Associated Press tally.  Johnson told NBC’s “Meet the Press” that Romney “is the
person to lead our party, lead our nation.” He also said that
at the request of Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , he
would be coordinating the congressional agenda and message with
the party’s presidential candidate.  McConnell, interviewed on CNN’s “State of the Union,”
stopped short of a formal endorsement of Romney while saying
that “the chances are overwhelming” that he will be nominated
and that he would be “an excellent candidate.”  “It’s time to turn our attention to the fall campaign and
begin to make the case against the president of the  United
States ,” the Kentucky Republican said, echoing comments made by
Ryan on both ABC and CNN today.  ‘Boost’ From Wisconsin  Romney has predicted victory in the Wisconsin primary,
projecting new confidence that such a win would clear the way
for him to lock up his party’s presidential nomination.  “We’re looking like we’re going to win this thing on
Tuesday,” he said yesterday in Fitchburg,  Wisconsin , suggesting
he could also come out ahead in the other April 3 contests as
well. “If I can get that boost also from Wisconsin, I think
we’ll be on a path that’ll get me the nomination well before the
convention.”  Romney’s chief rival for the nomination, former
Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, said today on “Fox News
Sunday” that he felt no pressure to drop out of the race.  Romney “isn’t even close to closing the deal” and
Democrats showed in 2008 that a long primary can produce the
best candidate, said Santorum, who according to the AP tally has
273 delegates.  “We came up with someone who, well, just simply wasn’t
able to win” in 2008, Santorum said. “We don’t need to bail
out and not have the best candidate to take Barack Obama on in
the fall.”  Looking Ahead  Santorum said that primary elections to be held in April
and May in  Texas , Indiana,  Pennsylvania  and  North Carolina 
“look very, very good” for him.  The Wisconsin primary is Santorum’s last opportunity to
demonstrate his strength in the Midwest, a region where he has
said he would be better than Romney in competing against Obama.
Santorum held Romney to wins of three percentage points in
 Michigan  and one percentage point in  Ohio .  The Wisconsin primary is not “do or die,” Santorum said
today on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  In a NBC News/Marist poll released late last week, Romney
led Santorum in Wisconsin, 40 percent to 33 percent. Paul was
third with 11 percent, and Gingrich was last at 8 percent. The
telephone poll of 740 likely voters in the state’s Republican
primary was conducted March 26-27 and has a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.  Next Contests  The next contests will be on April 24 in Rhode Island,
 Connecticut ,  New York  and  Delaware  -- states expected to favor
Romney -- and in Pennsylvania, which Santorum represented in the
House and the Senate.  “We have to win Pennsylvania and we’re going to win
Pennsylvania,” Santorum said on NBC today. “I have no doubt
about that.”  Newt Gingrich , who is third in the race with 135 delegates
and hasn’t won a primary outside of South Carolina and his home
state of Georgia, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” that he
would endorse either Romney or Santorum if he doesn’t win the
nomination because “there’s no alternative.”  “You didn’t say, ‘In an ideal world, is Mitt Romney the
person I’d like to have as president?’” Gingrich said on CBS.
“That person is Newt Gingrich.”  Cutting Gingrich Off  Gingrich supporter  Sheldon Adelson , chairman of  Las Vegas
Sands Corp (LVS) , said last week that the former House speaker is “at
the end of his line,” according to the Los Angeles Times, which
reported that Adelson, his wife and other family members had
given a total of $16.5 million to Winning Our Future, a super-
PAC supporting the Georgia Republican.  Representative Ron Paul of Texas, who trails the other
candidates with 50 delegates, said on CBS that he’s “still
campaigning” and that he wouldn’t expect to be considered as
Romney’s running mate.  “There’s too many disagreements,” he said. “I have no
common ground on economics.”  Paul wants to eliminate the  Federal Reserve , which he
blames for the nation’s “boom-bust” economic cycles, according
to his  campaign website , and legalize what he calls “sound
money” as an alternative to “inflated” U.S. currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  