-- Romney Has `Cold War Mentality'' About Russia, Biden Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-04-01T16:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/romney-stuck-in-cold-war-mentality-about-russia-bide.html
Republican presidential candidate
Mitt Romney is “stuck in a  Cold War  mentality” when it comes
to working with Russia, U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  said on
CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  Biden defended President  Barack Obama ’s “open microphone”
remark last week to his Russian counterpart,  Dmitry Medvedev ,
and focused on Romney’s reaction, in which the former
Massachusetts governor described Russia as, “without question,
our number-one geopolitical foe.”  “He acts like he thinks the Cold War’s still on,” Biden
said. “I don’t know where he’s been.”  Microphones on March 26 recorded Obama asking Medvedev to
let Russian President-elect Vladimir Putin know that he needed
to “give me space” to deal with objections to the U.S.’s
missile-defense plan.  “This is my last election, and after my election I have
more flexibility,” Obama told Medvedev.  “I understand,” Medvedev replied in English, adding that
he would “transmit this information to Vladimir.”  In his interview with CBS, taped March 29 and broadcast
today, Biden said that Obama “just stated the obvious” and
that “it’s going to be difficult” to work with Congress on
further reductions of the U.S. nuclear arsenal between now and
the November elections.  ‘Alarming’ Words  Romney, who has been criticized by his Republican rivals
for shifting positions, has accused Obama of having a hidden
agenda for his second term, calling the president’s words
“alarming and troubling.”  “This is no time for our president to be pulling his
punches with the American people,” he said at a campaign stop
in  California . In an March 26 interview with  CNN , after Obama’s
comment to Medvedev was reported, Romney said that Russia was,
“without question, our number-one geopolitical foe.”  Republican presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich , appearing
separately on the CBS program, also commented on Obama’s remark
to the Russian president.  “You have to ask yourself: How many foreign leaders has he
said that to without an open mic?” Gingrich said. “How many
other countries are counting on Barack Obama to be, quote,
flexible after the election?”  Biden told CBS that Russia was helping the U.S. get
materials to troops in Afghanistan and would increase oil
supplies to  Europe  if there was an oil shutdown in the Persian
Gulf.  “This is not 1956,” Biden said. “It exposes how little
the governor knows about foreign policy.”  Last week Medvedev said that Romney’s description of  Russia 
as his country’s enemy “smacks of Hollywood.”  The Republican candidates should “use their brains and
check the clock,” refraining from obsolete attitudes, the
Russian leader told reporters on March 27 at the conclusion of a
two-day nuclear security summit in Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  