-- S. Korean Inflation Moderates to Slowest Pace in 20 Months
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-04-02T02:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/s-korean-inflation-moderates-to-slowest-pace-in-20-months-1-.html
South Korea ’s consumer prices rose
2.6 percent in March from a year earlier, the slowest pace in 20
months, before a central bank meeting next week to set benchmark
 interest rates .　  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 11
analysts was for a 3.2 percent increase. Prices fell 0.1 percent
from February, Statistics  Korea  said today.  The  Bank of Korea  aims to keep inflation at the midpoint of
a range of between 2 percent and 4 percent over the medium term.
The central bank kept the benchmark seven-day repurchase rate
unchanged at 3.25 percent for a ninth month in March as  Europe ’s
debt crisis and austerity measures capped demand for exports.  “Inflation may creep up again due to high  oil prices  and
elevated inflation expectations, with the economy likely to gain
pace from the second quarter” said Kim Nam Hyun, a Seoul-based
fixed income analyst at  Eugene Investment (001200)  & Futures.  Government subsidies for child care and an expanded free
school lunch program cut consumer prices by 0.5 percentage
points, Ahn Hyung Jun, a director at Statistics Korea, told
reporters in Gwacheon today.  South Korea’s government won’t revise a 3.2 percent
inflation forecast for this year because high oil and
agricultural prices will likely offset the government subsidies
for childcare expenses, Deputy Finance Minister Joo Hyung Hwan
told reporters in Gwacheon.  Core prices, which exclude oil and agricultural products,
advanced 1.9 percent in March from a year earlier, today’s
report showed.  Exports were less than analysts forecast in March, sliding
1.4 percent from a year earlier, a separate report showed
yesterday. The nation’s economy may have bottomed in the first
three months of the year and will return to a recovery path this
quarter, according to Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan.  Gross domestic product grew 0.3 percent in the three months
to December from the third quarter, the least in two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  