-- S&P 500 Beating Gold Most Since 1999 on Positive Earnings
-- B y   S r i n i v a s a n   S i v a b a l a n   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-04-02T21:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/s-p-500-beating-gold-most-since-1999-on-positive-earnings.html
The best first-quarter gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since 1998 sent U.S. stocks above
gold by the most in more than a decade, a sign of growing
investor confidence in corporate profits as analysts raise
earnings estimates for the first time this year.  The  S&P 500  climbed 12 percent, 5.3 percentage points more
than gold for the widest gap to start a year since 1999,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  S&P GSCI Total
Return Index (SPGSCITR)  of 24 commodities gained 5.9 percent over the three
months, while Treasuries slipped 1.3 percent, trailing equities
by the most since 2009. Corporate bonds increased 2.4 percent
and the  dollar  fell 1.6 percent.  Stocks are diverging from defensive investments such as
gold as appetite for risk increases. While bulls see it as a
sign  profits  and the economy are gaining traction, bears point
to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s warnings that more
stimulus may be needed as evidence that the rally has gone too
far. To money manager  Laszlo Birinyi , slower gains in precious
metals signal pessimism is starting to fade.  “The problem with gold now is that people are starting to
accept the economy recovery,” Birinyi, president of Westport,
Connecticut-based Birinyi Associates Inc., said in a March 29
phone interview. Even as confidence builds, “people are still
too focused on the concerns and the fact that this looks similar
to last year, where everyone said sell in May and go away,” he
said. “That’s exactly the kind of thing we look for.”  Monthly Gain  The  benchmark gauge for American equities  advanced 0.8
percent last week to 1,408.47, bringing the increase for March
to 3.1 percent. The S&P 500 rose 0.8 percent to 1,419.04 today.  U.S. Treasuries lost 1 percent in the month after S&P 500
earnings expanded for a ninth straight quarter and manufacturing
and home sales improved, while corporate bonds dropped 0.6
percent. The S&P GSCI commodity gauge slipped 2.4 percent and
the  Dollar Index , which measures the currency against the
biggest U.S. trading partners, added 0.3 percent.  Record earnings, improved U.S. manufacturing and retail
sales, and attempts by European leaders to contain their debt
crisis helped stocks rally in the quarter, beating gold as
demand for assets that protect against losses faded. Equities
pulled ahead in March when Bernanke damped speculation he would
carry out more bond purchases, adding to evidence that the
recovery is gathering momentum. He said on March 26 that while
he’s encouraged by the  decline  in unemployment, more stimulus is
needed to create jobs.  One-Year Low  The rally in gold may pick up speed should central banks
signal further action, according to Ioan Smith, a director at
Knight Capital Europe Ltd. in  London . Futures on the metal
surged 1.6 percent on March 26 after Bernanke said the economy
needs “continued accommodative monetary policy” to boost jobs.  “If the Fed reinstitutes quantitative easing measures
later in the year, coupled with rising fiscal deficits and
currency debasement among countries in the developed world, then
gold may continue to hold an underlying bid,” Smith said in an
e-mail.  Fourteen out of 21 primary dealers in U.S. Treasuries say
the Fed will probably need a third round of bond purchases, or
quantitative easing, to bolster the economy, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  LSI, Lennar Earnings  The S&P 500 has rallied 28 percent since it reached a one-
year low on Oct. 3, gaining as companies from  LSI Corp. (LIS)  to
 Lennar Corp. (LEN)  reported earnings that beat estimates. Profits for
the 500 companies will rise 13 percent in 2012 after climbing
9.9 percent in 2011, estimates and  data  compiled by Bloomberg
show. Analysts  boosted  forecasts by 0.2 percent in the four
weeks through March 22 to $104.37 a share in the biggest
increase of 2012. They fell during January and February, the
data show.  The Commerce Department said last week the economy grew 3
percent during the last three months of 2011, more than any
quarter since June 2010. Equity gains came as the Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, sank 64 percent since
the end of September, a record two-quarter retreat, Bloomberg
data show.  “It’s not just that people bought equities because they
had nothing else to do with their money, it’s that the actual
underlying businesses had done pretty well,”  Michael Shaoul ,
chairman of New York-based Marketfield Asset Management, which
oversees $1.5 billion, said in a March 28 interview. “As people
start to realize this, you’ll see a migration of that safe haven
trade out of gold and into the portions of the global equity
market which are really able to benefit.”  Volatility Notes  Rallying stocks and the plunging  VIX (VIX)  also caused demand for
the  VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short-Term ETN (TVIX) , known by the
symbol TVIX, to explode as traders sought a cheap way to protect
gains in equities. Interest in the note, which owns VIX futures,
was so great Credit Suisse Group AG stopped issuing shares in
February after its market value soared to almost $700 million
from $162.8 million at the end of 2011.  The combined value of the five biggest VIX-related
securities traded on U.S. markets swelled to $2.8 billion as of
March 29, more than doubling from the level at the end of 2011.
Their market capitalization rises as their sponsors issue new
stock to keep the share prices aligned with an underlying index.  The 9.9 percent increase in  earnings  last year wasn’t
enough to spare the S&P 500 from its smallest annual move since
1947, leaving the valuation  measure  at 13.6 times reported
profits on the last day of 2011, 20 percent below the average
since 1954, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Since then, the
price-earnings ratio climbed to 14.6, about 11 percent below the
historic mean.  Annual Start  “The huge monetary thrust has market speculators timing
when the liquidity wave will break,” Chad Morganlander, a
 Florham Park , New Jersey-based money manager at Stifel Nicolaus
& Co., which oversees more than $116 billion in client assets,
said in a March 30 phone interview. “Market participants are
positioning for a pullback in risk-taking. Investors should
consider a second-half growth scare in the  U.S. economy , which
is not out of the question.”  Companies in the U.S. may struggle to increase earnings as
 profit margins , or the percentage of sales converted into net
income, shrink. Margins for all U.S. companies reached 13
percent last quarter, higher than any time since 1950, according
to data compiled by the Commerce Department. For the S&P 500,
they’ve narrowed this year by 0.2 percentage point, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Internet Bubble  LSI, a maker of chips used in computer disk drives, jumped
to the  highest level  in almost five years on March 14 after
raising its first-quarter sales  prediction , citing a stronger-
than-expected recovery in the industry. Analysts boosted 2012
earnings projections for the Milpitas, California-based company
16 percent, the biggest increase among the 500 companies in the
benchmark gauge for American equities.  Projections for 2012 profit at Lennar are up 10 percent
from four weeks ago, with analysts forecasting a  67 percent
increase , data compiled by Bloomberg show. The third-largest
U.S. homebuilder by revenue reported better-than-estimated net
income for the period ending Feb. 29 after new home orders rose.
The stock increased 38 percent last quarter, the best January-
to-March period since 1998.  Financial companies, technology shares and the consumer-
discretionary group  led gains  in the S&P 500 last quarter, with
each rising at least 16 percent. The two worst-performing
industries were phone stocks and utilities, industries investors
typically flock to in times of economic uncertainty for their
higher dividend yields.  ‘Biggest Friend’  “Confidence is returning on the recovery and as it does,
gold’s relative standing is diminishing,”  James Paulsen , who
helps oversee about $333 billion as chief investment strategist
at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management, said in a March
26 phone interview. “The biggest friend of gold in recent years
is the same biggest friend of the  bond market : fear. When
confidence has returned and fear dissipates, gold pales.”  Even with the  rally , individuals have been reluctant to put
money in equities. Net outflows of funds that invest in U.S.
equities totaled $2.13 billion in January and $3.21 billion in
February. The withdrawals continued into March, with $1.8
billion out in the week ended March 21 and $2.9 billion the week
before, according to the  Investment Company Institute  in
 Washington .  Unemployment Declines  Gains in stocks came as the  unemployment rate  reached 8.3
percent in January after falling five straight months, home
sales beat estimates and the Conference Board’s gauge of
 consumer confidence  rose to the highest level in a year. The
world’s largest economy will grow 2.2 percent this year, up from
the 1.7 percent in 2011, according to the median of 72
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The perceived risk in the outlook for the global economy
is now somewhat lower than what it was even three months ago,”
said Espen Furnes, an Oslo-based  fund manager  at Storebrand
Asset Management, which oversees $72 billion. Gold’s
underperformance is a “sign that investors are regaining some
of the lost confidence in the capitalistic system as a whole.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Srinivasan Sivabalan in London at 
 ssivabalan@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  