-- Sheikh’s Monterosso Wins Dubai Cup, World’s Richest Horse Race
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/sheikh-s-monterosso-wins-dubai-cup-world-s-richest-horse-race.html
Monterosso, owned by Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum’s stables, won the $10 million Dubai World
Cup, the world’s richest horse race.  Monterosso, third in last year’s race, covered the 1 ¼-mile
distance in 2 minutes, 2.67 seconds at Meydan Race Course at
Dubai,  United Arab Emirates . Capponi, also owned by the Sheikh’s
Godolphin Stables, was second.  “I couldn’t believe it when no one was coming after me (in
the straight),” winning jockey Mickael Barzalona told reporters.
“This is a dream. I have no words to describe what I feel right
now.”  Godolphin Stables’ horses, which have won five times in the
race’s 17-year history, hadn’t come in first since 2006.  “I feel over the moon,” Mohammed told The Associated
Press. “We haven’t won this race for many years. It was a
pleasant surprise really. We had as good of a chance as anyone
but we are at home and training here. I’m very happy we won
after so many years.”  Monterosso, a British 5-year-old with 20-1 odds, finished
three lengths ahead of Capponi. Planteur was third a further
half-length behind in the 13-horse field. There is no betting at
the track.  “I beat the winner the last time we met but obviously he’s
improved and he ran third in this race last year, so it’s great
for the team,” Ahmed Ajtebi, Capponi’s jockey, told reporters.
“My horse has come from handicaps to running second in the
Dubai  World Cup .”  Chantal Sutherland, the first female jockey in the World
Cup race, came in 12th on Game On Dude.  “It was a good trip considering everything that
happened,” Sutherland said. “The horse next to him was acting
up in the gate, so he thought they were going to break. At home
we break quicker, so he went to go forward and then he sat down.
He just got a little frazzled after not breaking so great.”  Bob Baffert , Game on Dude’s trainer, was at the track five
days after a heart attack in Dubai.  “Tough day but so happy to be outdoors again enjoying the
sport I love,” Baffert said on Twitter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  