-- South Korean Exports Fall 1.4% on Weakness in Global Demand
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-04-01T00:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/south-korean-exports-fall-1-4-on-weakness-in-global-demand-1-.html
South Korea ’s exports were less than
analysts forecast in March, sliding 1.4 percent from a year
earlier on weakness in global demand.  Imports fell 1.2 percent, leaving a trade surplus of $2.3
billion, the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said in an e-mailed
statement today. The  median estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey
of 13 economists was for a 1.3 percent gain in exports.  Signs that  Europe ’s debt crisis is easing may improve the
outlook for shipments from South Korea, where the economy grew
at the slowest pace in two years in the fourth quarter. The
Asian nation’s central bank refrained from altering borrowing
costs for a ninth month in March as officials balanced price
pressures from oil costs against risks posed by stresses in the
euro region.  “As external conditions remain fragile, accommodative
policy is still required to help the economy gain a firmer
footing,” Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said before the release. “ Korea  remains on path
for a gradual recovery in 2012.”  Stocks rallied last quarter on signs of improvement in the
global economy.  In the U.S., the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index had its
biggest first-quarter advance since 1998, gaining 12 percent.
Meanwhile, euro-area finance ministers decided last week that
500 billion euros ($667 billion) in fresh money would go along
with 300 billion euros already committed to create an 800
billion-euro defense against the two-year-old turmoil.  Range of Forecasts  Economists’ estimates for South Korea’s exports last month
ranged from an 8.3 percent gain to a 2 percent decline. Outbound
shipments rose more than 20 percent in February after a 7
percent decline in January as the timing of a Chinese Lunar New
Year holiday affected year-on-year comparisons.  The nation’s economy may have bottomed in the first three
months of the year and will return to a recovery path this
quarter, according to Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan.  “We’re apparently going through a trough but the speed and
magnitude of an economic recovery highly hinges on global
demand,” Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo
Securities Co. in  Seoul , said last week. “The  Bank of
Korea  will likely stay pat for a considerable period of time to
support growth amid easing inflation pressures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  