-- Spain’s Technology Startups Get Second Wind From Telefonica
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-04-02T12:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/spanish-startups-get-second-wind-as-telefonica-seeks-next-tuenti.html
Juan Hurtado Bravo wants you to look
good and he would like to show you how -- before you buy your
clothes online.  Inditex SA (ITX) , owner of Spanish retail giant Zara, and Mango
are in discussion with Hurtado to allow the 29-year-old to do
just that, he says.  Coquetame , the company he co-founded last
year, makes a website that helps customers visually mix and
match attire online. It’s one of the 80 startups in Madrid-based
operator  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s Wayra program, which is nurturing
companies in  Europe  and Latin America.  Spain  may sound like an unlikely place to incubate
tomorrow’s tech success stories. Mired in its worst economic
crisis in decades and with the highest  unemployment rate  in the
European Union, the country ranks 30th out of 71 in the Global
Entrepreneurship and Development Index, after other European
nations such as  Germany , France and  Italy . The index, which
measures entrepreneurial attitudes, action and aspirations, is
led by Denmark, while the U.S. was rated No. 3.  Still, Spain is home to some successful standouts,
including outdoor Wi-Fi services provider  Grupo Gowex (GOW) , founded
by Jenaro Garcia, airline Volotea and social networking site
Tuenti, now owned by Telefonica. Now Bravo hopes his Coquetame
will be the next success story.  Mentoring  “I always wanted to set up my own business and have been
thrilled about creating something new that adds value to what’s
out there,” said Hurtado, an engineer who quit his job as a
business consultant last year.  Under  Wayra , which means “wind” in the Andean Quechua
language, entrepreneurs get an average of about $50,000, space
and six months of mentoring. Telefonica receives a 10 percent
stake in each business and a preference right to buy a
successful product.  Telefonica is looking for start-ups that “are developing
products and services that probably we are going to sell to our
clients in a couple of years,” Wayra Global Director Gonzalo Martin-Villa said. “This is very important for us. It’s also a
matter of developing talent, which we are sure exists in Europe
and in  Latin America .”  For the last year, Spain has developed “a more appropriate
environment for entrepreneurs thanks to institutional support
and accelerator programs for startups,” said Eduardo
Berastegui, an investor and founder of Comunicare, a Madrid-
based marketing consultancy firm.  Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone  “Those initiatives are very keen in funding innovative
ideas in technology and with an international potential, two
features that didn’t very much exist in Spain before and that
now, due to the crisis, have become crucial,” he said.  Other European phone companies have had varying degrees of
success in supporting innovation.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Venture arm invested in Swoodoo, which became one of Germany’s
biggest flight and hotel search sites, and was sold in 2010.
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  moved a research base to Silicon Valley in
September to gain access to U.S. businesses.  Inigo Serrano, co-founder and chief executive officer of
 Emtrics , a mobile-phone based customer review app, says he
didn’t need much money in the early days, recalling his first
working meetings at a Starbucks in  Madrid . As soon as the
initial idea turns into a real one, money becomes an issue, the
former Telefonica manager said.  Cultural Change  After quitting his job at Telefonica, Serrano set up his
first startup, which failed. That didn’t stop him from finding a
partner and getting into Wayra. Emtrics is testing the
application, which lets users rate their customer experience,
with companies such as hotelier  NH Hoteles SA (NHH)  and restaurant
franchise Foster’s Hollywood.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has pledged to pass a law for
entrepreneurs and offer “red carpet” treatment for those who
create jobs, while cutting levies for small companies.  “Spain’s institutional support to entrepreneurs is now
bigger than ever and I think Rajoy’s program is encouraging,”
said Victor Conde, a professor at Universidad Nebrija in Madrid.
“We still need to change in cultural terms. Only 4 percent of
Spaniards want to set up their own business, compared to 60 or
70 percent in the U.S.”  For Telefonica CEO Cesar Alierta, Wayra follows the
company’s latest push in tapping digital opportunities. In
September, the operator created a division with offices in
 London , Silicon Valley,  Tel Aviv ,  Sao Paulo  and Madrid, pulling
together digital assets over three continents.  ‘Boring Market’  “Telefonica is moving from being a former monopoly in a
rather boring market to becoming a player of a really exciting
one, in which the Internet, contents and mobile are
converging,” Antonio Davila, a professor of Entrepreneurship at
 IESE Business School , said. “Telefonica needs to reinvent
itself and Wayra is part of that effort.”  Directors at Wayra also spent a lot of time explaining
Telefonica’s top executives about the project to get them on
board, Martin-Villa said. “Letting people know what we were
doing was very difficult in the beginning,” he said.  Telefonica has dropped 8.2 percent this year through March
30. It fell 1.2 percent to 12.14 euros at 2:30 p.m. in Madrid.  When Hurtado and his two partners landed a meeting with
 Zara  online directors, they didn’t need to think twice. As their
budget was tight they drove the almost 600 kilometers (373
miles) to Inditex’s headquarters in Arteixo, northwest Spain.
The feedback: Coquetame was developing a new and cool technology
which could fit in the retailer’s online expansion, Hurtado
said.  That’s helping him keep improving the product as Coquetame
tries to raise 400,000 euros ($530,000) from investors, he said,
recalling how difficult it was for a fashion designer and an
engineer to work together at the beginning. Representatives at
Inditex and Mango declined to comment.  “I’m not chasing a gig to get by and foot the bills but an
idea that can grow, turn big and involve many people,” Hurtado
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  