-- Starbucks Heads for Smaller China Cities as Coffee Shops Triple
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-01T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/starbucks-heads-for-smaller-china-cities-as-coffee-shops-triple.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  is planning a bigger
push into smaller cities in  China  as the world’s largest coffee-
shop operator triples stores in the country that will become its
second-biggest market by 2014.  The company will have 1,500 stores in more than 70 Chinese
cities by 2015 and expansion through smaller cities is “most
definitely” a viable way to grow,  John Culver , head for China
and  Asia  Pacific, said yesterday in an interview at the Boao
Forum for Asia in the southern province of  Hainan .  The added stores would build on Starbucks’ push  outside  the
U.S. and help it tap growing demand from coffee drinkers in the
world’s most-populous nation. China’s coffee shop market is
forecast to surge 55 percent to 4.5 billion yuan ($714 million)
in 2015 from 2.9 billion yuan last year, data from Euromonitor
International show.  “We see tremendous opportunity to continue to grow in
cities that we are currently in -- those tier one, tier two
cities,” Culver said. “And also, thoughtfully to expand to
tier two, tier three, tier four cities.”  Higher Margins  Business in Chin’s smaller cities has “been tremendously
successful” so far, he said. A deeper push into Asian countries
like China would help the company’s profits.  Operating margin 
for the company’s China/Asia Pacific business was 34.6 percent
in the quarter ended Jan. 1, topping the 21.8 percent for its
Americas segment, according to the company’s January earnings
statement. China offers the “highest financial return” among
all markets, Culver said.  Revenue for the China/Asia-Pacific segment totaled $166.9
million in the first quarter, compared with $2.6 billion in the
America’s segment.  Starbucks dominated China’s coffee shop market with a 66.3
percent share in 2010, according to Euromonitor.  Whitbread Plc (WTB) ,
owner of the Costa Coffee chain, and McDonald’s Corp. trailed
with 8.9 percent and 8 percent shares in 2010 respectively,
according to London-based researcher Euromonitor.  ‘Investment Dollars’  The company is increasing “investment dollars” to build
infrastructure in China, Culver said without providing a
specific number.  Starbucks said last year it had signed an agreement to form
a joint-venture company with Chinese coffee operator Ai Ni Group
to purchase and export high-quality arabica Yunnan coffee  Other global competitors are also expanding. Luigi Lavazza
SpA, an Italian coffee company, said in November it plans to
open more than 200 coffee shops in first-and second-tier cities
in China over the next three years.  China will become the Seattle-based coffee chain’s second
largest market outside the U.S. by 2014, Culver said. The
company has about 500 outlets in China and operates in 48 cities
at the moment. “Over the 13 years we’ve been in China, we have
been able to introduce the coffee house culture in China and
it’s no different when we move into those cities where we don’t
currently have stores,” he said.  Starbucks owns all its stores in China, except in Jiangsu,
Zhejiang and Shanghai where it has a joint venture with  Taiwan ’s
 Uni-President Enterprises Corp. (1216)   As coffee prices have risen, the company has its supply of
coffee “bought out through the remainder of 2012 and into the
first six months of 2013,” Culver said.  Starbucks said in March it plans to introduce a new single-
serve brewer called the Verismo in the U.S. later this year. The
machine will make espresso-based beverages and brewed coffee. It
began selling Via instant coffee in China,  Hong Kong , Macau and
Taiwan in April 2011.  Shares of Starbucks advanced 0.29 percent to $55.89 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market on March 30. The stock has risen 21 percent
this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  