-- Sun Hung Kai Arrests Reveal H.K. Builders’ Succession Risks
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-04-02T09:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/sun-hung-kai-arrests-reveal-hong-kong-builders-succession-risks.html
The arrest of the billionaire
brothers who run  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  by  Hong Kong ’s
anti-corruption body may highlight succession risks at the
city’s largest family controlled developers.  The  Independent Commission Against Corruption  on March 29
detained and later released Thomas and Raymond Kwok on suspected
bribery charges. The two took over last year the chairmanship of
the city’s biggest developer by value from their mother, who had
ousted elder brother  Walter Kwok  as chairman in a 2008 boardroom
struggle. No charges have been laid in the ICAC probe.  The investigation raises the prospect that the chairman of
Sun Hung Kai may change for a third time in almost four years,
adding to concerns about the continuity of top management at
Hong Kong developers such as  Henderson Land Development Co. (12) , run
by their patriarch octogenarians. Even after Sun Hung Kai  lost 
$4.9 billion of market value on March 30, six of the 10
wealthiest individuals in Hong Kong control listed developers
with a combined market capitalization of $102 billion.  “The lack of succession planning is a problem among some
of the big developers here,” said Billy Mak, professor of
finance and decision sciences at Hong Kong Baptist University.
“While daily operation won’t be affected when the person at the
helm is incapacitated, when it comes to major decisions of the
company, it often needs to involve members of the controlling
shareholding family. That’s the downside of keeping a tight
control.”  Shares Fall  Thomas and Raymond Kwok and mother Kwong Siu-hing have
$13.6 billion from a 42.9 percent stake in the company, according
to market data compiled by Bloomberg. They and Walter Kwok,
who remains a non-executive director, are the four family
members on Sun Hung Kai’s 16-member  board  of directors listed on
the company’s  website .  Sun Hung Kai’s shares fell 2.2 percent to HK$94.40 at the 4
p.m. close in Hong Kong, the most among the seven-member Hang
Seng Property Index.  New World Development Co. (17) , the builder
controlled by billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung  that is not included in
the index, fell 3.8 percent to HK$8.98.  Walter Kwok became chairman in 1990 after the death of his
father, Kwok Tak Seng, who co-founded the company in 1963.  The arrest of Thomas, 59, and Raymond, 58, raised the
possibility that Walter may return to helm the company that
built Hong Kong’s tallest skyscraper. Walter Kwok, 60, was
ousted from the family trust that controls the world’s second-
biggest real estate company in 2010.  ‘Power Struggle’  “It is widely believed that the power struggle among the
Kwok brothers has not yet finished,” Raymond Ngai, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit,
wrote in a March 30 note to clients. “If Thomas and Raymond are
found guilty, Walter Kwok may regain control of the company, we
believe.”  Sun Hung Kai  fell  13 percent, the most since January 1998,
on March 30. The stock was downgraded by at least four banks and
brokerages including Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc, and its A+
debt rating was  placed  on negative credit watch by  Standard &
Poor’s , which said the management’s stability and reputation may
be weakened by the arrests.  “The arrests will not have any immediate impact on Sun
Hung Kai’s daily operations because it is a well-established
company,” S&P’s Hong Kong analysts Bei Fu and Frank Lu said in
the report on March 30. “But the magnitude and scope of the
ICAC investigation remains uncertain.”  ICAC Arrest  Sun Hung Kai said on March 19 that Executive Director
Thomas Chan Kui-Yuen was arrested by the ICAC as part of an
investigation into alleged bribery.  Thomas and  Raymond Kwok  were detained in connection with a
probe into offenses suspected to have been committed under the
Prevention of Bribery Ordinance, the company said in a March 29
statement. Former Hong Kong government Chief Secretary Rafael Hui, who was a consultant to the company, was also detained,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter who asked not
to be identified because of the ongoing probe. The ICAC hasn’t
issued updates on its investigation as of March 31.  Hui’s arrest was an isolated case, the Sunday Morning Post
edition of the South  China  Morning Post quoted Raymond Tam,
secretary for constitutional and mainland affairs, as saying.
The newspaper also said no one has been charged in the probe.  Corporate Governance  Margaret Ng, a spokeswoman at Sun Hung Kai, said yesterday
on behalf of the company’s executives that she didn’t have
further comments or updates. Hui couldn’t be reached after a
call to the phone number listed under that name in PCCW Ltd.’s
directory and calls to various listings for Hong Kong’s chief
secretary office went unanswered after business hours.  Walter applied to the  High Court  in 2008 to prevent the
board from removing him from office, alleging that his brothers
opposed his inquiries into impropriety in the way the company
awarded construction contracts, and other  corporate governance 
issues.  “We’re concerned along with all other shareholders,” said
 Hugh Young , who helps manage $70 billion in Asian equities at
Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd., which owns shares in Sun
Hung Kai and other Hong Kong developers. “Governance is
something we do worry about. Traditionally, we’ve been pretty
comfortable with Sun Hung Kai despite all the internal family
issues. So is something like this disturbing? Of course it is.”  Thomas and Raymond Kwok have returned to running the
developer, and the arrests won’t affect the normal business
operations, Sun Hung Kai said in the March 29 statement.  Valuation Gap  Walter Kwok declined to be interviewed for this article,
according to Lucy Chan, an outside spokeswoman he has hired.  Sun Hung Kai,  Henderson Land ,  Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. (1) ,
 Hang Lung  Properties Ltd. and Sino Land Co., which are among
Hong Kong’s biggest developers in the Hang Seng Property Index,
all are controlled by founding families.  The family ownership structure of Hong Kong developers adds
a 5 percent to 30 percent difference between their market value
and their assets, according to  Andrew Lawrence , an analyst at
Barclays Capital Research.  “Investors are likely to consider that a wider net asset
value discount should now be applied to the stocks,” said Hong
Kong-based Lawrence in a report on March 30. “We suspect that
the development will add further negative sentiments to other
stocks in the sector.” The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP)  fell 5
percent on March 30, the most since November.  Li Ka-shing  Lee Shau-kee, Hong Kong’s second-richest man who remains an
executive chairman of Henderson Land at 84, has never spoken
publicly about succession planning of his company, which also
has investment in infrastructure and utilities. His two sons
Peter and Martin Lee are vice-chairmen of the company. Lee co-
founded Sun Hung Kai with Kwok Tak Seng and holds the title of
vice chairman as a non-executive director, according to the
developer’s website.  Li Ka-shing , the 83-year-old chairman of  Cheung Kong  and
Hong Kong’s richest man, said at his companies’ March 29
earnings announcement that he has no plans to retire and is
“very healthy.” Forbes Magazine reported last month that Li
said in an interview he has “confidence the company would
operate as smoothly as normal” under his son Victor Li, who is
vice-chairman and managing director of Cheung Kong.  Ronnie Chan, who has been chairman of Hang Lung since his
father and company founder Chan Tseng-shi died 20 years ago, is
62, while Robert Ng, head of Sino Land and also son of the
company’s late founder, is 59. Neither have talked about plans
for retirement.  Land Reserves  Sun Hung Kai has land reserves of 46.7 million square feet
in Hong Kong, and 85 million square feet in China, as of the end
of 2011. Cheung Kong, the city’s second-biggest builder, added
almost 13 million square feet of land in 2011, the company said
in its annual earnings report without giving a total figure.  “In property companies, management can come and go,” said
Aberdeen Asset’s Young. “One of the good things about property
companies is that provided they’re sitting on the land, if they
stop their development in the next year it does affect them of
course, but at least they still have the land. Providing their
balance sheet is not absolutely terrible, you can sit on the
land, do nothing and make money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  