-- U.K. Home Prices Underpinned by Tax-Holiday Rush
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/u-k-home-prices-underpinned-by-tax-holiday-rush-hometra.html
U.K.  house prices  rose in March for
the first time in 21 months as buyers rushed to beat the
expiration of a property-tax exemption and prices in  London 
gained, Hometrack Ltd. said.  The average cost of a home in England and  Wales  rose 0.2
percent from the previous month, the London-based property
research company said in a report today. The gains -- the first
since June 2010 -- were led by a 0.5 percent rise in prices in
the capital, as just four of 10 regions tracked by Hometrack
showed increases.  The increase partly reflects a surge in demand to buy
before the end on March 24 of a two-year  stamp-duty exemption 
for first-time buyers purchasing a home for less than 250,000
pounds ($400,000). Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s
pledge to maintain his austerity push has dented  consumer
confidence  at a time when the economy is struggling to recover.  “The effect of what is ultimately a short-term measure
will fade quickly in the coming months,”  Richard Donnell ,
director of research at Hometrack, said in the statement. “We
expect prices to track sideways in the short term with the
outlook for the second half of the year hinging on households’
expectations for the economy and their incomes.”  House prices  in three regions showed no change from
February and three showed declines, led by 0.2 percent drops in
the northeast and the northwest. The number of new buyers
registering with real-estate agents rose 4.4 percent on the
month, adding to an 18 percent gain in February that was the
biggest in five years.  Falling Confidence  U.K. consumer confidence  fell last month, even before
Osborne said he’ll freeze pensioners’ tax allowances and raise a
sales levy on the most expensive homes to help tackle the
deficit. An index of sentiment fell to minus 31 from minus 29 in
February, GfK NOP Ltd. said.  Business confidence in the U.K. economy surged to a nine-
month high in March, signaling that growth may have resumed in
the first quarter after contracting in the last three months of
2011, Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets said in a separate report.  An index of British companies’ optimism about the economic
outlook compared with three months earlier jumped to 31 from 1
in February, when the gauge increased 12 points, the unit of
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said in an e-mailed report.  U.K. business failures will rise 8.5 percent this year from
2011 to 25,600, BDO LLP said in a separate e-mailed statement.
Property and construction failures will lead the increase with a
14 percent rise from last year, according to BDO’s analysis of
data provided by the Centre for Economics and Business Research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  