-- U.K. Banks Worried About Luring Staff as Hiring Rises, CBI Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-04-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/u-k-banks-worried-about-luring-staff-as-hiring-rises-cbi-says.html
U.K. banks are increasingly
concerned about their ability to attract employees as hiring in
financial services rose in the first quarter, according to a
survey by Britain’s biggest business lobby group.  Banks, insurers and asset managers probably added 5,000
jobs in the first quarter, and may hire 9,000 workers in the
three months to the end of June, the study by the  Confederation
of British Industry  said. Revenue at banks may have risen in the
first quarter, while still lagging normal levels, the survey
said.  “The trend at the moment is a desire to hire more given
business volumes,” said Kevin Burrowes, U.K. financial services
leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which helped compile the
report. “Press comment and political comment on pay in the
sector is beginning to translate into people being nervous about
wanting to work in that sector.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government and the
opposition  Labour Party  have urged banks that were bailed out by
the taxpayer, such as  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , to show
restraint on pay awards. People considering working for banks
may be looking toward other sectors, such as technology, where
pay is also high, said Burrowes.  Attractive Pay  “Perhaps you want to work for Apple rather than a bank,
you might go and do that,” Burrowes said. “There are a number
of attractive sectors that pay very well.”  The survey also found 32 percent more respondents said they
were more optimistic about total business than three months ago.
Banks were 26 percent more optimistic.  The CBI and PwC surveyed 95 banks, insurers, customer-owned
lenders, investment managers and securities firms from Feb. 23
to March 8.  Separately, London recruitment firm Astbury Marsden said
today that job vacancies at  London ’s financial services
companies fell 11 percent to 3,180 in March as banks delayed
plans to hire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  