-- U.S. Nuclear Arsenal Doesn’t Need Tests to Deter Enemies
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-01T22:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/u-s-nuclear-arsenal-doesn-t-need-tests-to-deter-enemies.html
It’s horrifying even to imagine the
U.S. finding itself in a position where it must use an atomic
bomb against an enemy. However, in the event such a crisis
occurs, we must be certain the weapon will work.  Equally important, the main purpose of the U.S. nuclear-
weapons program today is to provide a deterrent against
potential threats, and that can only be achieved if we are
confident in our stockpile and aware of the risks we face around
the world.  Fortunately, as a  report  from the  National Academy of
Sciences  last week helped make clear, there is a way to improve
security on both fronts: ratifying the Comprehensive Nuclear
Test Ban Treaty.  The CTBT, which bans all tests of nuclear weapons, was
adopted by the  United Nations General Assembly  in 1996, and
President  Bill Clinton  was the first world leader to sign it. It
was shelved, however, by the Republican-held Senate in 1999,
over some legitimate concerns: that computer modeling alone
might not ensure the integrity of the U.S. stockpile, and that
global monitoring systems were not up to the task of detecting
explosions around the globe.  But the world has changed. Seismic science has advanced
tremendously -- North Korea’s very low-yield underground tests
in 2006 and 2009, for example, were picked up by South Korean,
American and other detection systems. The CTBT calls for an
international web of 321 monitoring stations and 16 radionuclide
laboratories, which is about 75 percent complete.  As for maintaining our arsenal, the U.S. has not seen the
need to conduct a test since 1992. Last week’s report stated
that the U.S. is “now in a better position than at any time in
the past to maintain a safe and effective nuclear weapons
stockpile without testing and to monitor clandestine nuclear
testing abroad.”  It’s simply hard to see how ratifying the treaty and
pushing for its global adoption would harm U.S. interests. And,
if it did, the treaty has an opt-out clause in cases of
“supreme national interest.”  The more pertinent objection is that it would do little to
curb the behavior of rogue states, which are unlikely to join
the treaty or to abide by it if they did. (In fact, as written,
the pact cannot even go into full force unless  Iran  and  North
Korea , among others, ratify it.) Nonetheless, the U.S. signing
on would further isolate bad actors in world opinion and
engender goodwill for the increasingly promising American effort
to curb Iran’s nuclear efforts. Also,  China  has indicated it
will follow the U.S.’s lead on the issue, and Senate
ratification might help tame the arms race (and accusations of
U.S. hypocrisy) among other budding nuclear powers such as India
and  Pakistan , neither of which has signed the CTBT.  How could the Barack Obama administration gather the
necessary 67 Senate votes? First, by pointing out that such
Republican luminaries as former Secretary of State  George Shultz , former National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft and
former Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates  have all said that
approving the treaty now makes sense. Second, it could commit to
several crucial recommendations of the National Academy of
Sciences report -- improving U.S. global monitoring systems,
maintaining a strategic computing capability and pledging to
finance nonexplosive testing in hydrodynamics, radiography and
fusion technology.  The White House could also make some deals. One option is
making military’s new F-35 fighter capable of carrying a nuclear
payload. (Although we would like to see the now-scaled-back F-35
program killed for budgetary reasons, if it is to be produced,
it should become a factor in our deterrent strategy.) Another is
to resume the now-shelved Reliable Replacement Warhead project,
which would create a simpler, next-generation warhead without
resuming nuclear testing.  Ratifying the CTBT, further diversifying the U.S. nuclear
program and developing a more reliable warhead would not just
make America more secure, they would be part of a broader
strategic goal we have endorsed: shifting our deterrent capacity
away from Cold-War-legacy ballistic missiles and toward a
smaller, smarter tactical arsenal adapted to the threats we face
in the 21st century.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on why the U.S. should
ratify the  nuclear-test ban  and regulate  money-market funds .
William D. Cohan on the government hiding  public information on
banks .  Albert R. Hunt  on  murder in New Orleans .  Charles Dumas  on
why the  euro should be abandoned , and  Charles Wyplosz  on why the
 euro should be kept .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 