-- Huawei to Seek Projects Related to Australia’s Broadband Network
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-04-01T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/huawei-to-pursue-work-related-to-australia-s-broadband-network.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest maker of telephone equipment, said it will continue to
seek projects related to  Australia ’s broadband network after
being banned from bidding on contracts over security concerns.  “Our argument will always be that there is core parts of
the national infrastructure that companies like us would not
expect to be in,”  John Lord , chairman of Huawei’s unit in
Australia, told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s “Inside
Business” program yesterday. “We would still argue that
there’s parts of the NBN that are perhaps suitable.”  Huawei won’t be allowed to bid for work on the A$35.9
billion ($37 billion) project for Australia’s national broadband
network, the government has said, marking at least the second
time in six months that the Chinese company has been barred from
an overseas government contract.  The Australian ban adds to political woes for Huawei, the
world’s second-largest vendor of phone network equipment with
$32 billion in sales last year. The company has repeatedly run
into opposition from U.S. lawmakers, who have cited concerns
about security because of alleged links to China’s military,
which Huawei has denied.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  last month defended
her government’s decision to ban Huawei, saying it was because
of “national interests.”  Australian Network  The Australian network will provide fiber-optic access to
about 3.5 million premises in Australia by mid-2015, Gillard
said on March 29. The NBN plans to roll out fiber to 93 percent
of Australia’s population during the next decade, with the rest
served by wireless and satellite.  In October, the U.S. excluded Huawei from its Public Safety
700-MHz Demonstration Network, run by the National Institute of
Standards and Technology along with the National
Telecommunications and Information Administration, a part of the
Commerce Department. The network allows communication in an
emergency between first responders, including firefighters and
police officers.  Lord reiterated Huawei has offered to limit all employees
on the broadband project to security-cleared Australian citizens,
open up its software code, and undergo a full audit of security
measures.  Huawei has said it’s working on eight broadband networks
similar to Australia’s in the U.K.,  Singapore ,  Malaysia ,  New
Zealand , the  United Arab Emirates , Cameroon, Benin and Brunei,
and hasn’t been asked for security concessions in those markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  