-- Murder Wave Still Swamps a Resurgent New Orleans
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-04-01T15:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/murder-wave-still-swamps-a-resurgent-new-orleans.html
New Orleans (182MF)  is on a roll, rebounding
from the devastation of the 2005 hurricane and the post-Katrina
ineptitude in Washington and in the city’s government.  Mitch Landrieu, an energetic, talented and honest mayor,
was elected two years ago with support of both blacks and whites
in this racially polarized city.  He has imposed fiscal sanity, brought transparency and
curbed corruption. The once-disgraceful  school system  has
promise to become a reformer’s model, with 78 percent of the
kids in  charter schools . The economy is getting better. A $2
billion biomedical research venue, anchored by two health
centers, a new veterans’ facility and a city hospital to replace
the one wasted by the hurricane have been started. A record
$5.47 billion was spent by tourists last year.  New Orleans is hosting two marquee sports events: college
basketball’s Final Four this weekend and the  National Football
League ’s Super Bowl in February. Both bring in lots of dollars
and publicity.  “This city has not only turned the corner,” Landrieu said
in an interview last week, “we’re roaring back in an amazing
turnaround. We’re not just moving back to the city we were,
we’re moving to the city we want to be.”  Crime Statistics  Along with this brightness, the Big Easy continues to have
a dark side: The city remains the U.S. murder capital. At least
one person, usually a young black male, is killed more than
every other day.  The mayor acknowledges this: “The  murder rate  remains a
huge problem. Our number one priority is creating a safe
community.”  There is no simple explanation for this blight. Among big
cities, New Orleans is 79th in per-capita violent crime; yet it
leads the nation in murders per capita. And this isn’t just an
after-effect of  Katrina ; it has been the case for more than
three decades.  Amid a myriad of probable causes and theories, a major
focus is the 1,353-person police department, long a cesspool of
corruption and violence. There is a concerted effort to reform
the force. Yet it is a slow process. The city is negotiating
with the U.S. Justice Department over a consent decree to curb
police abuses.  In  New Orleans , murders follow a distressingly similar
pattern. Almost 90 percent of the victims are young black males;
more than 90 percent of the perpetrators fit the same profile.  The vast majority of assailants have a criminal record and
40 percent have a prior arrest for illegal firearms possession.
In about four of five cases, perpetrators and victims knew each
other.  “A lot of this is young people with no conflict-
resolution skills,” says Police Superintendent Ronal Serpas,
who was tapped by the mayor two years ago.  Easy access to firearms is one cause. The city will begin a
gun-buyback plan that had a modicum of success in Baltimore and
elsewhere. The mayor and police chief are urging municipal
judges to increase the bonds and require ankle bracelets for
those charged repeatedly with illegal firearms possession;
statistics show such offenders are most likely to commit
murders. Success has been limited.  Landrieu stresses the need for a holistic approach,
involving businesses, the faith community, nonprofits, as well
as government. A major initiative, started six months ago, is
SOS, or Saving Our Sons. Its activities include mentoring at-
risk young black males, conflict-resolution programs and
midnight basketball, with the participation of the  New Orleans
Hornets , the city’s professional team.  Troubled Police  Still, a core element is improving police-community
relations for a department that has become notorious for
political interference, corruption, racial insensitivity and
civil-service rigidities.  There are changes afoot: New police recruits will now need
to have completed 60 hours of college credits or two years in
the military. Superintendent Serpas has won the right to select
16 officers for new leadership posts, an important step in
reshaping the force.  Landrieu says more must be done. “We need to change civil
service for police,” he says. “The system doesn’t allow us to
get rid of bad cops.”  One reason for the civil-service status was to protect
political patronage, at times rampant; this is no longer the
case. “Mitch has kept politics totally out of this
department,” Serpas says.  Only last week, an NOPD officer, Jason Giroir, already
connected with two controversial and violent episodes involving
black citizens, weighed-in online -- identifying himself as a
New Orleans cop -- on Trayvon Martin, the 17-year-old black
youth killed recently in  Florida  while walking home from a
convenience store. “Act like a Thug, die like one,” he wrote.
He was suspended and later, facing a rough inquiry, resigned.
The city wasn’t able to fire him.  That episode enraged -- understandably, if somewhat
irrationally -- elements in the black community. “NOPD is an
organized-crime syndicate,” said Walter Umari, a Nation of
Islam community activist.  There are other impediments beyond the city leadership’s
control. The  state  is cutting its mental-health programs,
including 39 behavioral-health beds in New Orleans. In a letter
to Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , the mayor wrote that the
cuts would be “devastating as we fight an epidemic of
violence.”  The police superintendant says it usually takes five to
seven years to reform a department; in New Orleans, he says
it’ll be more like seven to 10.  That would mean the end of this decade. Whether this
happens may be determined by the hard-charging mayor. He’s
likely to be re-elected in two years. A year later he’ll have to
decide whether he stays or, as maybe the only Democrat who could
win a statewide race, runs for governor.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on why the U.S. should
ratify the  nuclear-test ban  and regulate  money-market funds .
William D. Cohan on the government hiding  public information on
banks . Albert R. Hunt on  murder in New Orleans .  Charles Dumas  on
why the  euro should be abandoned , and  Charles Wyplosz  on why the
 euro should be kept .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 