-- Votorantim Considers Joining Camargo to Buy Out Cimpor
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-04-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/votorantim-considers-joining-camargo-to-buy-out-cimpor.html
Votorantim Participacoes SA, a
Brazilian raw materials producer, is considering joining Camargo
Correa SA to buy out cement maker  Cimpor Cimentos de Portugal
SGPS SA , two people familiar with the matter said.  Votorantim isn’t planning to make a higher offer than
Camargo’s 5.5 euro-per-share ($7.36) or 2.48 billion-euro, bid
for the 67 percent it doesn’t already own of Portugal’s largest
cement maker, said the people, declining to be identified
because talks are private. An official at the Sao Paulo-based
Votorantim, who can’t be identified under corporate policy,
declined to comment. The company owns 21 percent of Cimpor.  Camargo,  Brazil ’s second-biggest construction company and
Cimpor’s largest investor, is seeking to double its share of the
local cement market as demand surges ahead of the  World Cup  in
2014 and Olympics two years later. The Sao Paulo-based company,
which owns 33 percent of Cimpor, disclosed the offer in a March
30 filing to the Portuguese securities regulator.  Votorantim, which also competes with Cimpor in the
Brazilian market for cement, is considering exercising its right
of first refusal to buy a 9.6 percent stake from  Portugal ’s
state-owned lender  Caixa Geral de Depositos SA , the two people
said. That would give it a similar stake to Camargo.  Caixa said in a March 30 statement it would sell its stake
in Lisbon-based Cimpor to Camargo if Votorantim doesn’t exercise
its right. Votorantim said March 30 it will analyze Camargo’s
offer for Cimpor and evaluate all alternatives, according to an
e-mailed statement.  Hostile Bid  Camargo and Votorantim bought stakes in Cimpor in early
2010, derailing a hostile bid of 6.18 euros a share by Brazilian
steelmaker Cia.  Siderurgica Nacional (CSNA3)  SA. Both companies held
talks last year about buying the rest of Cimpor and dividing its
assets, people familiar with the negotiations said in October.
Camargo would keep Cimpor’s Brazilian plants and Votorantim
would take the rest, they said.  Votorantim’s assets include  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s
largest pulp producer. The company also produces orange juice,
metals and steel in Brazil and other South American countries.  Odebrecht SA (ODBE4)  is Brazil’s largest construction company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  