-- Why Are the Fed and SEC Keeping Wall Street’s Secrets?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-04-01T22:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/why-are-the-fed-and-sec-keeping-wall-street-s-secrets-.html
Getting what should be public
information about major Wall Street firms can be maddeningly
difficult.  Bloomberg News discovered this in its ultimately successful
effort to get information on the $1.2 trillion in  “secret
loans”  the Fed doled out during the financial crisis. And I’ve
had no small experience of it myself.  As I started each of my three books -- about Lazard Freres,
Bear Stearns and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  -- I submitted Freedom
of Information Act requests to the appropriate government
agencies (the Securities Exchange Commission, the State
Department and the  Federal Reserve ) to obtain whatever
documents, memos and e-mails they had about these companies and
their senior executives.  I was hoping to find, among other nuggets, details of
enforcement actions, or settlements that were reached where the
firms “neither admitted nor denied” guilt, or other
documentary evidence of the coziness that has for too long
existed between Wall Street and  Washington .  Sadly, getting this information in anything like a timely
basis -- say, before my books were finished and published -- has
been nearly impossible. At first, when I asked the SEC about
documents related to Lazard’s role in the Hartford-Mediobanca
scandal starting in 1968 and ending in 1981, the agency told me
it could not release the information. When I reminded the FOIA
administrator that the SEC had already released the information,
years before, to another journalist, the agency dug up the 40
boxes of unindexed, unorganized documents and invited me to a
warehouse in  Pennsylvania  to take a look. After an hour or so,
the clerk asked me if I was done with my review. (Eventually, I
persuaded the SEC to ship the boxes -- at my expense -- to its
office in  Manhattan , where I spent months poring over them.)  Zilch, Nada  But that bit of beginner’s luck turned out to be a fluke.
To this day, the SEC has given me nothing -- zilch, nada --
about Bear Stearns or Goldman Sachs. After the Lazard book was
published, the State Department sent me a thin file that was,
supposedly, what it had in its possession about  Felix Rohatyn ’s
three years as the U.S. ambassador to  France . I opened the
envelope and discovered that most of the 10 or so pages had been
redacted.  Last December, nearly nine months after my Goldman book was
published, I received an official-looking package from the Board
of Governors of the  Federal Reserve System . Slapped on the
outside of the envelope was a bright orange sticker about
keeping the contents -- a computer disk -- away from “magnets
and electric motors” and, of course, the warning “Do Not X-
Ray.” This, I suspected, was my long-awaited document file
about Goldman’s dealings with the Federal Reserve in the days
leading up to Sept. 22, 2008, when it, along with Morgan
Stanley, had the good fortune to be allowed to become a  bank
holding company  with lifesaving unlimited access to short-term
funding.  I was hoping to discover how that whole thing went down at
the time, and how Goldman and Morgan Stanley got the Fed’s
blessing but Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. did not. Also I was
interested in Goldman’s interactions with the Fed since that
fateful moment. My hopes were raised further when I heard from
people at the firm that Goldman had reviewed the contents of
what was being sent to me and that its executives seemed worried
about it.  Nothing New  No such luck. On the disk was nothing more than a bunch of
obscure -- but publicly available -- Federal Reserve documents
about the details of Goldman’s assets and liabilities on a
quarterly and annual basis, everything from the kinds of loans
the firm had been making to the tenor of its derivatives book to
whether the real-estate loans it owns were backed by commercial
properties or residential properties.  The documents contained a bunch of detailed numbers
(without explanation) about the kinds of risks Goldman was
taking at a moment in time, thus prying open ever so slightly
the firm’s black box.  For instance, who knew that at the end of December 2011
Goldman had $44.2 trillion in the notional amount of derivatives
contracts on its books, about $1.3 trillion more than it did in
2010? Or that $36 trillion of that amount was for contracts of
less than one year in tenor? Or that Goldman had $19 billion in
insurance underwriting assets, up nearly 40 percent from the
year before? Or that Goldman’s book of commercial and industrial
loans was $7 billion at the end of 2011, up dramatically from
the $829 million it held at the end of 2010? Or that the firm’s
stash of mortgage-backed securities -- now $1.37 billion -- had
nearly doubled what it had at the end of 2010?  Although I still have no idea how Goldman makes its money,
I guess it is interesting to know that the government produces
mind-numbing documents containing columns of numbers and then
puts them on websites buried on the Internet.  But let’s not pretend that the Fed’s carefully scripted,
and untimely, release of a disk of public information to me is
even remotely the way FOIA is supposed to work. Where are the
documents and e-mails about how Goldman was allowed by the Fed
to become a bank holding company? Where are the documents from
the SEC about Goldman? Where, for that matter, are the SEC
documents related to the short-dated, out-of-the-money puts that
investors spent millions of dollars buying in the last week of
Bear Stearns’s existence? The SEC said it was investigating who
bought and sold these puts, but it has never made the results of
its investigation public despite my FOIA request.  If our government agencies continue to do everything in
their considerable power to keep hidden information that belongs
in the public realm, all the regulatory reform in the world
won’t end the rot on  Wall Street .  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the author
of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Today’s
highlights:  The View editors on why the U.S. should ratify the  nuclear-test
ban  and regulate  money-market funds . William D. Cohan on the
government hiding  public information on banks .  Albert R. Hunt  on
 murder in New Orleans .  Charles Dumas  on why the  euro should be
abandoned , and  Charles Wyplosz  on why the  euro should be kept .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 