-- Two Killed by Suspected Sect Members in Nigeria, Police Say
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2012-04-01T17:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/two-killed-by-suspected-sect-members-in-nigeria-police-say.html
A Nigerian local government council
chairman was one of two people killed in attacks by gunmen
suspected to be members of a religious sect in the northern part
of the country, police spokesmen said.  The unidentified gunmen, suspected to be members of Boko
Haram, killed Wanangu Kachuwa, chairman of the Chibok local
government, after he returned from church today in Maiduguri,
the capital of  Nigeria ’s Borno state, police spokesman Samuel
Tizhe said.  A member of the sect was killed in neighboring Yobe state
during attacks by the group on two police stations there
yesterday, Toyin Gbadegesin, spokesman for police in the state,
said by phone today from Potiskum, the capital. Two policemen
were injured in the attacks there, as the suspected sect members
burnt the police stations, Gbadegesin said.  Nigeria’s government blames Boko Haram, a militant Islamic
group influenced by the  Taliban movement , for a spate of
violence since last year that has targeted government buildings
and security forces. The group claimed responsibility for an
Aug. 26 suicide car-bomb attack on a United Nations building
that killed 23 people in the capital, Abuja.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer, is split between a
mainly Muslim north and a predominantly Christian south. More
than 14,000 people died in ethnic and religious clashes in the
West African nation between 1999 and 2009, according to the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  Ten people died in a security force raid on a bomb factory
operated by the Boko Haram Islamist group in Nigeria, the
British Broadcasting Corp. reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 