-- Yen Drops Versus Peers as Tankan Fuels Easing Speculation
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-02T13:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/yen-drops-versus-dollar-euro-after-china-manufacturing-index.html
The yen rose against all of its 16
most-traded counterparts amid investor concern that Chinese
manufacturing was weaker as official government data conflicted
with a private-sector purchasing-manager index.  Japan ’s currency strengthened even after the  Bank of
Japan (8301) ’s Tankan report showed company sentiment failed to improve
in the first quarter. Norway’s krone rose after a report showed
credit growth accelerated in February. The dollar rose against
the  Europe ’s shared currency after euro-region  unemployment  rose
to the highest in more than 14 years and manufacturing
contracted for an eighth month.  “Asian and European traders gave the benefit of the doubt
to the official Chinese PMI, but the U.S. traders are having
second thoughts about the PMI data and looking at the private-
sector numbers,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research
at the online currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “The
market is really focusing on economic data, and if it can remain
in positive territory it will push which way momentum for the
risk trade goes going forward.”  The yen strengthened 07 percent to 82.28 per dollar at 9:10
a.m.  New York  time and climbed 1.1 percent to 109.36 per euro.
The dollar rose 0.4 percent versus the 17-nation currency to
$1.3288, after reaching $1.3386 on March 27, the weakest level
since Feb. 29.  The  Stoxx Europe (SX5E)  600 Index was little changed after falling
as much as 1.1 percent, and futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fluctuated after erasing an earlier gain.  The Purchasing Manager’s Index released yesterday by
 China ’s logistics federation and the National Bureau of
Statistics for March rose to a one-year high of 53.1. In
contrast, a PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
showed manufacturing contracting and export orders falling.  “China is the main focus today,” said  Fabian Eliasson ,
head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in
New York. “We had some disappointing numbers out of Europe, and
Chinese PMI from came in lower and there are two conflicting
reports, so that is contributing to the risk-off scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  