-- Yen Losing Most Since ’95 Not Enough for Toyota
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-02T13:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/yen-losing-most-since-95-not-enough-for-toyota-in-boj-crusade.html
For all his success in driving the
yen down by the most in 16 years, Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa is under pressure from local companies to weaken the
currency even more, while traders anticipate a rebound.  The yen slid 10 percent last quarter versus nine developed-
nation peers as the BOJ flooded the economy with 10 trillion yen
($120.9 billion) and set a 1 percent inflation goal, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Strategists cut third-quarter
forecasts for the yen more than any other currency. Now, demand
for derivatives to protect against further declines is
shrinking, suggesting to traders that a reversal is coming.  Even as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  raised its profit forecast,
company President  Akio Toyoda  -- grandson of the founder -- said
the yen needed to fall further to help exports. Efforts by
Shirakawa and Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to pull Japan out of
recession with a weaker currency aren’t being helped by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who’s considering more
stimulus for the  U.S. economy .  “The Bank of Japan is off to a good start, but pushing it
on requires being bullish on the U.S. economy and the potential
open-endedness of policy easing in Japan,” Shahab Jalinoos, a
senior currency strategist at UBS AG in Stamford,  Connecticut ,
said in a telephone interview on March 27. “When you see a move
of the scale that we’ve had, it’s hard to keep moving at that
rate.”  ‘Still Harsh’  UBS, the third-biggest foreign-exchange trading firm as
measured by Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc, expects the
yen to weaken to 85 per dollar in the next six months. The
currency rose 0.8 percent to 82.25 at 9:43 a.m.  New York  time.  Toyota, Asia’s biggest carmaker, based last fiscal year’s
profit forecast on an  exchange rate  of 78 yen per dollar, and
says it loses about 32 billion yen in operating income for every
1 yen gain against the greenback. Toyoda told reporters in Tokyo
on March 22 that “an appropriate level” for the yen is about
95 to 100.  Electronics companies Sharp Corp., Sony Corp. and Panasonic
Corp. forecast a combined $16 billion in losses for the year
ended March 31, citing falling prices for televisions and the
stronger currency.  “A weaker yen is a plus, but the 80-level is still
harsh,” Takashi Okuda, the president of Sharp, Japan’s largest
maker of liquid-crystal-display panels, told reporters in Tokyo
on March 19.  Yen Weakens  The currency dropped to 84.18 per dollar on March 15, the
lowest since April 2011. That’s down from 76.91 at the end of
last year. Only the Sri Lankan rupee, Iranian rial and New Ghana
cedi did worse against the greenback than the yen last quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index for the yen slid
10.4 percent to 388.73 in the first three months of the year,
the most since the third quarter of 1995 and biggest drop of any
of the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the gauge.  As the yen depreciated, Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) 
gained more than any other major market share index, surging 19
percent. Japanese  government bonds , or JGBs, returned 0.3
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. U.S.
Treasuries lost 1.3 percent.  While yields on Japan’s 10-year notes are the second lowest
in the world after Switzerland’s, deflation-adjusted returns
makes them attractive to foreign investors, who bought yen to
boost holdings of JGBs to a record level last year.  Real Yields  So-called real yields on Japan’s 10-year bonds are 0.69
percent, the highest for any Group of Seven nation except  Italy .  “Given that Japan remains mired in deflation, its higher
real yields will continue to lure overseas investors to JGBs,”
Shogo Fujita, chief Japanese bond strategist in  Tokyo  at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, one of the 25 primary dealers required to
bid at Japanese government bond sales, said in a telephone
interview on March 29. Ten-year yields may fall to 0.8 percent
this year, the least since 2003, he said.  The rate of inflation is showing signs of moving higher
after falling an average 0.2 percent per year over the past
decade. Japan’s  consumer prices  rose 0.3 percent in February
from a year earlier, following a 0.1 percent gain in the
previous month, the statistics bureau said March 30.  Strategist Forecasts  While strategists cut their third-quarter forecasts for the
yen against the dollar by 6 percent, the most of any currency
pair tracked by Bloomberg, they see it holding at 84 per dollar
through year-end. Even after a 9.1 percent slump from its record
post-World War II record of 75.35 on Oct. 31, the currency is
still stronger than the 10-year average of 104.49.  Options predict an end to the yen’s drop. The three-month,
25-delta risk-reversal rate was minus 0.04 percent on March 30,
signaling greater demand for the right to sell the dollar
against the yen than to buy the greenback. The premium that
investors were paying to protect against a yen decline had been
as much as 0.53 percent on Feb. 20, the most on a closing basis
in data compiled by Bloomberg back to 2003.  The one-month rate fell below zero for the first time since
November last week.  Futures bets that Japan’s currency will fall against the
dollar have reached the most extreme since July 2007, figures
from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission
show. The  difference  in the number of wagers on a decline in the
yen compared with those on a gain, so-called net shorts, was
67,622 on March 27, compared with 25,821 a week earlier. By the
end of February, futures traders were net long the yen.  Optimal Level  Japanese exporters can remain profitable as long as the yen
is 82 yen per dollar or weaker, a Cabinet Office survey showed
on Feb. 28. Large manufacturers expected the currency to trade
at 79.02 for the year ended March 31, according to BOJ’s  Tankan
quarterly survey  released in December. The Tankan report
released today showed large manufacturers expect an average
 exchange rate  of 78.14 in fiscal 2012.  Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s second-biggest carmaker, sees
2012 as having “less headwinds than last year,” Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in an interview on March 26.
The yen is “still too strong,” said Ghosn, who has pledged to
maintain production of 1 million vehicles in Japan.  “Exporters are clamoring for a weaker yen, but the Cabinet
office survey and the Tankan survey suggest you have to take
some of those complaints with a grain of salt because both
measures suggest Japanese exporters had adjusted to the strong
yen in the low 80s,” Ned Rumpeltin, the head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said on
March 28.  Yield Spreads  Standard Chartered expects the yen to strengthen to 77 in
the third-quarter and 74 by year-end as investors seek Japan’s
real yields and the U.S. recovery stagnates.  Rising U.S. yields may draw more funds into dollar-based
securities, helping weaken the yen. Treasury two-year notes
 yield  about 21 basis points more than Japanese bonds of similar
maturity. The spread has widened from 1.3 basis points, or 0.013
percentage point, in September.  Even with U.S. unemployment at a three-year low, Bernanke
said March 26 that further stimulus may be needed. The Fed
bought $2.3 trillion of Treasuries and mortgage-backed bonds in
two rounds of purchases from December 2008 to June 2011,
flooding the financial system with money and helping to spark a
13 percent decline in the dollar against the euro and a 14
percent plunge versus the yen.  Yen ‘Catalyst’  “If the decline in U.S. unemployment or outperformance of
data looks like it’s stalling, then we think talk of additional
easing in the U.S. will come back to the forefront and that will
be the catalyst” for a yen rally, Ray Attrill, head of currency
strategy for BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a telephone
interview March 26.  BNP Paribas says the Japanese currency will appreciate to
80 in the third quarter and strengthen to 78 by year-end.  A continued U.S. recovery would add to yen weakness by
pushing more investors to borrow the currency before selling it
to buy the foreign exchange of  Australia ,  South Africa ,  Brazil 
and  Mexico .  So-called carry trades returned 69 percent on an annualized
basis last quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Similar
purchases funded with euros or dollars earned 11 percent and 25
percent.  Energy Imports  Currency moves that support exporters hurt consumption as
energy imports are more expensive. Japan’s nuclear plants lay
idle following last year’s record earthquake and tsunami that
triggered meltdowns at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
facility.  The country’s current account, the widest measure of trade,
turned  negative  in January for the first time since 2009 as
imports of liquefied natural gas surged. Utilities are burning
an extra 400,000 barrels a day, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “The strong yen also supports consumption more broadly and
that will be particularly important as Japan becomes a heavy
importer of crude oil,” Standard Chartered’s Rumpeltin said.  The BOJ in February more than doubled the size of a fund
devoted to buying government notes maturing within two years.
The central bank’s inflation goal isn’t enough for some
lawmakers in Noda’s ruling Democratic Party of Japan who are
asking for a target of more than 2 percent.  The central bank’s board has said it doesn’t want the
government to become dependent on it printing money, which may
damp expectations for a weaker yen.  “There is a limit to how much the BOJ can do, and simply
demanding a weaker yen is wishful thinking,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer at Fukoku Capital Management
Inc. in Tokyo. “There’s not much that companies can do but to
shift production overseas or come up with strategies and
business plans based on the exchange rate in front of them
now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  