-- Yudhoyono’s Support Slips as Indonesia Stalls on Fuel Policy
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2012-04-02T09:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-01/yudhoyono-s-support-falters-as-indonesia-stalls-on-fuel-policy.html
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s failure to push a fuel-price increase through
parliament signals weakening support in his ruling coalition
that threatens to undermine the leader’s plans to spur growth in
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy.  Lawmakers last week rejected the government’s bid for an
immediate 33 percent boost in the price of subsidized fuel,
instead giving it the power to raise prices only if the
Indonesia Crude Price, or ICP, exceeds the budget assumption of
$105 a barrel by an average 15 percent over a six-month period.  The president’s popularity has fallen since his election to
a second term in 2009, as he struggles to subdue corruption
scandals, including bribery allegations against his Democrat
Party’s former treasurer. The failure to win support within his
coalition for an immediate price increase may raise investor
concern the government will face more difficulty implementing
its policies, said Shaun Levine, Eurasia Group’s Asia analyst.  “This could be a sure sign that Yudhoyono as president is
in trouble,” Levine wrote in an e-mail response to questions.
“The president has put a lot of political capital into getting
this passed, as well as risked the popularity of his party with
the public by continuing to demand the increase despite the
public’s disagreement with the issue.”  The biggest member of Yudhoyono’s coalition, Golkar, which
is the second-largest  political  party, rejected the proposal
after earlier agreeing to it. Another member, the Prosperous
Justice Party, also turned against the plan.  Fiscal Cost  The administration had proposed to increase the price of
subsidized gasoline and diesel by 33 percent to 6,000 rupiah (65
U.S. cents) per liter effective April 1. The six-month average
of the ICP was $116.5 a barrel, or 11 percent above the budget
assumption, as of March 31, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on data from the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry.
The price in March was $128.14 a barrel, the ministry’s
directorate general of oil and gas said in a statement posted on
its  website  today.  “We were disappointed at the setback, obviously,”  John Chambers , managing director of sovereign ratings at  Standard &
Poor’s , said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.
“There’s a huge fiscal cost to that, and also it’s a subsidy
that’s not well directed.”  The government will prepare measures and policies to
maintain the budget deficit even without the fuel-price rise,
without having to increase debt, Yudhoyono said in a televised
speech broadcast live on March 31.  Polarization of Politics  “Increasing the fuel price, for me and for the government,
is the last option when there’s no other option available,”
Yudhoyono said. The government wants “to do serious energy
savings, to quicken the conversion of oil-based fuel to gas,
boost state revenue from tax and mining sectors and preserve the
budgets in the ministries and regional administrations.”  In the event of a fuel-price increase, the government will
ensure that aid and assistance for the poor are sufficient to
help ease the impact, Yudhoyono said.  “This outcome was not expected by us or the markets, and
it exemplifies a degree of polarization of domestic politics
that is starting to adversely impact policy certainty that could
ultimately weigh on medium-term growth,” said Aninda Mitra, a
Singapore-based economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)   The president’s inability to win concessions in parliament
“reveals his weakening position and the likely widening of
rifts within the coalition” in the run up to the 2014 elections,
Eurasia’s Levine wrote.  Balancing Act  As many as 12,000 demonstrators clashed with police in
front of the parliament building on March 30, and a police-
estimated 81,000 rallied across the country in the biggest
public protests since the government raised fuel prices in 2008.
Lawmakers approved the conditions for a price increase at about
1:30 a.m. on March 31.  Soaring food and fuel costs in the world’s fourth-most-
populous nation contributed to riots that led to the ouster in
1998 of the dictator Suharto. Last week’s protests underline the
balancing act Yudhoyono must undertake as he seeks to curb a
subsidy bill that threatens to sap funds from health, education
and transport programs needed for boosting investment and growth.  “There will be government tightening, with budget cuts
possible across ministries,” Levine said. “However, it has yet
to be seen whether this can be accomplished; while governments
in the past have recorded year-end surpluses as ministries don’t
spend their full allocations, the decisions of where to cut will
be important.”  Public Support  Yudhoyono won a second five-year term with 61 percent of
the vote in 2009 on pledges to boost the economy, double
infrastructure spending and clean up graft.  His public support fell after the former treasurer of his
Democrat Party was accused of corruption. A poll by Jakarta-
based Indonesian Survey Circle published Feb. 5, the most
recently released, showed 48.3 percent of respondents approved
of his performance, down from 56.7 percent in January 2011,
taken nationwide Jan. 21 to Feb. 2.  Indonesia ’s economy grew 6.46 percent last year, the
fastest pace since before the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis, as
rising investment and domestic spending countered a slowdown in
export demand due to  Europe ’s debt crisis. The target for 2012
is 6.5 percent.  Inflation Quickens  Inflation accelerated in March for the first time in seven
months, with a report today showing consumer prices rising 3.97
percent last month from a year earlier.  “In the near-term, the delay in retail fuel price hike
should allay immediate inflation concerns,” said Deyi Tan, a
Singapore-based economist at Morgan Stanley. Still, fuel
subsidies “cause distortion in pricing and, inevitably,
misallocation of resources,” diverting them away from areas
including infrastructure or education, she said.  Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said March 31 the
government agreed with parliament’s decision, adding that it is
strategic to fiscal sustainability in the long run.  Maintaining subsidies “would have a really bad impact” on
growth by causing the  fiscal deficit  to exceed the legal limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product, forcing cuts in more
productive spending, National Economic Committee Vice Chairman M.
Chatib Basri said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
 Hong Kong  on March 23.  Under Pressure  The rupiah gained 0.3 percent to 9,140 per dollar as of
4:37 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has lost 0.7 percent this
year.  The  Jakarta Composite index  rose 1.1 percent to close at
4,166.07, gaining for a fifth day. The gauge has gained 9
percent this year.  Indonesia is under pressure to show progress in containing
its  budget deficit , as it seeks a credit rating boost from S&P
to complete its return to investment grade after losing the
status in the Asian financial crisis. Officials from S&P visited
the country last month after raising the nation’s bonds to BB+ a
year ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  