-- Abe Ally Urges More Monetary Easing to Buffer Sales Tax Increase
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-09-05T04:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/abe-ally-urges-more-monetary-easing-to-buffer-sales-tax-increase.html
More monetary easing and a cut in
corporate taxes are needed to offset the effects of a planned
increase in  Japan ’s  sales tax , a former secretary general of the
ruling  Liberal Democratic Party  said in an interview.  “We must escape deflation and be able to tell the public
that it will not return,” as a condition for raising the tax,
Hidenao Nakagawa, who retired from parliament before last
December’s general election, said on Sept. 3. Policies to
counter the negative effects on gross domestic product are also
required, he said.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is weighing the risk of choking
the recovery against the need for more revenue to help Japan
offset the world’s largest debt burden. Abe is set to decide in
early October on the plan he inherited when he won office in
December to raise the levy to 8 percent in April and 10 percent
in 2015 from the current 5 percent.  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has set a two-year
horizon for achieving the 2 percent annual  inflation  target
adopted in January at Abe’s urging. He has agreed to buy about
70 percent of planned government bond issues as part of an
unprecedented program of monetary easing that aims to boost
growth and weaken the  yen .  “More monetary easing is needed,” said Nakagawa. “There
can be a debate about the scale and the method.” He also cited
wage rises, deregulation and reform of  government spending  as
necessary components of a package to improve the economy.  If the economic conditions are not met, the sales tax
should not be increased, Nakagawa said. Any leap in fuel prices
resulting from tensions in  Syria  would constitute an emergency
and should result in the tax increase being postponed, he said.  Nakagawa, who served as secretary general during Abe’s
first term in office, remains in touch with senior officials. He
dined with Abe and Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga last
month, according to a Kyodo News log of Abe’s activities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  