-- Mad Old Lear Mingles With Sappho, Circe in Cameron Show
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2013-09-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/mad-old-lear-mingles-with-sappho-circe-in-cameron-show.html
Shocks of white against blackness,
the screwy hair flashes like lightning in a night sky. In Julia
Margaret Cameron’s portrait, astronomer and mathematician Sir
John Herschel stares at the world through enormous melancholy
eyes.  In high contrast, Thomas Carlyle’s rugged features and
fiery beard convey a gritty urgency. He looks roughhewn, carved
out of stone.  These images stand out among the  Metropolitan Museum  of
Art’s exhibition of 38 photographs by the British portraitist.  Pairing the latest technology with a soulful disposition,
Cameron (1815-79) focused her lens on eminent Victorians,
capturing them as if in a romantically tinged haze.  Nostalgia drives these dark, ethereal and idealized
portraits, in which blurring suggests apparitions, great minds
in motion -- a world dissolving.  Nymphs, goddesses and angelic children implore with dreamy
eyes. There are images of Sappho, in the Florentine Quattrocento
style, the seductress Circe and the Mountain Nymph of Sweet
Liberty.  And in what Cameron referred to as her “fancy subjects”
-- allegorical vignettes of  King Lear , Guinevere and Lancelot,
 Don Quixote  and the Madonna and Child -- an overt sentimentality
cloys like perfume.  I want to not like these maudlin pictures, which have come
epitomize of the Pre-Raphaelite sensibility. But I have a soft
spot for Cameron’s dogged romanticism, which sacrifices
sophistication for manufactured beauty.  I prefer her willful and theatrical manipulation to the
unearned emotion driving most paintings from the period. Viewing
this captivating show, knowingly pulling at our heartstrings, is
akin to peering through a crystal ball at a vanishing age.  Japanese Brush Writing  Among about 180 works in “Brush Writing in the Arts of
 Japan ,” the Met’s beautiful, varied and striking exhibition, is
a handwritten invitation to a banquet.  The only extant letter by 12th-century courtier-poet
Fujiwara Akisuke, its brevity and perfunctory nature have been
compared to that of an e-mail.  It reminds us not of communicating on our smart phones,
however, but of the fact that in true communication, how is as
important as what we write.  For Asian calligraphers brush writing -- with bones, blood,
meat and spirit -- reveals the soul of its maker.  This show’s calligraphy and complementary ceramics,
textiles, lacquers, woodblock prints, playing cards and
illustrated books brim with life.  Water Lilies  The best works here convey the essence of the poet’s
subject, which is often nature. A large pair of Edo-period
flowering cherry and autumn maple folding screens shimmers,
immersing us as if in Monet’s water lilies.  An Edo writing box, with a portrait of Fujiwara Ietaka and
his poem about the Tatsuta River, is embellished with word and
image. Its crystalline surface depicts a sparkling brocade of
maple leaves trapped beneath a thin sheet of ice.  Elsewhere, the subject is erotic, as in an illustrated
woodblock print by Okumura Masanobu. Twisted, animalistic,
coiled like springs, three clothed figures are just about to
engage in carnal pleasures.  “Julia Margaret Cameron“ runs through Jan. 5 and “Brush
Writing in the Arts of Japan” runs through Jan. 12 at the
 Metropolitan Museum of Art , 1000 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and Laurie
Muchnick on  books .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in  New York , at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 