-- Affordable Care Act Sees More Employers Embracing Credits: Taxes
-- B y   L y d i a   B e y o u d
-- 2013-09-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/affordable-care-act-sees-more-employers-embracing-credits-taxes.html
Boutique accounting, medical and
legal firms that resisted offering insurance to their employees
under the new health-care law may change their minds when the
tax advantages go up next year.  Companies with 10 full-time employees or less, making an
average wage of $25,000 or less, may get a 50 percent tax credit
for the amount of their contribution to cover premiums in 2014,
Bloomberg BNA reported. Nonprofit employers can get 35 percent,
the Internal Revenue Service said in its proposed rules.  The Obama administration is courting companies, trying to
make the Affordable Care Act a success amid a partisan clash
that has continued for three years since the law passed. The
president is seeking to expand insurance coverage to at least 30
million uninsured Americans, and small businesses have resisted
the idea of offering coverage, saying it is too expensive.  Before the rate increase, the credit was small, said Brian Haile, senior vice president for health policy with Jackson
Hewitt Tax Service Inc. In 2013, the maximum rate was 35 percent
to for-profit employers and 20 percent for nonprofits.  “Expanding it from 35 to 50 percent is very helpful,” Haile
said.  The credit decreases as employers enter a “phase-out” range
of between 10 and 25 employees, or pay average wages between
$25,000 and $50,000. Employers in the range often weren’t able
to claim much of a tax credit, he said.  “The increase in the percentage that they can claim changes
some of that dynamic,” Haile said.  In Between  Employers that otherwise would be considered small
businesses under the rules -- because they have fewer than 50
full-time workers -- may find themselves at a disadvantage now,
compared with smaller firms that have less than 25 people, said
Matt Kelley, manager of indirect tax practice with accounting
firm EY.  “It does create an ‘in-between’ state for a lot of
employers of that size,” he said.  Small employers in this situation want the IRS to close
this gap in its final rules and make the credit more widely
available as an incentive to provide  health care , said Kelley
whose work focuses on helping franchise businesses understand
the implications of the health care laws.  One of the primary areas small employers struggle with is
the calculation of the credit, Kelley said.  “It’s not as simple for them as someone with a tax or
accounting department,” he said. “Unless they’re a small law
firm or accounting firm, they won’t have their own lawyer or
accountant on hand to help them go through the credit.”  Family Businesses  Calculating whether their organization is eligible for a
credit, as well as how many workers they have and the average
employee salary in order to calculate the value of the credit
available to them -- which requires additional calculation if
the employer falls into the phase-out range -- combine to create
complexities that small businesses usually aren’t able to deal
with, Kelley said.  Not all the people are considered when calculating the
number of workers or the average wages. Some like contractors,
partners and most family members and their dependents are left
out, according to the proposed rules.  Businesses with one or a few highly paid owners and with
generally low-wage employees are “a fantastic candidate for this
credit,” he said.  The key part to obtain the credit is for those owners to
fall into one of the categories of excluded individual, so that
they do not count toward the average wage cap, Haile said.  “For an awful lot of small businesses that are family owned
and family run, it really doesn’t help,” because of the
exclusion of owners and family members, said Timothy Jost, law
professor at  Washington  and Lee University School of Law in
Lexington,  Virginia .  Phasing Out  The credits phase out after two years, so some employers
may only provide employee health coverage when the credit is
available and stop when the tax incentive ends.  “These are the employers most likely to drop coverage,”
because the profit margins for small employers can be so thin,
Haile said. Once the credit expires and the expense of providing
coverage goes up, small employers face no penalty for dropping
the credit, he said.  “If the only reason you’re offering health insurance is
because you’ve got a 50 percent tax credit, I would not be
surprised if you drop it after two years,” Jost told BNA.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  