-- Thailand Trader Pays $5.2 Million to Settle SEC Smithfield Case
-- B y   A n t h o n y   G n o f f o
-- 2013-09-05T17:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/thailand-trader-pays-5-2-million-to-settle-sec-smithfield-case.html
A Bangkok-based trader will pay $5.2
million to settle U.S. regulatory claims that he traded on
inside information before an announcement that  Smithfield Foods
Inc. (SFD)  would be acquired by  China ’s biggest pork producer.  Badin Rungruangnavarat made more than $3 million in illicit
profits on Smithfield call options and single-stock futures
contracts purchased in the week before the May 29 announcement
of the company’s proposed sale to Shuanghui International
Holdings Ltd., the Securities and Exchange Commission said
today. His brokerage account assets were frozen on June 5, the
SEC said in a statement.  Rungruangnavarat made his purchases from May 21 through May
28 using an account at Interactive Brokers LLC., the SEC said.
He sought to withdraw more than $3 million from his account on
June 3, the agency said.  “Our quick action in June to stop Badin’s insider-trading
profits from leaving the U.S. made this multimillion-dollar
settlement possible,” Daniel M. Hawke, head of the SEC
Enforcement Division’s Market Abuse Unit, said in the statement.
“Once he was denied access to his trading account, Badin
elected to forfeit all of his ill-gotten proceeds plus pay a $2
million penalty to settle the case against him.”  The penalty plus a $3.2 million disgorgement was approved
by Judge Matthew Kennelly of the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of  Illinois , the SEC said.  “Our client is very pleased that the mutually agreeable
settlement” was reached quickly,’’ Jose Lopez, an attorney for
Rungruangnavarat at Perkins Coie LLP in  Chicago , said in an e-mail statement. The agreement resulted in a portion of the
frozen assets being returned to Rungruangnavarat, Lopez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Gnoffo in Washington at 
 agnoffo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  