-- AirAsia X in Talks for First Yen Loans to Expand Fleet
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   H e e s u   L e e
-- 2013-09-09T10:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/airasia-x-in-talks-to-raise-first-yen-loans-for-fleet-expansion.html
(Corrects to clarify total proceeds from the IPO in fourth
paragraph of story first published on Sept. 6.)  AirAsia X Bhd. (AAX) , the long-haul budget
carrier owned by  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , is looking to raise yen-denominated funds for the first time as it prepares to take
delivery of seven aircraft next year.  The company is in talks with Japanese institutions to
finance one or two aircraft it will add to its fleet next year,
Azran Osman-Rani, AirAsia X’s chief executive officer, said in
an interview in  Seoul . The move is aimed at diversifying the
funding to minimize impact from currency volatility, he said.  “Yen is, of course, something we are very interested in,”
Azran said. “That’s because 15 percent of our business is in
 Japan . We have yen receivables.”  AirAsia X completed a 988 million ringgit ($299 million)
initial public offering in June to help finance its expansion
plan. Some 15 low-fare carriers started flying in the past
decade across the Asia-Pacific region, the most profitable
market worldwide for at least the fourth consecutive year,
according to the  International Air Transport Association .  The airline, based at Sepang,  Malaysia , paid for three
aircraft that were delivered this year in ringgit as it focused
on better management of costs, Azran said.  AirAsia X carried 697,112 passengers in the second quarter,
20 percent more than a year earlier, filling 81.8 percent of its
seats, the airline said in a  statement  last month. Traffic
demand in the period increased 14 percent.  The carrier’s fleet will increase to 18 by the end of this
year and 25 in 2014, Azran said. It had 12 Airbus SAS A330s on
its fleet at the end of June.  AirAsia X shares fell 0.9 percent to 1.05 ringgit in  Kuala
Lumpur  today. The stock has declined 16 percent since its July
10 debut.  Double Size  The carrier plans to double its size in key markets,
including China and  Australia , by offering more frequencies on
existing flights and adding new destinations within those
countries, Azran said.  The airline expects the number of passengers traveling
between North Asia and  Southeast Asia  and Australia on low-cost
carriers will grow fivefold in the next five years as economic
growth enables more people to travel by air, Azran said.  Most of Southeast Asia’s 600 million people -- about the
combined population of the U.S., Germany and Brazil -- will be
middle class by 2020, and that will boost demand for food,
beverages and other goods, according to Bain & Co.  Budget carriers’ market share in the Asia-Pacific region
rose to 24 percent last year from 1.1 percent in 2001, according
to the  CAPA Centre for Aviation , an industry consultancy.  Asia-Pacific region overtook  North America  as the world’s
biggest aviation market in 2009, according to IATA. The region
is expected to add about 380 million travelers, including
domestic and international, between 2012 and 2016 to 1.2 billion,
IATA forecast in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  