-- Malaysia Risk Tops Philippines on Najib Budget Gap
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o ,   L i a u   Y - S i n g   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-09-06T03:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/malaysia-risk-tops-philippines-on-najib-budget-gap.html
Malaysia ’s default risk climbed
above that of the Philippines for the first time as Prime
Minister Najib Razak seeks to avoid a debt-rating cut, while his
counterpart pitches for upgrades.  Contracts insuring Malaysian bonds against non-payment rose
63 basis points this year to 141, compared with an advance of 33
to 139 for its lower-rated neighbor, according to data provider
CMA. Malaysia’s 10-year ringgit  yield  jumped 44 basis points to
3.92 percent, 16 basis points higher than the rate on similar-maturity Philippine notes, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Najib announced fuel price increases on Sept. 2 for the
first time since 2010 to curb subsidies that have strained the
budget, after  Fitch Ratings  cut its outlook on the nation’s A-rating to negative from stable on July 30. Philippine President
 Benigno Aquino  is the only contender in Southeast Asia for an
upgrade as Moody’s Investors Service placed its Ba1 ranking on
review July 25, signaling an increase to investment grade.  “Malaysia’s creditworthiness is deteriorating and the
country needs to address its fiscal and structural problems,”
 Nicholas Spiro , London-based managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy and a former consultant at Medley Global
Advisors LLC, said in a Sept. 3 interview. “The Philippines is
a lower investment-grade credit whose strengths have become more
apparent.”  Rising Debt  The premium investors pay on Malaysia five-year credit-default swaps over those of the Philippines reached 10 basis
points on Aug. 23, the most in CMA data going back to 2004. The
cost was lower as recently as three weeks ago. The Philippines
won investment-grade status this year from Fitch and  Standard &
Poor’s  after cutting its budget deficit.  Malaysian government notes handed investors a 0.3 percent
return in 2013, compared with 7 percent for the Philippines, the
best performance among Southeast Asia’s five-biggest economies,
according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Najib is facing rising debt levels as he seeks to attain
developed-nation status by 2020, in addition to slowing economic
growth and a shrinking  current-account surplus . Fitch cited the
country’s indebtedness and lack of budgetary reform for the
rating outlook cut in July, saying Malaysia risks a downgrade in
18 months to 24 months unless it improves the fiscal position.  ‘Warning Messages’  The prime minister is aiming to lower the budget deficit
relative to gross domestic product to 4 percent in 2013, double
President Aquino’s goal, while Malaysia’s debt-to-GDP ratio is
53.3 percent, compared with 51.5 percent in the Philippines.  “I am more bullish on the Philippines,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a
Scotiabank strategist in  Hong Kong , said in a Sept. 4 interview.
“The  ratings agencies  have been sending warning messages
implying that without fiscal consolidation, Malaysia may be on
the road to a ratings downgrade.”  Najib seems to be heeding those warnings with his decision
to raise fuel prices, which drew a positive response from bond
investors. The yield on Malaysia’s 3.48 percent ringgit-denominated notes maturing March 2023 fell 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 3.97 percent this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  He announced plans on Sept. 2 to bolster the nation’s
finances that included a delay in some state-building projects
that have high import contents in an effort to stem the current-account shrinkage. Strengthening the fiscal deficit position is
vital to sustaining the economy’s resilience and enhancing
public and investor confidence, he said, helping halt a selloff
in 10-year debt over the past two weeks.  ‘Bit Overblown’  An improvement in fiscal balances should drive the 10-year
yield lower, Morgan Stanley said in a Sept. 3 report written by
a team led by Rashique Rahman, co-head of global emerging-currency strategy in  New York . The bank recommends clients bet
on a  narrowing gap  between two- and 10-year yields.  The spread widened 29 basis points this quarter to 70 basis
points, compared with a narrowing of 42 to 63 for the
Philippines, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Fiscal worries about Malaysia are a bit overblown,”
Saktiandi Supaat, the Singapore-based head of foreign-exchange
research at  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , the nation’s largest lender,
said in a Sept. 3 interview. Still, he added, “Najib needs to
really do something on fiscal reforms in addition to what he’s
done Sept. 2.”  The leaders of Malaysia and the Philippines are both having
to contend with capital outflows from emerging-markets amid
signals from the  Federal Reserve  that it may pare monetary
stimulus, sending many  Asian currencies  lower.  Currency Slump  Malaysia’s ringgit weakened 4.8 percent this quarter, more
than the 3.1 percent loss in the Philippine peso, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Indonesia ’s rupiah dropped 11.2 percent, the
Thai baht 4.2 percent and  Singapore ’s dollar 1 percent.  International investors have pulled about $44 billion from
emerging-market stock and bond funds since the end of May, EPFR
Global, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company,
reported Aug. 23.  Malaysia is more vulnerable to capital outflows than some
of its regional peers, partly due to its high reliance on
foreign ownership of debt and the deterioration in the current
account, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. The ringgit faces
the most pressure among Asian currencies after the  Indian rupee 
and Indonesia’s rupiah, Santitarn Sathirathai, Singapore-based
economist at Credit Suisse, wrote in a research note Aug. 20.  Global funds held 28 percent of Malaysian  government
securities  at the end of July, central bank data show. That
compared with August readings in Indonesia and  Thailand  of 31
percent and 7.8 percent, respectively. Similar figures for the
Philippines aren’t available.  ‘Right Direction’  Foreigners  cut  holdings of Malaysia’s sovereign and
corporate bonds by 13 billion ringgit ($3.9 billion) in July,
the most since September 2011, to 215.9 billion ringgit,
according to the latest central bank data.  Malaysia’s  budget deficit  is likely to be higher than the
official forecast of 4 percent in 2013 even after the cut in
fuel subsidies, according to Moody’s. Without additional reforms,
the government’s fiscal targets are “increasingly out of
reach,” analysts Christian de Guzman and Bart Oosterveld wrote
in an e-mailed report on Sept. 4.  Investors were selling “weaker fundamental” countries
like  India  and Indonesia and now that’s spreading to Malaysia
and Thailand, Wee-Ming Ting, the Singapore-based head of Asian
fixed income at Pictet Asset Management, which oversees $24.3
billion in emerging-market bonds globally, said in a Sept. 4
interview.  “That’s why we see suddenly the underperformance in
Malaysian assets in the CDS,” Ting said. “The reduction in the
subsidy is the right direction overall.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  