-- Malaysia Holds Rate to Support Growth as Price Pressures Loom
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-09-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/malaysia-holds-rate-to-support-growth-as-price-pressures-loom.html
Malaysia  held its benchmark interest
rate for a 14th consecutive meeting to support economic growth
as higher fuel prices threaten private consumption and add to
inflationary pressures.  Bank Negara Malaysia maintained the  overnight policy rate 
at 3 percent, the central bank said in a statement in Kuala
Lumpur today. The decision was predicted by all 20 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Prime Minister Najib Razak raised subsidized fuel prices
this week and said he would delay some infrastructure projects
to contain the budget deficit. Bank Negara cut its 2013 growth
forecast last month, and Malaysia has been hurt by the recent
market turmoil as the prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus
fueled a selloff in emerging-nation stocks and currencies.  “There will be an impact on growth as a result of the
fiscal consolidation, as a result of the fuel price hike,” Ho Woei Chen, a Singapore-based economist at United Overseas Bank
Ltd., said before today’s decision. “So the focus is on the
growth outlook as well. Bank Negara will not be aggressive when
it comes to tightening its monetary policy from here.”  The ringgit has lost more than 4 percent against the U.S.
dollar this quarter, the worst performance among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies after the Indonesian rupiah and the Indian
rupee. It fell 0.8 percent to 3.3075 per dollar as of 5:50 p.m.
local time.  The economy may expand 4.5 percent to 5 percent in 2013,
from a previous prediction of as much as 6 percent, the central
bank said Aug. 21.  Global Risks  “Economic growth is expected to be underpinned by the
continued expansion in domestic activity,” the central bank said
today. “Overall growth prospects, however, could be affected by
risks in the global economy and international financial
markets.”  The government raised the prices of the widely used RON 95
grade of gasoline and diesel, a move that will reduce state
subsidies by about 3.3 billion ringgit ($1 billion) annually.  The subsidy cuts led economists from Credit Suisse Group AG
to Malayan Banking Bhd. to raise  inflation  forecasts for this
year and next. Consumer prices climbed 2 percent in July from a
year earlier, the fastest gain in 16 months.  Inflation may accelerate to 2.1 percent this year, Credit
Suisse analyst Santitarn Sathirathai wrote in a Sept. 4 report,
compared with an earlier estimate of 1.9 percent. He raised his
forecast for next year to 2.8 percent from 2.2 percent.  “Going forward, inflation is expected to increase in the
remainder of the year and into 2014 resulting from domestic cost
factors, including subsidy adjustments,” the central bank said
in the statement. “In the Monetary Policy Committee’s assessment,
there are increased uncertainties to the balance of risks
surrounding the outlook for domestic growth and inflation.”  Bank Negara may raise borrowing costs by 25 basis points to
50 basis points in 2014, UOB’s Ho said.  Fitch Ratings cut Malaysia’s credit rating outlook to
negative from stable in July, citing rising debt and lack of
budgetary reform. The fiscal measures announced this week have
not “significantly” altered its analysis and are too small to
change the negative outlook, it said Sept. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  