-- Apple Examining Accusations of Labor Violations at Plant
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-09-05T19:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/apple-examining-accusations-of-labor-violations-at-plant.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said it’s looking into
claims of labor abuses at a  Jabil Circuit Inc. (JBL)  factory in  China 
where a worker group said a component for a new iPhone is being
made.  A report by China Labor Watch accuses  St. Petersburg ,
Florida-based Jabil of violations including excessive working
hours, forcing female workers to accept pregnancy tests to be
hired and providing only five minutes to eat meals.  The report is the latest accusation Apple has faced for its
labor practices. The Cupertino, California-based company designs
its products at its headquarters, then relies on a network of
suppliers and contract manufacturers to build them. Jabil’s
alleged violations were documented at a plant in Wuxi, China,
which China Labor Watch said builds the rear plastic covers for
a less-expensive iPhone that Apple is set to unveil on Sept. 10.  “We take any concerns about our suppliers very seriously,
and our team of experts is on-site at Jabil Wuxi to look into
the new claims about conditions there,” said  Kristin Huguet , a
spokeswoman for Apple. “Jabil has a proactive auditing program
of their own and they have an excellent track record of meeting
Apple’s high standards.”  At the Jabil factory, a typical monthly base salary is
$245, according to the report. Workers are required to conduct
11 hours of unpaid overtime every month. To get a drink of water
or go to the bathroom, a worker must get permission from their
supervisor. Crowded dormitories have eight people sharing a
room, the report said.  Annual Audits  “Apple’s products are manufactured at the expense of
Chinese workers, laboring in factories owned by Taiwanese,  Hong
Kong , and, in the case of Jabil, U.S.-owned companies,” China
Labor Watch said in its  report . The group, a non-profit founded
in 2000, has published several investigations of Apple’s
operations in China that it said are based on interviews with
workers.  Jabil said it conducts 100 annual audits of its operations
to ensure health and safe working conditions.  “We are troubled by recent allegations related to
excessive overtime, unpaid overtime, and working conditions at
our Wuxi, China site,” Jabil said in a statement. “An audit
team is en route to Wuxi to thoroughly investigate these
claims.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net  