-- Asian Stocks Rise for Sixth Day on Shippers, Fed Survey
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-09-05T11:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/asian-stocks-head-for-longest-rising-streak-in-9-months.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a sixth day,
the longest streak of gains in nine months, as shipping lines
surged and the  Federal Reserve  said it saw a moderate recovery
in the world’s biggest economy.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  led Japanese carmakers higher, advancing
2.3 percent after Asian auto manufacturers recorded their best-ever month for U.S. sales. Shippers gained from  Hong Kong  to
 Tokyo  as a measure of cargo prices reached its highest in 21
months. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
sank 0.7 percent after metals fell yesterday in London for the
sixth time in seven days.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent to 133.33 as
of 7:36 p.m. in Hong Kong, with almost two shares rising for
each that fell. The measure capped its longest winning streak
since December.  “The U.S. has one of the best economic momentums and we’re
seeing the pickup of activity broadly based for the economy,”
 David Shairp , a global strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management,
told Bloomberg TV in an interview in Hong Kong. “We are still
happy to be overweight equities.”  Americans spending more on cars and housing helped the
economy maintain a “modest to moderate” pace of expansion from
early July through late August, even as borrowing costs
increased, the Fed said yesterday.  Japan’s Topix rose 0.1 percent. The  Bank of Japan 
maintained its plan to increase the monetary base by as much as
70 trillion yen ($702 billion) a year, while raising its
assessment of the nation’s economy and capital spending, the
central bank said today at the end of a two-day policy meeting.  Regional Gauges  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  climbed 1.2 percent.
Singapore’s Straits Times Index advanced 0.8 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi index added 1 percent, and Taiwan’s Taiex Index
gained 1.1 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.4
percent. China’s Shanghai Composite was dropped 0.2 percent,
while New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.1 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has risen 3.1 percent this
year, trailing a 16 percent surge on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. Benchmark gauges in Hong Kong and Singapore have led
declines in developed markets amid concern about China’s
slowdown, while the region’s  emerging markets  suffered outflows
as investors dumped riskier assets before the Fed is expected to
taper stimulus.  Speculation the  Federal Open Market Committee  will dial
down purchases at its Sept. 17-18 meeting has roiled markets,
pushing up U.S. bond yields and contributing to the worst rout
in the currencies of developing nations in five years.  Syria Resolution  The prospect of U.S. military strikes against  Syria  is also
adding volatility as investors gauge whether oil flows from the
region will be disrupted. A resolution authorizing limited
action is set to be considered by the full  U.S. Senate  as soon
as next week after it was approved by the foreign relations
panel. S&P 500 futures were little changed.  The Asia-Pacific benchmark traded at 13 times  estimated
earnings , compared with 15 times for the S&P 500 and 13.8 for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index declined 6.5 percent this
year. Slower growth this year was a conscious choice by the
government to allow it to adjust the nation’s economic
structure, President  Xi Jinping  said Sept. 3.  Honda gained 2.3 percent to 3,760 yen. Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd. climbed 1.2 percent to 2,577 yen. Toyota Motor
Corp. added 0.3 percent to 6,250 yen. Honda’s U.S. deliveries
jumped 27 percent last month, topping analysts’ estimates, and
Fuji Heavy’s Subaru sales surged 45 percent. Toyota outsold Ford
Motor Co. for a second month in a row, with a 23 percent
increase that beat projections.  Shipping Surge  Shipping stocks advanced as freight rates increased amid
signs the global economy is improving. Chinese services and
manufacturing gauges this week confirmed the world’s second-biggest economy is strengthening following a two-quarter
slowdown, and a euro-area manufacturing index increased more
than strategists had forecast.  The Baltic Dry Index of commodity shipping prices rose 4
percent yesterday to 1,215, its highest level since January
2012, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London, a publisher of
costs on more than 50 trade routes.  Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest dry-bulk
carrier, surged 9.5 percent to HK$5.17. China Shipping
Development Co. jumped 6.7 percent to HK$4.33, the highest in
about six months. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd., the Tokyo-based
operator of  container ships , rose 3 percent to 239 yen.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the mainland’s second-biggest lender, gained 1.4 percent to HK$5.93 and was the most
actively traded stock by volume for a second day, rebounding
from yesterday’s loss on Bank of America Corp.’s sale of shares
in the company.  Resources Shares  Miners dropped as a gauge of metal prices in London fell
yesterday.  BHP Billiton  lost 0.7 percent to A$35.28 in Sydney.
 Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-biggest mining company,
slipped 0.6 percent to A$61.19. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s
largest producer of the metal, fell 0.8 percent to HK$15.62 in
Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  