-- Tata Power Says Creditors Agree to Extend Waivers on Loan Terms
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-09-05T16:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/tata-power-says-creditors-agree-to-extend-waivers-on-loan-terms.html
Tata Power Co. (TPWR)  won an agreement from
lenders to its biggest plant to extend waivers on meeting their
loan terms, giving  India ’s second-largest generator more time to
turn the facility around.  “We have reached an agreement and documentation work is
under way,” Sowmyan Ramakrishnan,  executive director  for
finance at the Mumbai-based utility, said in an interview. “We
expect to sign a final agreement by October.”  The relief on breaches of debt covenants was extended ahead
of an expected increase in the tariff earned by the 4-gigawatt
plant on India’s western coast, raising its chance of a revival.
The higher fee may also help the company win better credit
ratings from companies including  Moody’s Investors Service ,
which downgraded its outlook to negative from stable in July.  Tata wrote off 26.5 billion rupees ($400 million) on the
Mundra site in Gujarat after fuel costs rose. It won the project
by bidding at the lowest tariff, counting on low prices for coal
from  Indonesia , the biggest exporter to Indian power stations.  Indonesia’s decision to link its coal prices to a world
benchmark made the tariff unviable, prompting Tata to seek a
higher rate from the electricity regulator.  The  Central Electricity Regulatory Commission  agreed to a
compensatory tariff for Tata Power and  Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI) , which
also applied for a higher rate. The watchdog told the companies
to form a committee to agree the tariff increase with consumers.
The committee has submitted a report to the regulator, which
will give a final order based on the document.  Tata Power won the right to build Mundra in December 2006
with a tariff of 2.26367 rupees a kilowatt-hour. The price of
 Indonesian coal  with a calorific value of 5,350 kilocalories a
kilogram is up 54 percent from $42.13 a metric ton since then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  