-- Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Fall Before U.S. Jobs Report on Fed Outlook
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-09-05T06:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/aussie-holds-gains-versus-euro-pound-before-ecb-boe-meetings.html
Australia ’s dollar fell from a more
than two-week high before an ADP Research Institute report that
may show companies in the U.S. added jobs last month,
reinforcing the case for the  Federal Reserve  to reduce stimulus.  New Zealand’s currency also declined before tomorrow’s U.S.
Labor Department jobs report, which may fuel expectations for
the Fed to reduce its bond purchases at its meeting on Sept.
17-18. The Aussie held three days of gains against the euro and
pound before The  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England 
conclude policy meetings today.  “A large ADP surprise could move the Aussie as some in the
market see it as an indicator of the official payrolls report,”
said  Imre Speizer , a market strategist in Auckland at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  “Because it’s got the tapering linked into it,
this is going to be one of the most important payrolls numbers
we’ve seen in a long time.”  The Aussie fell 0.3 percent to 91.50 U.S. cents as of 4:42
p.m. in Sydney after earlier touching 91.88, the most since Aug.
19. It was little changed at 69.47 euro cents after rising 3.3
percent in the past three days. It traded at A$1.7068 per pound
from A$1.7036 yesterday.  New Zealand’s kiwi declined 0.4 percent to 78.76 U.S. cents
and 78.57 yen.  Forward Guidance  The ADP Research Institute will probably say today that
U.S. companies added 182,000 jobs last month, following a
200,000 increase in July, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The Labor Department is forecast to say
tomorrow that payrolls rose by 180,000 in August while the
jobless rate held at 7.4 percent, a separate poll showed.  A Bloomberg survey of economists last month showed that 65
percent expected that the Fed will start unwinding its $85
billion a month bond-buying program at this month’s meeting.  Australia unexpectedly reported a trade  deficit  in July as
imports rose 4 percent from the previous month while exports
were little changed, the statistics bureau said today. The
deficit was A$765 million ($700 million) in July, compared with
the median estimate for a A$100 million surplus in a Bloomberg
News survey. Merchandise exports to  China , Australia’s largest
market, rose to A$7.8 billion from A$7.7 billion.  “Better data in the U.S. suggests more positive signs for
the global economy, so while the Aussie is not going to race
away against the  U.S. dollar , it should outperform on the cross
rates,” said Peter Dragicevich, a currency economist in Sydney
at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  The ECB and BOE “will
reinforce their forward guidance so that will see the euro and
sterling underperform, but the current sentiment in the market
should see the Aussie and kiwi outperform.”  Global Sell-off  BOE Governor  Mark Carney  introduced forward guidance last
month, saying the Monetary Policy Committee won’t consider
raising its key rate until unemployment falls to 7 percent. The
ECB’s July introduction of forward guidance followed signs that
the Fed will start unwinding its $85 billion a month bond-buying
program this year. That had sparked a global sell-off in bonds,
driving yields higher in stressed economies including Spain and
Portugal.  Australia’s  10-year bond yield  rose as much as six basis
points to 4.08 percent, the most since Aug. 22. The three-year
rate reached 2.93 percent, the highest since July 8. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  