-- Austria’s Faymann Sticks to Bank Tax to Pay for Hypo Alpe Rescue
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-09-05T11:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/austria-s-faymann-sticks-to-bank-tax-to-pay-for-hypo-alpe-rescue.html
Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann
said he would keep  Europe ’s second-highest bank levy in place
for at least the next five years to help pay for bank rescues
that will continue to weigh on government finances.  Faymann, a center-left politician whose coalition with
conservative leader Michael Spindelegger faces national
elections at the end of this month, said the levy could raise
funds to offset the winding down of nationalized lender Hypo
Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, according to an interview with
Graz-based Kleine Zeitung newspaper today.  “I hope I can say one day that it was the banking sector,
not the citizen, who paid for the predominant part of the Hypo
debacle’s costs,” Faymann was quoted as saying in an interview
with the newspaper. “What I don’t want is that the banking levy
is simply tapering out.”  Austria  has nationalized three banks since 2008, with
outstanding capital and liquidity measures equivalent to as much
as 17 billion euros ($22 billion), or 6.5 percent, of the Alpine
country’s economy. Hypo Alpe’s rescue may add as much as 8
billion euros to that in the next few years. To bolster its
budget amid those costs, Austria imposed a bank levy in 2010
that is due to raise about 600 million euros this year.  The levy is exacerbated for the country’s biggest banks --
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , UniCredit Bank Austria AG and  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI)  -- by banking levies in eastern European
countries such as Hungary, Slovakia and  Romania . The lenders say
it hampers efforts to increase  capital ratios  demanded by
regulators. Erste paid 185 million euros in banking levies in
those countries in the first half of the year, or about half its
pretax profit, it said July 30.  Faymann’s conservative Finance Minister Maria Fekter has
said that she also wants the banking sector to help set up a bad
bank for Hypo Alpe’s non-performing assets.  Austria goes to the polls Sept. 29 to decide whether to
give Faymann’s Social Democratic and the Austrian  People’s Party 
a new mandate to govern the country of 8.4 million. The
Socialists lead the polls with 27 percent while the People’s
party is second at 24 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  