-- Bank of Japan’s Sept 5 Monetary Policy Statement: Full Text
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-05T02:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/bank-of-japan-s-sept-5-monetary-policy-statement-full-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the full text of the policy statement released today
by the  Bank of Japan  in Tokyo.  1. At the Monetary Policy Meeting held today, the Policy Board
of the Bank of Japan decided, by a unanimous vote, to set the
following guideline for money market operations for the
intermeeting period:  The Bank of Japan will conduct money market operations so
that the monetary base will increase at an annual pace of about
60-70 trillion yen.  2. With regard to the asset purchases, the bank will continue
with the following guidelines:
a) The Bank will purchase Japanese  government bonds  (JGBs) so
that their amount outstanding will increase at an annual pace of
about 50 trillion yen, and the average remaining maturity of the
Bank’s JGB purchases will be about seven years.
b) The Bank will purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and  Japan 
real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) so that their amounts
outstanding will increase at an annual pace of about
1 trillion yen and about 30 billion yen respectively.
c) As for CP and corporate bonds, the Bank will continue with
those asset purchases until their amounts outstanding reach 2.2
trillion yen and 3.2 trillion yen respectively by end-2013;
thereafter, it will maintain those amounts outstanding.  3. Japan’s economy is recovering moderately. Overseas economies
as a whole are gradually heading toward a pick-up, although a
lackluster performance is partly seen. In this situation,
exports have generally been picking up. Business fixed
investment is starting to pick up as corporate profits have
improved. Public investment has continued to increase, and the
pick-up in housing investment has become evident. Private
consumption has remained resilient, with some improvement
observed in the employment and income situation. Reflecting
these developments in demand both at home and abroad, industrial
production is increasing moderately. Meanwhile, financial
conditions are accommodative. On the price front, the year-on-year rate of change in the  consumer price index  (CPI, all items
less fresh food) is in the range of 0.5-1.0 percent. Inflation
expectations appear to be rising on the whole.  4. With regard to the outlook, Japan’s economy is expected
to continue a moderate recovery. The year-on-year rate of
increase in the CPI is likely to rise gradually.  5. Regarding risks, there remains a high degree of
uncertainty concerning Japan’s economy, including the prospects
for the European debt problem, developments in the emerging and
commodity-exporting economies, and the pace of recovery in the
 U.S. economy .  6. The Bank will continue with quantitative and qualitative
 monetary easing, aiming to achieve the price stability target
of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that
target in a stable manner. It will examine both upside and
downside risks to economic activity and prices, and make
adjustments as appropriate.  Such conduct of monetary policy will support the positive
movements in economic activity and financial markets, contribute
to a rise in inflation expectations, and lead Japan’s economy to
overcome the deflation that has lasted for nearly 15 years.  Note: Mr. T. Kiuchi proposed that the Bank will aim to achieve
the price stability target of 2 percent in the medium to long
term and designate quantitative and qualitative monetary easing
as an intensive measure with a time frame of about two years.
The proposal was defeated by an 8-1 majority vote.
Voting for the proposal: Mr. T. Kiuchi. Voting against the
proposal: Mr. H. Kuroda, Mr. K. Iwata, Mr. H. Nakaso, Mr. R.
Miyao, Mr. Y. Morimoto, Ms. S. Shirai, Mr. K. Ishida, and Mr. T.
Sato.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Mayger in  Tokyo  at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  