-- Banks Surge as RBI’s Rajan Fuels Profit Optimism: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-09-05T04:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/banks-surge-as-rbi-s-rajan-fuels-profit-optimism-mumbai-mover.html
Indian  bank stocks  surged the most
since May 2009 after the central bank’s new governor signaled
the easing of a requirement on lenders’ government debt holdings
and flagged measures to bring down bad loans.  S&P BSE Bankex index, a gauge of 13 banking stocks, rose
7.2 percent to 10,805.31 as of 9:36 a.m. in Mumbai.  State Bank
of India (SBIN) , the country’s largest lender, gained 3.7 percent to
1,549.9 rupees.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  jumped 7.8 percent, poised for
the largest advance since June 2009.  There’s a need to cut the  requirement  for banks to invest
in government securities to ensure lending to productive sectors
of the economy, the Reserve Bank of India’s Raghuram Rajan said
yesterday on his first day as governor. The central bank will
also look at ways to improve the recovery mechanism for bad
loans, propose a database for large loans across lenders and
allow some lenders to open branches without seeking RBI
approval, he said.  Rajan “made major announcements relating to banks, with a
view to accelerating long-pending reform issues,” JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analysts led by Seshadri Sen said in a report
yesterday. The steps “will have a major long-term impact on
bank profitability and growth,” they wrote.  Rajan’s  comments  on government securities indicate the RBI
is recognizing the need to lower the Statutory Liquidity Ratio,
which requires lenders to invest as much as 23 percent of
deposits in government securities, according to JPMorgan.  The central bank will also allow lenders to borrow as much
as 100 percent of their so-called Tier 1 capital, or core
capital, overseas in an attempt to bring more foreign currency
into  India . The limit was earlier fixed at 50 percent of the
Tier 1 capital.  Loans at Indian banks grew by 16.6 percent in the 12 months
to Sept. 9 after declining to the slowest pace since 2009 in
June, RBI data show. Bad loans rose to 3.92 percent of total
lending as of June 30, the highest level in at least five years,
from 3.4 percent at the end of March, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  