-- Bank Mistakes Will Bring Tougher Penalties, OCC’s Curry Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-05T20:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/bank-mistakes-will-trigger-tougher-enforcement-occ-s-curry-says.html
U.S. regulators will ratchet up
enforcement penalties if banks keep making compliance mistakes
that have cost them more than $100 billion in legal bills in
recent years, said Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry .  As the six biggest banks, led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Bank of America Corp. , have topped $103 billion in legal costs
since the 2008 credit crisis, Curry said his agency has turned
its focus to “operational risk” -- failures by people, systems
and controls inside the banks.  “Some of the settlements and the size of those settlements
and regulatory penalties are a reflection of that breakdown,”
Curry said today on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers”
with  Erik Schatzker , discussing JPMorgan’s so-called London
Whale missteps and money-laundering violations at  HSBC Holdings
Plc. (HSBA)  “These are significant penalties. They are also subject to
additional ratcheting up if there’s continued non-compliance.”  Curry said his agency’s failure to detect the London Whale
trading in which JPMorgan lost more than $6.2 billion has caused
him to make “major changes with respect to our supervision of
the model procedures the banks use for determining capital.”  In its investigation of the Whale trades, the Senate’s
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations said the OCC downgraded
JPMorgan’s management rating in July 2012 for “lax governance
and oversight.”  Ralph Sharpe, a partner at Venable LLP who was a former
enforcement chief at the OCC, said Curry has made it clear that
banks experiencing a wide range of legal troubles could face
lower management ratings.  Action Expectation  “If the rating gets bad enough, I think there’s an
expectation that the board should act to start dealing with
management,” Sharpe said. He added that systemic problems can
also affect the frequency and intensity of the regulator’s
examinations.  Curry, the chief regulator of national banks, said the
question of growing bank scale and complexity also figures into
his agency’s supervision. He said it’s important to have a range
of bank sizes in the industry even as the biggest ones can be
more difficult to manage and oversee.  “There’s always going to be this element of complexity,”
he said. “That gets exponentially harder the larger you are.”  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets and one that has
been beset by government investigations and settlements, is
bracing for enforcement actions from the OCC and the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau. In a recent Securities and Exchange
Commission filing, the New York-based bank said the OCC informed
it of “its determination to seek an administrative order”
related to the lender’s handling of credit-card debt. It said
the consumer agency was conducting a similar probe.  Both agencies are also weighing enforcement orders
regarding identity-theft products, the filing said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 