-- Belaruskali Gets Tax Exemption Amid Dispute With Russia
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2013-09-05T16:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/belaruskali-gets-tax-exemption-amid-dispute-with-russia.html
Belaruskali, the Belarusian state
fertilizer producer, won’t have to pay tax on potash exports
until the end of the year, potentially giving it more leeway to
negotiate prices with buyers.  Belarus removed the levy “to enable the stable work of
Belaruskali,” President  Aleksandr Lukashenko ’s press service
said today in an e-mailed statement. The company has been paying
 tax  of 75 euros to 85 euros ($98.40 to $111.50) a metric ton.  Lukashenko is taking steps to boost the standing of the
country’s potash industry on the global market after
Belaruskali’s Russian partner OAO Uralkali quit their joint
trading venture in July. Removing tax obligations may help the
Belarusian producer undercut prices charged by its competitors.  “Lukashenko’s decision to annul export tax seriously
increases Belaruskali’s competitivenesses,” Konstantin Yuminov,
an analyst at Raiffeisenbank in Moscow, said by phone. “This
will reduce Belaruskali’s cash cost per ton of potash to about
$150 including cost of shipment to port, which will be almost in
line with what Uralkali has.”  Belaruskali Deputy Chief Executive Officer Anatoly Makhlai
declined to comment when reached by phone today.  Uralkali has the lowest costs of any major producer. Its
July decision to exit the joint trading arrangement, which
controlled more than 40 percent of global potash exports,
upended the $20 billion-a-year industry. A month later, Uralkali
CEO Vladislav Baumgertner was arrested in Minsk, Belarus, for
abuse of office. He could face 10 years in prison if convicted.  Russia  has objected to Baumgertner’s detention, saying in a
government statement it’s “unacceptable.”  Lukashenko also today allowed Belaruskali to defer  paying 
$146.5 million to develop Belarus’s Petrikovskoye potash deposit
until December 2014, and ordered the creation of a new potash
trading company to replace the former joint venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  