-- BlackRock Buys OGX Stock as Batista Flagship Boosts Index Weight
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-09-05T18:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/blackrock-buys-ogx-stock-as-batista-flagship-boosts-index-weight.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
money manager, bought shares in  Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo &
Gas Participacoes SA this week as the worst-performing crude oil
producer increased its presence in  Brazil ’s benchmark index.  The BlackRock Brasil Gestora de Investimentos Ltd. unit
 acquired  93.5 million OGX shares for its exchange-traded fund,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on a filing dated
Sept. 3. The shares were worth 39.3 million reais ($16.8
million) based on Sept. 3 closing prices.  “There was a scheduled normal re-balance on August 30 and
OGX went up in weight in the Ibovespa index,” Melissa Garville,
a BlackRock spokeswoman, said in e-mailed response to questions
about the increased presence of OGX in Blackrock’s iShares
iBovespa fund.  OGX founder Batista sold 177.2 million shares Aug. 29 to
Sept. 3, the oil company reported Sept. 4. The sale came as the
entrepreneur, whose wealth shrank by more than $30 billion over
the past 16 months, is looking to raise capital to pay off debt
and bolster some of his other energy and commodity-linked start-ups. Batista has sold 11.14 percent of OGX since March.  This year Batista sold stakes in logistics operator  LLX
Logistica SA (LLXL3)  and energy producer  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , while also
hiring Angra Partners last month to oversee the restructuring of
his EBX Group Co. holding. Batista continues to hold minority
stakes in both LLX and MPX.  OGX has lost 91 percent this year, the most among 348 oil
companies worth at least $500 million, tracked by Bloomberg.  The stock has the third-highest weight in the Ibovespa at
5.31 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with 0.92 percent on Aug. 30, the data show.
 BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  is considering excluding stocks trading for less
than 1 real, or penny stocks, from the Ibovespa, which is
otherwise weighted just by trading volume, according to a
statement on the exchange operator’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  