-- BMW Dealer Sweetens Bonds Amid $1.9 Trillion Debt: China Credit
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-09-05T07:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/bmw-dealer-sweetens-bonds-amid-1-9-trillion-debt-china-credit.html
China ZhengTong Auto Services
Holdings Ltd. (1728) , the luxury car dealer that scrapped a bond last
year, is planning to sell credit-enhanced notes as concern grows
about Chinese companies’ $1.9 trillion of debt.  The seller of sedans made by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Land Rover is talking to investors about
an offering of U.S. dollar-denominated securities backed by Bank
of  China  Ltd. to refinance loans due this year. Chinese and Hong
Kong borrowers’ total debt has almost doubled since 2009, a
Bloomberg search of the latest filings shows.  The country’s issuers, struggling with falling profits and
mounting obligations amid the longest streak of sub-8 percent
economic growth in at least two decades, are less able to
service debt than a year ago, according to Standard & Poor’s.
Yields on dollar bonds sold by Chinese companies have risen 99
basis points in 2013 to 6.26 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Corporate securities pay 3.19
percent globally.  “A lot of companies need to come to the market,” said
Kaushik Rudra, the global head of credit research in  Singapore 
at Standard Chartered Plc. “They’ll probably be looking at
structures to attract a bigger audience and find more support
for their names.”  Growing Burden  Borrowing by Chinese corporates will probably exceed that
of U.S. peers within the next two years, S&P wrote in a report
in May. Companies from the world’s second-largest economy will
need more than $8 trillion for refinancing during the five years
ending 2017, accounting for half of such needs in the Asia-Pacific region, S&P said in the report.  More than 50 percent of dollar bonds sold by Chinese or
Hong Kong companies last quarter were slated to repay debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, stock exchange filings
and marketing materials. That compares with at least 37 percent
last year.  Chinese corporates boosted sales of credit-enhanced notes,
which carry pledges of support from banks or companies, to the
highest since April last month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Keepwell agreements, which state that a China-based parent will
maintain the issuer’s solvency, were used to sell $650 million
of bonds in August.  Financing costs are rising while nonpayment concerns expand
as Beijing moves to rebalance growth from smokestack to consumer
industries. President Xi Jinping said this week that the
government has opted for slower growth to allow it to adjust the
structure of the nation’s economy, as it targets 7.5 percent
expansion in 2013, down from 7.7 percent last year.  Industrial Bonds  Hidili Industry International Development Ltd. (1393) , a coal
miner, in August reported financing costs of 261.3 million yuan
($43 million) for the first half, contributing to a 269.2
million yuan loss in the period.  Winsway Coking Coal Holdings
Ltd. (1733) , a Chinese importer of fuel for steel making, is offering
to buy back bonds due 2016 at as little as 32.5 percent of the
bonds’ value at issue, citing possible repayment difficulties.  LDK Solar Co. said yesterday it is in talks with
noteholders of its 2014 securities to delay interest payments
that were due on Aug. 28. Suntech Power Holdings Co. is also
attempting to renegotiate obligations.  “There was insufficient differentiation” among industrial
issuers by investors, said Tim Jagger, a portfolio manager at
Aviva Investors Asia Pte. “They all seemed to come in a bunch
rather than people thinking about where the credits deserved to
be priced. Investors learned their lesson the hard way which is
now why industrial companies coming to market get more
scrutiny.”  Risks Increase  Yields on top-rated 10-year corporate debt onshore have
surged 54 basis points this quarter to 5.67 percent, Chinabond
indexes show. Similar-maturity government  debt  yields 4.06
percent. The premium on company notes is at  161 basis points ,
near the three-month high it marked last week at 168.  China’s credit-default  swap  contracts insuring the nation’s
debt against non-payment have risen 28 basis points this year to
94.5 basis points, according to data provider CMA. The  yuan  was
little changed at 6.1202 per dollar in Shanghai at 3:11 p.m.  ZhengTong Auto plans to use proceeds from any bond sale to
refinance portions of a HK$930 million ($120 million) loan, a
$50 million agreement and a greenshoe facility of up to $200
million that mature in November, the company said in a statement
to the Hong Kong stock exchange this week. Its share price has
fallen  6.7 percent  this year to HK$5.03 as of 10:10 a.m. in Hong
Kong.  Sweetening Sales  It secured the loans last year, after shelving a planned
sale of five-year notes in May. That bond was slated to repay
about $315 million in loans due to mature in 2012, before yields
soared on concerns  Greece  would exit the euro, prompting the
company to cancel the offering.  The car dealer marketed the bonds in the high 11 percent
area before they were scrapped, a person familiar with the
matter said at the time. Moody’s Investors Service gave those
notes a provisional Ba3 rating, three steps below investment
grade. In contrast the new bonds benefit from an irrevocable and
unconditional standby letter of credit from Bank of China’s
Macau branch and have a preliminary A1 rank, in line with the
lender’s rating.  Citic Securities Co., which also secured a letter of credit
from Bank of China, priced bonds to yield 2.553 percent in
April, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Such letters may become
more common, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “For companies that can’t issue a bond or can only issue a
bond at a high cost on a standalone basis, they may try to print
with a credit enhancement,” said Annisa Lee, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Nomura. “It should lower the cost a lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  