-- Bombardier to Sell Flexjet Unit, Gets $1.8 Billion Jet Order
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-09-05T20:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/bombardier-to-sell-flexjet-unit-gets-1-8-billion-jet-order.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  agreed to sell its
Flexjet aircraft flight-share unit to a U.S. buyer who will
order business jets valued at a minimum of $1.8 billion from the
Montreal-based maker of planes and trains.  Bombardier will sell the Dallas-based unit for $185 million
to Flexjet LLC, a new company funded by a group led by
 Directional Aviation Capital , according to a statement today.
The buyer placed a firm order for 85 Learjet and Challenger
business aircraft, as well as options for 160 more jets that
would push the total value to $5.2 billion, Bombardier said.  The Flexjet order is the third significant win for
Bombardier in the past 15 months. In November, it reached a $7.8
billion deal with luxury air-charter service VistaJet Holding SA
for 56 Global-series planes and options for 86 more. In June
2012, Bombardier agreed to sell as many as 275 of its Challenger
aircraft to the NetJets unit of  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. for $7.3 billion.  The announcement is a “net positive for Bombardier,”
 Cameron Doerksen , an analyst at National Bank Financial in
 Montreal , said in a note to clients. “Demand for the smaller
Learjet line of jets has been weak in recent years so this order
may help boost the production rate for these models.”  Even after disposing of Flexjet, Bombardier will still
generate revenue from the sale of business jets, he said.
Instead of selling the jets to customers in fractional shares,
the company will recognize revenue on the sale of the entire
plane, said Doerksen, who rates the company’s shares outperform.  Shares Rise  Bombardier’s widely traded Class B shares gained 5.5
percent to C$4.98 at the close in Toronto, their biggest single-day gain since May 9. The  stock  has risen 32 percent this year,
as the S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index advanced
3.3 percent.  The sale of Flexjet will probably close by the end of the
year, Bombardier said. The sale will require regulatory and
government approvals, the company said.  Selling Flexjet “will allow Bombardier to focus on its
core business areas,” Pierre Beaudoin, the planemaker’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement. “I am confident that
under its new ownership Flexjet will pursue its growth and
diversification, continue to offer an outstanding experience to
owners and customers and will expand its brand globally.”  Bombardier was the world’s biggest maker of business jets
last year by revenue, according to the General Aviation
Manufacturers Association. Bombardier shipped $5.8 billion of
business jets last year, compared with $4.1 billion for General
Dynamics Corp.’s Gulfstream unit.  ‘Tremendous Opportunity’  Directional Aviation Capital, based in Richmond Heights,
 Ohio , is a private investment firm that focuses solely on
private business aviation, according to its  website .  “There is tremendous opportunity for a bespoke brand in
the private travel market, and Flexjet with its enhanced fleet
can fill that void,” Kenn Ricci, principal at Directional
Aviation, said in a separate statement. “Flexjet will remain a
leading Bombardier customer and manager of the world’s largest
collection of the manufacturer’s business aircraft.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  