-- Brazil Says Extending Half-Point Rate Increases Is Appropriate
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-05T12:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/brazil-says-extending-half-point-rate-increases-is-appropriate.html
Brazil ’s central bank said it’s
appropriate to carry on with half-point interest rate increases
in a bid to ensure inflation pressured by a weakening real won’t
hurt demand and investments.  Policy makers, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously last week to raise the benchmark Selic rate to 9
percent from 8.50 percent, marking the third straight 50 basis-point increase. The central bank’s monetary policy will help
mitigate the impact of the world’s biggest major currency
decline in the past three months, policy makers said in the
minutes of their Aug. 27-28 meeting.  “The monetary policy committee considers it appropriate to
continue the current pace of monetary policy adjustment,” the
minutes said. “Currency depreciation represents a source of
inflationary pressure in the short term.”  Officials last month introduced a $60 billion plan to help
buoy the real amid efforts to prevent a weaker currency from
further stoking inflation that twice this year breached the 6.5
percent upper ceiling of the government’s target range. Central
bankers said today that the government is creating conditions to
move public spending toward a “neutral zone,” after pursuing a
policy that was helping fan inflation.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 10.58 percent at 9:21 a.m. local time. The
real fell 0.2 percent to 2.3658 per dollar, extending its three-month slide to 10 percent.  Rate Rise  Brazil since April has lifted the Selic by 175 basis points
from a historic low of 7.25 percent, the fastest pace of rate
increases among major world economies. Policy makers will use a
range of tools to reduce volatility in the currency, Tombini
said at an event in Sao Paulo state on Aug. 31.  Brazil’s  annual inflation  slowed to 6.10 percent in August
from a 20-month high of 6.70 percent in June, according to the
median estimate of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
national statistics agency will publish official figures
tomorrow.  Economists surveying Brazil’s economy increased their 12-month inflation forecast for the ninth straight week, to 6.12
percent, according to a central bank survey published on Sept 2.
The central bank targets annual inflation at 4.5 percent, plus
or minus two percentage points.  Gross domestic product  expanded  1.5 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three-month period, or an annualized 6
percent, the national statistics agency said on Aug. 30.
Quarterly growth was the fastest since the beginning of 2010 and
exceeded all 44 forecasts from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
whose median estimate was 0.9 percent.  Latin America ’s largest economy will expand by 2.7 percent
this year after climbing 0.9 percent in 2012 and 2.7 percent in
2011, according to central bank estimates. Policy makers will
publish new forecasts this month in their quarterly inflation
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  