-- Bryan Brothers Grand Slam Quest Ends in U.S. Open Semifinals
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-05T18:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/bryan-brothers-grand-slam-quest-ends-in-u-s-open-semifinals.html
The Bryan brothers lost in the
semifinals at the  U.S. Open , ending their bid for the first
men’s doubles calendar-year Grand Slam in 62 years.  Americans Mike and  Bob Bryan  fell 3-6, 6-3, 6-4 to Leander Paes of India and  Radek Stepanek  of the Czech Republic. After a
first set in which they hit 14 winners without an unforced
error, the 35-year-old twins from California struggled to find
their rhythm.  “I have tremendous respect for the Bryan boys,” Paes, 40,
said in a televised interview after the match. “They’re great
ambassadors for American tennis.”  The top-seeded Bryans were two wins away from their 16th
Grand Slam title and fifth at the U.S. Open. A title this week
would have also made them the first men’s duo to win all four
Grand Slam tournaments -- Wimbledon and the Australian, French
and U.S. opens -- in a calendar year since Australians Ken
McGregor and Frank Sedgman in 1951.  In singles, the men today conclude quarterfinal play at the
National Tennis Center in Flushing, New York. Defending champion
 Andy Murray  of the U.K. faces Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland
this afternoon, while top-seeded Novak Djokovic of Serbia
headlines the night session against Russian Mikhail Youzhny.  No women’s singles matches are scheduled.  A six-time Grand Slam champion, the 26-year-old Djokovic is
the only man who has not dropped a set during the tournament.
He’s playing in his 18th consecutive Grand Slam quarterfinals, a
streak that started at Wimbledon in 2009.  Murray-Wawrinka  Murray has won 11 straight U.S. Open matches and been to
the tournament’s semifinals in each of the past two years.
Wawrinka, 28, has never advanced past the quarterfinals at a
Grand Slam.  Second-seed  Rafael Nadal  of Spain and  Richard Gasquet  of
France will meet in the other semifinal.  American sisters Venus and  Serena Williams  also play today
in the women’s doubles quarterfinals. The Williams sisters have
won 13 Grand Slam doubles championships together, including two
U.S. Open titles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  