-- Burnt Orphanage Bares Scars of Rising Religious Tension in Egypt
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-09-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/burnt-orphanage-bares-scars-of-rising-religious-tension-in-egypt.html
Gerges Abdou crouched behind a wall
on the roof of the Soldiers of Christ orphanage, listening to
the shattering glass and silently praying he wouldn’t be spotted
by the assailants ransacking the building.  “Had they seen me, they would have thrown me off the roof
or cut me into pieces,” the 58-year-old guard said in a hall in
the children’s home in Minya, an Egyptian city about 165 miles
(265 kilometers) south of Cairo. “They were filled with evil.”  The orphanage was among dozens of Christian buildings or
churches attacked last month as  Egypt  erupted in renewed
violence after police broke up sit-ins by Islamist supporters of
deposed President Mohamed Mursi. Copts like Abdou say the
attacks are revenge for Christians supporting Mursi’s ouster.  The nature of the assaults sets them apart from the more
common religious tension that occasionally boils over into
violence over such things as land disputes to love affairs
between Muslims and Christians. It also adds another layer of
complexity to the turmoil gripping the country.  “There is a faction that is against the state and its law
enforcers and it’s taking revenge from the weaker groups, namely
the Copts,” Ishak Ibrahim, a researcher at the  Egyptian
Initiative for Personal Rights , a group in Cairo that monitors
civil liberties, said on Sept. 2. “Probably at no point in
modern Egypt was there a similar wave when it comes to the
number, scope and patterns of attacks.”  Boys Evacuated  The 16 boys living at the orphanage were evacuated after
pro-Mursi groups occupied the square outside as part of the
nationwide demonstrations.  Nearby stores had been marked with Xs, black for those
owned by Christians, red for those by Muslims, locals said on
Aug. 27. When the attackers were gone, one of the orphanage’s
buildings was left blackened with holes where windows once were.
A burnt-out overturned car stood outside.  Faced with the new threat, Christian leaders have joined a
nationalist chorus by anti-Mursi Egyptians criticizing the West
for perceived interference in Egypt’s affairs.  “We know the goal behind this and we must deny them the
chance to break the national rank or to prompt us to cry to the
outside world about the churches,” said Youssef Sidhom, chief
editor of  Watani , a Christian weekly newspaper.  The wider political conflict has left hundreds of the
former Islamist president’s backers dead and stymied efforts to
revive an economy stuck in the  worst slowdown  in two decades.  Small Price  The church’s position shows it still “believes in the
military and that what is happening against them is a small
price to pay” to remove the  Muslim Brotherhood , the Islamist
group from which Mursi hails, said Ziad Akl, a senior researcher
at the  Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies .  “The last thing that we can deal with right now in Egypt
is sectarian strife,” Akl said in Cairo yesterday. “The
repercussions are quite grave.”  Pro-Mursi groups say they are being framed for the attacks
on Christians to discredit them.  A statement by the coalition backing Mursi said on Aug. 29
it condemns “the acts of violence, torching and looting against
churches, mosques, police stations” and other institutions. The
security forces “accuse the powers that oppose the coup of
committing such crimes to tarnish their image,” it said.  The security chief in Minya was replaced as part of a
reshuffle of officials in the Interior Ministry on Sept. 4.  Treachery Claim  Christians make up about 10 percent of Egypt’s population
of 85 million, according to the  CIA World Factbook . Christian
groups have long complained of discrimination when it comes to
building churches or landing high-level government positions.  Under Mursi, such grievances were compounded by concerns
newly empowered Islamists would restrict their freedoms and
impose strict interpretations of Islam.  When Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi announced Mursi’s
ouster on July 3, Pope Tawadros II, the head of the Coptic
Orthodox Church, was among the political and religious leaders
surrounding him. They also included the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar.  Scrawled on one church in Minya, is a message for “the
traitor Tawadros and his dogs.” Another daubing declares:
“Egypt is Islamic.”  Further to the south in Dalga, about 30 Christian families
were removed from their homes before the houses were looted,
according to Ibrahim, who is in charge of the freedom of
religion and belief portfolio at the  Egyptian Initiative for
Personal Rights . Some left the village, while others were taken
in by families there, some Christian and some Muslim, he said.  State of Panic  “There are no words that can describe the state of
panic,” said Ibrahim. “You sit expecting that at any minute
dozens of armed people could attack your home, possibly even
kill you or drive you out.”  The scars are visible at the Prince Tadros church in Minya,
near the orphanage. After an attack last month, the building has
been gutted from the inside reducing worshipers to congregating
for mass on borrowed wooden pews in the open air.  Teacher Mahmoud Shehata said Islamists couldn’t have been
behind the assaults on Christian property.  “These attacks were carried out by thugs and designed by
the  Interior Ministry  so they could be blamed on Islamists and
become a pretext for arresting and killing them,” he said as he
took part in a nighttime procession in Minya supporting Mursi.  Price of Freedom  Christians meanwhile differ on what the developments mean
for the future of their ancient community.  “Things will get better,” lawyer Adel Hana said. “We
have made sacrifices. This may be the price of freedom and the
price for Christians to enjoy their rights.”  Amgad Helmy is less optimistic.  “Christians will never get their rights in this country,”
said the 37-year-old. “The choice is always between what’s bad
and what’s worse. The army is what’s bad so I back it.”  Abdou, the orphanage guard, said he had seen a mob breaking
locks on neighboring stores owned by Christians and torching
them before he ran to hide. From the roof, he could hear cries
against the “infidels.” After hours had passed, Abdou tiptoed
down the stairs and eventually made it to the roof of a
residential building where a Muslim neighbor helped him escape.  “Will the burning down of an orphanage bring Mursi back to
power?” Father Efraim Khalil, chairman of the association that
oversees the orphanage, said as he sat underneath a window frame
with shards of glass jutting out. “This is not a night club or
a place for vice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  