-- Cadwalader, Baker Botts, Squire Sanders: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-05T16:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/cadwalader-baker-botts-squire-sanders-business-of-law.html
Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft LLP
lost a malpractice claim brought by client Red Zone LLC over an
$8 million fee to  UBS AG (UBSN)  for advice the bank gave the investment
firm on its efforts to control theme-park operator  Six Flags
Inc. (SIX) , a  New York  state judge ruled.  Former Cadwalader partner Dennis Block, now head of the
mergers and acquisitions practice at Greenberg Traurig LLP, was
the attorney primarily responsible, according to an Aug. 27
ruling by Judge Melvin L. Schweitzer in favor of a malpractice
summary judgment claim against the firm. Block wasn’t named in
the suit.  A one-page side letter that modified an agreement between
Red Zone and UBS over how much the bank would be paid wasn’t
properly drafted to protect Red Zone, the judge said in his
decision.  “The reasonableness of a gap in a contract is often a
factual issue, but here the gap was unreasonable as a matter of
law,” the judge wrote.  In 2005, Red Zone, which is run by Redskins owner Daniel
Snyder, and UBS signed a seven-page letter of agreement
detailing the role that the bank would play in assisting Red
Zone with a potential acquisition of Six Flags and detailing
that the bank would receive a $10 million fee if an acquisition
transaction was completed by a specified date.  Two months later Red Zone and UBS had a dispute over
whether a planned consent solicitation to obtain three of the
Six Flag’s seven directorships would fulfill the terms of the
acquisition agreement, thus requiring the full fee.  After negotiations, an oral agreement was reached for a $2
million payment for anything that didn’t involve Red Zone
acquiring a majority of Six Flag’s stock. A side letter to the
agreement, overseen by Block, said the acquisition transaction
didn’t include the consent solicitation.  Red Zone gained additional Six Flag board seats and Red
Zone employees filled key Six Flags executive positions. UBS
subsequently successfully sued, saying that Red Zone had gained
control of the company and was owed the full $10 million, even
if the firm hadn’t obtained a majority of its stock. The side
letter Cadwalader advised Red Zone on didn’t protect the company
from an obligation to UBS, and resulted in an $11.7 million
ruling in favor of UBS.  “UBS’s demand and the litigation relating to this demand,
would have been meritless but for Cadwalader’s failure to
properly draft the side letter,” Schweitzer wrote.  The judge dismissed Cadwalader’s statute of limitation
arguments and an argument that the firm had warned Red Zone that
the side letter may not have limited its obligation to UBS to $2
million, put forth in an affidavit by Block. “This affidavit
starkly contradicts Mr. Block’s deposition testimony, given
during the UBS litigation,” the judge wrote.  “Cadwalader is disappointed,” David R. Marriott, a
partner at Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP, who is representing both
Cadwalader and Block, said in a telephone interview. “We
respectfully disagree and we expect to pursue a prompt appeal.”  Jeffrey A. Jannuzzo, who represents Red Zone, said in a
phone interview that the company is seeking about $16.2 million
in damages, which includes the original fee to UBS, interest,
lawyers’ fees and expenses.  Jannuzzo said it was a “well-reasoned decision,”
declining further comment.  Law360 reported the case Sept. 3.  The case is Red Zone LLC v. Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft
LLP, 650318/2011, in the  Supreme Court  of the State of New York,
County of New York ( Manhattan ).  Chevron Judge Rejects Bid to Delay Trial of Lawyer Sued in Case  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in New York denied a bid
to delay the October trial of Steven Donziger, a U.S. lawyer
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  sued over claims he committed fraud to win a $19
billion verdict in a pollution case in Ecuador.  Chevron filed a racketeering suit in N.Y. that alleged
Donziger and Ecuadorean plaintiffs fabricated evidence in their
case.  The Donziger defendants sought a three-month delay of all
proceedings pending appeal before a federal appeals court in New
York.  The case is Chevron v. Donziger, 12-cv-80237, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  Moves  EU Litigator Georg M. Berrisch Joins Baker Botts in Brussels  Georg M. Berrisch, a litigator specializing in competition
law, state aid and trade matters in the European Union, has
joined  Baker Botts  LLP in the firm’s Brussels office. He was
previously at Covington & Burling LLP.  Berrisch’s has experience in EU and German antitrust
matters including mergers, cartels and abuse of dominance as
well as state aid. He currently represents Ryanair in its appeal
against the EU Commission merger control decision prohibiting
Ryanair from acquiring control of Aer Lingus. He advises the
airline in relation to several state aid investigations, the
firm said.  Baker Botts has about 700 lawyers at 15 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe ,  China  and the Middle East.  Labor and Employment Team Joins Squire Sanders in Palo Alto  Former Dorsey & Whitney LLP labor and employment partner
Gary M. Gansle has joined  Squire Sanders  LLP’s  Palo Alto  office,
where he will lead the firm’s Northern California labor and
employment practice group. He is joined by two other lawyers.  “The arrival of this team deepens our offering to
international and domestic clients facing complex employment
issues across California and the  United States ,” Squire Sanders
Northern California Managing Partner Michael Kelly said in a
statement.  Gansle has experience in employment law issues such as
litigating cases involving race, sex, disability, and age
discrimination, as well as wage and hour cases. He also counsels
clients on executive compensation matters. His clients include
Northern California-based electric car manufacturer Tesla Motors
and Box Inc., an online file-sharing and cloud content
management services provider.  Squire Sanders has more than 1,300 lawyers in 39 offices
in 19 countries.  Hughes Hubbard Adds Downie to Employee Benefits Group  Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP announced that Sarah E. Downie,
previously with Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, joined the
employee benefits and executive compensation group in New York.  Downie advises plan sponsors, employers, management and
executives on compensation and benefits. She has experience with
Erisa, the Internal Revenue Code, Cobra, HIPAA and federal
health-care reform legislation, the firm said.  Hughes Hubbard has lawyers at eight offices in the U.S.,
Paris and Tokyo.  Mintz Levin Adds Simpson Thatcher New York Tax Lawyer  Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo PC added
Jonathan Talansky to its tax practice in New York as a member.
He was previously with Simpson Thatcher & Bartlett LLP.  Talansky has been lead tax attorney on transactions
involving  capital markets , mergers and acquisitions, investment
funds and financial products, the firm said. He has negotiated
agreements and advised clients on structuring leveraged buy-outs, joint ventures, public company mergers and leveraged
spinoffs.  Mintz Levin has 500 lawyers in eight offices in the U.S.
and  London .  Litigation  Berezovsky Estate May Owe Up To $483 Million, Lawyer Says  The estate of  Boris Berezovsky , who died in March, may be
in debt by as much as 309 million pounds ($483 million), a
lawyer said.  The debts could include 720 million rubles ($21.6 million)
to OAO Aeroflot, 100 million pounds to U.K. tax authorities and
a 3 million pound claim from the son of former Kyrgyzstan leader
Kurmanbek Bakiyev,  Philip Marshall , a lawyer for the Moscow-based airline, said at a hearing yesterday.  “The information from the receivers points to
insolvency,” Judge Paul Morgan said at the hearing.  An autopsy found that Berezovsky died from hanging with no
evidence of a violent struggle, according to London police. Once
a multibillionaire, he faced mounting debt. He lost one of the
largest U.K. civil lawsuits ever filed against  Roman Abramovich ,
the Russian owner of the Chelsea Football Club, last year.
Berezovsky was “unimpressive and inherently unreliable,” the
judge said in her ruling in August.  Berezovsky’s daughter won the right to be an administrator
of her father’s estate in relation to current litigation and to
oversee personal matters, the judge ruled.  Grant Thornton  LLP
will remain as receivers to the estate to continue asset tracing
and dealing with creditors, he said.  The estate isn’t bankrupt, Ekaterina Berezovskaya’s lawyer,
 Anthony Trace , said.  “You say it’s overwhelmingly likely this is insolvency, we
say the reverse,” said Trace. “Your lordship cannot make a
judgment one way or another whether the estate is insolvent.”  Grant Thornton was accused of handing confidential
information to Aeroflot and not carrying out their duties
properly by lawyers for Berezovskaya during the hearing.  “The receivers are independent of Aeroflot, the Russian
state or anybody else,” Stephen Atherton, a lawyer representing
Grant Thornton, said in court. “The criticisms leveled at the
receivers are quite unwarranted,” we “are willing and able to
assist in any capacity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  