-- Canadian Women Leaders Top U.S. as RBC Promotes Taylor
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-05T20:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/canadian-women-leaders-top-u-s-as-rbc-promotes-taylor.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the nation’s
largest lender by assets, extended the country’s lead in
appointing women to corporate leadership roles by announcing
Kathleen Taylor as its first chairwoman.  Women serve as chairman or an equivalent role in at least
eight, or 3.5 percent, of the 226 publicly traded Canadian
companies with a market value of $1 billion or more, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among 3,010 global companies, at
least 55 have a female in that role, or 1.8 percent. In the
U.S., that figure is 1.7 percent, the data show.  “No one is way out ahead,” said Alex Johnston,  executive
director  in Canada for Catalyst, a New York-based research and
advocacy group for women executives. “We are all collectively
laggards. This is an issue for everyone right now, but I think
we’re having a much more vigorous conversation in Canada.”  Royal Bank said on Aug. 29 that Taylor, 56, will take over
as chairwoman in 2014, making her the first woman to lead the
board of one of the nation’s top six banks. The appointment
highlights the lack of gender diversity in the boardroom and
executive suite, which some investors say curbs shareholder
value.  Companies with women leading the board of directors or in
an executive role, indicate a greater diversity of opinion and
business experience, money manager Laura Wallace said in a phone
interview Sept. 3 from Toronto.  Turquoise Hill  “I look at the quality of the board from a qualifications
standpoint and this is a recognition that women are having the
right qualifications,” said Wallace, who manages C$11 billion
($10.5 billion) for Scotia Asset Management. Having women in
leadership roles is “a part of the mosaic of a company.”  At least seven large Canadian companies, or 3.1 percent of
226 public companies, have a female chief executive officer,
including  Linamar Corp. (LNR)  and  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ)  Women
executives are in at least 53 percent of those 226 companies,
according to Bloomberg data.  In the U.S., of 1,933 publicly listed companies with a
market value of $1 billion or more, at least 46 percent have one
female executive or more. That includes Beth Mooney, who took
over as chairman and CEO of Cleveland-based KeyCorp in 2011,
becoming the first woman to lead one of the 20 biggest
independent U.S. banks.  Bank Ranks  “Our numbers are slightly better than the U.S. but let’s
not set the bar too low,” said Jennifer Reynolds, head of
Toronto-based Women in  Capital Markets , a not-for-profit
organization that promotes females in business. “Let’s see some
better representation at the senior levels of management and in
the executive suite.”  RBC’s Taylor joins an industry where at the six largest
banks women make up 65 percent of the workforce but hold only 33
percent of senior management roles, according to  2011 data  by
the Canadian Bankers Association.  “Banks have spent real time considering this issue, taking
steps to increase women’s representation on their boards, but to
have a chair move into this role is really significant,”
Johnston at Catalyst said in an Aug. 30 telephone interview from
Toronto. “This does have pretty substantial power in terms of a
significant step and message.”  Royal Bank (RY)  rose 1.7% to C$66.56 in Toronto today, taking
its  gains  for the past 12 months to 20 percent, compared with a
15 percent gain for the eight-member Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Commercial Banks Index. Toronto-based Royal Bank is the best
performer in the index over the period.  Four Seasons  Taylor was previously CEO of closely held Four Seasons
Hotels and Resorts after serving in various roles at the luxury
hotelier for more than two decades. She joined Royal Bank as a
director in 2001 and has a master’s degree in business
administration from the Schulich School of Business and a law
degree from Osgoode Hall Law School at  York University  in
Toronto. Messages left for Taylor weren’t returned and Rina Cortese, a bank spokeswoman, said Taylor isn’t available for
comment.  Several women are among the executives at Canada’s largest
lenders, including Janice Fukakusa, Royal Bank’s chief financial
officer; Colleen Johnston, CFO at Toronto-Dominion Bank; Wendy Hannam,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s executive vice president of  Latin
America ; and Laura Dottori-Attanasio, chief risk officer at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  Talent Available  “There are talented and capable women available,” Gail Cook-Bennett, who retired in May from her role as chairwoman of
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , said in a phone interview from Ottawa.
“But you have to be convinced that the people are there, the
talent is there, and you have to be prepared to invest the time
to look for them.” Cook-Bennett was also the  inaugural  chairman
of Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, the country’s largest
pension fund manager.  Laurentian Bank of Canada (LB) , based in  Montreal , was the
nation’s first lender to elect a female chairman, appointing
Jeannine Guillevin Wood in 1997 after she joined as a director
in 1977. The lender’s board is now led by Isabelle Courville.  “In a global perspective,  Canada  is doing very, very
well,” Courville, 50, said in a Sept. 3 phone interview from
Montreal. “I’m very optimistic with what I see in Canada. I
look at the young students in university and there are a lot of
women -- of course they’re not on boards just yet, but you need
to get up the ranks.”  The number of women in large public companies needs to be
higher, but it’s only part of the picture, Courville said.  Diverse Opinion  “If you look at leadership in the education sector,
health, community, cultural sector -- society is not only the”
Toronto Stock Exchange, Courville said. “Women may choose
another career, as well.”  The Ontario Securities Commission, the province’s
securities regulator, is  considering  a proposal that would
require companies to provide disclosure regarding women on
boards and in senior management.  “Diversity of opinion is invaluable to corporate decision
making, and it is therefore necessary to encourage greater
representation of women at senior levels,” said Maureen Jensen,
OSC executive director and chief administrative officer, in a
July 30 statement.  Reynolds at Women in Capital Markets was a director at  Bank
of Montreal (BMO) ’s investment banking unit for a decade and most
recently was a managing director at Stonecap Securities Inc.
Hiring women isn’t about filling a quota but rather about
considering all candidates equally, she said.  ’Best Voices’  “If they’re only looking at men, then it’s impossible that
they are looking at all qualified candidates because you’ve just
cut out 50 percent of the population,” Reynolds said. “You
just can’t have the best voices in the room or be making the
best decision with an organization if you get everyone in the
room that looks and thinks the same.”  Wallace at Scotiabank said she’s hopeful that Taylor’s
appointment is the first of many female additions to the
business world.  “I hope I see the day when it’s not news -- that would be
terrific wouldn’t it?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  