-- Canadian Crudes Little Changed as Oil-Sands Production Increases
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-09-05T16:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/canadian-crudes-little-changed-as-oil-sands-production-increases.html
Canadian crudes were little changed
as large oil-sands producers reported rising production and
refineries took plants offline, reducing demand.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and  Canadian Oil Sands Ltd. (COS)  reported
increased output in August.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  said today it
had begun planned maintenance at its Scotford refinery near
 Edmonton ,  Alberta .  Syncrude, a light crude processed from oil-sands bitumen,
weakened for a third day, by 20 cents a barrel to a $1.20
discount to U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate, according to
Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc.  Western Canadian Select heavy oil strengthened for the
first time in four days, gaining 10 cents against WTI to a
$25.50-a-barrel discount, Net Energy said.  Suncor,  Canada ’s largest oil producer, said oil-sands
production increased 11 percent in August to a monthly record of
433,000 barrels a day. Canadian Oil Sands said output from the
Syncrude project rose 15 percent to 210,000 barrels a day.  Shell said on a community hotline that it shut its Scotford
 refinery , which can process 97,870 barrels a day, for scheduled
work. A person with knowledge of the matter said on July 30 the
plant would be down for maintenance for most of September.  Plant Maintenance  Other plants that buy Canadian crude are also scheduled to
halt for maintenance.  Husky Energy Inc.’s (HSE)  82,000-barrel-a-day
Lloydminster  upgrader , which processes heavy crude into lighter
grades, will shut for 45 days starting in early September,
executives said on an earnings call last month. Suncor said Aug.
1 that it’s planning four to five weeks of maintenance on the
110,000-barrel-a-day Unit 2 at the Fort McMurray  upgrader .  In the U.S. Midwest,  Northern Tier Energy LP (NTI) ’s 74,000-barrel-a-day St. Paul Park  refinery  in Minnesota plans to halt a
fluid catalytic cracker during October, the company said during
its earnings conference call in August.  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting,  Indiana ,  refinery  will shut a 75,000-barrel-a-day crude unit for 30 days of repairs starting in the
third week of September, according to IIR Energy, a Sugar Land,
Texas, energy information provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  