-- Canadian Dollar Gains Versus Peers on Jobs-Growth Projections
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-05T21:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/canadian-dollar-gains-versus-peers-on-jobs-growth-projections.html
The Canadian dollar rose against the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers before data tomorrow
forecast to show the nation snapped two months of jobs losses in
a sign the economy may be emerging from a mid-year slowdown.  The currency fell against the  U.S. dollar  as jobless claims
in that country dropped and its service industry grew at the
fastest pace since 2008. Crude oil,  Canada ’s largest export,
climbed after American legislators took the first step to
approving a military strike on  Syria  that could disrupt Middle
Eastern fuel shipments. Tomorrow’s jobs report may reverse a
string of weaker-than-forecast data, from construction activity
to retail sales, that contributed to the largest monthly
economic contraction since the 2009 recession in June.  “There’s been a lot of gloom hanging over Canada in recent
months, so given that’s the way the market is positioned, when
you do get forecasts for better data, then clearly that has a
brightening effect,” Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist
at Rabobank International Inc., said by phone from  London . If
there’s strong jobs growth tomorrow, “the market will start to
evaluate if the economy is going to improve from here.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.1 percent to
C$1.0505 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys
95.19 U.S. cents.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s 10-year benchmark  bonds  fell for a fifth straight
day, with yields rising eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 2.8 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June
2023 lost 67 cents to C$88.99.  Futures on crude oil gained 1 percent to $108.44 per barrel
in  New York  while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks
gained 0.1 percent.  A report tomorrow will show Canada created 20,000 jobs in
August, according to the median estimate of 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, after losing 39,400 the previous month
and 400 in June. The  unemployment rate  will remain at 7.2
percent, a separate survey showed.  Fewer Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, according to Labor Department
data issued today in  Washington , bolstering predictions a report
tomorrow will show hiring picked up in the U.S., Canada’s
biggest trading partner.  The U.S. dollar surged against most major peers on
speculation the stronger data will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to
pare back monetary stimulus that is viewed as depressing the
greenback.  ‘Positive Numbers’  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
 index  for the U.S. increased to 58.6, the fastest pace since at
least January 2008, from 56 the prior month, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The median projection in a Bloomberg
survey of economists called for a decline to 55. Readings above
50 indicate growth in the industries that make up almost 90
percent of the economy.  “On the whole, just looking at the data that’s out this
morning, that is reinforcing the idea the Fed will be tapering
this month and continuing to taper throughout the fall,” said
 Greg Moore , a currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, by
phone from Toronto. “The broad U.S. strength is seeing a lower
Canadian dollar.”  Tomorrow’s U.S. employment report for August may show
payrolls climbed by 180,000 after July’s 162,000 gain that was
the smallest in four months, according to the Bloomberg survey
median. The jobless rate probably held at a more than four-year
low of 7.4 percent.  FX Trading  Foreign exchange trading in Canada surged to an average
$61.4 billion a day in April, the highest since 2008, according
to a semi-annual  survey  by the Canadian Foreign Exchange
Committee, released today. That was a 20 percent increase from
the last survey in October last year, the biggest increase in
six years.  “It’s possible some of the positive numbers we’ve been
getting out of the U.S. have been supporting a stronger outlook
for the  U.S. economy ,” said Emanuella Enenajor, an economist at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World markets, by
phone from Toronto. “Therefore oil, therefore the Canadian
dollar.”  The  Bank of Canada  kept its main  interest rate  unchanged at
1 percent yesterday and reiterated that current monetary policy
remains appropriate as an expected rotation of demand to exports
and investment is being delayed by slower growth abroad.  Options traders grew more bearish on the Canadian dollar
for the first time in six days. The three-month so-called 25
delta risk reversal rate, which measures the premium charged for
the right to buy the U.S. dollar against its Canadian
counterpart versus contracts to sell, rose to 1.45 percent, from
1.43 percent yesterday.  The loonie has gained 0.3 percent in the past week against
nine developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The Australian dollar’s 2.8 percent
gain was the biggest and a 2.2 percent decline made the yen the
biggest loser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in New York at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  