-- Cardenas Says Colombia to Consider Dividend Tax to Aid Farmers
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-09-05T13:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/cardenas-says-colombia-to-consider-dividend-tax-to-aid-farmers.html
Colombia  will study a tax on
dividends to pay for increased help for the nation’s struggling
agricultural sector, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said.  The government will consider various proposals from
lawmakers to pay for an increase of between two and three
trillion pesos ($1-1.5 billion) in the country’s 2014 budget,
Cardenas said today in an interview on Caracol Radio. These also
include postponing a planned phasing out of a 0.4 percent tax on
banking transactions.  “Extraordinary situations call for extraordinary
measures,” Cardenas said. “We understand perfectly the
difficulties Colombian agriculture has right now, and the great
need to give it additional resources.”  Coffee growers, dairy producers and other agricultural
workers have blocked highways and staged protests since Aug. 19
over the government’s trade and farm policies, which they say
reduce their incomes. Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos ’
approval ratings fell to a record low in a Gallup poll published
yesterday.  In December, Colombian lawmakers rejected a proposal to
introduce a dividend tax as part of a tax reform bill.  Colombian agriculture has been hit by a 21 percent drop in
coffee prices this year, while Cardenas has said repeatedly that
a strong peso has hurt farmers. The Colombian currency has
strengthened 46 percent over the last decade, the best performer
among major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The number of Colombians with a favorable image of Santos
dropped to 21 percent at the end of August from 48 percent in
June, according to a Gallup poll published by Caracol Radio and
 El Tiempo  newspaper.  The peso strengthened 0.3 percent to 1940.11 per  U.S.
dollar  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  