-- Carnival Agrees to Spend $180 Million to Cut Pollution
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-09-05T17:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/carnival-agrees-to-spend-180-million-to-cut-pollution.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the world’s largest
cruise operator, agreed to spend $180 million to cut sulfur
emissions from 32 ships, bowing to demands by the Environmental
Protection Agency to clean up pollution it causes near ports.  Under the agreement with the EPA, announced today by
Carnival and the agency, the company will install scrubbers
and diesel particulate filters on its ships to cut pollutants
that can exacerbate smog or discharge microscopic particles
dangerous to humans’ lungs.  “We have developed a breakthrough solution for cleaner air
that will set a new course in environmental protection for years
to come,” Carnival Chief Executive Officer Arnold Donald said
in a statement.  Regulators are seeking to reduce emissions from vessels,
including  cruise ships , that the EPA says are significant
contributors to air pollution at ports. Standards developed by
the U.S., Canadian and European governments imposed a 1 percent
cap on sulfur in diesel used by ships in a 200-mile zone near
the U.S. shore as of last year, and a 0.1 percent cap by 2015.
The cruise industry  complained  that enough low-sulfur fuel might
not be available by 2015, which could raise their costs.  Carnival, based in Miami, will scrub the emissions instead
of using lower-sulfur fuel, with a deadline of mid-2016 to
install the equipment on all 32 ships, which primarily serve
North American markets. That will help the company head off
higher fuel costs, the company said in its statement.  Carnival runs 102 ships under 10 different brands,
including Princess, Holland America, Costa and Cunard, and said
it would “explore the possibility” of adding the scrubber
technology to other ships.  “This is clearly a mixed bag, because it will mean dirtier
air in the short term, with the potential for cleaner air down
the road,”  Frank O’Donnell , president of the Clean Air Watch,
said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  