-- Carney Rates Resolve Challenged as Recovery Builds: U.K. Credit
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-05T07:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/carney-rates-resolve-challenged-as-recovery-builds-u-k-credit.html
Bank of England  officials will
probably hold fire on stimulus today as a strengthening economic
recovery challenges their resolve to keep  interest rates  low.  The Monetary Policy Committee, after meeting for the first
time since introducing forward guidance, will keep its  key rate 
at a record 0.5 percent and  bond-buying program  unchanged,
according to two Bloomberg News surveys. Factory and services
growth surged in August, extending a recovery that’s pushed U.K.
borrowing costs to a two-year high. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch says the MPC may issue a statement.  Carney’s guidance is linked to  unemployment  and signals
interest rates will remain on hold until late 2016 as long as
 inflation  remains in check. While the pace of growth has
prompted doubts among investors that joblessness will fall as
slowly as the MPC forecasts, recent business surveys indicate
companies are meeting increased demand by boosting  productivity 
rather than hiring.  “Guidance gives them time just to see how this better
growth feeds through to the labor market and they do have scope
to sit back and observe that,” said  David Tinsley , an economist
at BNP Paribas SA in  London  and a former BOE official. “If they
find that a lot of this growth is fueled by productivity gains,
that will help keep a lid on inflationary pressures and help
support keeping rates lower for longer.”  The MPC, which met Sept. 3 and Sept. 4, will announce its
decisions at noon in London. The bond-purchase target will be
kept at 375 billion pounds ($585 billion), according to all 38
economists in a survey. All 44 economists in another poll see
the benchmark rate unchanged.  Yields Rise  The committee last issued a statement with a policy
decision in July, when it said the “implied rise in the
expected future path of  bank rate  was not warranted by the
recent developments in the domestic economy.”  The 10-year  gilt yield  has risen 52 basis points since the
MPC last met on Aug. 1 and reached 2.92 percent today, the
highest since July 2011. Investors demanded 94.8 basis points of
extra yield to hold  U.K. debt instead of German bunds  as of 8:24
a.m. London time, its highest since June 10, 2010.  Short sterling futures have fallen, indicating investors
are increasing bets on interest rates rising before 2016. The
implied yield on the contract expiring in December 2015 was at
1.71 percent, up from 1.07 percent on Aug. 1.  ECB Rates  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  is facing a
similar dilemma as signs of a strengthening euro area prompt
questions over whether he can stick to his commitment to keep
rates low for an extended period. The ECB’s Governing Council,
meeting in  Frankfurt  today, will maintain its  key rate  at 0.5
percent, according to all 56 economists in a survey. The bank
will announce the decision at 1:45 p.m. local time.  Sweden ’s central bank kept its  main lending rate  unchanged
at 1 percent today and stuck to a plan to start tightening late
next year as a recovery gains pace.  Carney introduced guidance on Aug. 7 and said the BOE won’t
consider raising its benchmark until unemployment falls to 7
percent, which it doesn’t see happening for another three years.
The jobless rate was 7.8 percent in the second quarter.  While U.K.  services  expanded at the fastest pace since 2006
last month, there was only “marginal” growth in employment,
 Markit Economics  said yesterday. In  manufacturing , payrolls
growth was “muted in the last month as firms sought to maximize
staff capacity before recruiting,” it said.  ‘Other Direction’  “While the knee-jerk reaction to stronger growth prospects
may be to bring the expected first rate hike forward, the
combination of strong output and modest employment growth
actually points in the other direction,” said  Jens Larsen , an
economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London.  The BOE has forecast that an improvement in productivity
will curtail payrolls growth and keep inflation in check. It
said Aug. 7 the outlook for price growth was similar to May
because the “stronger demand outlook is assumed to be largely
matched by a faster expansion in effective supply capacity.”  Minutes of this week’s meeting will be published on Sept.
18. The record of the August decision showed some members saw
the case for more quantitative easing “as compelling as in
July.” They agreed there was “merit” in first supporting
guidance and assessing its effect. On the other side of the
argument,  Martin Weale  voted against introducing guidance
because he wanted a tougher inflation clause.  In a speech last week, Carney sought to convince business
leaders that he will stick to his plan to keep rates low, saying
the central bank won’t tighten policy “until jobs, incomes and
spending are recovering at a sustainable pace.”  While his message has so far focused on consumers and
executives, he has noted the potential threat to the recovery
from rising borrowing costs and said the MPC is ready to act.  “They will not want this incipient recovery cut off by
tightening financial conditions,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
economist  Kevin Daly  said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“We expect them to resist that with firmer communication,
potentially alluding to the possibility of action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  