-- Cathay Opposes Jetstar’s Plan Saying It’s Harmful for HK
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-09-05T13:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/cathay-objects-to-jetstar-hong-kong-plan-as-detrimental-to-city.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  opposed
a  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  venture’s plan to start a budget carrier
in  Hong Kong , saying the proposal violates local laws and
granting access would be detrimental to the city’s interests.  “Cathay Pacific Airways can confirm that it has filed a
formal objection to the application,” the Hong Kong-based
airline said in an exchange  statement  today. The application of
Jetstar Hong Kong, a venture between Qantas,  China Eastern
Airlines Corp. (670)  and a company founded by gambling tycoon  Stanley Ho , was made public by the city last month.  Approving the application would be a violation of Article
134 of Hong Kong’s  Basic Law  because Jetstar Hong Kong doesn’t
meet the requirement that it must have its principal place of
business in the city, Cathay said in its statement. About half
of Hong Kong’s traffic is controlled by Cathay, and  Asia ’s
biggest international carrier is seeking to defend that
dominance while China’s economic growth slows.  “That provision wasn’t there to stop low-cost carriers,
they didn’t exist,” said Danny Gittings, assistant professor of
law at the University of Hong Kong School of Professional and
Continuing Education, and author of the book “Introduction to
the Hong Kong Basic Law.” “If Cathay Pacific really believes
that the decision breaks the Basic Law, it’s certainly open for
them to bring a case on that basis.”  ‘Dangerous Precedent’  The precise meaning of the article hasn’t yet been
litigated, Gittings said. The original intention of the law,
written in the 1980s, was to prevent Chinese carriers from
taking control of Hong Kong’s air traffic rights after the
handover, he said. Hong Kong, a former British colony, was
turned over to  China  in 1997.  According to the Basic Law, the local government has the
authority to issue licenses to airlines incorporated in the city
and use it as its principal place of business.  Jetstar Hong Kong  rejects any suggestion it’s controlled by
a foreign airline and the company is managed locally, Chief
Executive Officer Edward Lau said in a statement today. The
airline confident of meeting the regulations, he said.  “The application would set a dangerous precedent by
granting control of Hong Kong’s hard-negotiated sovereign air
traffic rights to a carrier that is nothing more than a
franchise operation controlled by a foreign airline,” Cathay
said.  Hong Kong-Based  Cathay’s shares rose 3.3 percent to close at HK$13.82 in
Hong Kong trading today, compared with a 1.2 percent increase in
the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The Air Transport Licensing Authority has received Cathay’s
objections, Hong Kong’s Transport and Housing Bureau confirmed
in an e-mailed statement today. It hasn’t received any other
objections from airlines so far, according to the statement.  The bureau said last month it’s reviewing laws regarding
designating a carrier as local and expects to complete the
process “in the next few months.”  Under the current system, an applicant must seek an air
operator’s certificate and an air transport license as well as
the designation as a Hong Kong carrier, according to the bureau.  In June, Jetstar Hong Kong sold a 33.3 percent stake to
Shun Tak Holdings, a company founded by Ho. Qantas and China
Eastern Airlines hold 33.3 percent each of the proposed carrier.
The venture also named  Pansy Ho , managing director of Shun Tak
and a daughter of Stanley Ho, as its chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  