-- China to Finish Debt Audit Ahead of Key Meeting
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-06T04:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/china-to-finish-local-government-debt-audit-ahead-of-key-meeting.html
China  will this month complete an
audit of local-government debt to assess risks to its financial
system, ahead of a Communist Party meeting in November to set
economic policy, a government official said.  China’s finance ministry will wrap up its first full audit
in more than two years in September and release the results in
October, Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said yesterday at a
briefing during the Group of 20 Summit in  St. Petersburg ,
 Russia . The total volume of debt is expected to rise slightly,
he said.  China in July ordered a nationwide review of local-government debt, which the National Audit Office said in 2011
totaled 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.75 trillion). Former Finance
Minister Xiang Huaicheng said in April the amount may be more
than 20 trillion yuan, underscoring the risks President Xi Jinping’s government faces as the economy slows and it tackles
the effects to the financial system of a record credit boom.  “The loans to local-government financing corporations are
mainly used for infrastructure projects which have a relatively
sound financial return,” Zhu said through an interpreter. “But
indeed there are some projects, the so-called image projects, by
local governments which have very little financial return and
virtually no social benefits.”  The volume of local-government debt stood at 10.7 trillion
 yuan  at the end of 2010, Zhu said yesterday, citing an audit
done that year. The second round of audits this year may see the
total volume rise “a little bit,” he said.  LGFV Debt  Local Chinese governments have also set up thousands of
companies to sidestep regulations that bar them from directly
borrowing from banks or selling debt. These financing vehicles
were used to raise funding for construction of infrastructure
such as roads and sewage systems.  Outstanding loans by the banking system to these local-government financing vehicles totaled 9.59 trillion yuan at the
end of June this year, with a bad loan ratio of 0.14 percent,
Zhu said.  The scale of local-government debt in the world’s second
largest economy is controllable and risk of default not high,
Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said in an interview aired by state
broadcaster  China Central Television  on Sept. 4.  The lack of transparency in local-government borrowings
prompted Fitch Ratings Ltd. to cut China’s long-term local-currency debt rating in April.  The Beijing plenary meeting of the party’s  Central
Committee , which includes Xi, Premier  Li Keqiang , government
ministers and heads of the biggest state-owned enterprises and
banks, will discuss deepening policy reforms at a meeting in
November, according to a report on Aug. 27 from the state-run
Xinhua News Agency.  Zhu also told reporters that the U.S. should limit global
risks from shifts in monetary policy, as an exit from easing
poses a major challenge for the world economy.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  