-- China Joins Europe in Syria Economic Risk Warning at G-20 Summit
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-09-05T17:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/china-joins-europe-in-syria-economic-risk-warning-at-g-20-summit.html
China  and Europe at a Group of 20
summit hosted by Russia warned that U.S.-led strikes on  Syria 
would risk harming the global economy, bolstering efforts to
rally opposition to the proposed attack.  “Such a military action will definitely have a negative
impact on the world economy, especially on the oil price,”
Chinese Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  told reporters in St.
Petersburg today. “We hope that this issue could be solved at
the United Nations and through diplomatic channels.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama , who has asked Congress to
endorse a punitive strike on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
forces after an alleged chemical attack on civilians, is trying
to enlist international support at the G-20 meeting. Italy and
 Germany  have joined Russia and China in insisting they won’t
support military intervention in Syria without approval from the
United Nations Security Council.  Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta said any such operation
would cause volatility on financial markets. “We don’t need
volatility, we need stability,” he said. “We are concerned
about it.”  Russia , a Soviet-era ally of Syria, and China, both veto-wielding members of the Security Council, have repeatedly
blocked any action against Assad over a 2 1/2-year civil war
that has killed more than 100,000 people.  Oil Effect  The possibility of renewed conflict in the Middle East
comes as the expected tapering of U.S. stimulus measures is
causing concern of spillover effects in  emerging markets . Brent
may rise to $120-$125 a barrel if the U.S. and allies begin
military action in Syria and may “spike briefly” to $150 if a
U.S.-led attack on Syria sparks further conflict in the Middle
East and supply disruptions,  Michael Wittner ,  Societe Generale
SA (GLE) ’s New York-based head of oil market research, said in a
report on Aug. 30.  “The concern for everyone is that a rise in oil prices
would pose a risk to economic recovery,” Capital Economics Ltd.
economist  Julian Jessop , said by phone from  London  today. “It
remains to be seen if the current rate of growth will continue
if oil prices stay at today’s levels or even rise.”  The 17-nation euro area returned to growth in the second
quarter after 18 months of recession.  ‘Negative Influence’  The BRICS group of major emerging economies, which includes
Russia, South Africa, China,  India  and  Brazil , today discussed
the risk posed by a Syria strike on the sidelines of the G-20
summit, said Dmitry Peskov, Russian President Vladimir Putin’s
spokesman.  They agreed that it would lead to an “extraordinary
negative influence on the economy,”  Peskov told reporters.  China today also urged the U.S. to limit global risks from
shifts in monetary policy, with  Indonesia  warning the changing
stance is spurring capital outflows as the G-20 leaders met.  The U.S. should be mindful of a possible “very significant
spillover effect,” said Zhu, the deputy finance minister,
speaking through an interpreter.  Emerging markets, which helped pull the world out of a
recession after the global financial crisis, now face an exodus
of cash and sliding currencies in anticipation of the Federal
Reserve’s eventual tapering of its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases.  ‘Collateral Damage’  The risk of military strikes on Syria threatens to weaken
the global economic expansion, say economists from banks
including Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Nomura Holdings Inc.  Deutsche Bank economist  Carl Riccadonna  wrote in an Aug. 27
report that rising gasoline prices could inflict “collateral
damage” on economic confidence and consumption this year.  Capital Economics’ Jessop calculates that in the worse-case
scenario, a jump to $150 a barrel, would threaten “stagnation”
by knocking 1 percentage point off international expansion.  China’s Zhu said his country is in consultations with the
International Monetary Fund on the fallout from Syria and cited
the Washington-based lender’s forecasts that a $10 per barrel
increase in oil a quarter percentage point off global growth.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said today
that the euro area is “alert to the geopolitical risks that may
come out of the Syrian situation.”  ‘Very Cautious’  “I’m very, very cautious about the recovery,” Draghi said
at his monthly press conference in  Frankfurt . “I can’t share
enthusiasm. It’s just the beginning. Let’s see. These shoots are
still very, very green.”  The ECB kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged today at
a record low after the euro area returned to growth in the
second quarter. Gross domestic product expanded 0.3 percent in
the three months through June after six quarterly contractions
and recent economic indicators point to the rebound continuing.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News last month see growth
in China slowing to 7.3 percent in the fourth quarter, the
weakest in more than four years, after 7.5 percent in the July-September period, based on median estimates.  Even though an attack on Syria may benefit Russia by
sending oil prices higher, a major split with the U.S. and its
European allies would deter investors, according to  Chris Weafer , a senior partner at Moscow-based Macro Advisory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in St. Petersburg at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  