-- China Cadre Who Smiled at Crash Scene Sent to Jail for Graft
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-05T13:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/china-official-who-smiled-at-crash-scene-sent-to-jail-for-graft.html
A Chinese official who was vilified
on social media over his luxury watch collection and images that
showed him smiling at the scene of a deadly bus crash was
sentenced to 14 years in prison for graft.  Yang Dacai, the former head of work safety in Shaanxi
province, was convicted today of taking bribes and possessing
“a large amount” of property he couldn’t account for, the
official Xinhua News Agency said today.  Yang’s case became a symbol of corruption within the
Communist Party after  Internet users  angered by images from the
crash scene uncovered more pictures in which he was seen wearing
expensive watches, earning him the nickname “Brother Watch.”
President  Xi Jinping  has started an anti-graft campaign
targeting officials at all levels of power amid warnings that
corruption threatens the party’s rule.  Chinese Internet users began investigating Yang on their
own -- a process nicknamed the “human flesh search engine” --
after the images circulated online in August 2012 showing him
smiling at the scene of a traffic accident that killed 36
people. He was fired from his post and expelled from the
Communist Party in February.  “His expression was seen as inappropriate and
unsympathetic,” Xinhua said in a report today. When his trial
began last month, Xinhua said the proceedings showed Chinese
citizens’ power to root out malfeasance online.  Tighten Control  China  has also sought to tighten control of the world’s
largest population of web users, passing legislation requiring
people to identify themselves when signing up for Internet and
phone services.  The Xi’an Intermediate People’s Court ordered the
confiscation of 250,000  yuan  ($40,900) in bribes that Yang took
and 5 million yuan in property he couldn’t account for.  Yang’s sentence comes after former Politburo member Bo Xilai faced trial on corruption charges and the former chairman
of China National Petroleum Corp.,  Jiang Jiemin , was put under
investigation for discipline violations.  At a briefing today, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei
said probes into corruption allegations will be beneficial for
the growth of China’s oil sector.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Liu in Beijing at 
 lliu255@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  