-- China Money Rate Drops for Third Day After PBOC Adds Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-05T03:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/china-money-rate-drops-for-third-day-after-pboc-adds-cash.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
dropped for a third day after the central bank’s fund injections
helped boost cash supply in the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China added 10 billion yuan ($1.6
billion) to markets via 14-day reverse-repurchase contracts at
4.1 percent today, according to a statement posted on its
website. The monetary authority pumped in a similar amount using
seven-day reverse repos on Sept. 3 at 3.9 percent.  “Liquidity is ample this week,” said Cheng Qingsheng, an
analyst at Evergrowing Bank Co. in  Shanghai . “The central bank
doesn’t need to inject that much cash into the market.”  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of cash availability in
the banking system, fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 3.44 percent as of 9:40 a.m. in Shanghai, according to
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The rate declined 24 basis points yesterday.  The cost of one-year interest rate swaps, the fixed payment
to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, decreased for a
third day, falling three basis points to 4.09 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sheng Songcheng, head of the PBOC’s statistics and analysis
department, said conditions and timing are gradually maturing
for China to accelerate opening of the  yuan  capital account, the
China Securities Journal reported today. The central bank has
also submitted a plan for the buying and selling of certificates
of deposit to the State Council for approval, the newspaper
reported separately, citing a person close to the central bank
it didn’t identify.  The yield on the government’s 4.08 percent bonds due August
2023 was little changed at 4.08 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  