-- China Must Give Market Bigger Role as Growth Slows, Chamber Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-05T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/china-must-give-market-bigger-role-as-growth-slows-chamber-says.html
China ’s government must reduce its
role in the economy and allow market-driven change to ensure
sustainable growth, according to a report by the European Union
Chamber of Commerce in China.  “China could previously make a choice between economic
restructuring and maintaining growth,” Davide Cucino, president
of the chamber, said at a briefing on its annual position paper
in Beijing yesterday. Now “the only way to get sustainable
growth is to carry out structural reform.”  Plans for a zone for trade and investment reforms in
 Shanghai  and July’s move to deregulate lending rates indicate
the new leadership of President Xi Jinping has a “serious
approach” to carrying out market-driven change, Cucino said.
For now, the government has a conflict of interest as both owner
and regulator of businesses and its banks are propping up
unproductive state enterprises and financing wasteful projects,
the chamber said in its report.  “In the past we had the experience to have a lot of
wording about this and that change but not really actions,”
Cucino said. “This time it looks like there is a serious
approach even because I believe, and we believe, there is not
really a big choice. We are in a no u-turn situation.”  The chamber recommended further interest-rate
liberalization, more independence for  regulators , a greater role
for the private sector, and that more resources be allocated to
ensure compliance with regulations.  Incentivize Inefficiency  “Market price signals -- in particular higher  interest
rates  -- would restrain current high levels of  credit growth  and
incentivize efficiency,” the chamber said in its report.  The EU is home to some of the biggest foreign companies
doing business in China, including Wolfsburg, Germany-based
carmaker Volkswagen AG, Munich-based engineering company Siemens
AG, London-based bank HSBC Holdings Plc,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , and
Danish wind-turbine maker Vestas Wind Systems A/S.  Details of any economic policy changes are unlikely to
emerge from a meeting of the Communist Party’s  Central Committee 
later this year even as that gathering may provide a broad
framework for the direction of market-driven change, Cucino said.  China’s decelerating growth and excess capacity in some
sectors is cutting company revenues and profits
“dramatically,” Cucino said.  “There is a new business environment you need to face,”
he said. “Going to China to invest thinking that you will have
the same kind of profit, the same kind of revenue that you had
in the past is not possible anymore.”  China is an increasingly important part of global strategy
for 64 percent of European companies, down from 74 percent in
2012, according to a survey released by the chamber in May.  “This is still one of the best if not the best place to
be,” Cucino said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  