-- China Sells Residential Land at Record Price Amid Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-05T05:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/china-sells-residential-land-at-record-price-amid-property-curbs.html
China  sold a residential land parcel
in Beijing at a record price amid rising competition among
developers for sites in major cities, which have led price gains
even as the government maintains property curbs.  The 28,100 -square-meter (302,356-square-foot) National
Agriculture Exhibition Center plot, northeast of the city
center, was sold for 2.1 billion  yuan  ($343 million) to  Sunac
China Holdings Ltd. (1918)  yesterday, according to a statement on the
local land reserve center’s website. Sunac’s bid included a
commitment to build a 278,000-square-meter hospital at another
site, according to the statement.  The total purchase price of 4.3 billion yuan implies a cost
per square meter of buildable space of 73,000 yuan, the most
expensive in China, according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.,
the nation’s biggest real-estate brokerage. The number of
apartments sold for more than 10 million yuan in the Chinese
capital jumped 81 percent to 1,388 in the first half from a year
earlier, as wealthy buyers favored bigger properties under the
government’s purchase restrictions, according to realtor Bacic &
5i5j Group.  “The high price happened even as property curbs were in
place,” said Qu Anxin, a Shanghai-based researcher at
Centaline, who estimated that homes built on the site will sell
for as much as 200,000 yuan per square meter. “I don’t think
the government will do much further” to limit prices.  China’s home prices rose in August by the most since
December, data from  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  showed this week,
underscoring Premier Li Keqiang’s struggle to make housing
affordable even as the economy cools.  Shares Decline  New home prices increased 14 percent in both Beijing and
 Shanghai  in July from a year earlier, and jumped 17 percent in
Guangzhou and Shenzhen, leading gains among 69 of 70 cities
tracked by the government where prices advanced, according to
the latest data from the National Bureau of Statistics.  Liu Xiaojing, a press officer for Sunac, the Chinese
developer part-owned by buyout firm Bain Capital LLC, confirmed
the bid, without providing further details.  Sunac’s shares fell 4.2 percent to HK$5.25 at the midday
break in Hong Kong, set for the lowest since July 29.  Sun Hung Kai  Chinese developers started a land buying spree in major
cities in the second half as demand for homes remains strong.
Beijing sold a high-end residential land parcel for a record
46,000 yuan a square meter of buildable area on July 23, beating
a record set July 3 for a site in southwest Beijing, according
to Bacic & 5i5j.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , Hong Kong’s biggest developer
by value, bought a site in Shanghai for 21.8 billion yuan in an
auction today, Renee Wang, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for the
developer, said by phone.  That price is a record in the city, Centaline’s Qu said by
phone today.  Sunac, which focuses on luxury projects in cities including
Tianjin, Beijing and Chongqing, expects to exceed its sales
target this year as demand remains strong even amid the nation’s
property curbs, Chairman Sun Hongbin said in an interview in
May.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  