-- Climate Talks Should Encourage New Carbon-Trade Tests, IETA Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-09-05T12:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/climate-talks-should-encourage-new-carbon-trade-tests-ieta-says.html
Emissions traders want United
Nations climate talks in November to set rules on a trial system
of globally linked carbon markets, according to their Geneva-based lobby group.  A market framework recognized by the UN would allow member
countries to pursue their own carbon-cutting programs, while
providing a “large” pool of tradable emission-reduction
credits, Dirk Forrister, president of the International
Emissions Trading Association, said yesterday by phone. Prices
in the pool may be lower than in individual markets, which would
attract nations seeking to cut costs, he said.  “The incentive to participate is that it’s wise to be part
of a broad group of countries,” said Forrister, who helped
advise former President  Bill Clinton  on climate protection.  Negotiators at UN talks on a global climate treaty in 2015
due to come into force from 2020 are meeting in Warsaw on
November 11 to lay the groundwork for those discussions. Market-based measures to protect the climate are still attractive for
nations because they offer the cheapest option, Forrister said,
even after a surplus of UN carbon-credits drove prices down 97
percent since 2008.  IETA’s proposed framework would provide accounting
standards and help ensure environmental integrity, according to
the lobby group’s Sept. 2 submission to the UN that was e-mailed
to  Bloomberg News . The UN sought input from nations, industry
and environmental groups on how to coordinate countries’ diverse
climate-protection strategies.  Carbon Budgets  The framework’s “market oversights body,” elected by
countries in the system, would create and oversee a new type of
carbon permit, similar to the tradable Assigned Amount Units
handed to developed countries under the 1997  Kyoto Protocol ,
according to IETA, whose  members  include Bank of America Corp.
and Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  Climate negotiations will prod nations to accept greenhouse
gas budgets that limit their carbon output over time, because
they “are an atmospheric necessity,” Forrister said. The U.K.
already uses carbon budgets backed by law.  The U.S., which failed to join Kyoto, will be attracted to
such the new framework because the nation’s fast expansion of
shale gas use has shown how quickly price incentives can reduce
emissions, Forrister said. Using gas, which emits about half the
carbon dioxide of coal when burned for power, may allow the U.S.
to become a seller of credits instead of a buyer, he said.  “We want to move into a period of testing,” Forrister
said. “If countries wanted to experiment next year, the Warsaw
outcome should encourage them to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  