-- Clorox Spoofs ‘Real Housewives’ as Green Sales Miss Mark: Retail
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-09-05T13:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/clorox-spoofs-real-housewives-as-green-sales-miss-mark-retail.html
Three women are browsing a farmer’s
market in search of an eco-friendly gift for what they call a
“greener than thou” friend. It’s a tall order. As one of the
shoppers puts it, “Her family re-uses dental floss.”  The scene appears in a satirical Web  series  called “The
Green Housewives.” While the show is playing for laughs, the
aim is serious: to goose sales of  Clorox Co.’s (CLX)  Green Works line
of cleaners, which haven’t sold as briskly as the company would
like. The series, available on Clorox’s website, riffs on
company research showing that even environmentally conscious
consumers don’t want to be seen as sanctimonious. The show’s
tagline: You don’t have to be ridiculous to be green.  While green product sales are growing fast, they account
for a mere 3 percent of the household and laundry cleaning
category. Companies like Clorox -- best known for liquid bleach
-- are keen to establish their green cred. The challenge is
overcoming the snob factor spoofed on “Green Housewives” and
persuading shoppers that eco cleaners work as well as those
containing such harmful chemicals as chlorine.  Clorox needs to “get away from the idea that these are
premium-priced products used by the elite or people living on
communes,” said Michael Stone, who runs Beanstalk, a brand
licensing agency that is part of  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)   The green cleaner aisle is getting crowded. Seventh
Generation and Method have established themselves as niche
brands targeting the Whole Foods crowd. Supermarket chains are
rolling out private-label products, including  Safeway Inc. (SWY) ’s
Bright Green line. Even Martha Stewart sells them.  Share Price  Market researcher Packaged Facts projects 5 percent annual
growth through 2016, which “may accelerate if economic
conditions change.” According to Nielsen, about one third of
U.S. consumers are willing to pay more for green products.
Clorox, whose 13 percent advance this year lags behind a 16
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, is keen to
goose growth in its consumer division even as it diversifies
into medical supplies. Clorox fell 0.8 percent to $82.33 at 9:44
a.m. in New York.  When Clorox introduced its plant-based Green Works line in
2008 the Oakland, California-based company positioned it as a
premium brand to compete directly with Seventh Generation and
Method. A bottle of Green Works cleanser sold for as much as 25
percent more than Clorox’s conventional products.  The introduction collided with the recession, and sales
plunged once consumers began trading down. In 2009, Clorox had
the biggest U.S. share of green cleaning products. By 2012, it
had dropped to No. 3, behind Seventh Generation and Method,
according to Packaged Facts, a Rockville, Maryland-based market
research firm.  ‘Democratized’ Brand  This year Clorox “democratized” the brand by cutting
prices to within 5 percentage points of conventional cleaners.
Green cleaning products generally cost 15 percent to 20 percent
more than conventional ones, said  Ali Dibadj , a Stanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York.  Then, as part of the rebranding, Clorox hired Denver-based
Futuristic Films to make “Green Housewives,” which features
“anxious eco-snob” Michon, Jamie, an “eco-socialite,” and
Elyse, the “queen of green.”  In one episode, Michon coos over a “perfume- and dye-free” shirt made from 98 percent hemp.  “Yeah, right,” says Elyse. “You want to be 2 percent
responsible for destroying the planet?”  Overcome Skepticism  Clorox still needs to overcome skepticism that green
products work as well as conventional ones. Last year, Consumer
Reports recommended only one green laundry detergent, by Seventh
Generation, and noted that it cost about twice as much as
mainstream brands. In a test of 19 all-purpose cleaners, the
magazine found some effective sprays by Green Works and Seventh
Generation, yet said they “lose out to a veteran,” Pine Sol.  Clorox’s own research showed consumers thought green
products weren’t effective, streaked badly, were hard to find
and cost 50 percent more, Chief Executive Officer Don Knauss
said in an interview earlier this year.  “Consumers aren’t very good at telling you what they want
or what they need,” he said. “They’re very good at complaining
about what doesn’t work.”  In a Packaged Facts survey of 2,000 consumers, almost half
said they’d use green cleaners if they were more effective. To
help change perceptions, Clorox has made its logo easily visible
on Green Works products. While the move may seem
“counterintuitive,” research shows that trust in the Clorox
name may overcome concerns about efficacy, said Heidi Dorosin,
the cleaning division’s marketing chief.  Clorox also has larded the Green Works website with
customer testimonials. “Great quality. Safe. Affordable,” one
says. “And most of all it works.”  Clorox’s research shows “a lot of crossover” between its
cleaners, with consumers often choosing conventional products
for big projects and green sprays to wipe down counters their
kids might be touching, Dorosin said.  She acknowledged that changing shopping habits is hard.  “This takes time,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  