-- Coalition Outlines Foreign Aid Cuts Before Australia Ballot
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-05T07:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/coalition-plans-foreign-aid-cuts-to-fund-infrastructure-spending.html
Australia ’s Liberal-National
coalition, on track to win government in the Sept. 7 election,
would cut A$4.5 billion ($4.1 billion) in foreign aid over four
years to fund an increase in infrastructure spending.  The reduction is part of the coalition’s A$40 billion in
planned savings over the four years to June 30, 2017, Shadow
Treasurer Joe Hockey told reporters in  Melbourne  today.
Infrastructure spending would be boosted by almost A$5 billion.  “We are going to cut the growth in foreign aid to pay for
necessary infrastructure here in Australia,” Hockey said. “We
need to do this to grow our economy. We can only be a more
generous nation to the rest of the world if we have a strong
Australian economy.”  Hockey has been pressured by the government to outline how
he’ll fund promised tax cuts and spending increases on
education, disabled care and paid parental leave at a time of
weaker-than-forecast government revenue. Polls shows the Tony Abbott-led coalition is poised to take control of Australia’s
$1.5 trillion economy from Kevin Rudd’s ruling Labor with an
election victory in two days.  “The cuts to foreign aid and higher infrastructure
spending are about bringing the focus back home as that’s what
businesses are yearning for,” said Katrina Ell, an economist at
Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “The relatively minor cost cuts
announced are a strategic move for the election rather than a
comment on future economic management.”  Reducing Debt  The winner of the election will inherit an economy that has
avoided consecutive quarters of contraction -- the local
definition of a recession -- for 22 years. Signs of a slowdown
have emerged, with record-low interest rates implemented to
counter rising unemployment, forecast by Treasury last month to
rise to a more than decade-high 6.25 percent next year, as a
China-led resources-investment boom starts to wane.  The coalition’s savings plan will reduce government debt by
A$16 billion over the next four years, Hockey said. Outstanding
federal debt stood at A$271.6 billion at the end of last month,
according to the government funding arm.  Other cuts outlined by the coalition today include delaying
spending commitments on the Murray Darling Water Buyback
program, saving A$650 million, and introducing a further 0.25
percent efficiency dividend on the public service, netting A$428
million, Hockey said in a separate statement.  Better Roads  The coalition has committed to spending more than A$20
billion on new or upgraded infrastructure projects, with roads
to get the bulk, he said.  “There is some scope for a national government to make
some cuts,” John Wanna, a professor of public administration at
the Australian National University in Canberra, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “There is going to be some
trimming of public policy. The economy is in very low growth at
the moment.”  The opposition has promised to abolish Labor’s carbon and
mining levies and lower the business-tax rate while funding a
A$5.5 billion per year maternity-leave program. It plans to cut
red tape, reduce the civil service by at least 12,000 positions,
lower subsidies for automakers, cancel handouts to parents of
school children and achieve a budget surplus equal to 1 percent
of gross domestic product within a decade. Company taxes will
fall 1.5 percentage points to 28.5 percent.  “Abbott is in the business of cuts, cuts and more cuts for
Australia’s future,” Rudd told reporters in Canberra today.
“Our opponents have invariably been content to oppose, oppose,
oppose and then tear the house down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  