-- Common-Core Standards Have Tea Party Seeing U.S. School Takeover
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-09-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/common-core-standards-have-tea-party-seeing-u-s-school-takeover.html
Three months after Republican Paul LePage became  Maine ’s governor in 2011, he signed a law adopting
the Common Core standards to better prepare students for college
or careers.  Since then, the program to which he gave his imprimatur has
become the focus of  Tea Party  anger. While LePage isn’t stopping
implementation of the standards, he now disavows them.  “I don’t believe in Common Core,” LePage said in a
statehouse interview last week. “I believe in raising the
standards in education.”  LePage’s contortions reflect the politicization of Common
Core benchmarks, developed to regularize and improve education
across the nation. After 46 states adopted and are implementing
the standards in math and language arts, some are balking amid
concerns that the federal government may be taking over.  Indiana ,  Michigan ,  North Carolina ,  Oklahoma ,  Pennsylvania 
and  Wisconsin  this year halted or delayed implementation,
according to the Denver-based  National Conference of State
Legislatures . Republicans control the governor’s office and the
legislature in all of those places. Twenty-six bills across 11
states related to Common Core are pending, the NCSL said.  In Maine, Common Core opponents say they will collect the
57,277 signatures needed to put a referendum on the November
2014 ballot. Debate about benchmarks and testing “will continue
to be a big conversation” throughout the nation, said Michelle
Exstrom, education program director at the NCSL.  Sliding Back  Common Core’s standards for kindergarten through high
school were finalized in June 2010 by the National Governors
Association Center for Best Practices and the Council of Chief
State School Officers, according to corestandards.org. Only
 Alaska ,  Nebraska ,  Texas  and  Virginia  didn’t approve them, the
NCSL said.  They were a response to U.S. graduates falling behind those
in other countries. The nation ranked 14th among 37 countries in
the percentage of 25- to 34-year-olds with higher education
after being a world leader a generation ago, according to a 2012
report by the Paris-based  Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development . Only 39 percent of 2013 high-school graduates
who took the ACT standardized test met three or more of four
college-readiness benchmarks, and 31 percent met none, ACT Inc.,
a non-profit based in  Iowa  City, Iowa, said in an Aug. 21
statement.  Electronic Offensive  Opposition to Common Core increased this year after
commentators  Glenn Beck  and Michelle Malkin criticized it and
the  Republican National Committee  adopted a resolution April 12
opposing it as “a nationwide straitjacket.” Malkin described
it on her blog as “the stealthy federal takeover of school
curriculum and standards.”  The federal government offered states financial incentives
to adopt the standards and helped fund the two consortiums that
created national tests, said Michael Petrilli, executive vice
president of the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, a Washington
education-policy group that promotes “standards-based
reforms.”  Even so, the common standards are better than what most
states had, he said.  “There are legitimate reasons to worry about federal
overreach, and it’s certainly true that the federal government
has been involved with the Common Core,” Petrilli said. “For
me, those concerns are outweighed by all the positives.”  Averageness Enforced  The benchmarks are not as rigorous as they should be, will
cost too much to implement, and states shouldn’t adopt “one-size-fits all” guidelines, said Jim Stergios, executive
director of the Pioneer Institute, a Boston-based research group
that promotes limited government.  “For some states, it’s a step up,” Stergios said. “For
some states, it’s a wash. And for some states, it’s a step down.
It’s codifying mediocre standards across the country.”  Not all opposition is from the right. Some liberals oppose
what they see as excessive testing, said Mark Naison, a
professor of African-American studies and history at  Fordham
University  in  New York .  Naison, who calls himself a leftist, co-founded a Facebook
group in June he called the “Badass Teacher Association”
opposed to the Common Core. It has 26,000 members, he said. More
people will question the standards once they see the results, he
said.  “The political alignments here are going to shift,”
Naison said.  Losing Sway  In Maine, LePage’s Department of Education announced the
adoption of the Common Core in 2011 with a release saying the
standards “do not tell teachers how to teach” while “allowing
schools and teachers to plan their curriculum.”  Opponents say the opposite.  “This is a historic transition of our education system,”
said Erick Bennett, a political operative who helped LePage win
his first term and is spearheading an effort to collect the
signatures needed for the referendum to nullify the standards.
“The local school boards no longer have control over our
schools.”  Sitting in an Irish pub drinking beers last week in Bath,
Maine, Gordon Draper, 61, and Dan McKenna, 53, said they oppose
the standards. Draper said he has custody over his 9-year-old
grandson and is pulling him out of public school, and McKenna
plans to collect signatures for repeal.  “It reminds me of the  Soviet Union ,” McKenna said in an
interview. “When I was in school, this was called communism.”  Learning Skepticism  Still, some Republican lawmakers in Maine are standing by
the program. Common Core engenders critical thinking that
workers need, said state Senator Andre E. Cushing III.  “Businesses are frustrated with the skill level of
employees they hiring,” said Cushing, 54, of Hampden.  Indiana, the first state to enact legislation this year
challenging the Common Core standards, adopted them in 2010
under former Republican Governor  Mitch Daniels . A bill approved
in April and signed by Governor Mike Pence, Daniels’s Republican
successor, halts the standards pending a review and re-vote by
the state Board of Education.  Constituents raised enough questions to prompt “a hard
look,” said House Speaker Brian Bosma.  “I don’t see a bogeyman standing behind the tree, but I
also want to assure that our standards don’t take a step
backward in the name of conformance with other states,” said
Bosma, a Republican from Indianapolis.  Some states probably will revoke the standards or opt out
of national tests, the Fordham Institute’s Petrilli said. They
will have to show there’s an alternative, he said.  “The horse is out of the barn,” Petrilli said. “It’s on
them to show that that something else is going be just as good
if not better, and I don’t think most states are going to be
able to make that case.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net  and
Annie Linskey in Augusta, Maine, at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  