-- Congo Peace Talks to Start in Three Days, Regional Summit Says
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2013-09-05T17:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/congo-peace-talks-to-start-in-three-days-regional-summit-says.html
Peace talks between the Democratic
Republic of Congo’s government and the M23 rebels should start
in three days and be completed within 14 days, Ugandan Foreign
Minister Sam Kutesa said.  “Belligerent forces on the ground are urged to exercise
maximum restraint so as to enable the talks to be rapidly
concluded,” Butesa said, reading a communique after a regional
summit today in  Kampala , Uganda’s capital.  Negotiations between the government and the rebels broke
off following recent fighting in eastern Congo. M23 insurgents
defected from Congo’s army last year after the breakdown of a
2009 peace agreement. The rebels held Goma for 11 days in
November before withdrawing under international pressure to
begin peace talks with the government. Congo accuses  Rwanda  of
supporting M23, which Rwanda denies.  Today’s summit was attended by presidents Yoweri Museveni
of Uganda, Rwanda’s Paul Kagame, Tanzania’s Jakaya Kikwete,
Congo’s Joseph Kabila and South Sudan’s Salva Kiir.  Eastern Congo has suffered more than 15 years of conflict
since the aftermath of the 1994 Rwandan genocide spread across
the border. Dozens of rebel groups are still active in the
region, a decade after the official end of fighting.  “We have accepted to come back to the talks, but they must
be concluded quickly,” Congolese Deputy Prime Minister
Alexandre Luba Ntambo said earlier in an interview.  M23 spokesman Amani Kibasha’s was phone on voice mail when
called for comment.  Eastern Congo, which shares borders with Uganda, Rwanda and
Burundi, is rich in tin ore, tungsten and tantalum, and armed
groups and members of the army sometimes profit from mineral
sales, according to the United Nations. Congo is  Africa ’s
biggest tin producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Maier in Johannesburg at 
 kmaier2@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  