-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Declines for a Fourth Straight Week
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-09-05T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-declines-for-a-fourth-straight-week.html
Consumer confidence  fell for a
fourth consecutive week to its lowest level since early April as
Americans’ views on the economy and buying climate deteriorated.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index eased to minus 32.3
for the period ended Sept. 1, its weakest reading since April 7,
from minus 31.7. The gauge has dropped 8.8 points after reaching
a more than five-year high in the week ended Aug. 4. The series
of declines is the longest since January.  The threat of U.S. military action in  Syria  against a
backdrop of rising  mortgage rates  and higher prices at the gas
pump is weighing on consumer attitudes. Faster employment and
wage growth would help stabilize sentiment and encourage
households to step up the pace of spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy.  “You’re seeing the culmination of a lot of things that
have been building,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist
at Bloomberg LP in New York. Consumers are weighing
“geopolitical tail risks emanating from the Middle East, the
lagged impact of tax hikes and gasoline prices and slower
overall growth and job gains.”  Data from the Labor Department today showed fewer Americans
than forecast filed applications for jobless benefits last week.
 Jobless claims  in the week ended Aug. 31 declined by 9,000 to
323,000.  Another report, from the ADP Research Institute in
Roseland, New Jersey, showed companies added 176,000 workers to
their payrolls in August, in line with the average over the last
two years, after a 198,000 increase a month earlier.  Stocks rose after the employment data. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.2 percent to 1,656.07 at 9:35 a.m.
in New York.  Economy View  Two of the Bloomberg index’s three components fell last
week. Americans perceptions of the  state of the economy  dropped
to minus 55.3 from minus 55.1 in the prior week, matching the
July 14 reading that was its lowest since May.  The  buying climate  gauge decreased to minus 40.6, its
weakest since June 16, from minus 38.7. The share of consumers
indicating this is a poor time to make purchases matched last
week as the highest since March, indicating a bleaker outlook
for consumer spending.  At the same time, consumers’ views of their  personal
finances  were little changed. The Bloomberg index was minus 1.1
after minus 1.3 the prior week, which was the first negative
reading since April.  The Bloomberg  comfort index (COMFCOMF)  compares with mixed readings
from other confidence measures. The Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan final index of  consumer sentiment  in August fell to
a four-month low of 82.1 from 85.1 in July that was the highest
in six years, data showed last week.  Gas Attack  The Conference Board’s  confidence measure  unexpectedly
advanced to 81.5 from a revised 81 the prior month that was
stronger than initially estimated, the New York-based private
research group said Aug. 27. The results were collected through
Aug. 15, before an Aug. 21 attack in a Damascus suburb where the
U.S. government has determined Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime used chemical weapons against civilians.  The charges of a sarin gas attack prompted President  Barack Obama  to ask Congress to approve military action against Syria
at the same time he seeks international support.  “The international community’s credibility is on the
line” because of the broad consensus that chemical weapons use
must be prohibited, Obama said yesterday at a news conference
with Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt in  Stockholm .  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted 10-7 yesterday
to approve a resolution authorizing U.S. military force in
Syria, without ground troops, that would be limited to a maximum
of 90 days in duration.  U.S. Involvement  Lawmakers will debate action in Syria amid weak public
support for U.S. involvement. Almost six in 10 Americans oppose
unilateral missile strikes against Syria, according to an
ABC/ Washington  Post poll. The opposition drops to 51 percent if
other nations such as the U.K. and  France  participate. Seventy
percent oppose supplying weapons to the Syrian rebels.  In a survey by the Pew Research Center in Washington, 48
percent opposed air strikes on Syria with 29 percent favoring.
In both polls, the opposition crossed party lines. In Pew’s
tally, 40 percent of Republicans, 48 percent of Democrats and
half of independents oppose the strikes.  Weaker support for military intervention among Democrats
may explain why today’s Bloomberg sentiment survey showed those
in the party registering a less optimistic outlook on the
economy than Republicans for the first time since March 2012,
Brusuelas said. Confidence among Republicans improved to its
highest level since November 2008.  Republicans’ Sentiment  It marked the first time in 76 weeks that Republicans were
less pessimistic than Democrats.  “That’s unusual historically,” Gary Langer, president of
Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which produces the
data for Bloomberg, said of the trend’s reversal. “Given
factors including Republicans’ generally higher incomes, the CCI
was higher among Republicans than Democrats almost continuously
from mid-1990 through March 2012.”  Turmoil in the Middle East may further push up prices at
the pump and crimp household budgets. The  cost  of a gallon of
regular gasoline averaged $3.59 on Sept. 4, up from an August
low of $3.53, according to figures from AAA, the largest U.S.
motoring group.  Consumers are also facing higher home financing costs. The
rate on a 30-year fixed loan rose to a two-year high of 4.58
percent in the week ended Aug. 22, according to data from
Freddie Mac.  Auto Sales  At the same time, car sales have strengthened as some
automakers entice buyers with interest-free loans. Cars and light
trucks  sold  last month at a 16 million annualized rate, the
fastest since October 2007, according to Ward’s Automotive Group
data.  General Motors Co. (GM)  recorded its best month since 2008 and
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  its strongest month of retail sales since 2006.
Chrysler Group LLC sales rose for the 41st straight month.  Today’s report also showed confidence among women dropped
to an almost one-year low. The 21.6-point sentiment gap between
men and women was the widest since December 2010.  Part-time workers matched last week’s reading as the least
confident since November. A report from the Labor Department
tomorrow may show employers added 180,000 to August payrolls and
the unemployment rate held at 7.4 percent, according to the
Bloomberg survey medians.  Income Groups  Sentiment among those making less than $15,000 worsened by
7.2 points to minus 64.4, a five-week low. Comfort also fell
among those making less than $50,000, while those in the
highest-earning categories were more positive.  Confidence declined in three of four regions, with the
biggest drop in the Midwest, where sentiment is the lowest since
early February. At the same time, optimism was strongest in the
South, which registered its best reading since July 28.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index conducts telephone
surveys with a random sample of 1,000 consumers ages 18 and
older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their views on
the U.S. economy, personal finances and buying climate. The
margin of error for the headline figure is 3 percentage points.
The percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the
share of positive views and divided by three. The most recent
reading is based on the average of responses over the previous
four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  