-- Crime and Punishment Get a Bright New Look in Baltimore
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-09-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/crime-and-punishment-get-a-bright-new-look-in-baltimore.html
Where’s the judicial hush -- the
cherry wood paneling and shiny brass that dignify the scrutiny
of subparagraphs, the balancing of crime and punishment?  Here at the John and Frances Angelos  Law Center  at the
University of Baltimore, balconies and ramps wiggle and prance
among crisscrossing stairways in an atrium filled with bright
light.  With law jobs dwindling, this $120 million building on a
highly visible site is a startling addition to Baltimore and the
normally insular legal system.  Thank university president Robert Bogomolny, who
commissioned  Behnisch Architekten  of Stuttgart,  Germany .  With its basket weave of patterned gray-and-white glass,
the new center signals the presence of an easily overlooked
urban campus.  From the outside, the building’s interlocking stack of
prismatic shapes resembles a  Rubik’s Cube , reflecting the mix of
classrooms, clinics and faculty offices spread over 12 stories.  The subtle polka dots that cover about half the busily
patterned exterior are not decorative but clamps that fasten a
crystalline outer, insulating layer of glass to the building.
Between the two exterior walls, automatically controlled shades
reduce heat gain from the sun.  These are just two elements in an advanced environmental
regime that saves water and reduces energy use by more than 40
percent over comparable buildings.  Environmental Mission  “If we are in the business of training students and don’t
demonstrate our commitment to take care of the environment,
we’re failing at part of our mission,” Bogomolny said.  He raised $21 million of the building’s cost privately,
which also covered the green elements when their cost exceeded
state construction standards.  Partners Stefan Behnisch and Robert Matthew Noblett,
working with the local architect  Ayers Saint Gross , designed a
building that begs to be explored.  The high lobby whooshes upward into the atrium and
overlooks a sunken reception space and outdoor courtyard, where
burbling water obscures the din of the Jones Falls Expressway
that roars just feet from the building.  Instead of being hidden, faculty suites, classrooms -- even
the library -- face the atrium with glass walls, while informal
lounges and cafes project into the space.  Seeking Engagement  “Most law schools isolate people,” Bogomolny said. “In
closed-off buildings, you see kids playing solitaire or surfing
the web. You are not getting the engagement we seek.”  The alluring stairs, ramps and bridges invite clambering
from level to level. An “express” stair circles a column as it
descends from the largest upper-level classrooms.  Wood ledges just wide enough for a laptop, fold over the
metal-railed balconies, allowing a quick perusal of classroom
notes amid the action.  Though research centers are often designed to increase
connection and collaboration, few law firms and law schools have
jumped on the bandwagon.  “No one knows enough to solve today’s problems by
themselves,” Bogomolny explained. “In court cases, you need
jury experts and expert witnesses to work together as a team.
When I worked in the pharmaceutical business I needed
statisticians, scientists, experts in manufacturing quality
control and academic medicine. A lawyer needs to understand all
the pieces and be able to explain them.”  Opening the Door  Historically Baltimore’s law school, part of the  University
of Maryland  system, has made judges and attorneys general out of
students of modest means; they may be the first in their
families to go to college.  “For many students, we open the door to the world,” said
Bogomolny, formerly a vice president and general counsel at G.D.
Searle & Co.  In a nation that increasingly cannot afford legal services
billed by the minute, he’s determined that the 192,000-square-foot Angelos Center will lead a necessary transformation.  Meeting new people and sharing ideas may not come naturally
to students who commute, are part-time, older, poorer and of
more diverse backgrounds.  These are the students targeted by merchants of online
degrees, but they tend precisely to be the ones who need
environments that encourage personal engagement with teachers
and each other.  “The national demographic of college students looks more
like the students we’ve graduated for decades,” Bogomolny said.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Laurie Muchnick on September  books ,
 Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://www.jamessrussell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 