-- Murray Loses Temper, Title as Djokovic Gains U.S. Open Semifinal
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-06T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/defending-champion-andy-murray-falls-to-wawrinka-at-u-s-open.html
Andy Murray  smashed a racket,
slapped his forehead and crashed out of the U.S. Open in
straight sets, ending his championship reign with a quarterfinal
loss to ninth-seeded Stanislas Wawrinka.  Wawrinka hit three times as many winners as Murray and
never faced a break point in a 6-4, 6-3, 6-2 win yesterday that
propelled him into his first Grand Slam semifinal and snapped
the Briton’s run of four straight major tournament finals.  The reward for Wawrinka, who has toiled for years in the
shadow of fellow Swiss  Roger Federer , is a match against top-seeded Novak Djokovic, who reached his 14th consecutive Grand
Slam semifinal by defeating Russia’s  Mikhail Youzhny .  “For sure, it’s my moment and I’m enjoying it a lot,”
Wawrinka, 28, told reporters after receiving a congratulatory
text from Davis Cup teammate Federer, who has a men’s record 17
Grand Slam singles titles.  Murray, who was seeded third, defeated Djokovic in five
sets in last year’s  U.S. Open  final, part of a 12-month span in
which he also won an Olympic gold medal in London and became the
first British man in 77 years to win the Wimbledon title.  Yesterday, on a wind-swept Arthur Ashe Stadium against
Wawrinka, he looked more like the angst-ridden Murray of
previous years -- before he broke through for his first major.  In the 57-minute first set, in which he saved five set
points before losing his serve in the 22-point last game, Murray
swatted at the court after missed shots and broke his racket by
slamming it down after losing the set.  Emotionless Lendl  His coach, eight-time Grand Slam singles champion  Ivan Lendl , showed little emotion in the players’ box. Actor  Sean Connery  sat in the crowd cheering on Murray, a fellow Scot.  It’s only the second time in his past 10 major tournaments
that Murray, 26, failed to reach the semifinals. He was a
finalist in his four previous Grand Slams, a run that began with
2012 Wimbledon. He missed this year’s French Open with a lower
back injury.  “I lost today in straight sets, so that’s disappointing,”
Murray said in a news conference. “But, look, I can’t complain.
If someone told me before the U.S. Open last year I would have
been here as defending champion having won Wimbledon and Olympic
gold, I would have taken that 100 percent.”  Wawrinka hit 45 winners to Murray’s 15 and converted four
of his 11 break-point chances at the National Tennis Center in
 New York . The two-hour, 15-minute loss was Murray’s  first
straight-set defeat  at a Grand Slam since the 2011 French Open.  Outpacing Federer  It was the first time in 35 career Grand Slam tournaments
that Wawrinka has advanced further than Federer, who lost in the
fourth round this week.  Djokovic, 26, a six-time major champion, advanced with a 6-3, 6-2, 3-6, 6-0 defeat of 21st-seeded Youzhny, who was trying
to reach his third U.S. Open semifinal in eight years.  Djokovic, from  Serbia , had not lost a set in this U.S. Open
until last night. Youzhny broke Djokovic’s serve twice, the
first time that has happened in a match this tournament.  “I played really well, except that third set,” Djokovic
said in a televised on-court interview.  Wawrinka pushed Djokovic to five sets in the fourth round
of January’s Australian Open, falling 12-10 in the deciding set.
Djokovic went on to win his third straight title in Melbourne.  Second seed  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  and  Richard Gasquet  of
 France  will meet in tomorrow’s other semifinal.  Women’s Semifinals  The women’s semifinals are set for today, with defending
champion and top-seeded  Serena Williams  of the U.S. facing
fifth-seeded  Li Na  of China, and No. 2 Victoria Azarenka of
Belarus playing unseeded Italian Flavia Pennetta. Azarenka lost
to Williams in last year’s final.  Williams then will join her sister,  Venus Williams , in the
semifinals of the women’s doubles. The Williams sisters have won
13 Grand Slam doubles championships together, including two U.S.
Open titles.  Americans Mike and Bob Bryan lost their semifinal match
yesterday, ending their bid for the first men’s doubles
calendar-year Grand Slam in 62 years.  The Bryan brothers fell 3-6, 6-3, 6-4 to Leander Paes of
India and  Radek Stepanek  of the Czech Republic. After a first
set in which they hit 14 winners without an unforced error, the
35-year-old twins from California struggled to find their rhythm.  ‘Mother Tennis’  “Mother Tennis gives you some great moments and she gives
you some tough pain,”  Bob Bryan  told reporters. “That’s the
nature of our sport.”  The top-seeded Bryans were two wins away from their 16th
Grand Slam championship and fifth at the U.S. Open. A title this
week would have made them the first men’s duo to win all four
Grand Slam tournaments -- Wimbledon and the Australian, French
and U.S. opens -- in a calendar year since Australians Ken
McGregor and Frank Sedgman in 1951.  “I have tremendous respect for the Bryan boys,” Paes, 40,
said in a televised interview after the match. “They’re great
ambassadors for American tennis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at the U.S. Open at
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster at the U.S. Open at  rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  