-- Dijsselbloem Says ECB Bank Supervision to Start in October 2014
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-05T13:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/dijsselbloem-says-ecb-bank-supervision-to-start-in-october-2014.html
The European Central Bank is on
track to take up its full bank-supervision duties in October
2014, Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said in his
role as chief of the group of euro-area finance ministers.  “The interests of the euro zone are of course massive in
this project,” Dijsselbloem told a European Parliament
committee in Brussels today.  Finance ministers will ask ECB President Mario Draghi for
an update “quite soon” on how the Frankfurt-based central bank
will handle its reviews of banks’ balance sheets during a
transitional period, Dijsselbloem said. He said clarity on that
process will be “crucial” for the new supervisor to explain
its strategy to nations and the general public.  “We need to be able to trust that it’s a good process,
that it will be done in an independent and high-quality
manner,” Dijsselbloem said. He also said it is “inevitable”
that private companies will play a role in the assessments.  If the ECB finds shortfalls in its bank assessments,
institutions will first have to seek additional capital from
private investors, Dijsselbloem said. After that, nations must
apply new  state-aid rules  that require some private investors to
absorb losses, before turning to national bank-resolution funds
or other assistance programs.  Direct aid to banks from the European Stability Mechanism,
the 17-nation euro zone’s firewall fund, will be “very
difficult” during the transitional period, he said.  Direct Recap  “One of the conditions for the use of direct recap from
the ESM is that the supervisory work by the ECB has already
started, and it doesn’t start until October next year, so we
also have a problem of time and phasing here,” Dijsselbloem
said.  “If and when direct recap were to be applied in a specific
case, there are a number of conditions” such as the hierarchy
of creditor losses spelled out in pending EU legislation on bank
resolution, Dijsselbloem said. “So direct recap is an
instrument that is available, it will be right at the end of all
the possibilities, but it has a number of strict
conditionalities that will have to be applied first.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  