-- Dixons Near to Exiting Unprofitable Units as U.K. Sales Gain
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-09-05T09:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/dixons-close-to-exiting-unprofitable-units-as-u-k-sales-gain.html
Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  said it’s close to
exiting its online unit Pixmania and has agreed to sell its
Turkish operations in transactions that will rid the retailer of
unprofitable businesses and enable it to focus on U.K. growth.  The shares rose as much as 10 percent after Dixons said it
got an irrevocable offer for Pixmania from  Germany ’s  Mutares AG (MUX) 
which involves the U.K. company paying 69 million euros ($91
million) in cash to support the business. Bimeks Bilgi Islem &
Dis  Ticaret AS (DOAS)  will buy the ElectroWorld operations in Turkey
for 2 million pounds ($3.1 million), it also said today.  Dixons has been seeking to withdraw from both businesses to
eliminate losses and concentrate on the U.K., where it owns the
Currys and PC World chains. Sales at stores in the U.K. and
Ireland open at least a year rose 6 percent in the quarter ended
July 31, it said today. Revenue also climbed in northern  Europe ,
offsetting declines in the southern part of the region.  “The initiatives announced today rapidly simplify the
group’s structure, lower its risk profile and allow for a
further rerating,” Citigroup Inc. analyst Richard Edwards said
in a note. “The trading update continues to highlight the U.K.
operation is benefiting from strong market share progress.”  The  share price gain  was the steepest since May 16, taking
the stock to its highest since September 2008. Dixons was up 7.9
percent at 47.75 pence as of 10:31 a.m.  Works Councils  Consultation with Pixmania’s work councils -- required
under French law -- started yesterday and may take as long as
four months, Dixons Chief Executive Officer Sebastian James said
today on a conference call.  “We’re confident that the works council see this the way
we do -- as a very good step forward for the company,” James
said. “Pixmania operates in countries where we are not market
leader, operates a model that is not ours and I don’t think we
are particularly good at running that kind of business.”  Pixmania has lost money for the last two financial years,
weighing on Dixons’ progress. Losses more than doubled last year
to 31.3 million pounds and like-for-like sales fell 28 percent
in the first quarter of the current financial year.  Dixons paid 266 million pounds for a controlling stake in
2006. Pixmania sells in 14 countries and also operates a
software business that develops Internet platforms used by
Carrefour SA and French clothing retailer Celio.  Closing the business would have cost more than 90 million
euros, Dixons Finance Director Humphrey Singer said.  ‘Welcome Development’  “On top of that we would have had losses for a
considerable period of time, at least a year or two, whilst you
negotiate the process,” Singer said.  Pixmania is slated to lose 20 million pounds in the
financial year 2014 and 12 million pounds the following year,
according to Citigroup analyst Assad Malic.  In  Turkey , Dixons operates 32 Electroworld stores,
including 18 franchises. The business made a pretax loss of 13.8
million pounds on sales of 170.7 million pounds last year.  “Today’s updates are a positive and welcome development
for the Dixons recovery story,” Alistair Davies, an analyst at
Oriel Securities in London, said in a note to investors.
“Although completion of either deal is far from guaranteed, the
impact on earnings would be significantly material.”  Exiting Pixmania and Turkey will add 20 to 25 percent to
the retailer’s operating profit, he estimated.  The increase in U.K. same-store sales beat the 5 percent
median estimate of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “We have had an encouraging start to the year,” James
said. “Margins have held up reasonably well across the group.”  Future sales growth will come from tablet computers as
household penetration is “still only over a third, so there’s
still a lot of road to run on that,” James said. Other growth
areas include premium, small domestic kitchen appliances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  