-- Dollar Slides Versus Yen as Treasuries Halt Drop; Jobs Data Due
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-06T11:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/dollar-poised-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-two-months-against-yen.html
The dollar fell for the first time
in five days against the yen as U.S. Treasuries halted a decline
that had taken 10-year yields to the highest level in more than
two years.  The U.S. currency declined against most of its 16 major
peers, posting its biggest losses against the  New Zealand
dollar . Malaysia’s ringgit dropped as a report showed imports
surged more than exports in July. The greenback was set for a
second weekly gain versus the euro before a report analysts said
will show U.S. employers added jobs in August at a faster pace
than the prior month amid bets the  Federal Reserve  will start
reducing stimulus this month.  “The market is taking some profits before the payrolls
report,” said  Neil Jones , the head of European hedge-fund sales
at Mizuho Bank Ltd. in  London . “The expectations are high and
this is factored in. The risk consequently would be a weak
number. The market is still bullish on dollar-yen, but positions
are not large.”  The dollar fell 0.4 percent to 99.72 yen at 7 a.m.  New York 
time, paring its weekly advance to 1.6 percent. It was little
changed at $1.3106 per euro, having risen 0.9 percent since Aug.
30.  Europe ’s 17-nation currency dropped 0.5 percent to 130.70
yen. The kiwi rose 0.7 percent to 79.43 U.S. cents.  Ten-year Treasury  yields  fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.97 percent after reaching 3.01 percent,
the most since July 2011. The rate has climbed 18 basis points
since Aug. 30.  U.S. Payrolls  U.S. Labor Department data today will show nonfarm payrolls
rose by 180,000 in August, up from an increase of 162,000 in
July, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . The  unemployment rate  held at 7.4 percent, the
lowest since December 2008, a separate survey forecasts.  Government figures yesterday showed jobless  claims  in the
U.S. fell by 9,000 to 323,000 in the week ended Aug. 31, less
than the lowest estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We seem to be seeing a consolidation in markets,” said
Callum Henderson, the global head of currencies research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore . “The main hindrance to a
further move, at least in the short term, is that the market is
already substantially long dollar-yen.”  A long position is a bet that an asset’s value will rise.  Federal Reserve policy makers are debating whether the
economy is strong enough to allow them to pare monthly purchases
of $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage debt, which tend to
debase the dollar. A Bloomberg survey of economists taken Aug.
9-13 showed that 65 percent of them expected a reduction at the
Fed’s meeting on Sept. 17-18.  Continued Strength  “The dollar’s strength will continue,” said Kikuko Takeda, a senior analyst in London at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest financial group
by market value. “The Fed is not looking for positive data to
support the case for tapering, but it will go ahead with the
plan unless there is particularly bad news.”  The euro fell for a second day versus the yen after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday that
policy makers had discussed an interest-rate cut at a meeting
this week.  Draghi said the ECB is “ready to act” as rising money-market rates threaten his drive to reassure investors that
borrowing costs will stay low. He spoke after policy makers kept
the  benchmark rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent.  Euro Pressure  “The euro has been under pressure on the back of ECB
President Draghi sounding as dovish as he possibly could have in
light of improved growth prospects,”  Manuel Oliveri , a London-based foreign-exchange strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank, wrote in a research note today.  The ringgit headed for a weekly loss against the dollar
after a report showed Malaysia’s imports climbed 6.2 percent
from a year earlier in July, compared with a 1.3 percent
increase in June. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was
for a 0.2 percent contraction.  Malaysia’s currency dropped 0.7 percent to 3.3290 per
dollar, extending the week’s loss to 1.4 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australia’s dollar rose, extending a weekly advance versus
the greenback, as the nation prepared for a general election
tomorrow that polls suggest will see conservative opposition
leader  Tony Abbott  oust Labor Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd .  The Aussie gained 0.4 percent to 91.57 U.S. cents, headed
for a 2.9 percent climb against the greenback this week.  The Norwegian krone advanced as a report showed industrial
production expanded in July at a faster pace than in the prior
month. The krone gained 0.4 percent to 8.0062 per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  