-- Draghi Seen at Guidance Limits as Market Rates Defy ECB Rhetoric
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-09-05T18:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/draghi-seen-at-guidance-limits-as-market-rates-defy-ecb-rhetoric.html
Mario Draghi  is discovering the
limits of what his interest-rate pledge can achieve.  After three attempts to talk down market rates, the amount
that banks expect to charge each other for cash in a year is
back to the level it was when he started. Government debt yields
from  Germany  to  Italy  are rising as investors take on more risk.
The European Central Bank president conceded today that the
unprecedented experiment in ECB communication hasn’t quite
reined in investors’ enthusiasm about the euro area’s recovery.  “We have been moderately successful,” Draghi said at a
press conference in  Frankfurt  after keeping the ECB’s benchmark
rate at a record low of 0.5 percent. While the promise has been
“OK in controlling the levels of rates,” the central bank is
“ready to act” if needed, he said.  Market rates have risen in recent months partly as a
reaction to the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to gradually withdraw
stimulus from the  U.S. economy . They now also reflect bets that
the ECB will let excess liquidity drain from the banking system
as the 17-nation currency bloc returns to growth and banks repay
emergency loans. Mindful that higher borrowing costs threaten
the economy, Draghi stressed that the recovery is still “very
green.”  “Dovish central bank talk has had limited effect on market
rates recently due to the significant improvement in key
figures,” said Anders Svendsen, an economist at Nordea Bank
Denmark A/S in Copenhagen. “Dovish words from Draghi are
unlikely to have any major impact on rates until key figures
stabilize or start disappointing a bit.”  Rising Yields  The euro area’s economy expanded by 0.3 percent in the
second quarter, beating expectations and snapping six quarters
of contraction. An index of services and factory output for last
month climbed to the highest level since June 2011 and economic
confidence soared to a two-year high.  Draghi’s comments failed to curb borrowing costs today. The
overnight rate that banks expect to charge each other by the
ECB’s August 2014 meeting, as measured by  Eonia forward
contracts , fluctuated around 0.3 percent. That’s the level
before Draghi’s promise on July 4 to keep rates low for an
extended period. The measure has rebounded since falling to 0.09
percent on July 8.  Germany (GDBR10) ’s 10-year yield rose as much as 11 basis points to
2.05 percent, the highest level since March 2012. The French
treasury sold 4.24 billion euros ($5.6 billion) of 2023 debt at
an average yield of 2.57 percent, the highest at a 10-year
auction since May 2012. Spanish and Italian yields increased.  Economic Contraction  The euro-area’s economy will contract 0.4 percent this
year, an improvement from the 0.6 percent predicted in June, the
ECB said in revised forecasts today. It lowered its outlook for
2014 to an expansion of 1 percent, from 1.1 percent. The
inflation forecast for 2013 was raised to 1.5 percent from 1.4
percent, with next year’s estimate unchanged at 1.3 percent.  Even as Draghi repeatedly warned against overenthusiasm
about the recovery, he didn’t deny the rebound.  “Looking ahead to the remainder of the year and to 2014,
in line with our baseline scenario, output is expected to
recover at a slow pace,” he said. Credit to the private sector
has contracted for fifteen months and unemployment remains at a
record high of 12.1 percent.  “The ECB has not suddenly become wildly optimistic,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Groep NV in Brussels.
“Draghi seemed to be concerned about the recent reduction of
excess liquidity and its potential impact on money market
conditions.”  Loan Repayments  Excess liquidity  in the eurosystem has dropped, helping to
push money-market rates higher, as banks have repaid three-year
loans under the ECB’s longer-term refinancing operations. The
measure has declined to 243 billion euros currently, from a high
of 812 billion euros in March 2012.  When Draghi promised in July that ECB  interest rates  would
remain at their current levels or lower for “an extended
period,” he broke with the bank’s tradition that policy makers
don’t pre-commit on rates. He also followed other central banks.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  pledged in
December that he wouldn’t raise interest rates as long as
unemployment remained above 6.5 percent and policy makers
project inflation of no more than 2.5 percent. Bank of England
Governor  Mark Carney  adapted that model, saying he would keep
borrowing costs low until unemployment falls to 7 percent. His
guidance includes so-called knockouts linked to the bank’s 2
percent inflation goal.  Policy Tools  As Draghi indicated that his forward-guidance strategy
isn’t entirely working on market rates, he stepped up his
rhetoric on what the central bank can do about it. During his
press conference in Frankfurt, Draghi said four times that
policy makers were ready to act.  “Draghi did not say what actions the ECB could take, but a
rate cut would be the most likely first step,” said  Christian Schulz , senior economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . He issued
“a thinly veiled threat that the ECB could ease liquidity
conditions again with more LTROs or an explicit extension of the
full-allotment regime beyond July 2014,” he said.  While the ECB president signaled that the Governing Council
had discussed a cut in the cost of borrowing yesterday, “like
we do all the time,” he repeated that the central bank’s normal
reactions to growth and inflation haven’t changed.  Responding to the prospect of higher  oil prices  causing a
spike in inflation, Draghi signaled he wouldn’t be inclined to
ignore such a development. West Texas Intermediate crude climbed
to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid growing concern there will be
an American-led military strike against  Syria .  “The rate to which we look is the headline inflation,” he
said. “So we have to see whether this would alter our medium-term forecasts for inflation.”  “If economic data improves further, the so-far vague
forward guidance won’t be able to prevent a further increase of
interest rates,” said Marco Bargel, chief economist at  Deutsche
Postbank AG (DPB)  in Bonn. “The ECB won’t be able to avoid following
other central banks in revealing their reaction function or
loosening the monetary reins further.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  