-- Draghi Says ECB Ready to Act as Market Rates Advance
-- B y   P a u l   G o r d o n
-- 2013-09-05T15:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/draghi-signals-ecb-watching-rising-market-rates-as-banks-repay.html
Mario Draghi  said the  European
Central Bank  is “ready to act” as rising money-market rates
threaten his drive to reassure investors that borrowing costs
will stay low. Bond yields extended their gains.  “We will remain particularly attentive to the implications
that these developments may have to the stance of monetary
policy,” the ECB president said at his monthly press conference
in  Frankfurt  today after the bank left its  benchmark rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent. “I’m very, very cautious about the
recovery. I can’t share enthusiasm, it’s just the beginning. The
shoots are still very, very green.”  Draghi is trying to convince markets that he will keep
interest rates low for an extended period to support the euro
area’s recovery from its longest-ever recession. Rate
expectations have risen to levels that he described last month
as “unwarranted,” suggesting some investors are questioning
his pledge.  The comments failed to stop the advance in bond yields.
German 10-year yields climbed to the highest level in 17 months,
while those for top-rated  Austria ,  Finland  and the Netherlands
climbed to the highest in more than a year.  France ’s borrowing
costs at an auction were the most since President  Francois Hollande  was elected.  Rising Yields  “Given today’s statements, one is left wondering why the
ECB did not cut rates last month when Draghi characterized rate
expectations as ‘unwarranted’,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of
fixed-rate strategy at Commerzbank AG. “The press conference
was slightly more dovish than we had anticipated, as the ECB is
closer to a rate cut to counter rising forward rates.”  The  overnight rate  that banks expect to charge each other
by the ECB’s August 2014 meeting, as measured by  Eonia forward
contracts , was at 0.31 percent at 5:45 p.m. in Frankfurt. That’s
the level before Draghi’s promise on July 4 to keep rates low
for an extended period. The rate has rebounded since falling to
0.09 percent by July 8. The euro slid as much as 0.3 percent to
$1.3165 after Draghi’s remarks today.  Germany (GDBR10) ’s 10-year yield rose 10 basis points to 2.04
percent, the highest level since March 2012. The French treasury
sold 4.24 billion euros ($5.6 billion) of 2023 debt at an
average yield of 2.57 percent, the highest at a 10-year auction
since May 2012. Spanish and Italian yields also increased.  Lower Liquidity  Excess liquidity  in the eurosystem has dropped as banks
have repaid three-year loans under the ECB’s longer-term
refinancing operations, Draghi said. The measure has declined to
243 billion euros currently, from a high of 812 billion euros in
March 2012.  The repayments “reflect improvements in financial market
confidence, some reduction in financial market fragmentation and
the ongoing deleveraging by euro area banks,” Draghi said.
“Right now we view the current excess liquidity as adequate,
but we remain ready to act.”  Draghi signaled that policy makers diverged on whether
 interest rates  might need to be cut, saying that some governors
“observed that improvement in the economy will not justify this
discussion, but several other governors observed that, on the
one hand, the recovery is still too green.”  The ECB today said the euro-area economy will shrink by 0.4
percent this year, an improvement from a previous prediction of
0.6 percent. It will expand by 1 percent in 2014, down from
June’s forecast of 1.1 percent.  Council Divisions  Inflation will be 1.5 percent this year, versus a prior
forecast of 1.4 percent, Draghi said. He left next year’s
estimate unchanged at 1.3 percent.  “The references to opinions on the Governing Council
highlighted that there are divisions, but it seems that the
dovish viewpoint is held more widely,” said  Ken Wattret , chief
euro-area market economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “The
assessment of the upturn in economic conditions was also rather
cautious when set against the flood of improving data.”  The currency bloc’s economy will recover “at a slow
pace,” Draghi said. “Our monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as necessary, in line with the forward
guidance provided in July. Risks continue to remain to the
downside.”  The  Bank of England  today kept its bond-purchase target at
375 billion pounds ($587 billion) and maintained its key rate at
0.5 percent. Sweden’s Riksbank left its key repo rate unchanged
at 1 percent for a fourth consecutive meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Gordon  in Frankfurt at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  