-- Draghi’s Introductory Remarks at ECB Press Conference: Text
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-09-05T12:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/draghi-s-introductory-remarks-at-ecb-press-conference-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the introductory remarks of European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today.  ECB policy makers kept the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent for a fourth month
after reducing it by a quarter point in May. The decision was
predicted by all 56 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Mario Draghi, President of the ECB,
Frankfurt am Main, 5 September 2013  Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to welcome you to our
press conference. I will now report on the outcome of today’s
meeting of the Governing Council.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided
to keep the  key ECB interest rates unchanged. Incoming
information and analysis have further underpinned our previous
assessment. Underlying price pressures in the euro area are
expected to remain subdued over the medium term. In keeping with
this picture, monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics
remain subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area
continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. At the same time, real GDP growth in the second
quarter was positive, after six quarters of negative output
growth, and confidence indicators up to August confirm the
expected gradual improvement in economic activity from low
levels. Our monetary policy stance continues to be geared
towards maintaining the degree of monetary accommodation
warranted by the outlook for price stability and promoting
stable money market conditions. It thereby provides support to a
gradual recovery in economic activity. Looking ahead, our
monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long as
necessary, in line with the forward guidance provided in July.  The Governing Council confirms that it expects the key ECB
interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an
extended period of time. This expectation continues to be based
on an unchanged overall subdued outlook for inflation extending
into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the
economy and subdued monetary dynamics. In the period ahead, we
will monitor all incoming information on economic and monetary
developments and assess any impact on the medium-term outlook
for price stability.  With regard to money market conditions, these have also been
influenced by a gradual reduction in excess liquidity.
Repayments of funds taken up in the context of the three-year
longer-term refinancing operations reflect improvements in
financial market confidence, some reduction in financial market
fragmentation and the ongoing deleveraging by euro area banks.
We will remain particularly attentive to the implications that
these developments may have for the stance of monetary policy.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting
with the economic analysis.  Following six quarters of negative output growth, euro area real
GDP rose, quarter on quarter, by 0.3% in the second quarter of
2013. This increase is partly explained by transitory effects
related to weather conditions in the first half of this year.
Since then, survey-based confidence indicators up to August have
improved further from low levels, overall confirming our
previous expectations of a gradual recovery in economic
activity. Looking ahead to the remainder of the year and to
2014, in line with our baseline scenario, output is expected to
recover at a slow pace, in particular owing to a gradual
improvement in domestic demand supported by the accommodative
monetary policy stance.  Euro area economic activity should, in addition, benefit from a
gradual strengthening of external demand for exports.
Furthermore, the overall improvements in financial markets seen
since last summer appear to be gradually working their way
through to the real economy, as should the progress made in
fiscal consolidation.  In addition, real incomes have benefited recently from generally
lower inflation. This being said, unemployment in the euro area
remains high, and the necessary balance sheet adjustments in the
public and private sectors will continue to weigh on economic
activity.  This assessment is also reflected in the September 2013 ECB
staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
annual real GDP declining by 0.4% in 2013 and increasing by 1.0%
in 2014. Compared with the June 2013 Eurosystem staff
macroeconomic projections, the projection for 2013 has been
revised upwards by 0.2 percentage point, largely reflecting
incoming data. For 2014 there has been a downward revision of
0.1 percentage point.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. Recent developments in global
money and financial market conditions and related uncertainties
may have the potential to negatively affect economic conditions.
Other downside risks include higher commodity prices in the
context of renewed geopolitical tensions, weaker than expected
global demand and slow or insufficient implementation of
structural reforms in euro area countries.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, as expected, euro area
annual HICP inflation was 1.3% in August 2013, down from 1.6% in
June and July. On the basis of current assumptions for energy
and exchange rate developments, annual inflation rates are
expected to remain low in the coming months, owing in particular
to energy price developments. Taking the appropriate medium-term
perspective, underlying price pressures are expected to remain
subdued, reflecting the broad-based weakness in aggregate demand
and the modest pace of the recovery. Medium to long-term
inflation expectations continue to be firmly anchored in line
with price stability.  This assessment is also reflected in the September 2013 ECB
staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
annual HICP inflation at 1.5% in 2013 and 1.3% in 2014. In
comparison with the June 2013 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic
projections, the projection for inflation for 2013 has been
revised upwards by 0.1 percentage point, while the projection
for 2014 remains unchanged.  The risks to the outlook for price developments are expected to
be still broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside
risks relating in particular to higher commodity prices as well
as stronger than expected increases in administered prices and
indirect taxes, and downside risks stemming from weaker than
expected economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, data for July confirm that
underlying broad money (M3) and, in particular, credit growth
remained subdued. Annual growth in M3 decreased further in July
to 2.2%, from 2.4% in June. Annual growth in M1 remained strong
but decreased to 7.1% in July, from 7.5% in June. M3 growth
continued to be mainly supported by net capital inflows into the
euro area, while the annual rate of change of loans to the
private sector weakened further.  The annual growth rate of loans to households (adjusted for loan
sales and securitisation) remained at 0.3% in July, broadly
unchanged since the turn of the year. The annual rate of change
of loans to non-financial corporations (adjusted for loan sales
and securitisation) was -2.8% in July, compared with -2.3% in
June. Weak loan dynamics continue to reflect primarily the
current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk and
the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector
balance sheets.  Since the summer of 2012 substantial progress has been made in
improving the funding situation of banks and, in particular, in
strengthening the domestic deposit base in a number of stressed
countries. In order to ensure an adequate transmission of
monetary policy to the financing conditions in euro area
countries, it is essential that the fragmentation of euro area
credit markets declines further and that the resilience of banks
is strengthened where needed. Further decisive steps to
establish a banking union will help to accomplish this
objective.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A  cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  In order to further reduce imbalances and to foster
competitiveness, growth and job creation, euro area countries
need to continue with their reform agenda.  As regards fiscal policies, governments should not unravel their
efforts to reduce deficits and put debt ratios on a downward
path. The composition of fiscal consolidation should be geared
towards growth-friendly measures which have a medium-term
perspective and combine improving the quality and efficiency of
public services with minimising distortionary effects of
taxation. In terms of economic policies, product market reforms
to increase competitiveness will facilitate the creation of new
businesses, support the tradable goods sector and foster job
creation, while high unemployment rates require decisive
structural reforms to reduce rigidities in labour markets and to
increase labour demand.  I am now at your disposal for questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  