-- ECB Said Wrangling With EU Lawmakers on Oversight-Minutes Access
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n ,   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-09-05T12:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/ecb-said-wrangling-with-eu-lawmakers-on-oversight-minutes-access.html
A European Central Bank agreement
with the European Parliament on the institutional setup of a
banking union hinges on how much access lawmakers get to the
minutes of the ECB’s bank-oversight board, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  EU lawmakers aim to vote next week on the euro area’s
Single Supervisory Mechanism, the last stage in approving a deal
hashed out between nations and lawmakers in April. Negotiators
appeared to be closing in on a deal today, according to an EU
Parliament official, who asked not to be named because the talks
are ongoing.  At issue is an inter-institutional agreement that sets out
the working relationship between the ECB and parliament on bank-supervision issues. Negotiators for the legislature and the ECB
hope to complete the pact before Sept. 10, allowing for a
parliamentary vote on the oversight law to go ahead as
scheduled, the people said.  “I can tell you that we are expecting still to be able to
vote the SSM next week in Strasbourg,” Sharon Bowles, head of
the parliament’s Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs,
said today during a committee hearing in Brussels. “We are
still awaiting the absolute final text of our agreement with the
ECB on information exchange, but progress has been made on that
front.”  If lawmakers and the ECB fail to reach a deal, the skirmish
could delay the ECB’s assumption of its new supervisory duties
by pushing back a final vote in parliament or adding another
layer of paperwork to the set-up process.  Monetary Policy  Supervisory board minutes are the centerpiece of talks on
how much access to information the ECB will provide. The ECB is
concerned that promises to provide this information could open
the door to calls for it to share monetary policy minutes as
well, according to one of the people.  Euro-area leaders asked the ECB in June 2012 to take up
bank supervisory duties in a bid to help quell the 17-nation
currency zone’s sovereign debt crisis by separating the
financial woes of banks and nations. Legislation to create the
new supervisor took shape over the subsequent months, and the
ECB is on track to begin a one-year transitional period as soon
as the European Parliament holds its final vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  