-- Draghi Says Euro Area Growth Risks Remain on ‘Downside’
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-05T13:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/ecb-s-draghi-says-euro-area-growth-risks-remain-on-downside-.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi comments on  interest rates , inflation, and the
economy.  He made the remarks at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
today after ECB policy makers left the main refinancing rate at
0.5 percent for a fourth month after reducing it by a quarter
point in May.  On excess liquidity:  “Right now we view current excess liquidity as adequate,
but we remain ready to act.”  “The less fragmentation, the less is the excess
liquidity.”  On the possibility of an interest-rate cut:  “There was a discussion like we do all the time.”  “Some governors of course observe that improvements in the
economy do not justify this discussion.”  “But several other governors observe that the recovery is
still too green.”  On the economic analysis:  “Incoming information and analysis have further
underpinned our previous assessment. Underlying price pressures
in the euro area are expected to remain subdued over the medium
term. In keeping with this picture, monetary and, in particular,
credit dynamics remain subdued.”  On inflation expectations:  “Inflation expectations for the euro area continue to be
firmly anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation
rates below, but close to, 2 percent over the medium term.”  On the economy:  “Our monetary policy stance continues to be geared towards
maintaining the degree of monetary accommodation warranted by
the outlook for  price stability  and promoting stable money
market conditions. It thereby provides support to a gradual
recovery in economic activity.”  “Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as necessary in line with the guidance
provided in July.”  “The risks surrounding the outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside.”  “Recent developments in global money and financial market
conditions and related uncertainties may have the potential to
negatively affect economic conditions.”  “Other downside risks include higher commodity prices in
the context of renewed geopolitical tensions.”  On the economic outlook:  “Looking ahead to the remainder of the year and 2014, in
line with our baseline scenario, output is expected to recover
at a slow pace.”  “The overall improvements in financial markets seen since
last summer appear to be working their way through to the real
economy.”  On forward guidance:  “The Governing Council confirms it expects the key rate to
remain at the current level or below for an extended period.”  On fragmentation on financial markets:  “It is essential that fragmentation in euro area financial
markets declines further.”  “Further decisive steps for establishing a banking union
will help to accomplish this objective.”  On SSM talks:  “Our discussions with the European Parliament progress
considerably and we should have some positive news in the coming
days.”  On balance-sheet assessment:  “We are going to have a full communication by mid-October.”  On Greece:  “The current adjustment program concludes at the end of
2014, this leaves some time to decide on some extension to the
current program.”  “If an extension of the program is needed, it will require
further conditionality.”  On Ireland:  “Recent fiscal data have been positive,  market sentiment 
has continued to improve; challenges remain, especially in the
financial sector.”  “A decision will be taken in due time” on whether Ireland
will require a backstop to exit the program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  