-- Lego Beats Hasbro as World’s No. 2 Toymaker Amid Asia Sales Jump
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-05T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/lego-beats-hasbro-as-world-s-no-2-toymaker-amid-asia-sales-jump.html
Lego A/S, the Danish building-block
maker, said first-half sales jumped 13 percent with the
strongest growth in  Asia  amid a slower start to 2013 in the toy
markets of North America and  Europe .  Lego’s first-half revenue rose to 10.4 billion kroner
($1.84 billion) from 9.13 billion kroner in the same period a
year earlier, according to a statement published today by the
Billund, Denmark-based company.  Lego, which estimates the world’s children spend 5 billion
hours a year playing with its toys, said it won market share on
rising sales of its new building-block line Legends of Chima and
its Lego Friends sets. The latter series, introduced in 2012, is
Lego’s sixth attempt over the years to target girls and the
“most significant” new product in a decade, Chief Executive
Officer Joergen Vig Knudstorp has said.  “It’s a very satisfactory result in view of general
developments in the world toy market which has had a slow start
to the year in the largest and most mature markets of  North
America , Europe and  Japan ,” Knudstorp said in today’s
statement.  Sales growth in Lego Friends was “significantly higher”
than the company average, Lego said. Legends of Chima,
introduced this year, has become one of Lego’s largest products 
and the company said it expects sales will continue to grow. The
range features animal tribes battling for control of a world and
offers a number of different sets.  Higher Share  Lego, which is closely held, said it boosted its global
market share to 8.8 percent in the first half from 8.6 percent
at the end of last year. The company is controlled by Denmark’s
richest man Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen, the grandson of Lego founder
Ole Kirk Kristiansen, who has a net worth of $6.4 billion,
according to Bloomberg rankings.  Lego’s first-half sales were higher than those of  Hasbro
Inc. (HAS)  The Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based toymaker reported sales
of $1.43 billion for the same six-month period on July 22.
 Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the world’s largest toymaker which is based in El
Segundo,  California , on July 17 reported a 4 percent advance in
first half revenue to $2.16 billion.  Lego’s net income grew 18 percent in the first six month of
2013 to 2.38 billion kroner, making the company bigger than both
Mattel and Hasbro in terms of profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  