-- Telecom Italia Said to Mull Owners Change Amid Investor Hunt
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-09-06T09:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/telecom-italia-said-to-mull-owners-change-amid-investor-search.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Italy’s largest
phone company, is considering an overhaul to its ownership
structure as controlling shareholders are allowed to exercise a
right to end a six-year partnership this month, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  Telecom Italia has renewed contact with Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , whose bid to acquire a stake in the
Milan-based carrier was rejected last year, said the people, who
asked not to be identified discussing confidential
deliberations.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , which owns almost 22.5 percent of
Telecom Italia with three financial investors through holding
company Telco SpA, is considering whether it would acquire
additional shares from the partners, another person said.  “A big international main partner such as Sawiris or also
Telefonica could make the company more international,
diversifying its business in other markets,” said Andrea
Giuricin, a media and telecommunication analyst at Milan Bicocca
University.  Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe is racing against
time to find capital after rating companies put Telecom Italia’s
debt under review for a possible downgrade to junk. Telecom
Italia’s net  debt  -- at 28.8 billion euros ($38 billion) at the
end of June on an adjusted basis, is almost triple its market
value. The CEO plans to discuss investment scenarios with
directors at a Sept. 19 meeting, the people said.  Avoiding Junk  “In the next three months, Telecom Italia needs a capital
increase of at least 3 billion euros to avoid rating companies
downgrading its debt to junk,” Giuricin said. The focus is on
unwinding the Telco holding and a shorter control chain would be
good for the future of Telecom Italia governance, he said.  A Telecom Italia spokesman who asked not to be named citing
company policy declined to comment, as did Sawiris when he was
reached by  Bloomberg News . A Telefonica spokesman also declined
to comment.  Telecom Italia slipped 1.3 percent to 59.9 cents at 11:47
a.m. in Milan, after rising 9.6 percent yesterday. La Repubblica
newspaper reported yesterday Sawiris is a favorite candidate to
buy a stake in Telecom Italia via a stock sale.  Credit-default swaps on Telecom Italia rose to an 11-month
high of 400 basis points on Aug. 5 from 248 basis points in May
and now cost 313 basis points, according to Bloomberg data.  Waiting Time  The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreement and an increase signals
deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  Telco owners can exit the shareholding accord this month or
in August 2014.  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  and  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,
have said they plan to sell their Telecom Italia shares.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  may also decide to exit the agreement
and is open to the best solution for Telecom Italia, CEO Enrico Cucchiani told reporters today in Cernobbio, Italy.  “It’s time for Telefonica to declare where it stands, the
time for waiting” is over, Marco Fossati, chairman of Findim
Group SA said last week in an interview. Findim owns about 5
percent of Telecom Italia.  Sawiris said in an interview in May that he would be
interested in re-entering the Italian market after selling Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA two years ago. Last year, he tried
unsuccessfully to buy a stake of at least 2 billion euros in
Telecom Italia.  Slim, AT&T  Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB is among
potential investors in Telecom Italia, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein analysts. An America Movil press officer in Mexico
City, who asked not to be named citing company policy, said
yesterday the company isn’t in talks with Telecom Italia
shareholders.  AT&T Inc. (T)  is looking at assets in Europe that would offer
better returns than at home in the U.S. CEO  Randall Stephenson 
has said he sees a “fascinating” opportunity to invest in
wireless Internet on the continent, which has been leapfrogged
by the U.S. in mobile technology.  Brad Burns , a spokesman for Dallas-based, AT&T, declined to
comment on the company’s potential interest in Telecom Italia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  