-- Emerging Stocks Advance to Three-Week High Led by Russia
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-09-05T21:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/emerging-stocks-advance-to-two-week-high-as-indian-banks-rally.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
three-week high as energy producers lifted Russian shares and
Indian lenders surged on central bank plans to bolster the
industry. Poland’s WIG20 Index fell the most in the world.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 1.1 percent to
947.67, the highest since Aug. 16.  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , India’s
largest lender by market value, surged 8.1 percent. Russian oil
producer  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  led the Micex Index to the biggest gain in
a year. The WIG20 Index tumbled 4.6 percent, the most among 94
gauges tracked by Bloomberg, as Poland unveiled changes to its
pension system. The Brazilian real advanced to a three-week high
after policy makers sold foreign-exchange swap contracts.  Energy shares led gains among the 10 industries in the
measure of developing nations as crude oil jumped.  Reserve Bank 
of India Governor Raghuram Rajan announced a plan yesterday to
provide concessional swaps for banks’ foreign-currency deposits
a move that will boost the authority’s reserves by $10 billion,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. India’s lower house
of parliament passed a bill yesterday allowing international
holdings in pension funds in a bid to shore up the rupee.  “There’s optimism India’s new central bank will help get
the house in order,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , the chief market
strategist at Manila-based BDO Unibank Inc. “These gains in
emerging-market assets indicate some recovery in investor
confidence. It’s probably a temporary respite until the start of
tapering in U.S. stimulus.”  Investors also watched U.S. economic reports for clues on
how soon the  Federal Reserve  will start tapering its bond-buying
program. Fewer Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, while growth at U.S. service
industries unexpectedly accelerated in August. The employment
report for August is due tomorrow.  Economic Growth  Emerging-market economic growth recovered in August from
the first contraction since 2009 as business conditions improved
in China and Russia, HSBC Holdings Plc said, citing a survey of
 purchasing managers .  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 1.2 percent to $39.40. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 3 percent to 25.89.  Brazil’s Ibovespa rose 1.2 percent, reversing a decline of
as much as 0.9 percent, as  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3) , Brazil’s
state-run crude producer, surged. The real added 1.5 percent.  Russia, Poland  The Micex Index gained 3.4 percent, the most since
September 2012 and the best-performance among 17 markets in
eastern Europe tracked by Bloomberg. OAO Rosneft, Russia’s
biggest oil producer, added 4.3 percent.  OAO Gazprom (OGZD) , the
nation’s largest company, jumped 6 percent.  The WIG20 index slid 4.6 percent. Bank Handlowy SA dropped
8.4 percent, while Globe Trade Centre SA, a property developer,
lost 8.1 percent. Poland will take over and cancel  government
bonds  held by its privately managed pension funds, stopping
short of fully “nationalizing” the system as it seeks to curb
public debt, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said yesterday.  The lira touched a record low against the dollar as
measures taken by the central bank failed to allay concern
Turkey’s economy will be hurt if its neighbor Syria is attacked
in a U.S.-led military strike.  Indian stocks surged the most among major Asian markets, as
HDFC led by the biggest rally in lenders since May 2009. The
rupee jumped 1.5 percent after the new central bank governor
took steps to boost dollar supply.  Chinese Shares  China’s stocks fell for the first time in five days, led by
material producers and steelmakers, after valuations for the
benchmark index climbed to the highest level since June.
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. and  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358)  declined at
least 1.7 percent, sending a gauge of material producers to the
biggest loss among industry groups.  The won dropped, reversing an earlier gain, on speculation
authorities intervened to weaken the currency after it reached
the strongest level in almost four months.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  fell 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage
point, to 344 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  