-- Lenovo Adds Premium Smartphone in Challenge to Samsung, Apple
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-05T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/lenovo-adds-premium-smartphone-in-challenge-to-samsung-apple.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the biggest maker
of personal computers, is adding a “premium” device to its
smartphone lineup as it broadens its challenge to market leaders
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The Vibe X smartphone with 5-inch (12.7-centimeter) display
running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android 4.2 system will go on sale in
China next month, with international sales to start in December,
the company said in a statement ahead of a press conference at
the IFA consumer electronics show in Berlin today.  Lenovo, which rose to become the second-largest smartphone
vendor in China and the fourth-largest globally with a range of
inexpensive handsets, now plans to move up the value chain with
devices that can pose a more direct threat to Samsung’s Galaxy
S4 or Apple’s iPhone. Lenovo in May released its flagship K900.
The Vibe X expands that “premium smartphone portfolio,” the
company said in the statement.  The iPhone 5 ranges from 5,288 yuan ($864) to 6,888 yuan in
China, as much as double the price of Lenovo’s K900 IdeaPhone at
3,299 yuan. Today’s statement didn’t provide a price for the
Vibe X.  The Vibe X runs on a  MediaTek Inc. (2454)  1.5 gigahertz, quad-core
processor, and its high-definition display uses Gorilla Glass 3
from  Corning Inc. (GLW) , Lenovo said in the statement. The device is
“as thin as a pencil” at 6.9 millimeters, and weighs about as
much as five AA batteries at 121 grams, Lenovo said.  Top Five  The top five global smartphone vendors in the second
quarter by International Data Corp.’s ranking were: Samsung with
a 30.4 percent market share; Apple with 13.1 percent; LG
Electronics Inc. with 5.1 percent; Lenovo with 4.7 percent and
 ZTE Corp. (763)  with 4.2 percent.  The Vibe X will be sold in markets where Lenovo’s handsets
are currently available, and so it won’t be on sale in Europe,
the company said in the statement. Besides China, Lenovo now
sells devices in India, Indonesia, Russia, the Philippines,
Vietnam, Malaysia,  Saudi Arabia , Thailand, and the United Arab
Emirates.  In China, Lenovo’s 12 percent of the smartphone market
trails only Samsung’s 18 percent, research firm Canalys said
last month. Lenovo plans to surpass Samsung for smartphone sales
in the China market within two years, partly by opening a chain
of company-owned retail stores where customers can experience
the devices, Chen Xudong, Lenovo’s president of China
operations, said in an interview last month  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  