-- Letta Urged to Impose Stability to Aid Italian Economic Recovery
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-09-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/letta-urged-to-impose-stability-to-aid-italian-economic-recovery.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
is winning support from business leaders concerned that turmoil
within his parliamentary coalition may hurt the country’s
attempt to exit its recession.  Executives are speaking out after Italian stocks declined
for three weeks, prompted in part by threats from  Silvio Berlusconi , the ex-premier who’s now one of Letta’s main allies,
to topple the government. Companies, strained by two years of
economic  contraction , are counting on Letta to ease the fiscal
burden and help rebuild the supply of corporate credit.  “The effects of a destabilized government would be truly
devastating for companies,” Marcella Panucci, director general
of employers lobby Confindustria, said Sept. 4 in an interview
broadcast by Radio 24. “It is absolutely necessary that the
government be stable and resilient.”  Letta, 47, is struggling to keep his coalition of rival
parties together as Berlusconi, 76, fights a motion to expel him
from the Senate. The premier, in his push to maintain stability,
may get a boost over the next three days as corporate leaders,
including the chief executive officers of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , gather on the banks of Lake
Como for the annual Ambrosetti Workshop.  Continuity Push  Attendees of the Ambrosetti Workshop, where businesspeople
and bankers gather with policy makers, pushed for political
continuity at last year’s meeting. More than four-fifths of 2012
conference participants said they hoped then-Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  would continue in his role in the coming years,
according to a poll by Sole 24 Ore Radiocor.  Berlusconi, himself a three-time premier, toppled Monti’s
government in December, three months after the conference.  Some of this year’s attendees have anticipated their
message for the group. Federico Ghizzoni, UniCredit’s CEO, said
at a Handelsblatt conference in  Frankfurt  that a government
collapse would put an economic recovery at risk, according to a
transcript published yesterday by La Repubblica. The recession,
 Italy ’s longest since World War II, eased in the second quarter
when the economy contracted 0.2 percent amid gains in business
and household confidence.  The benchmark FTSEMIB Index has fallen 4.7 percent since
Aug. 16,  compared  with a 0.6 percent decline in the broader
Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Italian 10-year bond yields have risen
36 basis points to 4.55 percent over the same period.  Letta, in his fifth month as premier, has delivered a
property tax cut and public spending reductions by meeting
Berlusconi’s demands and cajoling lawmakers resistant to
collaborating with the ex-prime minister. Letta is seeking to
improve the use of European Union funds to fight unemployment
and has promised to guard against bond market turmoil by
maintaining budget discipline.  Berlusconi faces potential expulsion from parliament
because he was convicted of  tax fraud  and last month exhausted
his final appeal. Letta’s  Democratic Party , whose members
opposed Berlusconi for almost two decades, has said the ouster
is warranted under a 2012 anti-corruption law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  