-- EU Banking Union Timeline From June 2012 Summit to Coming Events
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-09-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/eu-banking-union-timeline-from-june-2012-summit-to-coming-events.html
The following are upcoming events in
the European Union’s push toward banking union. Below those is a
timeline of developments beginning with the June 2012 summit
when EU leaders committed to financial integration to fight the
euro debt and banking crisis.  UPCOMING in September-December 2013:  * European Parliament on track to hold vote on Single
Supervisory Mechanism this month, paving way for ECB to take up
new duties as soon as September 2014.  * EU finance ministers gathering in Vilnius,  Lithuania , Sept.
13-14 have their first chance to discuss the Single Resolution
Mechanism proposal.  * Nations and European Parliament to hold negotiations on final
version of bank resolution and recovery directive.  * EU nations to develop joint stance on EU law to set standards
for national deposit-guarantee schemes. European Parliament also
needs to reconsider its negotiating position, and then talks
between nations and parliament can proceed.  * ECB comprehensive review of euro-area banks that includes an
assessment of risks, balance sheets and stress testing to start
before end of the year.  * ESM continues preparations for direct recapitalization
instrument, which must win approval from national parliaments.
It’s also contingent on other elements of banking union moving
forward.  PAST DEVELOPMENTS: 2012-13  * June 29, 2012: Euro-area leaders “affirm that it is
imperative to break the vicious link between banks and
sovereigns” and call for a single supervisory mechanism
involving the European Central Bank.  Statement  calls for special
consideration for Ireland’s bank bailout.  * June 29: Euro leaders introduce possibility of direct
recapitalization of banks by the then-forthcoming European
Stability Mechanism, with eye toward easing impact of Spanish
financial-sector bailout via retroactive assistance.  * July 12: EU Financial Services Chief Michel Barnier  calls for 
pan-European banking supervision “with real teeth,”
accompanied by a joint bank-resolution system and pooled deposit
guarantees.  * July 18: IMF calls on euro-area authorities and ECB to stand
behind deposit insurance in the currency zone, in order to
forestall bank runs.  * July 20: Eurogroup signs off on rescue program of up to 100
billion euros ($132 billion) for Spanish banks, to be channelled
through Spain’s government.  * July 24: Spanish, Italian bond yields reach euro-era record
highs.  * July 26: ECB President Mario Draghi pledges policy makers will
do “whatever it takes” to save the euro.  * Sept. 6: ECB announces “Outright Monetary Transactions”
program of potentially unlimited sovereign bond-buying to
address market distortions, if conditions met.  * Sept. 12: European Commission releases proposals to make ECB
supervisor of all EU area banks, with power to grant and retract
banking licenses, in presentation to European Parliament in
Strasbourg.  * Sept. 14-15: EU finance ministers meeting in Cyprus clash over
scope, timetable for ECB bank supervision. German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble says the EU risks a backlash if
joint supervision misses its deadlines. Barnier says he won’t
pursue cross-border deposit insurance plans in order to focus on
common oversight, saying there shouldn’t be an “open-ended
kitty” to backstop savers.  * Sept. 25: “Legacy assets” become politically explosive after
joint statement from  Germany , the Netherlands and Finland that
says direct ESM aid should be a last resort for banks, with
“legacy assets under the responsibility of national
authorities.”  * Oct. 8: The permanent 500 billion-euro European Stability
Mechanism becomes operational, replacing the temporary European
Financial Stability Facility as the euro area’s firewall fund.  * Oct. 9: Germany’s Schaeuble says debate over legacy assets is
a “phantom” and a transfer of legacy bailouts is not
compatible with firewall fund agreements.  * Oct. 18: EU leaders declare Single Supervisory Mechanism is
“a matter of priority” with goal for deal by Jan. 1 2013.
Leaders also call for “rapid adoption” of EU-wide laws to
standardize resolution and deposit-guarantee frameworks in each
nation.  * Oct. 21: German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  says Ireland is a
“special case” that might qualify for retroactive banking aid
from ESM, in joint statement with Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny.  * Nov. 6: German-led alliance continues resistance to ECB
supervision of all euro-area banks, with proposed limits on
jurisdiction and management.  * Nov. 13: ECB pushes back against calls to limit number of
banks subject to joint oversight, echoing Oct. 25 position from
European Commission.  * Nov. 29: European Parliament agrees on its negotiating
position for law to turn ECB into bank supervisor.  * Dec. 4: Schaeuble warns Germany might veto banking supervisor
legislation.  *  Dec. 5 : EU President Herman Van Rompuy report “Towards a
Genuine Economic and Monetary Union” calls for Single
Supervisory Mechanism as well as common national standards on
bank resolution and deposit insurance, in “stage one” to be
completed by end of 2013.  * Dec. 13: EU finance ministers reach common position on Single
Supervisory Mechanism, paving way for talks with European
Parliament.  *  Dec. 14 : EU leaders say “it is imperative to break the
vicious circle between banks and sovereigns” and call for “an
operational framework, including a definition of legacy assets,
should be agreed as soon as possible,” at summit in Brussels.  * Jan. 24, 2013: Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, in
his debut appearance as Eurogroup chief, says Spain won’t seek
direct ESM aid for its banks after all.  * Jan. 29-30: Germany, the Netherlands and  Finland  call for
rules on forced creditor losses at failing banks to be
implemented in 2015, three years earlier than proposed by EU
draft law, in technical meetings in Brussels.  * Feb. 8: Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan says question of
using ESM for retroactive bank aid may be on hold until 2014, in
comments shortly after Ireland strikes deal with ECB on
promissory notes used to rescue Anglo Irish debt.  * March 11: ECB says about 140 large, systemic banks will be
under its direct, day-to-day oversight.  * March 13: Germany urges EU to abandon plans for a powerful
central authority to handle bank failures, in behind-the-scenes
paper that does not reach the public until April 30.  *  March 15 : EU leaders reaffirm “that it is imperative to break
the vicious circle between banks and sovereigns” in statement
after two-day summit in Brussels.  * March 16: Euro area announces Cyprus bailout plan that would
tax insured as well as uninsured depositors, sparking outrage in
Cyprus and roiling financial markets.  * March 25: Euro area announces revamped Cyprus bailout plan
that restructures the nation’s two largest banks and spares
insured depositors.  * March 19: EU governments and European Parliament reach
provisional deal on legislation to make the ECB euro-area bank
supervisor.  * April 12: EU finance ministers agree to “work
constructively” to consider treaty changes, in bid to prevent
Germany from blocking transition to ECB as single supervisor. It
becomes clear ECB supervision won’t start until at least the
second half of 2014.  * April 18: EU approves law to turn ECB into euro-area bank
supervisor.  * April 24: ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  says EU needs
“strong” central authority to handle bank failures, saying
coordination alone won’t be sufficient.  * May 2: Draghi says ECB’s governing council “emphasizes that
the future Single Supervisory Mechanism and a Single Resolution
Mechanism are crucial elements for moving towards re-integrating
the banking system and therefore require swift implementation.”  * May 7: EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn
says direct ESM bank aid is key to breaking the bank-sovereign
link.  *  May 12 : Germany’s Schaeuble calls for a “two-step” approach
to banking union, saying resolution should remain decentralized.
Without treaty change, the EU can build “a timber-framed, not
steel-framed, banking union.”  * May 16: European Banking Authority delays bank stress tests
until 2014, in order to make room for the ECB’s asset-quality
reviews of banks joining the euro-area supervision regime. In
2011, EBA stress tests were criticized for failing to catch
problems.  * May 20: European Parliament agrees on its negotiating position
for bank-resolution standards law, paving way for negotiations
with nations.  * May 24: ECB’s Constancio lays out two-pronged approach for
assessing banks as central bank becomes supervisor, starting
with balance-sheet assessment and moving to forward-looking
assessments and stress tests.  * May 30: Merkel and French President Francois Hollande  endorse 
banking union effort, provided new supervisor “implemented
effectively” and guidelines for developing a joint resolution
system put in place. This deal paves way for German-French
agreement to delay availability of direct ESM for banks until at
least 2014.  * June 6: Draghi says governments need, at a minimum, to make
“an explicit commitment” to a backstop for capital shortfalls
uncovered in the ECB’s asset-quality reviews.  *  June 20 : Euro area agrees on outline of rules for when the ESM
can recapitalize banks directly, with stipulation that no aid
possible until after EU bank-resolution standards law becomes
final.  * June 21: Ireland says will continue to investigate retroactive
ESM bank aid, after euro-area ministers agree to consider on a
“case-by-case” basis.  * June 22: EU finance ministers fail to reach deal on bank-resolution standards law after 19 hours of talks in Luxembourg.  * June 27: EU finance ministers reach deal on bank resolution
and recovery directive after seven hours of emergency talks in
Brussels, clearing the way for talks to begin with European
Parliament on final version, with goal of year-end deal.  * July 10: The European Commission’s competition enforcement
unit releases new guidelines on state aid that require some
private creditors to take losses before governments can step in.
The new rules took effect Aug. 1.  * July 10: European Commission releases proposal for a euro-area
Single Resolution Mechanism, including 55 billion-euro common
fund. The plan, which will be debated by nations and the
European Parliament, would give the Brussels-based commission
final say in when to close a bank.  * July 15: Germany’s Schaeuble says joint resolution plan isn’t
realistic.  * Aug 29: ECB Executive Board member Yves Mersch says the ECB
won’t start its asset-quality reviews unless the EU has a
backstop in place, also says central bank will begin with a risk
assessment ahead of full balance sheet reviews.  * Aug 29: EU’s Barnier says there is no alternative to a single
system for handling failing banks. “There is no plan B.”  * Sept. 5: Eurogroup chief Dijsselbloem says ECB bank
supervision to start October 2014. He says access to ESM direct
recapitalization will be “very difficult” during transition
period as ECB conducts bank balance-sheet reviews.  * Sept. 5: Draghi says ECB will offer first full communication
on bank balance-sheet assessments by mid-October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  