-- EU Reduces Free Carbon Permit Allocation Requests by 6% in 2013
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-09-05T17:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/eu-reduces-free-carbon-permit-allocation-requests-by-6-in-2013.html
The European Union cut the number
of free carbon permits distributed to its  member states  by 5.7
percent this year, applying a reduction rate near the middle of
a range expected by analysts.  The cutback will gradually increase to 18 percent in 2020
to ensure the number of free permits requested doesn’t exceed
the maximum allowed under the EU law, the European Commission
said on its  website  today. EU governments will take another one
to three months to hand out allowances to companies in the
bloc’s 53-billion-euro ($69.5 billion) emissions trading system.
The distribution was due to take place in February.  “For 2013, the result is a maximum amount available for
free to industry of 809.3 million allowances,” the commission
said. The total emissions cap for this year was set at 2.084
billion permits.  Estimates for the 2013 cutback varied from about 2 percent
expected by Bloomberg New Energy Finance, to 15 percent by
Ecofys, the Utrecht, Netherlands-based environmental research
company. As the world’s biggest carbon program moves to a
greater share of auctioning, emitters will get free permits
accounting for about 43 percent of the cap in the 2013-2020
trading period, under today’s decision.  Delayed Distribution  The delay in the distribution of free allowances, caused by
a tardy submission of national requests, helped temporarily
alleviate a surplus in the carbon market and drive prices
higher. Permits for delivery in December rose 5.3 percent last
month, rebounding from a record of low 2.46 euros in April.  EU allowances advanced as much as 9.9 percent to 5.02 euros
a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  today
before closing at 4.98 euros. That’s still a fraction of the
36.43 euros the December 2013 permits cost in July 2008, before
an economic crisis cut industrial demand and helped create a
glut of allowances.  The EU’s eight-year-old emissions trading system allocates
for free or auctions allowances to about 12,000 factories and
utilities which must surrender enough permits to match their
discharges of carbon dioxide or pay fines. Those that emit less
than their quota can sell allowances they don’t use.  Allocation of free permits to individual companies was cut
across all sectors as countries applied for more permits than
available.  Larger Share  The reduction of free permits will weaken Europe’s efforts
to keep companies from relocating to regions without emission
curbs, and “will deal yet another blow” to the region’s
refining industry, according to Europia, the industry lobby
whose members include Exxon Mobil Corp.  The EU agreed in 2009 to give a larger share of free
permits to 164 manufacturing industries, including most steel-related factories. Manufacturers that aren’t on the list will
receive 80 percent of benchmarked allowances for free in 2013
and face an annual decline in that share to 30 percent in 2020,
while most utilities are subject to 100 percent auctioning as of
this year.  “If the commission is serious about its declared intention
to better balance the competitiveness, security of supply and
sustainability aspects of our current climate and energy policy,
its decision should be based on a reliable assessment of the
manufacturing industry’s contribution to total EU greenhouse gas
emissions,” Europia said in an e-mailed statement today.  Today’s decision means that the EU will need to adjust its
carbon-permit auctioning calendar, which was determined last
year based on estimates of free allocation, according to the
commission. The bloc will next year sell about 66.3 million more
allowances that should normally be auctioned this year.  “Adding a considerable volume in the last two or three
months of the calendar year and adjusting the auction calendars
accordingly may disrupt the market,” the commission said.
Calendars for the  European Energy Exchange  and the ICE Futures
Europe exchange are under preparation, it added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  