-- European Central Bank President Draghi News Conference (Text)
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-09-05T14:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/european-central-bank-president-draghi-news-conference-text-.html
Following is a transcript of
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s comments from his
monthly news conference in  Frankfurt  today.  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK: Thank you.
Sorry to say, but for personal reasons, the vice president is
absent from today’s press conference.  So, ladies and gentlemen, I’m very pleased to welcome you
to our press conference. And I’ll now report on the outcome of
today’s meeting of the Governing Council.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analysis, we
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Income
information and analysis have further underpinned our previous
assessment. Underlying price pressures in the euro area are
expected to remain subdued over the medium term.  In keeping with this picture, monetary and, in particular,
credit dynamics remain subdued. Inflation expectations for the
euro area continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to 2 percent over
the medium term. At the same time, real GDP growth in the second
quarter was positive, after six quarters of negative output
growth, and confidence indicators out to August confirm the
expected gradual improvement in economic activity from low
levels.  Our monetary policy stance continues to be geared towards
maintaining a degree of monetary accommodation warranted by the
outlook for  price stability  and promoting stable money market
conditions. It thereby provides support to a gradual recovery in
economic activity.  Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as necessary, in line with the forward
guidance provided in July. The Governing Council confirms that
it expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or
lower level - or lower levels for an extended period of time.
This expectation continues to be based on an unchanged overall
subdued outlook for inflation extending into the medium term,
given the broad-based weakness in the economy and subdued
monetary dynamics.  In the period ahead, we will monitor all incoming
information on economic and monetary developments and assess any
impact on the medium-term outlook for price stability. With
regard to money market conditions, these have also been
influenced by a gradual reduction in excess liquidity.
Repayments of funds taken up in the context of the three-year
longer-term refinancing operations reflect improvements in
financial market confidence, some reduction in financial market
fragmentation, and the ongoing deleveraging by euro area banks.
We will remain particularly attentive to the implications that
these developments may have for the stance of monetary policy.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with the economic analysis. Following six quarters of
negative outlook growth, euro area real GDP rose quarter-on-quarter by 0.3 percent in the second quarter of 2013. This
increase is partly explained by transitory effects related to
weather conditions in the first half of this year. Since then,
survey-based confidence indicators up to August have improved
further from low levels, overall confirming our previous
expectations of a gradual recovery in economic activity.  Looking ahead to the remainder of the year and to 2014, in
line with our baseline scenario, output is expected to recover
at a slow pace. In particular, owing to a gradual improvement in
domestic demand, supported by the accommodative monetary policy
stance. Euro area economic activity should, in addition, benefit
from a gradual strengthening of external demand for exports.
Furthermore, the overall improvements in financial markets seen
since last summer appear to be gradually working their way
through the real economy, as should the progress made in fiscal
consolidation. In addition, real incomes have benefited recently
from generally lower inflation.  This being said, unemployment in the euro area remains
high, and the necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public
and private sectors will continue to weigh on economic activity.  This assessment is also reflected in the September 2013 ECB
staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
annual real GDP declining by 0.4 percent in 2013 and increasing
by 1.0 percent in 2014. Compared with the June 2013 Eurosystem
staff macroeconomic projections, the projection for 2013 has
been revised upwards by 0.2 percentage points, largely
reflecting incoming data. For 2014, there has been a downward
revision of 0.1 percentage points.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside. Recent developments in
global money and financial market conditions and related
uncertainties may have the potential to negatively affect
economic conditions. Other downside risks include higher
commodity prices in the context of renewed geopolitical
tensions, weaker than expected global demand, and slow or
insufficient implementation of structural reforms in euro area
countries.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, as expected, euro
area annual HICP inflation was 1.3 percent in August 2013, down
from 1.6 percent in June and July. On the basis of current
assumptions for energy and exchange rate developments, annual
inflation rates are expected to remain low in the coming months,
owing in particular to energy price developments.  Taking the appropriate medium-term perspective, underlying
price pressures are expected to remain subdued, reflecting the
broad-based weakness in aggregate demand and the modest pace of
the recovery. Medium- to long-term inflation expectations
continue to be firmly anchored in line with price stability.  This assessment is also reflected in September 2013 ECB
staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
annual HICP inflation at 1.5 percent in 2013 and 1.3 percent in
2014. In comparison with June 2013 Eurosystem staff
macroeconomic projections, the projection for inflation for 2013
has been revised upwards by 0.1 percentage point, while the
projection for 2014 remains unchanged.  The risks to the outlook for price developments are
expected to be broadly balanced over the medium term, with
upside risks relating in particular to higher commodity prices,
as well as stronger than expected increases in administered
prices and indirect taxes, and downside risks stemming from
weaker than expected economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, data for July confirm
that underlying broad money, M3, and, in particular, credit
growth remained subdued. Annual growth in M3 decreased further
in July to 2.2 percent from 2.4 percent in June. Annual growth
in M1 remained strong but decreased to 7.1 percent in July from
7.5 percent in June.  M3 growth continued to be mainly supported by net capital
inflows in the euro area, while the annual rate of change of
loans to the private sector weakened further. The annual growth
rates of loans to households remained at 0.3 percent in July,
broadly unchanged since the turn of the year. The annual rate of
change of loans to non-financial corporations was minus 2.8
percent in July compared with minus 2.3 percent in June. Weak
loan dynamics continue to reflect primarily the current stage of
the business cycle, heightened credit risk, and the ongoing
adjustment of financial and non-financial sector balance sheets.  Since the summer of 2012, substantial progress has been
made in improving the funding conditions of banks and, in
particular, in strengthening the domestic deposit base in a
number of stressed countries. In order to ensure an adequate
transmission of monetary policy to the financing conditions in
euro area countries, it is essential that fragmentation of euro
area credit markets declines further and that the resilience of
banks is strengthened where needed. Further decisive steps to
establish a banking union will help to accomplish this
objective.  To sum up, economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  In order to further reduce imbalances and to foster
competitiveness, growth and  job creation , euro area countries
need to continue with their reform agenda. As regards fiscal
policies, governments should not unravel their efforts to reduce
deficits and put debt ratios on a downward path.  The composition of fiscal consolidation should be geared
towards growth-friendly measures which have a medium-term
perspective and combine improving the quality and efficiency of
public services with minimizing distortionary effects of
taxation.  In terms of economic policies, product market reforms to
increase competitiveness will facilitate the creation of new
businesses, support the tradable goods sectors, and foster job
creation, while high unemployment rates require decisive
structural reforms to reduce rigidities in labor markets and to
increase labor demand.  I am now at your disposal for questions.  STAFF:  Jeff Black , Bloomberg, please.  QUESTION: Good afternoon. Sorry, I have to peer around to
be able to see you. You mentioned that if excess liquidity
declines much further, you’d be particularly attentive to
developments in that regard. So could you help us by perhaps
indicating at what point numerically excess liquidity becomes a
concern to you and what then you would do about that?  And my second question is about the renewed tensions in the
 Middle East . If it transpired there was an oil price spike,
which has happened in the past, of course, does that endanger
your forward guidance outlook?  Or would an oil price spike be
something that you would be inclined to look through?  Thank
you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. You’re absolutely right to have focused
on that - on that sentence, particularly the attentive. Right
now, we view the current excess liquidity as adequate, but we
stand ready to act.  Now, we’ve got to be aware that excess liquidity depends on
two factors. The less fragmentation, the less is the excess
liquidity. The second factor is our reaction to the excess
liquidity and to the demand, namely through LTROs. So now we are
down from 800 billion to 250 billion, in terms of excess
liquidity, and that’s all in all good news, because it means
that fragmentation has been receding.  Now, when we come to the relation between the excess
liquidity and the on-year (ph) rates, which is what you are
really asking, we have to consider this relation is unstable, in
the sense that there isn’t any precise figure. I remember some
time ago I’ve said - I’ve mentioned the figure of 200 as the
figure - as the threshold, but, in fact, it’s - it’s really
context-depending. It depends on the context. It depends on the
degree of fragmentation that we have. The ECB balloting speaks
of a figure between 200 and 100. But in general, the threshold
depends on the state of fragmentation.  The other thing - the other caution that I would - I would
make is that one should not extrapolate too much from the past
repayments pattern of LTRO. As you’ve seen the figures, it’s
been quite significant for some time, and now it’s basically
constant. So it really depends on who’s repaying the LTRO, what
is the state of their funding conditions, what is the state of
their - of their profitability, what is the - what’s in general
their situation?  So I wouldn’t extrapolate repayment pattern
too much, as say that say demand stay (ph) this 250 figure will
go down to 200 or whatever.  And, second, I would say that there isn’t any stable
relation between the figure and the threshold and the rates. In
any event, we would - as I said, we would stand ready to take
appropriate action as - as needed. And obviously, we will - I’ve
already said this several times - we have the fixed-rate full
allotment policy in place until at least July 2014 and for as
long as needed.  On - on the second question, well, we have to see, really.
But in general, we look at - you know, our reference is the HICP
inflation. So we have to see whether this would alter our
medium-term forecasts for inflation. As I mentioned before, our
risks to inflation are broadly balanced, and one of the reasons
is exactly shocks in commodity prices for risk (ph). So we will
have to assess. But the rate to which we look is the headline
inflation.  Thank you.  STAFF: (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION: First question is whether you have discussed a
rate cut today. And second question is on market interest rates.
You raised concern about the level of the market interest rates
in July, and I just wonder whether you feel comfortable with the
level right now.  DRAGHI: Thank you. On  interest rate  cut, there was a
discussion like we do all the time - we discuss the state of our
monetary policy stance at each point in time. We also discuss
interest rates and other monetary policy instruments. Some
governors, of course, observe that improvements in the economy
will not justify this discussion, but several other governors
observed that, on one hand, the recovery is still too green. If
you look at that slack (ph) is still wide, weak credit, weak
money aggregates, inflation is subdued in the medium term,
unemployment is still high.  So it was too green to exclude this discussion. And if
money market developments - and here I’m answering to the second
question, really - if money market developments were to be
judged unwarranted in their impact on our assessment of medium-term inflation, then such an instrument should be considered.
Thank you.  STAFF: Brian Blackstone?  QUESTION: Brian Blackstone with the Wall Street Journal.
Just on that second answer you have, last month you said that
the rate hike expectations embedded in the money markets were
unwarranted. Is that still your assessment?  And if it is, then
why didn’t you cut rates today?  And my second question more broadly is, is there a risk
that the ECB is trying to fine-tune the markets too much?  Is
there anything wrong, given the context of the  euro zone  and the
global economy, for investors to say a couple years down the
line there might be a single rate hike from crisis low, near-zero levels?  Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. Interest rates move for a variety of
reasons. And some of them have to do with the news related to
the improvements in the economy. In this case, the forward
guidance we have expressed is just geared to make sure to reach
two objectives. The first is to reduce the volatility in the -
within the corridor, which we have succeeded.  The second objective is to make sure that the news - this
news relative to the improvements in the economy do not cause
overreaction in the market interest rates. And on that ground,
we have been moderately successful, and I would refer for an
analysis and a comparison the different forward guidance
concepts to a very recent and very interesting paper by the Bank
of International Settlements.  Then there is another set of news that comes that has
nothing to do with the euro fundamentals. And it can - may come
from all over, in which case the forward guidance is meant to
make sure that you want to look through this news to make sure
that their impact on the medium-term assessment of inflation is
contained. So that’s the - I would say that’s the answer.  STAFF: Hela Hukh (ph), please (inaudible)  QUESTION: Well, Europe is picking up, but the Netherlands
is still in recession, and the Dutch people think that’s because
of austerity measures. What do you think is the main reason that
the Dutch economy is lagging behind?  And my second question would be that there are new
austerity measures coming up, 6 billion. One-third will be tax
increases. Do you think that the Netherlands is on the right
track to recovery?  And I know I’m stretching it a bit, but I have a third
question. Dutch government has decided not to privatize  ABN Amro 
for another year. Two of our four big banks are nationalized. I
was wondering, in general, what your vision is on state
ownership of a bank?  What does that do to the competitiveness
of the sector?  STAFF: (OFF-MIKE) two questions, so would you please pick
the two most important ones?  QUESTION: The first - the first two.  STAFF: Thank you.  DRAGHI: No, the - I’ll say this. The Netherlands is
undergoing a protracted domestic demand-driven recession. And
you know that the household sector is heavily indebted. There
are financial sector challenges, declining real estate prices,
and all this weighs on domestic demand.  So in this environment, the leveraging by the households
and by the banks is natural. However, the recent data show a
decelerating pace of the contraction with some signs of recovery
in business investments and some stabilization of exports.  So there are also positive signals coming from the latest
survey. The industrial confidence has improved in recent months.
The manufacturing PMI has climbed into positive growth
territory. So I would expect a gradual pickup of the economy.
However, the medium-term outlook remains subdued, as with - with
other - with other - as with other members of the euro area.  Now, what are the most important reforms the Dutch
government ought to do?  It’s not up to me, really. It’s up to
the Dutch government to decide on the importance and urgency of
reforms. The - in the context of the European semester, the
council has adopted country-specific recommendations which we
fully support. And these recommendations concern a correction of
the excessive deficit by 2014 and the implementation of further
reforms in the housing market, in the pension system, the health
and long-term care sector, and the labor market.  STAFF: (inaudible) please.  QUESTION: I have a couple of questions. My first question
is on the Single Supervisory Mechanism for banks. I would like -
I would like you, Mr. President, to tell us about the recent
developments of the ongoing discussion within - with the
European Parliament on the SSM.  And, second, about measures regarding banks, again, there
were some measures that were announced in July, for instance, to
ease ABS haircut and raise it on rate and covered bonds (ph),
but there were some legal hurdles to be crossed on this regard,
and other measures regarding mezzanine credit for small and
medium enterprises. Can you give us a flavor of what the state-of-the-art is, as regards these issues?  Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. On - on the SSM, our discussions with
the European Parliament progressed considerably, and we should
have some - some news in the coming days, some positive news in
the coming days. Next to this, the preparation of the - for the
- for the creation of the SSM continues, is continuing. And it
works well.  The - as I remarked on other - on other occasions,
the - there is a sense by all the national supervisors, there is
a strong, I would say, collaborative, cooperative stance. So the
working atmosphere is actually very, very good.  There will be a full communication - a first full
communication on the - on the assets - what’s called the asset
quality review, which, in fact, is a  risk assessment , is a
balance sheet assessment, by mid-October. I think that is the -
that is one of the communications that I think is most
important, because especially by the - by the banking system,
which is going to be the recipient of the SSM action, it is
highly welcome to know how things will be done in the coming
months.  On the other front, the ECB continues to work with EIB and
with the commission in an advisory role. And we will report on
this, and we will see what is the space, what is the room for
the ECB to act on this front, once the work is - is completed.  Thank you.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: Certainly before year end. Certainly before year
end. But we have to keep in mind, one - one thing is the design
of what can come out of this effort. Another one is - the
overcoming of the regulatory hurdles, which make - which make
the use of ABS quite difficult at the present time.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: (inaudible) Mr. Draghi, but have the exact
criteria for balance sheet assessment already been defined by
the Governing Council?  And if so, what is the outcome?  DRAGHI: No, as I said, we’re going to have a full
communication at mid-October. So for the time being, I can only
tell you the people are working. There are many people who are
working on this. All the 17 national supervisors and their teams
and the ECB are working on this. There isn’t any - anything that
I can report - precise that I can report at this stage on this.  STAFF: (inaudible) La Stampa?  QUESTION: Mr. Draghi, a follow-up to the question on union
- on banking union. Yesterday, Mr. Asmussen said very explicitly
that if a bank should be resolved, this should be decided by the
ECB and implicitly not by the European Commission. I wonder if
you agree with this position, which is a very clear position?  And my second question is on Greece. There has been a
discussion, especially in  Germany , about an eventually - an
eventual third package of - for after the elections. I wonder if
the ECB is - has the same opinion, that Greece will need help
again.  DRAGHI: On the first point, I think there has been a
misunderstanding. I don’t think Mr. Asmussen’s ever said that.
And there has been confusion. The - the view that we have and -
is the following. The supervisor makes the assessment. And
that’s, by the way, how things usually go in most member
countries nowadays. The supervisor makes the investment, in
total independence, and then hands this assessment to the
resolution authority, which nowadays in many member countries is
the government.  And then the government decides what they want to do. The
supervisor cannot decide what they want to do, whether to
resolve the bank or sell the bank or whatever. It’s not its
responsibility.  And Mr. Asmussen said this. And so he’s been - he’s been, I
think, misinterpreted. So there is no - the - there is no
confusion here. The line is pretty clear. The - and the - and,
by the way, we’ve seen also that there was, again, a
misunderstanding, saying the Bundesbank would take - Bundesbank
agrees 100 percent with this view.  So - and that’s by - by the way, this is how supervisors
work in all countries. Supervisors can’t have (ph)
responsibilities that pertain or may pertain to the taxpayer. So
he - the supervisor makes the assessment, hands the assessment,
saying, look, this bank is not viable under this - under present
circumstances. You have to do something. But it’s up to you to
decide what to do. So that’s the - that’s pretty clear.  Sorry. On the second point, on Greece, now, I can say that
the current adjustment program for Greece expires at the end of
2014. And this leaves some time for the euro group to decide on
possible extension of the current program and to assess
prospects for Greece to regain access to  capital markets . So
it’s also quite straightforward the fact that if - if an
extension of the program is needed, it will require further
conditionality.  STAFF: Suzanne Lynch, the Irish Times?  QUESTION: Hi, I just have a specific question regarding
Ireland. It intends to be the first country to exit the bailout
at the end of this year. Do you think it will need a
precautionary  credit line ?  DRAGHI: Well, in Ireland, I would say program
implementation is on track. Recent fiscal data have been overall
positive. Market sentiment continues to improve. Challenges
remain, especially in the financial sector.  About the possible successor program, a decision will be
taken in due time. Now, a key consideration is that conditions
remain for a successful conclusion of the current program. And I
should say that Ireland is leading the way in this respect.  So it will be key to ensure that the appropriate framework
is in place to safeguard the achievements made and to avoid
potential risks to full  market access  once the program is
completed.  QUESTION: It’s just that - just to follow up - a quick
follow-up - just as you said there in the previous question,
Greece (inaudible) whole other year, until the end of 2014, but
- for its program to finish, but in Ireland we’re talking about
a couple of months. So when do you think?  Do you think it’s
imperative that a decision is made on - on a strategy for
exiting the bailout quite soon, in the next two months?  DRAGHI: Well, yes, that’s up to the euro group to decide.
Thank you.  STAFF: Jack Ewing, International Herald Tribune?  QUESTION: Jack Ewing, International Herald Tribune and  New
York  Times. Not to hamper too much about Greece, but the -
there’s also been a lot of talk about whether there should be
some kind of debt relief. And I wonder if I could just push you
a little bit more on that and whether there’s anything you can
say about whether that’s something the ECB would consider, in
light of the fact that you’re major holders of Greek bonds?
Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, the answer is no. I mean, the - it’s pretty -
what we’ve done - you remember - I don’t know whether you
remember - we’ve gone through this when - when we had the
discussions about Greece almost, what, a year, year-and-a-half
ago. And it’s pretty clear that we cannot do monetary financing.
Article one, two, three of the treaty forbids the ECB from doing
monetary financing.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) thank you - there - there are some
critical voices who say that the ECB is responsible for the
crisis of some saving banks because of the low interest rates
and - which, by the way, contribute also to the expropriation of
savings. Could you please answer to this?  Because it is very
much debated here, especially here in Germany.  And then the - well, I had several questions. I’m sorry. Is
the - is the ECB reflecting over the fact that with high debt
and - and weak - and countries coming out weak from recession, a
midterm inflation target is not enough to get out of the crisis.
And there are some economists who suggest that you link it to,
like the Fed, to - also to unemployment.  DRAGHI: The answer to the second question is pretty
straightforward. Our mandate talks about price stability. And
that’s our objective, price stability in the medium term.  On the first point, as you know, as I’ve said many times,
we, the ECB, sets rates for the whole of the euro area. Second,
we see no inflation in Germany. Third, interest rates - now, are
interest rates low because of ECB’s rates are low?  But the
answer is just look at what happened to the interest rates of
the 10-year bund in the last month or so. It went up by about 50
basis points to slightly less than 200, than 2 percent. And our
rates were simply the same or even - actually, they were cut a
month-and-a-half ago about.  So this relation between our rates and rates of the bunds
is - has to - has to be looked quite close, and it’s not a total
in one (ph) relation. As a matter of fact, there is another
factor that plays into keeping interest rates artificially low
in Germany and the Netherlands and in some other countries, as
well, and that’s the fact that we have had fragmentation and
these countries have become the safe haven for the euro area, so
you have flow. You had - for about three years now, we had flows
pouring into these countries and keeping interest rates
artificially low.  And so everything we’ve done for reducing fragmentation
actually contributes to higher and more realistic rates in these
countries. And this should be acknowledged.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: Mr. Draghi, I’ve got two questions. One is
related to - you announced last time on this press conference
that you would put forward a proposal on minutes. And I would
like to hear what something - that this was discussed and what
the state of this discussion is.  The second is - question is on general politics. Are you
watching the outcome of the general elections coming this month?
 And do you think that this can have an impact on the economy?  DRAGHI: On the second question, I have to give you a very
general answer. Often elections have an impact on the economy,
but I can’t comment on specifics - on the specifics of this
election.  On the first, actually I - if I’m correct, I didn’t use the
word “minutes.”  I think I used the word an “account” of our
discussions. Work is going on, is - is going on. And as I said,
it’s quite important - it could be. If it - if it’s well done,
it could actually give more light and transparency on the nature
of our discussions, but it’s quite important to acknowledge that
our set-up, our institutional set-up is not the same as the U.S.
or the U.K. or Japan. We are a 17-countries monetary union.  And so the governors are there in their personal
responsibility, and they should remain independent in their
decision-making. And so anything that would threaten their
independence would not be acceptable, so transparency, while
keeping their independence.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: We said - yes, the - I think I did say that the
executive board will present the proposal in the fall.  STAFF: (inaudible) El Pais?  QUESTION: Hi, this is - this is (inaudible) from El Pais.
The Spanish program for the banking system is going to expire in
the - in next January. Do you support an extension for the
program or another form of backstop or - or insurance for the
banking Spanish - for the Spanish banking system?  DRAGHI: Well, I - I mean, the program - the financial
assistance program is fully on track. Banks have been
recapitalized. Their restructuring plans have been implemented.
The nonperforming assets have been transferred to SARB (ph). And
SARB (ph) has already started selling some of the assets.  The deleveraging process is going as expected. Some banks
have made a steady progress in reducing their dependence on
wholesale funding and the Eurosystem. As you know, Spanish banks
have repaid a substantive amount. So the reform of the savings
bank has been comprehensive. So there are very few issues that
remain, but they are likely to be resolved without any major
impact on the liquidity or solvency of the Spanish banks.  Thank you.  STAFF: Geoff Cutmore, CNBC?  QUESTION: Thank you very much. Geoff Cutmore, CNBC. While I
don’t want to overdramatize what’s going on at  St. Petersburg ,
the market has become quite sensitive to news flow over Syria.
So that is one of the potential geopolitical downside risks that
you’ve acknowledged, I think.  In the medium term, there is also a growing concern about
the emerging market slowdown and the deficit currencies. So my
two-pronged question really is, what specific responses have
been discussed within the Governing Council to ease any market
distress on either of these issues?  And my second question is,
have you spoken or communicated with the  Federal Reserve  or
other central banks about the prospect of coordinated action,
should it be necessary?  Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. We certainly - we certainly are alert to
the geopolitical risks that may come out of the Syrian situation
and to the economic risks that may derive from the emerging
market situation, which are two different things, really.  From this point, I should say something I should have said
before. When we look at the nature of the composition of the -
this sort of beginning of a recovery, as you - as you observe,
I’m very, very cautious about the recovery. I can’t share
enthusiasm. It’s just the beginning. Let’s see. These shoots are
still very, very green.  I should have said one thing, that for the first time in
about two years, it’s domestic demand that is at the root of
this recovery. It’s still coupled with exports, but it’s
domestic demand. That’s very important, because it’s - it kind
of gives a sense that if it - if it continues, if it continues,
it gives a sense that the dependence of the recovery on the rest
of the world is somewhat balanced by domestic - by domestic
demand. Also - but I only say - so this is one thing.  Second thing, we certainly stand ready to act. I did say
this when I was asked about - about what we do about - if
interest rates - or money market developments were unwarranted
in view of our assessment of medium-term price stability. And we
- we certainly - and as I said before, we stand ready to act
whether these developments derive from one source or another. I
commented on that before.  We haven’t yet discussed any coordinated action. And we -
you know, we have periodic exchanges anyway. One of them will
be, by the way, the next - the next - this weekend in Basel.
There will be an opportunity for - for - for a meeting with
central banks of major countries.  STAFF: Michael Steen, FT.  QUESTION: Michael Steen, FT. Mr. Draghi, was there any
discussion today on the Governing Council about a more explicit
version of the forward guidance you’ve got?  I might invite you
to use - you seem to be dipping your toes into giving us a
fuller account by talking (inaudible) about various governments
saying this and that, and so if you - if you could answer the
question that way, that would be brilliant.  And the second question is, as a (inaudible) correspondent,
I enjoyed your answer about Holland just now. I was wondering,
could you give us a similar sort of tour de raison (ph) about
the situation in Italy?  Or is that country fundamentally you
won’t talk about?  And I say that, because our Italian
colleagues (inaudible) thank you.  DRAGHI: (OFF-MIKE) I’d rather - on the second question, I’d
rather not comment. It’s kind of - you understand why, I think.
So I think you have to rely on someone else to have this tour de
raison (ph) for Italy.  But on the first question, we have - we have reflected, of
course, on the nature of our forward guidance. And we’ve asked
ourselves, what are the objectives of the forward guidance?  The
forward guidance contains an assessment by the central bank
about its view of the future and contains information about the
central bank’s policy response for the future. I think that’s
the essence of forward guidance. It’s not a change in our
reaction function, but it’s rather an explanation of our
reaction function. We wanted to be clear. We don’t want to
change it.  Now, forward guidance are two types. One is qualitative,
and the other one - the other ones are quantitative with precise
state (ph) conditions. And ours is of the first type.  So only know (ph), we - the Governing Council, it’s fairly
compact, unanimous actually on this point. On - on the wish to
maintain this type of forward guidance, we are also - I mean, if
we look - I mentioned before to this paper by the BIS, where
they actually compare their results and the sort of successes,
some different types of forward guidance, and as I said before,
the ECB doesn’t score too badly. It scores very well on having
controlled volatility and reduced the uncertainty in - within
the corridor, and its score is OK in controlling the levels of
rates. But as I said, there are many news - continuously news -
continuous flow of news on the rates.  So given our specific institutional set-up, the quality of
the forward guidance that we’ve used is the most appropriate.
And you can - you can - you can easily - you can easily see why
a different forward guidance will create problems for our - in
our - within our institutional set-up, if we were to be willing
to adopt a precise formulation, a quantitative formulation,
which we are not.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) change in the reaction function?  Does
that mean that, essentially, you would do nothing different if
there was no forward guidance?  DRAGHI: No, because we - we basically said that, looking at
the medium term, the medium-term outlook for inflation, so way
beyond the short term, we have - we wanted to make clear that we
have a downward bias in interest rates for an extended period of
time. And I think that is - that is the essence, and we never
said that before. So the very fact of saying it is by itself a
very powerful clarification of our reaction function.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: Yes, thank you. The first one is also on forward
guidance, but on a different issue. In July, you said at the end
of the press conference that you would all agree that low level
of interest rates entail serious risks to financial stability.
But there is no reference to financial stability in your forward
guidance, while, for example, the  Bank of England  explicitly
manages such risks as one of the three knockouts for forward
guidance. So the question is, why is there no mentioning of
financial stability risks in your forward guidance and, to be
more precise, what would happen - or what would be the reaction
of the ECB if such risks emerged while the medium-term inflation
outlook was very subdued still?  And the second question is just on the resolution issue,
just to clarify. You said that the - you will make an assessment
and hand it to the governments. Let’s say, if this is the
resolution authority and it’s up to them to decide, does that
mean we can get into a situation where the ECB says, OK, this
bank is OK for resolution, but the authority says, no, we differ
from this kind of view?  And what would happen in that case?
Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. The second question is - the - I mean,
the practice - I would say almost all, if not all the
supervisors in the euro area is the following. It’s the
supervisors who look at the viability of a bank in a certain
situation. If they were to decide that the bank is not viable,
then they would simply communicate this to the authority which
has the responsibility to - well, first of all, there is what’s
called supervisory action, namely, the bank would be asked to
raise capital, to sell assets, to (inaudible) and so on, to do
all these things.  But suppose you have exhausted all these things or you
simply judge that the bank is unviable no matter what
supervisory action could be undertaken. In that case, you hand
it to the resolution authority, which often is the government,
but often is separate. In our proposed legislation will be a
separate entity, where it’s the (ph) commission or (inaudible)
isn’t clear yet, and they will decide what to do, because it’s
up to them, because they are using - they may be using public
money or they may be considering that the further bailing (ph)
could be feasible.  So - but the assessment - and not how to - I would say the
assessment is made by the supervisor. The actions required to
respond to this assessment would be decided by the independent
authority. I mean, that’s pretty clear, and that’s been the view
of the ECB and - so that’s one - one question I think I’ve
answered.  Oh, the second question is about - about financial
stability. We - the issue is, first of all, financial stability
risks are often addressed by macroprudential tools, so that’s
what we have in mind. And it’s actually part of the SSM
creation.  We don’t view now movements in interest rates as a - sort
of as a realistic way to respond to risks in financial stability
that we don’t see. In other words, we don’t see risks to
financial stability that may derive from the level - from the
too-low level of interest rates at the present time.  Now, certainly, if there were a situation like we had in
the past, we will have to think about that and react. But in the
past, we didn’t have this medium-term outlook of inflation so
subdued as we are watching now.  STAFF: The gentleman at the back?  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) with respect to the policy forward
guidance and the challenge that central banks face in keeping
the credibility with the marketplace, I wonder if you could
speak to whether the Governing Council has given consideration
to -  DRAGHI: Can you repeat this?  QUESTION: Pardon me?  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. Can you repeat the question?  QUESTION: Yes. I wonder if you could speak to the
consideration, if at all, the Governing Council has given to
ways in which you cement the forward guidance, particularly
perhaps releasing inflation forecasts into 2015 or other methods
that might give the market more comfort with respect to the
forward guidance, given the market differential that we’re
seeing, not only for yourselves, but for other central banks?  DRAGHI: I think that’s a legitimate question. And the
forecasts for 2015 inflation will be published at year end, so
on the occasion of the next - next projections.  STAFF: The last question to you.  QUESTION: (inaudible) from (inaudible) Japanese  news
agency . My question is on OMT. Just one year ago, you announced
the detail of these measures (inaudible) and the - what’s
interesting for me is that why this measure is so effective
without being activated?  Other central banks, for example,  Bank
of Japan  or Fed, have introduced similar programs, but they need
to activate it to be effective. So my question is, why only in
euro zone such program is effective, even without being
activated?  Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, it’s very hard to answer this question
without flattering one’s self.  (LAUGHTER)  But I - I suspect that - that it’s - the design of this has
made this measure both powerful and credible. It’s powerful
because it addressed a realistic objective, which is the
redenomination risk spreads, the spreads that derive from
redenomination risks.  It’s - it’s credible because it is accompanied by
conditionality. In our present context - and in many others, I
suspect - it - the commitment to buy an infinite amount of bond
in order to keep interest rates at a certain level is often not
credible, besides being in our present context illegal.  So I think these two combinations of a realistic target,
accompanied by an, in principal, unlimited amount of means, in
fact, limited by the market size, and by conditionality, has
made this measure - has made this measure very effective without
need to be - to be activated.  But conditionality is an important ingredient, because it
says that once this measure is being activated, the country that
is receiving - and so on the receiving end - is actually
undertaking a series of actions, budgetary consolidation or
structural reforms, or both, that have as a consequence - as a
consequence, they have the result of increasing the value of the
bonds issued by the country. And the value of the bonds are
exactly what the ECB is buying into it.  So the conditionality, if properly activated, produces an
increase in the value - if you want to use this word - of the
collateral that the country posts in exchange of the ECB action.
I think that’s a way to think about this. But, anyway, thanks
for asking.  (LAUGHTER)  STAFF: And thank you very much.  DRAGHI: Thank you.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  