-- Europe Needs Carbon Floor Price to Boost Gas-Fired Plant Profits
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-09-05T07:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/europe-needs-carbon-floor-price-to-boost-gas-fired-plant-profits.html
Europe needs an emissions permit
price floor as used in the U.K. to make gas-fired power a
profitable alternative to more-polluting coal plants,  Verbund
AG (VER) ’s chief executive officer said.  Rising carbon prices will push up the cost of coal-fired
power generation, boosting the incentive to operate cleaner gas-fed stations, Wolfgang Anzengruber, head of  Austria ’s biggest
utility, said in a Sept. 3 interview in Cologne, Germany.
Verbund will decide by the middle of next quarter whether to
close its 848-megawatt gas plant in Mellach, Austria, which only
started producing power in July 2012.  Utilities from  RWE AG (RWE)  to EON SE have been shutting gas-fired generators as the falling cost of pollution makes coal
plants  more profitable  to operate, even though they produce
twice as much greenhouse gas. The cost of emitting a metric ton
of carbon dioxide in  Europe  has slid 85 percent since 2008,
reaching a record-low 2.46 euros ($3.24) a ton in April.  “With carbon prices at record lows, there is no incentive
to run a gas-fired plant,” Anzengruber said. “Operators need
an emissions price of around 35 euros a metric ton to produce
power from a gas plant rather than from a coal plant.”  The U.K. set a floor on carbon prices in April to encourage
investment in clean-energy projects by making it more costly to
burn fossil fuels. The minimum price of 4.94 pounds ($7.70) per
ton of emissions will climb to 18.08 pounds for the year through
March 2016, Britain’s Treasury said in March.  Price Floor  “I personally expect that some EU countries will implement
an emissions price floor similar to the one we have in the
U.K.,” Verbund’s Anzengruber said. “But it is hard to say
when, as it is a political decision.”  In  Germany , the opposition Green party wants to introduce a
floor of around 15 euros a ton if they win the country’s Sept.
22 elections, Jens Kendzia, a party spokesman, said yesterday by
phone from Berlin.  European Union emission permits for delivery in December
fell 0.9 percent to 4.53 euros a metric ton at 7:52 a.m. on the
ICE Futures Europe Exchange in  London .  The  dark-spark spread , the profitability of coal-fired
plants relative to stations fueled by gas, climbed to 26.73
euros a megawatt-hour on Aug. 7, based on German power, gas,
coal and carbon prices for next year. The spread stood at 26.66
euros as of 8:50 a.m. Berlin time.  Next-month gas for delivery  in the Netherlands, a benchmark
for continental Europe, fell 0.1 percent to close at 26.32 euros
a megawatt-hour yesterday, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  