-- Reinsurance Executives See Struggle to Boost Rates
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-09-06T11:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/european-reinsurers-see-struggle-to-raise-rates-for-2014.html
Reinsurers may fail to increase
rates they charge primary carriers for their backstop coverage
when they begin price talks for 2014 in  Monte Carlo  this week.  “I expect the market staying flat to ticking down, on the
absolute premium,” Amer Ahmed, chief executive officer of
Allianz Re, the reinsurance arm of  Germany ’s  Allianz SE (ALV) , told
Bloomberg News on Sept. 3 in Munich. “It will be interesting to
see if there will be a slippage in terms and conditions.”  Reinsurers are under pressure to shore up earnings hurt by
disaster claims and low interest rates. Reinsurance rates fell
in seven of the last 10 years, according to the Guy Carpenter
World Property Catastrophe Rate on Line Index. While  remaining
stable  in January and  April , there was renewed “downward
pressure” at the June and July contract renewals, said Guy
Carpenter, the reinsurance brokerage of  Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC)   Reinsurers will meet with brokers and primary insurers,
whom they help shoulder risks for clients in return for a share
of the premiums, in Monte Carlo starting tomorrow to begin
negotiating next year’s property and casualty policies. Talks
will continue next month in Baden-Baden, Germany.  Munich Re, Swiss Re Ltd. and  Hannover Re (HNR1)  are among
reinsurers typically renewing about two-thirds of their annual
property and casualty contracts in January. Munich Re, the
world’s biggest reinsurer, said on Aug. 6 prices declined 0.9
percent in the July renewals, while Zurich-based Swiss Re, the
second-biggest reinsurer, reported a drop of 5 percent.  ‘Buyers’ Market’  Paul Horgan, head of group reinsurance at  Zurich Insurance
Group AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s largest insurer, said at the round table
of industry executives hosted by Bloomberg that he expects a
“trade-off of price terms and conditions” in Monte Carlo after
observing “some extensions” in July renewals.  “Prices in a number of areas are below where they should
be,” Manfred Seitz, managing director of international
reinsurance at  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  told
executives in Munich “It’s a buyers’ market, there is a large
number of providers and a lot of capital looking for returns.”  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said this week that
unless there is a market-wide disaster with significant losses,
it expects lower earnings for reinsurers in the coming years.
Excess capital “will continue to put downward pressure on
pricing, or at least prevent any significant increases,” the
ratings firm said.  The reinsurance industry had capital of $510 billion at the
end of June, just below a record $515 billion three months
earlier,  according to  Aon Benfield, the reinsurance broker of
 Aon Ltd. (AON) , which mediates deals for primary insurers.  Lower Prices  While these buffers are used as a cushion against natural
catastrophe losses, the surplus of funds means primary insurers
such as Allianz and  France ’s  Axa SA (CS)  can demand lower prices on
reinsurance policies to limit losses when disasters strike.  “I’m not a believer that we are overcapitalized as an
industry,” Berkshire’s Seitz said. “A $100 billion industry
loss, which is a conceivable figure, would mean you lose 20
percent of the industry capital.”  Inflows have been driven by new entrants, such as hedge and
pension funds, and the increased sales of insurance-linked
securities, or ILS, such as catastrophe bonds, which allow
reinsurers to tap interest or principal payments when losses
from specific events surpass an agreed-upon threshold.  Annual catastrophe bond issuance reached $6.7 billion at
the end of June, bringing bonds currently active in the market
to a record $17.5 billion, Aon Benfield said in a  report .  Zurich’s Horgan said there’s “a lot of capacity and a lot
of players looking to maintain or grow their lines,” calling it
a “very tough dynamic for all of us.”  ‘Somehow Shocked’  “I was somehow shocked to see the growth in insurance-linked securities over the recent months,” said Niklaus Hilti,
who helps oversee more than $5.3 billion in assets as Zurich-based head of insurance-linked strategy at  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , the second-biggest Swiss bank.  For Allianz Re’s Ahmed, it remains to be seen how capital
markets perform as an alternative risk-taker to traditional
reinsurance in “another Katrina-type magnitude loss,”
referring to the hurricane that sparked record costs in 2005.  “We can go to our traditional reinsurers, who will have
cover most likely available because there is a reinstatement in
place and even beyond,” he said. “But how will capital markets
and ILS investors react when we are still in the hurricane
season and I’m bare because it’s not in seven days that you are
going to have a new catastrophe bond in place?”  Catastrophe Claims  Reinsurers’ catastrophe claims usually increase in the
second half of the year with the onset of hurricanes. The June-through-November U.S. hurricane season hasn’t resulted in any
major claims so far this year, with insured losses of more than
3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) tied to floods in southern and
eastern Germany the most expensive so far,  Munich Re (MUV2)  said.  By comparison, Hurricane Katrina caused insured losses of
$62 billion in 2005, with the Japanese earthquake and tsunami
costing $40 billion six years later, the two costliest disasters
for the industry to date, according to Munich Re.  An increase in claims from natural disaster was part of the
reason why Munich Re last month reported a profit drop of 35
percent for the second quarter from a year ago. Swiss Re had its
first quarterly underwriting loss since 2011 in that period.  While lower claims for natural disasters typically leave
reinsurers less leeway to push through price increases, Credit
Suisse’s Hilti agrees the focus should remain on risks covered.  “In the past, the big losses were always those that
couldn’t be captured in a formula, such as the World Trade
Center or the flooding that caused most claims when Hurricane
Katrina hit,” he said. Still, “pricing is quite an
insignificant driver of long-term profitability of the business
because it’s much more about the extent of the coverage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 