-- Facebook Seen Cutting Mail.ru Discount: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-09-06T08:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/facebook-seen-cutting-mail-ru-discount-russia-overnight.html
Mail.ru (MAIL)  Group Ltd. will boost its
dividend after selling its  Facebook Inc. (FB)  shares, leaving the
operator of Russia’s largest online social network poised to
outperform rival  Yandex (YNDX)  NV, according to BCS Financial Group.  Global depositary receipts of Mail.ru rallied 4.7 percent
in  London  yesterday to a six-month high of $35.50, valuing the
company at 24 times estimated earnings. Its discount to Yandex,
narrowed to 25 percent from a record high of 32 percent July 10.
The Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity Index of most-traded Russian
stocks rallied and futures on the dollar-denominated RTS gauge
added 0.3 percent to 134,190 in U.S. hours. Mail.ru traded up
0.5 percent at $35.67 as of 9:40 a.m. in London today.  Mail.ru, controlled by billionaire  Alisher Usmanov , said
yesterday it sold its remaining 14.2 million  Facebook  shares for
more than $525 million and may sell a 15 percent stake in Qiwi
Plc, a Russian electronic payment service. Mail.ru’s board of
directors will decide on a “cash return policy,” Chief
Financial Officer Matthew Hammond said yesterday. Mail.ru also
said it expects revenue to rise between 27 percent and 29
percent in 2013, from a previous range of 25 percent to 28
percent.  “Go long Mail.ru and short Yandex is our pair trade idea,
fueled by catalysts that we are seeing for Mail.ru,” Anna Kurbatova, senior analyst at BCS Financial Group in Moscow, said
in a phone interview yesterday. “We anticipate a special
dividend as the company sold its stake in Facebook and plans to
sell  Qiwi. (QIWI)  Mail.ru has increased its guidance for this year and
that is yet another catalyst for the rally.”  Biggest Gainer  Yandex, Russia’s biggest Internet company, rallied 5.1
percent to $34.67 in New York yesterday, the highest level since
July 2011, with trading volume more than twice the average daily
level for the past three months. The stock has surged 61 percent
this year, the most on the Russia-US gauge.  Mail.ru has more than $780 million in cash “as of last
night,” CFO Hammond said on a conference call yesterday.  “Cash return policy is a matter for the board and we will
make announcements at the appropriate time,” Hammond said on
the call. “All I can really say is that our position as
concerns excess cash is unchanged.”  Mail.ru approved a special dividend of $899 million in
February after reducing its stake in Facebook and exiting
investments in  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  It had  announced  a
special dividend payment of $795 million on Aug. 6, 2012.  “People expect a special dividend following the sale of
Facebook and that supports the stock,” Alexander Vengranovich,
an analyst at Otkritie Capital in Moscow, said by phone
yesterday. He recommends buying Mail.ru and holding Yandex.
“While Yandex has no price catalysts at the moment, Mail.ru
enjoys several.”  Online Ads  Mail.ru’s sales jumped 28 percent in January through June
from the same period a year ago, driven by growth in online
advertising and user spending in social networks and games, the
company said in a statement yesterday.  Qiwi, also backed by Usmanov, slipped 0.9 percent to $30.24
in New York yesterday, trimming its surge since its May initial
public offering to 78 percent.  State-controlled  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the world’s biggest producer
of natural gas and Russia’s biggest company, jumped the most
since December 2011 in New York yesterday, with volumes almost
three times the 90-day average. American depositary receipts of
the company rose 5.8 percent to a four-month high of $8.36.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge climbed 2.9 percent, the most
in eight weeks, to 92.61 yesterday. The  Market Vectors Russia
ETF (RSX)  also gained 2.9 percent to a six-week high of $27.04. The
RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in futures,
increased 2.1 percent to 20.20.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 0.3 percent today after a
3.4 percent surge yesterday, while the dollar-denominated  RTS
Index (RTSI$)  added 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  