-- Florida Man Sued Over Pinochet-Era Murder of Folk Singer
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-09-06T03:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/florida-man-sued-over-pinochet-era-murder-of-chilean-folk-singer.html
Musician Victor Jara’s family  sued  a
retired Chilean army officer who lives in  Florida  for allegedly
torturing and killing the folk singer and political activist
after a military coup four decades ago.  The Center for Justice and Accountability, or CJA, and
Chadbourne & Parke LLP filed the lawsuit in federal court in
Jacksonville, Florida, on behalf of Jara’s family. They accuse
Pedro Pablo Barrientos Nunez of torturing and executing Jara
days after  Augusto Pinochet  seized power on Sept. 11, 1973,
according to a Sept. 4  statement  posted on the CJA website.
Barrientos last year said on Chilean television he was innocent
of Jara’s death.  Chile’s judiciary in December ordered the arrest of
Barrientos, prompting the country’s  Supreme Court  to seek his
extradition from the U.S. The Florida lawsuit comes as the
Chilean judicial association, which represents 70 percent of
magistrates in the country, apologized in a statement this week
for failing to protect human rights during Pinochet’s almost 17
years in power.  “We are only one of many families still affected by the
brutality of Pinochet’s rule and the deplorable crimes committed
by Barrientos and others in the regime,” Jara’s widow Joan Jara
wrote in the CJA statement. “We want to shine a light on the
severe human rights abuses from this era and bring those
responsible to justice.”  The plaintiffs are seeking compensatory and punitive
damages for alleged violations of international and domestic
laws, according to a copy of the  complaint  posted on CJA’s
website. The filing couldn’t be immediately confirmed in court
records.  Barrientos couldn’t be reached for comment because his
contact information wasn’t available.  ‘Remember You’  Jara, whose songs include “Prayer to a Worker” and “ I
Remember You Amanda ,” was shot at least 40 times while being
held in military custody. Also a university professor and
advocate of social and economic equality, Jara was arrested
during an army siege of the State Technical University.  Soldiers under Barrientos’ command repeatedly tortured Jara
before he executed the singer, according to the complaint.
Jara’s widow and her daughters have sought justice since 1978,
when they asked Chilean authorities to investigate the killing
and prosecute those responsible.  Pinochet’s regime killed about 3,000 opponents and tortured
thousands more, according to state panels established after
 Chile ’s return to democracy in 1990, while laying the foundation
for a free-market economy. He died in 2006.  Next week marks 40 years since Pinochet toppled Socialist
President Salvador Allende’s government. Students and activists
traditionally hold protests on the anniversary of the coup, at
times clashing with police. Today thousands of high school and
university students rallied in downtown Santiago to protest the
legacy of the dictatorship.  The case is Jara v. Barrientos Nunez, 13-cv-01075, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Florida (Jacksonville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  