-- Ford Uses Discounts Faulted by Dealers to Boost Lincoln
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-09-05T14:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/ford-uses-discounts-faulted-by-dealers-to-boost-lincoln.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , moving to support
its limping Lincoln brand, has begun using a bonus program that
car dealers criticize as confusing and unfair.  Such dealer-bonus programs, often called stair-step
incentives, involve Ford paying dealers more cash per model as
they cross sales thresholds. They are in effect this month in
markets such as New York and  Washington , D.C., according to
memos distributed to dealers. The incentives available are as
much as $1,500 per sale.  Stair-step incentives have been criticized by dealers. The
temptation to win such bonuses can lead to steep discounts or
generous trade-ins, and the programs can result in a drop-off in
sales once they expire. While  Ken Czubay , Ford’s vice president
of U.S. marketing, sales and service, said yesterday that Ford
doesn’t run stair-step programs, sales analyst Erich Merkle said
the company is using them selectively.  “There are some inherently unfair aspects of stair-step
programs,” Don Chalmers, the owner of Ford and Lincoln
dealerships near  Santa Fe  and  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico , said in a
telephone interview. “They’re confusing to the market, they’re
not necessarily good for customer satisfaction, and when you see
a burst of sales at the end of a stair-step program, there’s
always a payback. Right after that, the sales dip.”  Ford is using stair-step incentive programs on “selective
legacy vehicles” for Lincoln, Merkle said. The programs in  New
York  and Washington are for the Lincoln MKS full-size sedan and
MKX and MKT utility vehicles.  Merkle said the company was using stair-steps after
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s monthly conference call with
analysts and reporters, during which Czubay was asked by an
analyst if Ford is running stair-step programs.  Dealer Feedback  “We do not do that,” Czubay said. “The feedback from our
dealers is we don’t believe that’s a good tool right now, and we
don’t have to resort to that.”  In the New York and Washington regions, Lincoln has stair-step incentives for the 2013 model year MKS, MKX and MKT. A
dealer earns $1,000 each for selling two to five vehicles,
$1,250 for six to 10 deliveries, and $1,500 for retailing 11 or
more.  The Lincoln program began yesterday and runs through Sept.
30. The cash incentives are retained by dealers and can’t be
passed along to the customer, according to the memos.  Lincoln deliveries fell 6.4 percent this year through
August to 53,399. Ford sold 20,901 MKZ mid-size sedans, only two
more than it did during the year-earlier period. The redesigned
car is the first of four new models in four years that the
company has pledged will begin to turn around the brand.  Ford Cash  Ford also is running dealer bonus cash programs tied to
many of its namesake brand vehicles. In the Miami and  Dallas 
markets, dealers can offer discounts to customers based on the
number of Ford vehicles they sold or leased at retail from Aug.
1 through Sept. 3.  Dealers who participate can offer incentives of as much as
$500 for 2014 Ford vehicles in the Miami area and $750 in Dallas
from yesterday through Sept. 30.  U.S. car and light truck sales in August surged 17 percent
to 1.5 million units, the most since May 2007, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. That exceeded the 14 percent rise to
1.47 million that was the average of 10 analyst estimates in a
survey by  Bloomberg News . The sales rate for the month was 16.1
million, the most since October 2007, Autodata said.  Ford’s total deliveries surged 13 percent this year through
August, outpacing the 9.6 percent gain for the industry. The
automaker boosted its market share by 0.4 percentage point to 16
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  