-- Carney Calls for Bank Risk-Model Clampdown to Repair Trust
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-06T08:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/fsb-s-carney-calls-for-bank-risk-model-clampdown-to-repair-trust.html
Regulators must restrict lenders’
ability to escape tougher capital rules by changing how they
measure risk, Financial Stability Board Chairman Mark Carney
said, as he urged nations to finish an overhaul of bank rules.  “The risk models that banks use to calculate their capital
needs show worryingly large differences,” Carney, governor of
the Bank of England, said in a letter yesterday to leaders from
the Group of 20 nations meeting in St. Petersburg,  Russia .
“This must be addressed for depositors, investors, clients and
authorities to have full confidence in the strength of bank
balance sheets and their resilience during a downturn.”  Bankers, including Jamie Dimon, chief executive officer of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , have claimed that flexible implementation
of previous rounds of international capital rules in the
European Union has allowed the bloc’s lenders to hold less
capital against some assets than their U.S. counterparts.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, an
international regulators group, said in July that some lenders
were backing investments with as much as 20 percent more capital
than other banks. European banks generally apply lower risk
weights to their holdings of bank-issued debt than lenders based
elsewhere, the Basel group said.  “Given large banks risk-weight based on internal models
approved by supervisors  and populated with their own historic
data, it is not surprising that there is substantial
inconsistency,” Bob Penn, financial regulation partner at law
firm Allen & Overy LLP in  London , said in an e-mail.  Embedded Inconsistency  “Consistency is arguably a good thing here: but for so
long as the Basel rules explicitly embed inconsistency it is
hard to see how Mr. Carney’s call will be heard,” he said.  International standards set by the Basel committee require
banks to meet minimum capital requirements, measured as a
percentage of their assets. The amount of capital that must be
held is linked to the riskiness of the assets, with large banks
allowed to use their own models to calculate the likelihood of
losses. This process is known as risk weighting.  Carney also said nations must make further efforts to
finish drawing up and fully implement international standards
targeted at preventing another financial crisis.  Policy areas where work is lagging behind include rules to
protect taxpayers from bailing out failing banks, and efforts to
bolster the resources and independence of supervisors, according
to an FSB report published alongside Carney’s letter.  “It is crucial that the G-20 stay the course in
implementing reforms in a consistent manner,” Carney said in
the letter, submitted to the summit of G-20 leaders that began
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  