-- G-20 Needs to Reinvent Itself to Be Relevant
-- B y   J i m   O ’ N e i l l
-- 2013-09-05T19:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/g-20-needs-to-reinvent-itself-to-be-relevant.html
Is the Group of 20 leading economies
any longer fit for purpose? That depends on what you think its
purpose should be.  The meeting in  St. Petersburg ,  Russia , has a lot to
discuss. Officially,  economic and financial coordination  topped
the agenda -- remember, this is supposed to be an economic
summit -- but the crisis in  Syria  forced a different set of
issues onto the participants.  U.S. President  George W. Bush  brought this grouping into
the spotlight five years ago, when it played a crucial role in
stabilizing a crashing world economy. U.K. Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  then hosted a highly effective meeting in  London  in the
spring of 2009. Since then, however, the G-20 has limped along.
Huge numbers of subgroups are beavering away on special
projects, but each subsequent meeting has failed to deliver
anything of note.  Maybe the St. Petersburg gathering can usher in a more
cooperative  global stance on Syria  and perhaps even the broader
Middle Eastern crisis. If that happens, it will be quite an
achievement and would no doubt be greeted favorably by worried
world markets. Beyond this, so far as global economics is
concerned, what can the G-20 actually do?  Like its predecessors the G-5 and the G-7, the G-20 needs a
clear and pressing shared purpose to work to maximum effect. In
2008 and 2009 it had one -- avoiding a repeat of the 1930s --
and the grouping helped to avert that disaster. Almost five
years on, as shown by the  latest JPMorgan Global Purchasing
Managers’ Index , the world is mostly drifting along, without
signs of a major acceleration or of falling back into the abyss.  Fractured Recovery  Most developed countries are showing their first
substantive signs of manufacturing recovery since 2008. This is
true of the U.S.,  Japan  and even the European Union. As
impressive and welcome as this is, it’s being matched by
significant slowing in most of the larger emerging economies
including each of the BRIC countries. That’s why the global PMI
is generally flat-lining.  The world’s economies seem to have difficulty in prospering
all at the same time. Perhaps that’s not so surprising, given
the  connections  -- especially through commodity prices -- among
them. Indeed, in recent months I’ve given a lot of thought to
the links between recovery in the advanced economies, slower
growth in China, weaker commodity prices and the difficulties
faced by many other emerging economies.  Of course, it’s complicated, and there are exceptions.
 India , for example, should have benefited as much as European
and U.S. consumers from softer commodities: Its economy is
 struggling  nonetheless. Broadly speaking, however, cheap
commodities help the advanced economies and put many emerging
economies at a disadvantage. The developed members of the G-20
have an economic interest in seeking an early solution to the
Syrian crisis, because higher  oil prices  could set them back. As
oil producers, many emerging economies -- including the host
country -- might see short-term benefits.  Most of the time, finding a sense of common purpose across
such a wide span of nations is hard. I often hear officials from
the more advanced members complaining that the whole idea is a
waste of time. Their regard for the G-7 has risen in recent
years: It’s a more compact and therefore more manageable group,
and its members have far more in common. Now that the BRICS
group is up and running, and building the foundations of its own
 development bank , those countries too may see the G-20 as less
and less useful.  Realignment Needed  Despite all the challenges, the major global imbalances
that existed on the eve of the 2008 crisis are gradually
unwinding. The Chinese and U.S. current-account imbalances have
declined to levels that no longer give cause for concern. This
has happened even though the 2010 G-20 meeting in  Seoul  failed
to establish targets for current-account imbalances, as some had
proposed. Ironically,  China ’s surplus  has been lower  for most of
the period since that meeting than the specific target it
wouldn’t sign up for.  Is this good enough? I don’t think so. The world still
needs more effective economic leadership. The G-20 is
representative -- its members account for roughly 90 percent of
global output -- but it’s far too unwieldy. The G-7 is compact
but unrepresentative. What’s required is a group of advanced and
emerging economies that’s slim enough to work well. As I first
argued in 2001, better economic governance demands that China
and some of the other major emerging economies be given more
voice at summit gatherings, and that some advanced economies --
notably, members of the euro area -- be given less.  Growth in the BRIC counties has slowed since 2010, but the
increase in their aggregate output has been about $3 trillion
nonetheless -- more than the output of either  France  or the U.K.
Collectively, by the end of 2015, they are likely to be the same
size as the U.S. In other words, the case for a realignment of
global economic governance is even stronger now than when I
first suggested it. Moving that way would improve our chances of
building a more balanced and stable global economic system.  ( Jim O’Neill , former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jim O’Neill at  joneill62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Clive Crook at   ccrook5@bloomberg.net . 