-- Gabrielle Falls to Tropical Depression, May Dissipate Later
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2013-09-05T16:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/gabrielle-falls-to-tropical-depression-may-dissipate-later.html
Storm Gabrielle was downgraded to a
tropical depression and may dissipate within the next day or so,
the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  Gabrielle’s top sustained winds fell to 35 miles (55
kilometers) per hour today as it churned in the Caribbean Sea
about 80 miles south-southeast of Punta Cana, in the Dominican
Republic. Topical storm warnings on Puerto Rico were dropped and
those on the Dominican Republic were changed to watches.  “Gabrielle has become very poorly organized and it is
expected to degenerate to a remnant low pressure area tonight or
Friday as the center moves over the Dominican Republic,” the
center said in an  advisory  at 11 a.m.  New York  time.  The system, which became a tropical storm late yesterday,
is one of four in the Atlantic basin being tracked by the
hurricane center.  One is in the Bay of Campeche, in the southwestern Gulf of
Mexico, where Petroleos Mexicanos, Mexico’s state-owned oil
company, has most of its output. That system has a 30 percent
chance of becoming tropical in the next two days as it drifts
west toward landfall tomorrow on the Mexican coast.  In the eastern Pacific, the hurricane center is tracking a
tropical depression that is expected to grow into Tropical Storm
Lorena later today and then follow a path parallel to Mexico’s
Baja California peninsula.  The depression had top sustained winds of 35 mph and was
165 miles west-southwest of Manzanillo,  Mexico . A tropical storm
watch was issued for southern Baja California.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  