-- German Stocks Climb as ECB Pledges Accommodative Policy
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-09-05T16:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/german-stocks-little-changed-before-ecb-policy-decisions.html
German stocks  advanced for a second
day as the  European Central Bank  estimated the regional economy
will shrink less than previously forecast, and kept its  interest
rate  at a record low, saying signs of recovery are nascent.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  surged to its highest price in
at least 21 years after Bank of America Corp. recommended buying
shares in the world’s largest maker of luxury cars. Siemens AG
climbed 2.9 percent as Barclays Plc upgraded Europe’s biggest
engineering company.  SAP AG (SAP)  fell to its lowest price since
October 2012.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 0.5 percent to 8,234.98 at the close in
Frankfurt. The measure dropped 2.1 percent in August amid
concern the U.S. and its allies will take military action
against  Syria  for suspected chemical attacks. The broader HDAX
Index added 0.5 percent today.  “We don’t see signals for a further rate cut by the ECB,
but the weak outlook for inflation and moderate monetary growth
speak for a continued loose  monetary policy ,” Ralf Umlauf, head
of floor research at Helaba Hessen-Thueringen in Frankfurt,
wrote in an e-mail. “We also think Draghi is trying to
counteract the pressure on higher yields with the forward
guidance.”  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 24 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Monetary Policy  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt left the main
refinancing rate at 0.5 percent for a fourth month, after
reducing it by a quarter point in May. The decision was
predicted by all 56 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  The ECB today said the euro-area economy will shrink by 0.4
percent this year, an improvement from a previous prediction of
0.6 percent. It will expand by 1 percent in 2014, down from
June’s forecast of 1.1 percent.  The euro-zone economy will recover “at a slow pace,” ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said. “Our monetary policy stance will
remain accommodative for as long as necessary, in line with the
forward guidance provided in July. Risks continue to remain to
the downside.”  The  U.S. economy  continued to grow from early July through
late August, even as borrowing costs increased, the  Federal
Reserve  said in its Beige Book survey of economic conditions
late yesterday. Increased spending on cars and housing helped
the U.S. economy maintain a “modest to moderate” pace of
expansion in the period, according to the report.  BMW Outlook  BMW climbed 6 percent to 76.97 euros, its highest price
since at least August 1992, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Bank of America raised its recommendation for the
stock to buy from neutral, saying the current consensus opinion
among investors for no profit growth in 2014 may change and
earnings estimates may be revised.  A gauge of carmakers posted the best performance among
industry groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, the regional
benchmark. Daimler AG rose 1.4 percent to 54.07 euros.
Continental AG gained 2.1 percent to 121.65 euros.  Siemens added 2.9 percent to 84.60 euros. Barclays upgraded
the shares to overweight, a rating comparable to buy, from equal
weight, which is similar to neutral.  SAP slid 1.4 percent to 53.42 euros, for a third day of
declines.  Merck, the maker of the cancer drug Erbitux, fell 1.5
percent to 112.25 euros and Fresenius Medical Care AG, the
world’s largest provider of  kidney dialysis , dropped 2.2 percent
to 48.45 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  