-- German Court Proposes Fine to End VW Employee Sports Case
-- B y   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-09-05T10:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/german-court-proposes-fine-to-end-vw-employee-sports-case.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  employees and former
managers at a  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  unit may be able to settle a
German trial over alleged soccer-team sponsorship bribery by
agreeing to fines, the judge overseeing the case said.  Stuttgart Regional Court is proposing that two employees at
Volkswagen and three who used to work at Deutsche Telekom’s T-Systems network-services division agree to fines to end criminal
proceedings against them, Judge Thomas Wessels said by phone.
The court isn’t aware yet whether the managers have accepted the
plan, he said.  Prosecutors charged the five people with bribery in 2011.
The probe is focused on whether the T-Systems managers tried to
get a 345 million-euros ($455 million) order for
telecommunications supplies from Volkswagen,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker, in exchange for continuing a sponsorship deal with
German soccer club Vfl Wolfsburg for 16 million euros. VW owns
the team, which is based in the manufacturer’s home town.  Volkswagen and Francisco Javier Garcia Sanz, the head of
parts procurement who is also chairman of Vfl Wolfsburg, are
under investigation in a parallel, administrative court case
begun this year on whether they failed to prevent an illegal
deal. Authorities are likely to demand a fine in that lawsuit,
Claudia Krauth, a spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office, said
by phone. She declined to comment on a report in  Sueddeutsche
Zeitung  earlier today that said the penalty demanded would be a
“single-digit” million-euro sum.  Harald Lindlar, a spokesman at Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom,
declined to comment on the possible settlement, saying that the
three T-Systems employees involved had left the company in 2010.
Eric Felber, a spokesman at Wolfsburg-based Volkswagen, declined
to comment.  Internal Review  The alleged irregularities were discovered after an
internal review at Deutsche Telekom, which alerted prosecutors
and dropped the program. Prosecutors said in the indictment that
the sponsorship deal was an aggravated case of bribery because
of the amount of the payment the club would have received. Part
of the action took place in the Stuttgart region, so prosecutors
brought the case there.  Under German law, companies can’t be suspects in criminal
cases. They can be investigated under administrative rules that
punish failure to organize a company in a manner that would
prevent illegal actions. The rules were also used in a bribery
case against Munich-based engineering company  Siemens AG. (SIE)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  