-- Germany Urged to Copy Sweden’s Clean-Energy Subsidies
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-09-05T10:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/germany-urged-to-copy-sweden-s-clean-energy-subsidies.html
Germany  should adopt  Sweden ’s clean-energy subsidy system to raise competition and contain the
soaring costs of expanding solar and wind-power generation, a
government adviser said.  Sweden has a quota model, which requires utilities to
supply fixed levels of renewable power or buy tradable credits
to make up the difference. Germany, which is phasing out nuclear
reactors, hands uncapped subsidy payments to renewable projects,
with aid varying depending on the energy source.  Germany must stop subsidizing clean-power generators when
prices on electricity exchanges turn negative, the
Monopolkommission, an agency advising the government on
competition, said today in a study.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has vowed to change clean-power
subsidy laws after elections due on Sept. 22. The proliferation
of renewable-energy ventures has exceeded government forecasts,
driving up costs for consumers. The fee Germans pay to finance
such projects jumped to a record this year.  “The costs of the German energy switch can only be
contained through a forceful change toward more competitive
market forces,” Daniel Zimmer, the head of the commission, told
reporters in Berlin. “Sweden is able to realize the energy
switch at much lower costs.”  The Monopolkommission advised Germany against introducing a
capacity-market program, which pays utilities to provide back-up
power when demand peaks and clean energy falls short. Such
payments would only raise costs further, it said, urging the
government to bring its subsidy system into line with the
European Union’s emission-trading program to meet climate goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  