-- Glaxo MAGE-A3 Cancer Drug Fails to Help Patients in Trial
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-09-05T20:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/glaxo-mage-a3-cancer-drug-fails-to-help-patients-in-trial.html
Agenus Inc., (AGEN)  a developer of
treatments for cancer and infectious diseases, plummeted the
most in four years after partner  GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s (GSK)  MAGE-A3
vaccine failed to help skin-tumor patients in a trial.  Agenus, which developed the stimulating component of the
experimental treatment, fell 23 percent to $2.84 at the close in
 New York , its biggest drop since October 2009. The shares of the
Lexington, Massachusetts-based biotechnology company have
declined 31 percent this year.  The late-stage study will continue to see whether the
medication helped a specific subset of patients with melanoma,
London-based Glaxo said in a statement today. Results are
expected in 2015, Glaxo said. MAGE-A3 is an immunotherapy, a
promising area of research where treatments stimulate the immune
system to recognize and attack cancer cells.  Estimates for MAGE-A3 were “heavily risk-adjusted” by
analysts,  Alistair Campbell , an analyst with Berenberg in
 London , said in an interview. “Expectations weren’t high,”
said Campbell, who said he doesn’t expect the drug to meet the
secondary goals of the trial.  Glaxo declined less than 0.8 percent to 1,652.50 pence in
London. The stock has increased 24 percent  this year .  The treatment is designed to work by targeting the
melanoma-associated antigen 3, or MAGE-A3, a protein that is
expressed in certain cancer cells and not in healthy cells. The
trial assessed the time between treatment with the vaccine and
the first sign that the disease recurred, or when the patient
died.  Genetic Makeup  Glaxo will study whether the drug works in a subgroup of
patients who may respond better to the drug based on their
genetic makeup. If successful, the company may file for
marketing approval for that group of patients, Agenus said in a
separate statement today.  Glaxo is also studying MAGE-A3 in  lung cancer  and results
of a late-stage trial are expected in the first half of next
year.  Merck KGaA (MRK)  said Dec. 19 that its cancer vaccine L-BLP25
failed to help lung cancer patients live longer in a late-stage
trial. The Darmstadt, Germany-based pharmaceutical company is
reviewing whether it will conduct another large trial focusing
on a specific group of patients who showed a positive response
to the treatment, which targets cancer cells where the MUC1 gene
is present.  In an Aug. 6 research note, Citigroup Inc. said there was a
low probability of success for MAGE-AG and dabrafenib.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  