-- PGA Golf to Move to Last Week of July in 2016 Due to Olympics
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-09-06T05:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/golf-s-2016-pga-to-move-to-last-week-of-july-due-to-olympics.html
Golf’s  PGA Championship  will
probably move to the final week of July from August in 2016 to
avoid a conflict with the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.  “I’m 99 percent certain that’s when it will be,” Pete Bevacqua, chief executive officer of the PGA of America, said in
an interview at Baltusrol Golf Club, site of the 2016 event.  Golf is returning to the Olympics in three years after an
absence of more than a century. With the 2016 games set to be
staged Aug. 5-21, there will be limited time in the professional
golf schedule to stage the PGA Championship, the last of four
annual Grand Slam events. The tournament will return to its
traditional August date in future years.  Moving the PGA Championship will likely mean the  British
Open , typically staged in mid-July, being played earlier in the
same month. The dates for the 2016 British Open at Scotland’s
Royal Troon Golf Club have yet to be announced. The
 International Olympic Committee  doesn’t plan to finalize its
schedule for the games until 2014.  A schedule change could benefit the PGA Championship at the
Springfield,  New Jersey , course, which also hosted the 2005 PGA
Championship, won by  Phil Mickelson , Bevacqua said.  “It’s a better time to host a major championship,” he
said. “More people are around and in the swing of things. Less
people are on their summer vacations. We think it’s actually
going to work out to our advantage.”  Golf’s 2016 schedule also includes the Ryder Cup, a team
competition between U.S. and European golfers. Dates for that
year’s matches at Hazeltine National Golf Club in  Minnesota 
haven’t been decided.  The Ryder Cup is typically held in mid- to late-September,
making changes to the schedule more complicated. The PGA
Championship is the final event for players to earn Ryder Cup
qualifying points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  