-- Gross Says Buy Short-Term Debt Investments Aided by Fed Guidance
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-05T12:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/gross-says-buy-short-term-debt-investments-aided-by-fed-guidance.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond  fund , said
investors should buy short-term Treasuries and credit securities
that will be bolstered by the  Federal Reserve ’s intent to keep
benchmark lending rates at almost zero.  “The safest pitch to swing at may not be stocks, but the
asset that will soon be the nearly sole focus of central
banks,” Gross wrote in his monthly investment outlook posted on
 Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s website today. “Instead
of QE, central bankers are shifting to forward guidance, which
if reliable, allows financial markets and real economies to plan
several years forward in terms of financing rates and investment
returns.”  Gross’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  has dropped more than $41
billion, or 14 percent of its assets, during the past four
months through losses and investor withdrawals. The fund
suffered $7.7 billion in net redemptions in August, Chicago-based researcher Morningstar Inc. said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement, the fourth straight month of withdrawals and the
second highest amount this year.  In December, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  moved the Fed further
into uncharted policy territory in combating joblessness by
tying the bank’s interest-rate outlook to unemployment and
inflation, known as their forward-guidance policy. Policy makers
at the Fed, which are buying $85 billion in mortgage and
Treasuries in its most recent quantitative easing program, have
focused more at recent policy meeting on forward guidance in
part to assure financial markets that policy will remain
accommodative for many years, even as it may scale back bond
buying.  Fed Policy  The Fed is likely to reduce its monthly purchases as soon
as this month’s policy meeting, according to a Bloomberg survey
taken last month. The central bank’s target rate has been set in
a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “If unemployment and inflation rates can be at least
closely guesstimated, then front-end yields become the most
reliable bet in the ballpark,” Gross wrote. “While, low, they
can at least form the basis for curve rolldown and volatility
strategies that have higher return/risk ratios than alternative
carry options, such as duration, credit or currency.”  Central bankers last year for the first time linked their
interest-rate outlook to economic thresholds, saying rates will
stay low “at least as long” as unemployment remains above 6.5
percent and if the Fed projects inflation of no more than 2.5
percent one or two years in the future. Fed officials don’t see
joblessness falling near that goal until 2015.  Growth Watch  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is debating whether
growth is sufficient to fuel steady improvement in the job
market and warrant tapering the Fed’s monthly bond buying.
Speculation the FOMC will dial down purchases at its Sept. 17-18
meeting has roiled financial markets, pushing up U.S. bond
yields and contributing to the worst rout in the currencies of
developing nations in five years.  Gross also recommended investors buy Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, known as TIPS, as a hedge against the risk
that expansionary government and monetary policy could
eventually spark inflation.  The  performance  of the $251 billion Total Return Fund puts
it behind 51 percent of similarly managed funds through during
the past year, falling 2.2 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.97 trillion in  assets  as of June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  