-- GSK Said in Talks to Sell Lucozade Drinks Unit to Suntory
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-09-05T14:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/gsk-said-in-talks-to-sell-lucozade-drinks-unit-to-suntory.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker, is in talks to sell its Lucozade and Ribena
drink brands to  Japan ’s  Suntory Beverage and Food Ltd. ,
according to three people familiar with the discussions.  An agreement could be announced as early as Sept. 9, and
the business could fetch more than 1 billion pounds ($1.6
billion), said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the negotiations are private. An agreement with Suntory
would preempt an auction that was set to start this month. No
final agreement has been reached.  Glaxo is splitting off the two drink brands as part of a
revamp  announced  in April to separate older products from its
bigger business of developing new medicines. Suntory has said
it’s prepared to spend as much as 500 billion yen ($5 billion)
on takeovers after its July initial public offering.  “The only thing that surprises me is that Suntory has
previously said acquisitions would be targeted toward developing
markets,” Damian McNeela, an analyst for Panmure Gordon, said
by telephone. Still, Glaxo’s drinks are “solid brands” in the
U.K., and Lucozade sales are rising abroad, he said.  Lucozade, an energy drink, and Ribena, a liquid concentrate
marketed toward children, have combined annual sales of about
600 million pounds, McNeela said. Both are well-known brands in
Glaxo’s home U.K. market.  “Nothing has been decided on this merger news as of now,”
Kana Kamitani, a spokeswoman for Suntory Beverage, said in a
telephone interview from  Tokyo . “For our future growth, we are
seeking every possibility.”  The talks between Glaxo and Suntory were reported earlier
by  Sky News .  Glaxo also said in April it was forming a new unit to house
more than 50 older products with annual sales of about 3 billion
pounds, prompting speculation it may sell the brands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  