-- Libertarians Are the New Communists
-- B y   N i c k   H a n a u e r   a n d   E r i c   L i u
-- 2013-09-05T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/libertarians-are-the-new-communists.html
Most people would consider radical
libertarianism and communism polar opposites: The first
glorifies personal freedom. The second would obliterate it. Yet
the ideologies are simply mirror images. Both attempt to answer
the same questions, and fail to do so in similar ways. Where
communism was adopted, the result was misery, poverty and
tyranny. If extremist libertarians ever translated their beliefs
into policy, it would lead to the same kinds of catastrophe.  Let’s start with some definitions. By radical
libertarianism, we mean the ideology that holds that individual
liberty trumps all other values. By communism, we mean the
ideology of extreme state domination of private and economic
life.  Some of the radical libertarians are Ayn  Rand  fans who
divide their fellow citizens into makers, in the mold of John Galt, and takers, in the mold of anyone not John Galt.  Some, such as the Koch brothers, are economic royalists who
repackage trickle-down economics as “libertarian populism.”
Some are followers of Texas Senator Ted Cruz, whose highest
aspiration is to shut down government. Some resemble the anti-tax activist  Grover Norquist , who has made a career out of
trying to drown, stifle or strangle government.  Yes, liberty is a core American value, and an overweening
state can be unhealthy. And there are plenty of self-described
libertarians who have adopted the label mainly because they
support same-sex marriage or decry government surveillance.
These social libertarians aren’t the problem. It is the nihilist
anti-state libertarians of the Koch-Cruz-Norquist-Paul (Ron and
Rand alike) school who should worry us.  Human Nature  Like communism, this philosophy is defective in its
misreading of human nature, misunderstanding of how societies
work and utter failure to adapt to changing circumstances.
Radical libertarianism assumes that humans are wired only to be
selfish, when in fact cooperation is the height of human
evolution. It assumes that societies are efficient mechanisms
requiring no rules or enforcers, when, in fact, they are fragile
ecosystems prone to collapse and easily overwhelmed by free-riders. And it is fanatically rigid in its insistence on a
single solution to every problem: Roll back the state!  Communism failed in three strikingly similar ways. It
believed that humans should be willing cogs serving the
proletariat. It assumed that societies could be run top-down
like machines. And it, too, was fanatically rigid in its
insistence on an all-encompassing ideology, leading to
totalitarianism.  Radical libertarianism, if ever put into practice at the
scale of something bigger than a tiny enclave, would also be a
disaster.  We say the conditional “would” because radical
libertarianism has a fatal flaw: It can’t be applied across a
functioning society. What might radical libertarians do if they
actually had power? A President Paul would rule by tantrum,
shutting down the government in order to repeal laws already
passed by Congress. A Secretary Norquist would eliminate the
 Internal Revenue Service  and  progressive taxation , so that the
already wealthy could exponentially compound their advantage, as
the programs that sustain a prosperous middle class are gutted.
A Koch domestic policy would obliterate environmental standards
for clean air and water, so that polluters could externalize all
their costs onto other people.  Radical libertarians would be great at destroying. They
would have little concept of creating or governing. It is in
failed states such as Somalia that libertarianism finds its
fullest actual expression.  Extreme Positions  Some libertarians will claim we are arguing against a straw
man and that no serious adherent to their philosophy advocates
the extreme positions we describe. The public record of extreme
statements by the likes of Cruz, Norquist and the Pauls speaks
for itself. Reasonable people debate how best to regulate or how
government can most effectively do its work -- not whether to
regulate at all or whether government should even exist.  The alternative to this extremism is an evolving blend of
freedom and cooperation. The relationship between social
happiness and economic success can be plotted on a bell curve,
and the sweet spot is away from the extremes of either pure
liberty or pure communitarianism. That is where true citizenship
and healthy capitalism are found.  True citizenship enables a society to thrive for precisely
the reasons that communism and radical libertarianism cannot. It
is based on a realistic conception of human nature that
recognizes we must cooperate to be able compete at higher
levels. True citizenship means changing policy to adapt to
changes in circumstance. Sometimes government isn’t the answer.
Other times it is.  If the U.S. is to continue to adapt and evolve, we have to
see that freedom isn’t simply the removal of encumbrance, or the
ability to ignore inconvenient rules or limitations. Freedom is
responsibility. Communism failed because it kept citizens from
taking responsibility for governing themselves. By preaching
individualism above all else, so does radical libertarianism.  It is one thing to oppose intrusive government surveillance
or the overreach of federal programs. It is another to call for
the evisceration of government itself. Let’s put radical
libertarianism into the dustbin of history, along with its
cousin communism.  (Nick Hanauer is a founder of Second Avenue Partners, a
venture capital company in  Seattle  specializing in early-stage
startups and emerging technology. He has founded or financed
dozens of companies, including aQuantive Inc. and Amazon.com.
Eric Liu is the founder of Citizen University and a former White
House speechwriter and deputy domestic policy adviser to
President  Bill Clinton . They are co-authors of “The Gardens of
Democracy.” Follow them on Twitter at  @NickHanauer  and
 @EricPLiu .)  To contact the writers of this article:
Nick Hanauer at  Nick@secondave.com ;
Eric Liu at  eric@truep.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 