-- Ibovespa Futures Drop as Brazil Policy Makers Signal Higher Rate
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-09-05T12:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/ibovespa-futures-drop-as-brazil-policy-makers-signal-higher-rate.html
Ibovespa futures fell after  Brazil ’s
central bank signaled borrowing costs will keep rising.  Medical-services provider  Fleury SA (FLRY3)  may move after Bank of
America Corp. cut its recommendation to the equivalent of sell
from buy.  Tractebel Energia SA (TBLE3) , a unit of GDF Suez SA, may be
active after saying it paid off debt with Brazil’s government.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in October fell 0.3
percent to 50,890 at 9:18 a.m. in Sao Paulo after earlier rising
as much as 0.5 percent. The real weakened 0.2 percent to 2.3652
per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
rose 0.2 percent as crude advanced after a U.S. Senate committee
approved military strikes on  Syria .  The central bank said in the minutes of its last policy
meeting, released today, that it “understands that it’s
appropriate to continue to adjust” monetary policy given
concern about the outlook for inflation. Policy makers led by
central bank President Alexandre Tombini last week lifted the
target lending rate to 9 percent.  The Ibovespa has gained 15 percent from this year’s low on
July 3 as higher commodities prices and a weaker real fueled a
rally in raw-material exporters. Brazil’s benchmark gauge
climbed 10 percent in dollar terms during the period, compared
with an advance of 2.8 percent for the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 6.15 billion
reais yesterday, compared with a daily average of 7.73 billion
reais this year through Sept. 3, according to data compiled by
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  