-- Libya Propels Sweet African Oil Toward 2011 High: Energy Markets
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-09-05T06:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/libya-propels-sweet-african-oil-toward-2011-high-energy-markets.html
Africa’s most-traded crude oil is
headed for its highest level in two years as disruption from
 Libya  to the  North Sea  and the Caspian regions forces refiners
to seek alternative supplies.  Nigeria ’s Qua Iboe, the continent’s benchmark blend, will
surpass $4 a barrel more than Dated Brent in the next three
months, according to five of seven traders surveyed by Bloomberg.
It jumped to a four-month high of $3.58 a barrel more than Dated
Brent on Sept. 3, according to the oil-pricing agency Platts,
compared with $2.55 as recently as July 26.  Protests at oilfields and terminals in Libya are combining
with the lowest loadings of North Sea Forties in 10 months and
the weakest supplies from  Azerbaijan  since 2008 to stoke demand
for other sources of similar-quality sweet, or low-sulfur, crude.
While boosting revenue for producers from Nigeria, OPEC’s
poorest nation, to Angola and Gabon, the higher prices are
damping profits at Mediterranean refiners such as Spain’s  Repsol
SA (REP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  of  Italy  struggling with waning returns.  “A segment of the refining industry is already heavily
challenged in terms of profitability,” said  David Fyfe , the
Geneva-based head of market research and analysis at Gunvor
Group Ltd., which bought two European refineries last year.
“Those that can will have to source alternative North African
and West African crude and maybe look a bit further afield.”  The last time the Qua Iboe premium exceeded $4 was in 2011,
when it peaked at $4.35 on Sept. 6 as exports from Libya dried
up during the revolution that led to the overthrow of  Muammar Qaddafi . That’s 33 cents short of the record achieved in June
2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In last week’s Bloomberg poll of West African crude traders,
one said Qua Iboe’s premium over Brent will fail to reach $4 a
barrel. Another offered no forecast.  Prompt Premium  The jump in prices comes as the supply squeeze drove up the
cost of the earliest deliveries of Brent, against which African
crudes are benchmarked. Futures for October settlement has risen
7 percent since the end of July, trading at about $115 a barrel
today on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. October
deliveries traded on Sept. 3 at $1.90 more than November, the
biggest difference since Aug. 15, 2012, when excluding a
contract-expiry peak in November.  “Brent has been the beneficiary of this physical
tightness,” Fyfe said. “Brent tends to take bigger swings when
there are geopolitical uncertainties” compared with New York-traded West Texas Intermediate, he said.  Hurting Refiners  Margins for the most sophisticated refineries using  Brent
crude  in Northwest Europe fell by 66 cents to $4.45 a barrel in
July, the  International Energy Agency  said in its monthly Oil
Market Report on Aug. 9. Mediterranean profit slumped by $1.43
to $5.46, the Paris-based organization said.  “These developments both from the supply side of cost of
crude and the availability of crudes in the Med, together with
the reduced demand, have obviously put a lot of pressure on
refining margins in our region,” John Costopoulos, chief
executive officer of  Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE) , Greece’s largest
refiner, said on an Aug. 29 earnings conference call. Second-quarter margins were the worst in four years, according to the
Athens-based company.  Repsol,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Eni declined to comment when
called by Bloomberg. Massimo Vacca, head of  investor relations 
at Italy’s  Saras SpA (SRS) , wasn’t available for comment.  Libya, the holder of Africa’s biggest oil reserves, is
pumping as little as 13 percent of its post-revolution high
achieved a year ago, as strikes and protests sap production,
according to state-run National Oil Corp.  No Exports  Output slumped to about 200,000 barrels a day on Aug. 27,
compared with 640,000 in August and its optimal capacity of 1.6
million, Nuri Berruien, chairman of NOC, said from Tripoli.
Libya isn’t currently exporting any crude and production remains
at 200,000 barrels a day, the oil ministry’s director of
inspection and measurement, Ibrahim Al Awami, said yesterday.  The loss of supplies from Libya may be mitigated by the end
of North Sea field summer maintenance and reduced seasonal
demand from European refineries this quarter, Ehsan Ul-Haq,
senior market analyst at KBC Energy Economics in Walton-on-Thames,  England , said in an Aug. 27 e-mail.  “A further uptick in Nigerian crude differentials is
likely to be limited,” he said.  Increased extraction of shale resources in  North America  is
prompting U.S. refiners to cut purchase of African crude,
potentially creating a supply cushion against interruptions at
other suppliers, according to JBC Energy GmbH, a Vienna-based
researcher.  Force Majeure  “The volume of West African crude freed up from the U.S.
shale boom is in excess of 700,000 barrels a day, so it would
have to be a comparatively large outage to have a strong
impact,” Eugene Lindell, a senior crude market analyst at JBC,
said by e-mail.  Nigerian crude  exports  to the U.S. dropped to 337,000
barrels a day in June, down from 1.06 million a day three years
ago, U.S. Energy Information Administration data show.  Es Sider, Libya’s largest oil terminal with a capacity of
350,000 barrels a day, has been shut since July 28 because of a
sit-in by the Petroleum Facilities Guard. NOC declared force
majeure, a legal clause excusing it from meeting its delivery
commitments because of events beyond its control, from the port,
as well as Ras Lanuf, Zueitina and Brega on Aug. 18. Brega’s
restriction was removed Aug. 22.  “If the situation doesn’t improve, the government won’t be
able to pay the salaries by the end of the year,” Sliman Qajam,
a parliament energy committee member, said Sept. 1 in a phone
interview from Tripoli.  Sweet Crude  Sweet crudes are favored by refiners because they yield
higher quantities of profitable fuels such as gasoline and
diesel than other grades of oil. They contain less sulfur than
most Middle Eastern grades, meaning less processing is needed to
meet Europe’s clean-fuel standards.  Planned and unplanned maintenance has interrupted low-sulfur crude supply from the North Sea. Shipments of Brent,
Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk, the four grades that comprise
Dated Brent, dropped to 735,000 barrels a day in August from
894,000 barrels in May. Forties, the biggest stream of the four,
had the most delays in a year when all 11 August cargoes were
postponed by several days.  September exports of Azeri Light crude from the port of
Ceyhan in  Turkey  will tumble to the least in almost five years,
a loading program obtained by  Bloomberg News  showed.  Asian Purchases  Increased purchases of West African blends by Asian
refiners leave less for European buyers. Asian-bound exports of
Nigerian crude for loading in September rose to 415,833 barrels
a day, the most since June 2012, according to a survey of eight
traders and an analysis of loading plans obtained by Bloomberg
News on Aug. 23. Some 84 percent were booked by Indian
refineries, whose purchases rose to a 19-month high.  “The expectation up to even a couple of weeks ago was of
the Libyan situation might potentially be resolved relatively
quickly,” Fyfe said. “Now the feeling is the situation could
be longer-lasting.”  The following table shows some of the latest loading
program data as compiled by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  