-- ICAP Said to Be Negotiating Libor Accord With Regulators
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-09-05T19:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/icap-said-to-be-negotiating-libor-accord-with-regulators.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker
of transactions between banks, is negotiating a fine with U.S.
and U.K. regulators for allegedly helping traders manipulate the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a person familiar with
the matter said.  A settlement with the U.S.  Justice Department , Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and U.K. Financial Conduct Authority
may be announced as early as this month, said the person, who
requested anonymity because the talks are private. The amount of
the fine will probably be less than the 290 million pound
($452.1 million) penalty levied against  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in June
last year, the person said.  Barclays,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have
paid a total of about $2.5 billion in fines for colluding to rig
benchmark  interest rates  for profit or to mask their true cost
of borrowing.  A fine for London-based ICAP will be the first against an
interdealer broker in the investigation, which was opened by the
CFTC in 2008. Interdealer brokers act as a go-between for banks
that trade bonds, stocks, currencies, energy and derivatives.  ICAP has said it is cooperating with authorities in the
probes. The firm suspended an employee and put three others on
leave pending an outcome of an internal inquiry, a person
familiar with the procedures said earlier this year.  ICAP Spokeswoman  Brigitte Trafford, a spokeswoman for ICAP, declined to
comment.  The talks were reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.
 Peter Carr , a spokesman for the Justice Department, declined to
comment.  The negotiations between international authorities and ICAP
are in the late stages, said another person familiar with the
matter. The person cautioned that the timeline for the
resolution, which may come in a matter of weeks, could slip as
negotiations continue.  Top Justice Department officials have publicly said the
U.S. side of the investigation includes the pursuit of
convictions of banks and their employees involved in the rigging
of benchmark interest rates.  Barclays, UBS and RBS are required to fully cooperate with
the investigation into other banks and individuals, according to
their agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at   lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at   pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 