-- Microsoft Wins Trial on Google’s Patent Licensing Tactics
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-09-05T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/microsoft-wins-trial-on-google-s-patent-licensing-tactics.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility
didn’t act in good faith when it demanded patent royalties from
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for use of video-compression and Wi-Fi
technology, a federal jury said yesterday.  The jury in  Seattle  acted in its first day of
deliberations. Microsoft was awarded about $14.5 million in
damages, the Seattle Times newspaper reported in a  blog  post.  “This is a landmark win for all who want products that are
affordable and work well together,”  David Howard , Microsoft
deputy general counsel, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
jury’s verdict is the latest in a growing list of decisions by
regulators and courts telling Google to stop abusing patents.”  “We’re disappointed in this outcome, but look forward to
an appeal of the new legal issues raised in this case,” William
Moss, a Motorola Mobility spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The verdict could help the two companies resolve a dispute
over patent royalties for both fundamental technologies in
electronic devices and features that make them easier to use.
More broadly, the case is one front in a global debate on how to
handle patents that relate to technology included in industry
standards used by all manufacturers.  Microsoft claimed that Motorola Mobility acted unreasonably
by demanding royalties of 2.25 percent of the price of an Xbox
video-gaming system or a computer that runs on the  Windows
operating system , and then threatening to get a court order
halting sales of the products if the money wasn’t paid.  Common Tactic  Motorola Mobility said the October 2010 letters sent to
Microsoft were a common opening offer that it used in
negotiating patent licensing with other companies for years.
Rather than sitting down to negotiate a licensing agreement as
other companies do, Microsoft went to the courts, Motorola
Mobility said.  Microsoft, which reported $73.7 billion in 2012 revenue,
has said the royalty demand would equal more than $4 billion a
year, a figure Motorola Mobility disputed.  U.S. District Judge James Robart, who presided over the
trial, determined in April that the appropriate royalty rate was
about a half-cent per unit for video-decoding technology and 3
1/2 cents for wireless technology. Microsoft said that would
equal about $1.8 million a year.  The issue for the jury was whether Motorola Mobility’s
actions were in keeping with the standards of good faith and
fair dealing. Robart, in pre-trial rulings, said Motorola
Mobility’s offers have to be made in good faith, though the
initial offer doesn’t have to be on fair terms as long as the
result is fair.  Royalty Demand  Microsoft struck first in 2010, demanding royalties from
companies using Google’s Android operating system and filing a
complaint with the U.S. International Trade Commission. Motorola
Mobility responded within weeks by sending a letter saying it
was owed royalties on the Xbox and Windows. The company then
filed its own infringement lawsuits.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , won a ruling that
limits imports of Motorola Mobility phones that have a feature
to synchronize calendars with computers. It sued  U.S. Customs 
and  Border Protection  for letting the phones continue to enter
the U.S., and both companies are appealing aspects of the case
to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington, D.C.  $293.9 Billion Market  The patent fights are part of a global war for an increased
share of the $293.9 billion smartphone market. They’ve become a
testing ground to determine how to treat patents that cover
basic technology used by companies so that, for instance,
chargers can plug into any device or  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone can
send and receive images from Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S4
handset.  Companies that participate in groups to establish
industrywide standards pledge to license any relevant patents on
“fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory” terms. In return,
they have the advantage of ensuring their technology is widely
used, giving them a leg up on implementing the standard and
establishing a broad base of potential licensees.  A patent gives its owner the power to block others from
using the invention. Microsoft and Apple have both pledged not
to exercise that power when it comes to patents on industry
standards, though they have used other patents in their legal
fights with competitors.  Motorola Mobility and Samsung, two companies with long
histories with mobile phones, have lodged patent-infringement
suits using their patents on fundamental phone technology, such
as how data is transmitted.  Obama Veto  President  Barack Obama ’s administration said limits should
be placed on such patents, and on Aug. 3 vetoed an import ban on
some of Apple’s older phones that Samsung had won.  Samsung, which is under investigation by European
regulators over its use of standard-essential patents, had
agreed not to seek a sales ban on that continent against Apple
for use of any such technology. Google, of  Mountain View ,
 California , reached an agreement with the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission that limits its activities regarding those patents.  Robart last year precluded Motorola Mobility from halting
sales of any Microsoft products based on an infringement finding
in  Germany . Part of Microsoft’s request for damages was based on
the cost of relocating a logistics center warehouse to the
Netherlands from Germany.  Sept. 11 Arguments  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, which
specializes in  patent law , is scheduled to hear arguments Sept.
11 on whether there should be different rules for standard
essential patents, and when companies can obtain court orders to
block the use of patented technology.  U.S. Circuit Judge  Richard Posner , who normally presides on
the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals in  Chicago , threw out cases
Apple and Motorola Mobility had filed against each other. Posner
ruled in June 2012 that Motorola Mobility wasn’t entitled to any
ban on the use of standard-essential patents, while Apple wasn’t
entitled to halt sales of complicated electronics based on an
infringement claim over device features.  The case is Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Mobility Inc.,
10cv1823, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Washington (Seattle).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 