-- Impax Buys 2 Finnish Wind Farms From Fortum With Plans for More
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-09-05T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/impax-buys-2-finnish-wind-farms-from-fortum-with-plans-for-more.html
Impax Asset Management Group Plc (IPX) , a
London-based investor overseeing about $3.7 billion, bought two
wind farms in northern  Finland  from  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) , entering a
market where it expects to make further acquisitions.  Impax bought the farms from Fortum Oyj, Finland’s biggest
utility, and state-run land and water manager Metsahallitus,
through its 330 million-euro ($436 million) New Energy Investors
II fund, it said today in an e-mailed statement without giving a
price. Impax will raise project finance for the farm after the
transaction, expected to be completed in the first quarter.  “Given the early stage of the Finnish wind market, we see
this portfolio as an excellent foundation asset for our wind
investment program in the region,” Impax Managing Director
Daniel von Preyss said. “This is a key market for Impax and we
target follow-on acquisitions as the market continues to grow.”  Impax said in July it was in talks to buy Finnish farms to
gain an “early mover opportunity.” The government plans to
raise consumption of wind power to 6 percent of total demand by
2020, or about 6 terawatt-hours, from about 1 percent now.  The wind farms in the Lapland region are at a pre-construction stage and the sellers will complete the process of
gaining permissions for the projects. The first will comprise 17
turbines and a capacity of 50 megawatts and the second will be
made up of 8 to 10 turbines totaling about 25 megawatts.  Finland had 288 megawatts of installed wind capacity at the
end of 2012, trailing  Germany  with 31,308 megawatts and  Spain 
with 22,796, according to the European Wind Energy Association.
Onshore wind generators in Finland receive feed-in tariffs, or
premium payments, of about 105 euros a megawatt-hour.  Investors in Impax’s fund, which closed in 2011, include
the  European Investment Bank  and Finnish State Pension Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  