-- India Carmakers Brace for a Sales Drop as Economy Slows
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-09-05T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/india-carmakers-brace-for-a-sales-drop-as-economy-slows.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) ,  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and other automakers in India are bracing for a
second consecutive annual sales decline as slower economic
growth and rising fuel prices keep consumers from car showrooms.  Maruti, India’s biggest carmaker, doesn’t expect demand to
pick up because of the economic slowdown, Chairman R.C. Bhargava
said in an interview on Sept. 3. General Motors expects sales
growth won’t pick up till after a new government is in place
post elections next year, P. Balendran, vice president for
corporate affairs at GM’s India unit, said Sept 4.  Deliveries in India fell for a ninth straight month in July
as growth in Asia’s third-largest  economy  is forecast by BNP
Paribas SA to slow to 3.7 percent in the year ending March.
Carmakers from  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  are
targeting to export more cars from India to counter weak demand
and benefit from the rupee’s plunge against the U.S. dollar.  “While agriculture will be good this year, jobs growth for
the bulk of the population can only come in from manufacturing
and services, where there is a slowdown,” Bhargava said in New
Delhi, where Maruti is based. “While there may be a slight
increase in demand in the festive season from rural areas
because of a good harvest, we don’t see things improving overall
for the auto industry.”  Rural sales contributed 28 percent of Maruti’s sales in the
year ended March, according to the company’s  annual report .  Rural Sales  The July-September rainy season, the main source of
irrigation for India’s 235 million farmers, had its best start
since 1994, according to the weather office. While a good
monsoon is helping farm output, other risks mean GDP expansion
may dip in the year ending March 2014, BNP said.  In the 12 months ended March, India’s economy grew 5
percent, the slowest pace since 2003. Car deliveries in the same
period fell 6.7 percent to 1.89 million units, the biggest
decline since 2001, according to the Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers.  Demand has also slowed as inflation accelerated and fuel
prices increased. State-controlled Indian Oil Corp. has raised
 gasoline  prices six times since June. Rates in New Delhi have
increased 17 percent to 74.10 rupees a liter in the period. The
 wholesale-price index  rose 5.79 percent in July from a year
earlier, a five-month high.  LMC Automotive has lowered its 2013 sales estimate to 3
million units, from 3.56 million vehicles it had forecast at the
start of the year and is considering a further cut in its
outlook because of the deterioration in India’s financial
markets, Ammar Master, a Bangkok-based analyst at the research
company, wrote in a report dated Aug. 30.  ‘Continued Slide’  “In this time of economic gloom, higher costs of
financing, and depleting discretionary income,  India ’s vast
middle class are holding back the purchase of vehicles,” Master
said. “This is most evident in the continued slide of mini and
sub-compact cars.”  Car sales in India declined 9.7 percent in the first four
months of the year that started April 1, according to the
Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers.  Some carmakers expect demand to come during the festival
season, which starts with homage to Ganesh, the elephant-headed
Hindu god of fortune, on Sept. 9 and runs through Nov. 3 with
Diwali, the festival of lights.  “There may be a marginal improvement in the festive
season,” Balendran said in New Delhi. “A significant
improvement will only take place after the new government comes
in and settles down.”  Exports Target  The weak local demand and the rupee’s depreciation is
prompting automakers including Hyundai, Toyota and Honda Motor
Co. to target increased exports. The Indian currency has
declined 17 percent against the dollar this year.  Honda has set a goal to export 6,000 vehicles this year,
from 2,500 units last year, Jnaneswar Sen, senior vice president
at the company’s local unit, said in an interview in New Delhi
on Sept. 4. The automaker also plans to export components from
India worth about 6 billion rupees ($91 million), he said.  “A weak rupee will help boost exports,” said Sen.  Hyundai India Chief Executive Officer Bo Shin Seo is also
looking to increase exports from the country to take advantage
of the fall in the currency’s value.  Toyota exported the first batch of its Etios sedan from
India to  Indonesia  to gauge the market’s potential, Sandeep Singh, deputy manging director of the India unit, said Sept. 4.  “We are exporting cars to other right-hand drive
markets,” said Singh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  