-- Indian Rupee, Bonds, Stocks Advance on RBI Swap Plans
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i ,   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-09-05T12:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/indian-rupee-bonds-stocks-rally-on-rbi-swap-plan-pension-bill.html
India ’s rupee jumped after the new
central bank governor took steps to boost dollar supply and
lawmakers moved closer to allowing foreign investment in pension
funds. Stocks surged, while  government bonds  fell.  In his first briefing after taking office,  Reserve Bank  of
India Governor Raghuram Rajan announced a plan yesterday to
provide concessional swaps for banks’ foreign-currency deposits,
a move that will boost the authority’s reserves by $10 billion,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. India’s lower house
of parliament passed a bill yesterday allowing international
holdings in the nation’s pension funds as the government tries
to revive the economy and shore up the rupee.  Rajan “wasted no time in announcing measures that could
potentially lead to an increase in the dollar reserves of the
RBI and hence enable the RBI with more firepower,” economists
at  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB) , led by Mumbai-based Indranil Pan,
wrote in a report. “These measures are definitely positive as
far as sentiment is concerned.”  The rupee climbed 1.5 percent to 66.1150 per dollar in
Mumbai, the most in a week, prices compiled by Bloomberg from
local banks show. It rose as much as 2.3 percent intraday. The
currency, which sank to a record low of 68.845 on Aug. 28, has
weakened 16.8 percent this year, the worst performance after the
 South African Rand  among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The 30-stock  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  rallied 2.2 percent, led by the
biggest rally in lenders since May 2009, as Rajan outlined plans
to bolster the financial industry. The yield on the 7.16 percent
10-year bonds due May 2023 slumped to as low as 8.17 percent
before reversing losses toward the close of trade as yields on
government notes from U.S. to  Europe  climbed, and as some
investors booked profits, according to Mumbai-based  Development
Credit Bank Ltd. (DEVB)   Currency Swaps  The central bank plans to offer currency swaps to banks at
3.5 percent. That compares with market rates between 6 percent
and 8 percent, according to Barclays Plc.  The pension funds bill caps overseas ownership in local
ventures at 26 percent. The threshold for foreign direct
investment in pensions will be kept in line with the cap for
insurance, which was opened to overseas companies in 2000. The
legislation now needs the approval of the upper house.  Rajan, who predicted the 2008 global financial crisis and
has been appointed governor for three years, said after the
close of markets yesterday that containing inflation
expectations is the RBI’s key goal. The former International
Monetary Fund chief economist faces the challenge of a weak
currency and consumer inflation that’s running at almost 10
percent.  India’s economy  expanded 4.4 percent in the quarter
ended June, the weakest pace since 2009.  ‘Near-Term Positive’  Rajan replaced  Duvvuri Subbarao , who in July took steps to
restrict banks’ access to cash and began draining money through
weekly bill sales in an attempt to push up short-term rates and
support the rupee. Bond yields climbed in each of the past three
months, the longest such run for  benchmark  10-year debt since
August 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The surge in
yields following the cash squeeze prompted the central bank to
announce a plan to buy back long-dated debt.  The RBI yesterday clarified some restrictions on capital
outflows implemented Aug. 14, giving companies more scope to
invest abroad using overseas debt. The central bank also allowed
businesses to borrow from foreign shareholders subject to
conditions, according to statements on its website.  Allowing banks to swap foreign-currency deposits, “along
with a few other measures, could attract $10 billion of forex
inflows in the next three months and could be a material near-term positive for the rupee,” Barclays analysts including
Mumbai-based Siddhartha Sanyal wrote in a report today. “A
meaningful improvement in rupee sentiment would raise the
likelihood of a rollback in September-October of some of the
RBI’s recent liquidity-tightening measures.”  Stocks Rally  HDFC Bank Ltd., (HDFCB)  India’s biggest lender by market value,
surged 8.1 percent, leading the biggest rally in the 13-member
S&P BSE India Bankex in four years. Rajan plans to make it
easier for banks to open branches and lend to non-state sectors
of the economy, steps that JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts say
will have a “major long-term impact” on bank profits.  There’s a need to cut the  requirement  for banks to invest
in government debt and ensure lending to productive sectors of
the economy, Rajan said yesterday. The RBI will look at ways to
improve the recovery mechanism for bad loans and propose a
database for large loans across banks, he said.  “Rising bad loans are the biggest concern for investors,
and if Rajan can tackle that, then it will be the biggest boost
to lenders’ profits and sentiment,”  Manish Sonthalia , a Mumbai-based  money manager  at Motilal Oswal Asset Management Co., said
in an phone interview today.  Bond Yields  The yield on government notes maturing May 2023 rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, from yesterday to 8.42
percent in Mumbai, according to prices from RBI’s trading system.
U.S. five-year note yields and French 10-year yields advanced
before monetary policy meetings in Europe and U.S. jobs data
that may provide clues about Federal Reserve stimulus.  Indian bonds, which rose in four of the past five sessions,
pared gains also on “profit booking as yield levels close to 8
percent are not sustainable in the current environment of high
inflationary expectations amid rupee’s weakness,” Debendra Kumar Dash, a fixed-income trader at Development Credit Bank,
said by phone.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, sank
35 basis points to 22.03 percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards jumped 1.3 percent to
67.61 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts advanced 1.4 percent to 68.19. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  