-- Indonesian Workers Rally in Java to Demand 50 Percent Pay Rise
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-09-05T09:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/indonesian-workers-rally-in-java-to-demand-50-percent-pay-rise.html
Thousands of Indonesian workers
rallied in Jakarta today to demand the government increase wages
by 50 percent next year as inflation at a four-year high drives
up living costs.  About 30,000 workers under the Confederation of Indonesian
Labor Unions are expected to join the demonstration, which will
include a protest outside the presidential palace in Jakarta,
Roni Febrianto, a spokesman for the confederation, said by
telephone today. Workers clogged main thoroughfares in the
capital and in Bandung on the country’s main Java island.  The demands follow similar  minimum wage  rises for 2013 and
increased industrial action in the past two years as unionized
workers seek a greater share of  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy. Higher fuel and food costs pushed consumer prices to a
four-year peak in August and the government is seeking to cap
further wage rises to avoid adding to inflationary pressures.  “Companies must already cope with higher costs and may now
face lower revenue amid weaker demand,” Juniman, chief
economist at Jakarta-based PT Bank Internasional  Indonesia , said
by telephone today. “There’s a risk of more layoffs.”  Indonesia’s economy expanded 5.81 percent in the last
quarter, less than 6 percent for the first time since 2010.
Forward rupiah prices touched a four-year low today on concerns
about a trade deficit that reached a record in July and
inflation that accelerated to 8.79 percent last month.  The government plans to limit increases of minimum regional
wages to no more than 10 percentage points more than the
inflation rate, Manpower Minister Muhaimin Iskandar said on Aug.
29. Workers have rejected this plan to cap wages, according to a
statement by the confederation handed out at the rally in
Jakarta.  More Rallies  The higher consumer prices may hurt household spending,
which in the second quarter made up about 55 percent of the
economy, according to statistics office data.  In Bandung, thousands of workers staged a rally for the
same demands, Muhamad Rusdi, the confederation’s secretary
general, said by telephone. Talks over next year’s wage increase
are continuing with a government decision expected Nov. 1, he
said.  The confederation plans more protests until their demands
have been met, Rusdi said, adding the next rally will be held in
eastern Java on Sept. 10 with others later on in central Java
and northern Sumatra island.  Indonesian workers’ wages lag behind those in the
 Philippines  and  Thailand , spokesman Febrianto said. With
overseas companies still investing in Indonesia, they should pay
attention to workers’ welfare, he said. Foreign direct
investment rose 18.9 percent in the second quarter, the slowest
pace in three years, data from the Investment Coordinating Board
show.  “We don’t always want to push for a wage increase this
much,” Febrianto said. “But over the next two years this may
still be necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  