-- Insurers Pay Hospitals Twice Rate of Rivals in Some Areas
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-09-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/insurers-pay-hospitals-twice-rate-of-rivals-in-some-areas.html
Residents of  Kansas City , 
Missouri, and Indianapolis with private health plans face wide
disparities in how much they pay for hospital care, depending 
on where they go for help, a study found.  The highest-priced hospitals in 13 cities studied are
typically paid 60 percent more for inpatient services and almost
double for outpatient care than the lowest-priced hospitals in
the same communities, according to a study released today by the
 Center for Studying Health System Change . Hospitals with more
market power have greater muscle in negotiations with insurers
and can extract higher prices, the group found.  Many patients are unaware of the prices private insurance
plans pay to medical providers. Scrutiny of costs is growing as
the 2010  Affordable Care Act  seeks to expand coverage nationwide 
while lowering treatment costs. Health-care spending in the U.S. 
reached almost $2.6 trillion in 2010, more than 10 times what 
was spent in 1980, according to the  Kaiser Family Foundation .  “Some hospitals are getting paid four times what Medicare
would pay,” Chapin White, a senior health researcher at the
Washington-based Center for Studying Health System Change and
the lead study author, said in an interview. “Those high prices
are a major contributor to premiums being as high as they are.”  The result is that average hospital prices for privately
insured patients in the markets studied were 1.5 times Medicare
rates for inpatient care and two times higher for outpatient
care, according to the report.   Hospitals in Youngstown,  Ohio  and Flint,  Michigan , were 
lower priced relative to Medicare when it came to inpatient 
care. The higher-paid hospitals were in Kansas City, 
Indianapolis and Kokomo,  Indiana . Medicare is the U.S. health 
plan for the elderly and disabled.  Autoworkers’ Health  The report looks at claims data for about 590,000 current
and retired, non-elderly autoworkers from Chrysler Group LLC,
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  and their families in
selected urban areas, including in Michigan, New York, Missouri,
Indiana and Ohio. The report was funded by the National
Institute for Health Care Reform, a group set up as part of
automotive-industry union contracts.  Data released by the U.S. government in June also found
outpatient hospital prices vary -- with hospitals in  New York 
charging from $474 to $7,332 for a magnetic resonance imaging
test. Information released by the U.S. Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services in May also found hospitals charging prices
that can be thousands of dollars different for the same medical
procedures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  