-- IPO Surge Dries Up on World’s Worst Stock Drop: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-09-05T18:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/ipo-surge-dries-up-on-world-s-worst-stock-drop-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil ’s initial public offerings
are drying up after the best start of a year since 2007 as
investors flee volatility in the world’s worst-performing major
stock market.  No Brazilian company has completed a sale since renewable
energy producer  CPFL Energias Renovaveis SA (CPRE3)  raised 900 million
reais ($387 million) in July. The Brazilian airline run by the
founder of JetBlue Airways Corp. scrapped a plan to sell as much
as 1 billion reais of shares last month after cement maker
Votorantim Cimentos SA suspended a $3.7 billion sale in June.  The IPO market is reversing course after a spurt of seven
sales this year valued at $7.8 billion as the Ibovespa slumped
18 percent from its Jan. 3 peak, the most among the world’s 20
biggest benchmarks. Globally, 13 offerings have been postponed
in 2013 while 91 were withdrawn, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Brazilian deals are unlikely to come back until price
swings lessen, according to Joel Roberto, the head of  investment
banking  at Deutsche Bank AG in Brazil.  “Foreign investors, who continue to provide a majority of
the funding for most IPOs here, will remain cautious until this
volatility subsides,” Roberto said in an interview at the
bank’s main office in  Sao Paulo . “Companies that don’t need to
go to the public equity market now will wait until next year
rather than accept discounted valuations.”  Ibovespa Volatility  The Ibovespa’s 90-day  volatility  reached a 10-month high in
August. Foreign investors accounted for 42 percent of trading in
 Latin America ’s largest equity market last month, the lowest
level since February, according to data from the exchange.
Foreign investors have injected 6.35 billion reais into
Brazilian stocks this year through Sept. 2, the data show.  Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras SA, Brazil’s third-biggest
air carrier by market share, said in an e-mailed response to
questions after it canceled its offering on Aug. 19 that the
decision was made because of “unfavorable macroeconomic
conditions.”  Votorantim Cimentos said in an Aug. 12 statement that
market conditions “reinforce the low probability of a window of
opportunity for the offering in the short term.” The company’s
IPO would have been the world’s second biggest this year after
the Brazilian insurer BB Seguridade SA’s $4.2 billion offering
in April.  Bear Market  The Ibovespa sank into a  bear market  on June 11 as
inflation soared in Latin America’s biggest economy even as
growth stalled. The central bank increased the country’s
benchmark interest rate and U.S. bond yields lured money away
from  emerging markets .  The Brazilian benchmark stock gauge gained 1 percent to
52,221.76 at 3:32 p.m. in Sao Paulo today.  Consumer prices rose 6.3 percent in the 12 months through
July, and policy makers in August raised the target lending rate
to 9 percent. Gross domestic product increased 1.5 percent in
the second quarter, or an annualized 6 percent. While expansion
exceeded estimates for the first time since 2011, analysts have
been lowering projections as confidence among businesses and
consumers drops below last year’s levels. Economists in a
central bank survey this week forecast 2014 growth of 2.3
percent, down from 2.6 percent a month earlier.  Standard & Poor’s  reduced the outlook on Brazil’s BBB
credit rating to negative on June 6, citing sluggish growth,
weakening fiscal accounts and the government’s loss of
credibility with investors. Marcio Holland, economic policy
secretary at the  Finance Ministry , said after the move that
there is “no change in economic policy and the environment is
conducive to investment.”  Missing Opportunity  Companies that canceled or postponed IPOs had set price
estimates too high as they looked for an opportunity “that’s
just not there right now,” said Will Landers, the Princeton,
New Jersey-based senior portfolio manager at BlackRock Advisors
LLC. “Brazil is a big question mark in a lot of investors’
minds,” he said in interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers” on Aug. 20. “The IPO market in Brazil is not the most
attractive place to be.”  Azul and Votorantim declined to comment when contacted by
 Bloomberg News .  Even as deals get canceled, Brazil will probably still see
more offerings this year, according to Jose Olympio Pereira,
chief executive officer for Credit Suisse Group AG in Brazil.  “The second half of the year will be weaker than the first
because we probably won’t see a huge deal like the one from BB
Seguridade,” Pereira said in an interview at the bank’s office
in Sao Paulo. “The market will be very selective, but a bunch
of good stories will be well accepted.”  New Filings  Ser Educacional SA (0860176D) , the Recife, Brazil-based education
company, announced plans on Aug. 27 to sell shares, according to
a regulatory filing. The company’s net income jumped 83 percent
in the first half of 2013 compared to the same period last year,
according to the filing.  Sao Paulo-based GAEC Educacao SA, known as Anima Educacao,
also  filed  to sell shares. Net income at the education company
jumped 67 percent in the first six months of 2013 from the same
period last year, while revenues advanced 36 percent, according
to the Sept. 3 filing.  Sascar Participacoes SA, a provider of services such as
vehicle monitoring for the  transportation industry , filed a
request with regulators on Aug. 20. Revenue grew an average 23.8
percent between 2010 and 2012, while the country expanded 1.8
percent, the Santana do Parnaiba, Brazil-based company said in
the filing.  Press officials for Ser and Sascar declined to comment
further on the offerings. GAEC did not reply to a phone call and
an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Pretty Depressed’  Even as smaller companies file for IPOs and Brazil’s main
stock gauge rebounds, climbing 16 percent from this year’s low
on July 3, most potential sellers probably won’t have enough
confidence to test the market, said Sean Lynch, the Omaha,
Nebraska-based global investment strategist for Wells Fargo
Private Bank.  “Given that the markets are still pretty depressed,
companies may take a pause,” he said in a phone interview on
Aug. 29. “They’ll wait until they do get some certainty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  