-- Lira Drops to Record as Turkey Measures Fail to Damp Syria Risk
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-09-05T09:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/lira-drops-to-record-as-turkey-measures-fail-to-damp-syria-risk.html
The lira headed for a record low
against the dollar as measures taken by the central bank failed
to allay concern  Turkey ’s economy will be hurt if its neighbor
Syria is attacked in a U.S.-led military strike. Bonds fell.  The currency depreciated 1.3 percent to 2.0773 per dollar
at 11:43 a.m. in Istanbul, a record low on intraday basis,
extending its loss in the past month to 7 percent, the steepest
retreat among emerging-market peers monitored by Bloomberg in
Europe, the Middle East and  Africa . Yields on 10-year government
debt rose seven basis points, or 0.7 percentage point, to 10.06
percent, extending their gain this quarter to 132 basis points.  The Central Bank of Turkey said yesterday it’s prepared to
draw on foreign-exchange reserves, if needed, to support the
lira as a U.S. Senate panel authorized a limited military strike
in  Syria . Governor Erdem Basci said last week in an interview
with Anatolia News Agency in Ankara the central bank would
defend the currency “like lions,” while vowing to keep
interest rates unchanged.  “It’s the disappointment about the CBRTs measures so
far,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments today. “Market
participants had hoped” the CBRT would “step up” its support
for the lira after Basci had been so vocal last week, Nguyen
said.  The central bank said it will sell a minimum $50 million of
liras in a foreign-exchange auction today and $160 million on
Sept. 9. It offered 5 billion liras ($2.4 billion) at the 4.5
percent benchmark rate to lenders in its one-week repurchase
agreements sale today, the most since July 24.  Lira Volatility  Turkey, a U.S. ally which is aligned with Syrian rebels in
their quest to topple Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, has
beefed up security along its border with Syria.  “The lira’s weakening cannot be stopped,”  Emre Balkeser ,
the head of sales and trading at Garanti Yatirim Menkul
Kiymetler in Istanbul, wrote in e-mailed comments. “Turkey is
closer to a possible war because of its geographical location.’  Deputy Governor Turalay Kenc told economists the central
bank will allow volatility in the exchange rate while ensuring
stability in rates, a reversal from its policy in 2011,
according to attendees including Inanc Sozer, economic research
manager at Odeabank AS in Istanbul. Kenc’s comments suggest
benchmark rates will remain at current levels and adjustments to
reserve requirements can be used to prevent excessive lira
depreciation, Sozer said.  The lira’s depreciation in the past month is also the worst
among 24 emerging-market peers monitored by Bloomberg, after the
Indonesian rupiah and the Indian rupee.  ‘‘The central bank appears to be determined not to raise
the policy rate and for that reason the lira is weaker than
other emerging-market currencies,” Balkeser said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  