-- Japan Fuel Cell Market Ripe After Fukushima, Bloom Energy Says
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-09-05T01:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/japan-fuel-cell-market-ripe-after-fukushima-bloom-energy-says.html
Japan  is primed following the 2011
Fukushima earthquake and tsunami to adopt more power supply
devices that can withstand disasters and complement services
provided by utilities, Bloom Energy Japan Ltd. said.  Japan’s fuel cell market is currently led by individual
users with small systems in their homes. Bloom Energy Japan is
targeting larger power consumers such as office buildings,
factories and data centers, Shigeki Miwa, chief executive
officer of the company, said Sept. 2 in an interview in Tokyo.  “Utilities in the centralized power distribution system
will remain the main player,” he said. “But people have
realized that is not enough. So it is good to have decentralized
power distribution that can complement the system.”  Bloom Energy Japan, a venture between  SoftBank Corp. (9984) ,
Japan’s third-largest mobile carrier, and Bloom Energy Corp. of
the U.S., was formed in July to supply power from Bloom’s fuel
cells to customers in Japan.  Bloom’s units generate electricity from gas without burning
the fuel, a more efficient process that produces fewer carbon
emissions, according to its  website . Fuel cells cut the risk of
blackouts such as those that occurred in Japan after the
Fukushima accident because they aren’t dependent on centralized
power plants.  Local governments are potential users, Miwa said.  “Local officials clearly recognize the need for secure
supply,” he said. “They tell us disaster response centers need
to be operational in the event of large-scale disasters and they
need backup power as relying on local utilities is not enough.”  Industrial, Commercial Use  Japan’s market for industrial and commercial users is about
to take off, he said.  “Manufacturers are now pushing for large-size systems,”
he said. “Distributed power generation will become useful and
that’s where we want to be.”  Masayoshi Son, the billionaire founder of SoftBank, has
become a proponent of clean energy following the 2011 Fukushima
nuclear disaster through investments in wind and solar projects.  The global fuel cell market for commercial and industrial
use will expand to 734.1 billion yen ($7.4 billion) by fiscal
2025 from 35.9 billion yen in fiscal 2011, according to Fuji
Keizai, a market researcher.  “Current demand is concentrated in North America where
users receive generous subsidies for installations and South
Korea where generating power from fuel cells is part of
government policy,” it said in a report in March.  Decentralized Power  Fuji Electric Co. since 1998 has supplied 43 units for 
industry, including several for  Germany  and the U.S., the
company said by e-mail. Fuji’s system has 100 kilowatts of
capacity each.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  is developing fuel cells
with a goal to commercialize a 250-kilowatt unit in fiscal 2014
and plans to develop units with larger capacity, according to
company officials.  Bloom’s customers in the U.S. include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
AT&T Inc., and Google Inc., according to a joint  statement  in
July.  A challenge for the venture, which is equally split between
the two partners, will be to secure customers who have access to
fuel at low cost, Ali Izadi-Najafabadi, an analyst for Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said.  “Data centers in the U.S. rely on Bloom’s fuel cells
because in some places the fuel cells can produce electricity
cheaper than the grid due to the low natural gas price and
federal and state incentives,” he said.  Miwa said power generation may become more decentralized
just like large-size computers evolved into personal computers
and tablets.  “The same analogy could apply to large-size, centralized
power distribution into distributed power generation, and that’s
something we are aiming at,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  