-- Kenya’s Home Afrika Set to Raise Cash With Two Planned REITs
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-09-05T10:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/kenya-s-home-afrika-set-to-raise-cash-with-two-investment-trusts.html
Home Afrika Ltd.,  Kenya ’s only
publicly traded property developer, plans to raise as much as 2
billion shillings ($22.8 million) selling shares in a new real
estate investment trust.  The REIT will be based on Migaa, a housing project on 774
acres (313 hectares) in Kiambu county near Nairobi, Home Afrika
director Mbugua Kamau told reporters in the Kenyan capital
today. NIC Capital, based in Nairobi, has been chosen as
adviser, he said.  “We are also planning a second REIT centered on our low-cost housing program,” Kamau said.  That REIT will be based on a 1,000-acre project dubbed
Kikwetu in Machakos county, 40 kilometers (25 miles) south of
Nairobi, Kamau said.  In June, Kenya approved  rules  for the establishment of
REITs. Kenya’s urban areas require 150,000 new homes a year,
while only about 35,000 are produced, according to Housing
Finance Ltd. the country’s only publicly traded mortgage
company.  Home Afrika plans to expand into six African countries
starting next year, Chairman Lee Karuri said during the
briefing. The company will construct homes in Tanzania,  Rwanda ,
 Angola , Zimbabwe, Nigeria and Ghana. The new markets will be
covered by regional offices in Nairobi, Johannesburg and Abuja,
Karuri said.  “That constitutes the first phase of our expansion
program,” he said. “We are at the point of feasibility studies
in those countries.”  Home Afrika’s share price more than doubled to 25 shillings
on its July 15 debut on the  Nairobi Stock Exchange . The stock
has since fallen to as low as 9.9 shillings and CEO Gerald Chege
quit on Aug. 28, six weeks after the listing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  