-- King Revisits ‘The Shining,’ Atwood, Lahiri: New Books
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2013-09-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/king-revisits-the-shining-atwood-lahiri-new-books.html
Stephen King , Margaret Atwood and
Jhumpa Lahiri lead the parade of big names appearing in
bookstores this month. Here are some of the highlights:  “ Bleeding Edge ” by Thomas Pynchon (Penguin Press, Sept.
17). The reclusive novelist has been living for years in the
anonymous wilds of  Manhattan , and his new novel opens there in
spring 2001. So you know what’s coming.  “ Command and Control: Nuclear Weapons, the Damascus
Accident and the Illusion of Safety ” by Eric Schlosser (Penguin
Press, Sept. 17). The author of “Fast Food Nation” turns his
attention to America’s nuclear arsenal. Do we face more danger
from our own stockpile than from weapons held by our enemies?  “ Countdown: Our Last, Best Hope for a Future on Earth? ”
by Alan Weisman (Little, Brown, Sept. 24). Weisman’s “The World
Without Us,” which wondered what would happen if humans
disappeared from the Earth, was a big hit in 2007. His follow-up
investigates ways to keep the planet in balance.  “ Doctor Sleep ” by Stephen King (Scribner, Sept. 24). The
sequel to “The Shining” -- need I say more?  “ Enon ” by Paul Harding ( Random House , Sept. 10). Harding
could hardly have been more obscure when he won the Pulitzer
Prize for his first novel, “Tinkers,” in 2010. His follow-up
appears with high expectations.  “ Five Days at Memorial: Life and Death in a Storm-Ravaged
Hospital ” by Sheri Fink (Crown, Sept. 10). Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter Fink spent six years investigating five days at
Memorial Medical Center in the aftermath of  Hurricane Katrina ,
when several health-care professionals were accused of hastening
the deaths of patients.  Kingsley Amis  “ Girl, 20 ” and “ One Fat Englishman ” by Kingsley Amis
( New York  Review Books, Sept. 17). Martin’s curmudgeonly dad
certainly had a way with a book title. These two early satires
are being reissued by the invaluable NYRB Classics imprint.  “ A Guide for the Perplexed”  by Dara Horn (Norton, Sept.
9). Horn combines the suspenseful kidnapping of a computer-software pioneer in Cairo with the search for ancient documents
and the medical practice of Moses Maimonides in the 12th-century
court of Sultan Saladin. The result is an intriguing and
readable novel.  “ Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone ” by  J.K. Rowling 
(Scholastic, out now). If you’ve never read  Harry Potter , what
are you waiting for? Scholastic has re-issued the series in
paperback with gorgeous new covers by graphic artist Kazu
Kibuishi. The new illustrations focus less on Harry and more on
pivotal scenes from the books, with vibrant colors and
tremendous depth.  Mean Girls  “ The Hive ” by Gill Hornby (Little, Brown, Sept. 10). Move
over, kids -- moms are the real mean girls in this sprightly
novel about the drop-off set at a school in  England ’s Home
Counties. Who will get texted about the next day’s exercise
routine or invited to serve on the fundraising committee?
Somehow these feel like crucial questions.  “ Jim Henson ” by Brian Jay Jones (Ballantine, Sept. 24). A
biography written with the cooperation of the Muppet man’s
family.  “ Local Souls ” by Allan Gurganus (Liveright, Sept. 23).
Gurganus took the literary world by storm in 1989 with “Oldest
Living Confederate Widow Tells All.” He published three more
books through 2001. His return to the bookstores is a collection
of three novellas set in his mythological town of Falls,  North
Carolina .  Lahiri, Atwood  “ The Lowland ” by Jhumpa Lahiri (Knopf, Sept. 24).
Lahiri’s first three prize-winnning, bestselling books
intricately explored the experience of Indian immigrants in the
West. Her new novel follows two brothers, Subhash and Udayan
Mitra, one of whom devotes his life to radical politics in  India 
while the other moves to America.  “ MaddAddam ” by Margaret Atwood (Doubleday, out now).
Readers of “Oryx and Crake” and “The Year of the Flood” will
want to read this conclusion to Atwood’s dystopian trilogy,
about a small group who survived a plague that decimated the
Earth’s population.  “ Man Alive! ” by Mary Kay Zuravleff (Farrar, Straus &
Giroux, out now). After psychiatrist Owen Lerner is hit by
lightning, all he wants to do is barbecue. How is he going to
pay for his kids’ college tuition?  “ Masterminds and Wingmen: Helping Our Boys Cope With
Schoolyard Power, Locker-Room Tests, Girlfriends and the New
Rules of Boy World ,” by Rosalind Wiseman (Harmony, Sept. 10).
The author of “Queen Bees and Wannabes,” the instant-classic
exploration of girlhood cliques, turns her attention to Boy
World.  Miss Manners  “ Miss Manners Minds Your Business ” by Judith Martin and
Nicholas Ivor Martin (Norton, Sept. 23). The business world
would run much more smoothly if everyone lived by Miss Manners’s
rules of etiquette. Her latest witty guidebook is written with
her son Nicholas, who has a day job as director of operations at
the Lyric Opera of  Chicago .  “ The Novel Cure: From Abandonment to Zestlessness: 751
Books to Cure What Ails You ” by Ella Berthoud and Susan
Elderkin (Penguin Press, Sept. 26). If none of the books on this
list suits your mood, check out this delightful volume of
literary recommendations. Organized by “ailments” such as
“Dinner Parties, Fear Of,” and “Internet Addiction,” the
authors present suggestions ranging from classics to recent
bestsellers. Their insightful, friendly essays had me jotting
down lists of titles to buy.  Wonder Woman  “ Someone ” by Alice McDermott” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux,
Sept. 10); “ Subtle Bodies ” by Norman Rush (Knopf, Sept. 10);
“ The Woman Who Lost Her Soul ” by Bob Shacochis (Atlantic
Monthly, out now). Three novels from authors who take a long
time between books -- to brilliant result.  “ Wonder Women: Sex, Power and the Quest for Perfection ”
by Debora Spar (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, Sept. 17). The
president of Barnard College jumps into the conversation about
whether women can have it all -- and whether that’s even a fair
question.  (Laurie Muchnick is the book editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on architecture,
 Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 