-- KKR to Buy Claims-Technology Maker Mitchell From Aurora
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-09-05T21:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/kkr-to-buy-claims-technology-maker-mitchell-from-aurora.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
led by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , agreed to buy Mitchell
International Inc., the first buyout by the firm’s technology
group since the head of the team stepped down earlier this year.  The transaction is valued at about $1.1 billion, including
debt, according to a person with knowledge of the matter, who
requested anonymity because financial terms weren’t disclosed.
KKR is buying Mitchell from Aurora Capital Group, a Los Angeles-based private-equity firm, the companies said in a statement
today.  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New York-based KKR,
declined to comment on the deal’s value.  The buyout is being done by KKR’s technology group, run by
Herald Chen and David Kerko, and is the team’s first acquisition
since Adam Clammer stepped down in May as head of the group.
Mitchell, based in  San Diego , provides claims-processing
technology to insurance companies and collision-repair
facilities, benefiting from steady cash flows in the insurance
and health-care industries.  “We think our capabilities in technology as well as health
care and insurance on a global basis will help the company
grow,” Chen said in a telephone interview. “The previous
owners invested to improve its core platforms, and we’ll look to
build on that with a particular focus on products.”  Expansion Plans  Aurora, founded in 1991 by Gerald Parsky, bought Mitchell
for about $500 million in 2007, with General Electric Pension
Trust co-investing in the purchase. The company previously was
owned by private-equity firm Hellman & Friedman LLC.  Mitchell has annual revenue of $300 million to $400
million, said Chen, and KKR is seeking to more than double it.
KKR, which approached Aurora in the past about buying the
company and was rebuffed, plans to help Mitchell grow in part
through acquisitions and is targeting international expansion,
particularly in Western Europe and  Asia , Chen said.  The companies expect the buyout to close by the end of the
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  