-- Krona Weakens as Riksbank Keeps Easing Bias: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-09-05T10:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/krona-weakens-as-riksbank-keeps-easing-bias-stockholm-mover.html
Sweden’s krona weakened the most
against the euro in more than two weeks in  Stockholm  after the
Riksbank unexpectedly kept a small probability for an  interest
rate  cut in new forecasts.  The krona weakened as much as 0.77 percent to 8.7734 per
euro, the biggest intraday drop since Aug. 21, and traded at
8.7682 as of 12:15 p.m. local time. It slid as much as 1.1
percent to 6.6627 against the  U.S. dollar , its weakest level
since July 16.  The Riksbank today kept its main lending rate unchanged at
1 percent for a fourth meeting and stuck to a plan to start
tightening late next year to allow for a recovery in the largest
Nordic economy to gain pace. Policy makers also kept a small
easing bias, predicting a rate of 0.96 percent in the first half
next year and then a rate of 1.25 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2014.  “As expected the Riksbank left the repo rate unchanged
today and, more importantly, kept a small short-term easing
bias,” Nordea Bank AB said in a note today. “We had expected
the Riksbank to remove the easing bias completely.”  The economy is showing signs of a recovery after the euro
area emerged from a recession. Unemployment has fallen,
manufacturing is picking up and  consumer confidence  has risen to
a two-year high. Consumer borrowing has also gathered speed as
the government plans more tax cuts next year.  Krona weakening has helped policy makers close in on their
2 percent inflation target and is lending a hand to struggling
exporters by making their products cheaper abroad.  Rates Up  Still, the bank also raised its forecast for underlying
inflation to 1 percent this year, and kept its forecasts for 1.4
percent and 1.9 percent in the two following years. It lowered
its forecast for growth to 1.2 percent for this year and 2.7
percent next year, versus 1.5 percent and 2.8 percent earlier
while also lowering its unemployment forecasts.  Sweden ’s two-year yield rose one basis point to 1.30
percent as of noon local time.  “The only reasonable thing is to expect an upward
adjustment of the rate path, probably already in October,” said
Henrik Erikson, chief economist at Nykredit Markets in Sweden,
in an e-mailed note. The lender has long argued for higher rates
and maintains that view, he said.  “There’s more to do,” he said. “Short-term rates are
going up, up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net  