-- N.Y. Thruway Pays Least as Tappan Zee Loan Prepared: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/n-y-thruway-pays-least-as-tappan-zee-loan-prepared-muni-credit.html
Investors are driving the New York
State Thruway Authority’s borrowing costs to a 14-month low
relative to benchmark debt in a bet that the agency will be able
to finance the largest project in its 63-year history.  The operator of the longest U.S. toll road, which is
building a $3.9 billion replacement for the Tappan Zee Bridge
across the  Hudson River , plans to borrow $875 million this
month, according to  Standard & Poor’s . It needs the funds as it
awaits approval of a federal loan that’s already taken a year to
process and is holding up the spending plan for the structure.  Building the span is a priority for Governor  Andrew Cuomo ,
who compares it in scope to the 19th-century construction of the
Erie Canal. It would double the agency’s $3.7 billion debt load.
Yet the extra yield on some of the longest-maturing Thruway
bonds is close to the smallest since they were issued in 2012,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The Thruway Authority has good  market access ,” said
Howard Cure, head of municipal research at New York-based
Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which oversees about $4.7
billion, including Thruway debt. “People aren’t that concerned
about such an essential-purpose project.”  Biggest Loan  The Tappan Zee is one of the nation’s largest public-works
projects and the federal Transportation Infrastructure Finance
and Innovation Act loan of more than $1 billion that Cuomo
requested would be the biggest awarded by the U.S.
Transportation Department.  The 55-year-old Democrat is banking on the low-cost funds
to keep cash tolls from almost tripling on the replacement to
the 57-year-old bridge. Cuomo has said the majority of the
financing will be through toll-backed bonds. The authority is
waiting to find out the size of the loan before determining how
much it’ll need to borrow through the $3.7 trillion municipal
market.  The 3-mile-long Tappan Zee, which connects Rockland and
Westchester counties about 20 miles north of  New York , was
designed to last 50 years. It carries 138,000 vehicles each day,
40 percent more than intended.  Private Deal  The $875 million of notes that the authority’s board of
directors plans to sell in a private placement will repay $500
million in debt due Sept. 30 and also finance construction, Joe
Pezzimenti, an S&P analyst, wrote in an Aug. 30 report. The
authority had planned to use the federal loan to pay off the
$500 million bought by Barclays Plc in February.  “The project is currently undergoing a creditworthiness
analysis at the U.S. DOT,” Nancy Singer, a Federal Highway
Administration spokeswoman in Washington, said by e-mail. “We
are aware of the situation and are working with the state of New
York.”  Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said at a U.S. Senate
hearing in July that the project is “of national significance”
and he expects it to move forward. If it does, New York will be
asked to submit a formal application and then negotiate terms, a
process that can take longer than three months, according to the
agency’s website.  The authority “remains committed to ensuring our long-term
financial health and maintaining our current  credit rating ,”
Dan Weiller, an authority spokesman, said by e-mail. “We are in
almost constant contact with USDOT,” he said.  Matt Wing, a Cuomo spokesman, said by phone that he
referred to the Thruway Authority for comment.  Relative Return  As the authority grapples with how it’ll pay for the
bridge, Thruway bonds maturing in January 2042 traded Sept. 3 at
an average yield of 4.96 percent, Bloomberg data show. The debt
has an A+ grade from S&P, fifth highest. It yielded about 0.38
percentage point more than benchmark munis, close to the
smallest spread since the bonds’ June 2012 issue.  Agency debt hasn’t been exempt from the biggest losses in
the municipal market since 1999.  The average price on the bonds due in 2042 fell below 100
cents on the dollar on Aug. 19 for the first time since they
were issued, Bloomberg data show. The securities have since
rallied to as high as about 102 cents on the dollar, the data
show.  “The credit sells extremely well in-state,” said Clark Wagner, who oversees $1.5 billion as director of fixed income at
First Investors Management Co. For individual investors looking
to buy bonds, as prices fall below par, “the credit aspect
isn’t as important as the dollar price.”  October Wrap  The authority expects to have the loan and complete its
financing plan in October, according to Pezzimenti. The agency’s
credit rating may fall depending on spending on the bridge and
capital costs needed to maintain its 570-mile (917-kilometer)
toll road, Pezzimenti said.  The delayed loan shows municipalities “can’t always assume
there will be a timely response from  Washington ,” Cure said.
“It gets more problematic the more it gets pushed out.”  By 2016, the agency will be near the bottom limit of the
debt-coverage ratio required by bond covenants, according to
projections in budget documents that didn’t include the cost of
a new bridge. Last year, it scrapped a plan to raise tolls on
trucks by 45 percent, replacing the more than $80 million the
increase would have earned with state funds pushed through the
legislature by Cuomo.  Ratings Concern  “They will have to take further action before the bridge
is done,” Pezzimenti said by phone. The rating company is
concerned the authority won’t be able to maintain its rating
“without implementing some revenue enhancements or lower
costs,” he said.  The authority may benefit from dwindling muni debt
throughout New York. The state and its localities issued about
$19 billion this year through last week, compared with about $30
billion over the same period in 2012, Bloomberg data show. Last
year, New York issuers sold more securities than any other
state.  The drop in sales has helped buoy New York munis, which
have lost 4.8 percent this year, compared with a 5.3 percent
decline for the broad market, S&P data show.  Municipal issuers from  Virginia  to  California  are set to
sell $4.8 billion in long-term debt next week. Localities plan
to issue about $1.5 billion this week, which was shortened by
the Labor Day holiday.  At  3.11 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are the
highest since April 2011. The  interest rate  compares with  2.89
percent (USGG10YR)  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 108 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  