-- Nadal’s Perfect Hard-Court Season Continues With U.S. Open Romp
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-09-05T04:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/nadal-s-perfect-hard-court-season-continues-with-u-s-open-romp.html
Rafael Nadal ’s perfect hard-court
season continued last night at the U.S. Open, as the Spaniard
advanced to the semifinals with a straight-set victory against
Tommy Robredo, moving to 20-0 on the surface this year.  Nadal, 27, cruised to a 6-0, 6-2, 6-2 victory over his
countryman, firing 28 winners without facing a single break
point. In four hard-court tournaments this year, Nadal has three
titles and has won 224 of 240 service games. He’s a perfect 67-for-67 in service games so far at the U.S. Open, the fourth and
final Grand Slam of the tennis season.  “I think I played my best match here at the U.S. Open this
year,” Nadal said in a televised interview after the match.
“I’m very happy.”  Nadal set up a semifinal showdown against  Richard Gasquet 
of  France , who beat  David Ferrer  in five sets yesterday at the
National Tennis Center in New York to secure his second career
Grand Slam semifinal appearance. In the women’s draw,  Victoria Azarenka  and Flavia Pennetta advanced in straight sets and will
meet in the semifinals tomorrow.  There are no women’s singles matches today as the men
conclude quarterfinal play. Defending champion  Andy Murray  of
the U.K. faces Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland this afternoon,
while top-seeded Novak Djokovic of Serbia headlines the night
session against Russian  Mikhail Youzhny .  Bryan Brothers  Americans Mike and  Bob Bryan , trying to become the first
men’s doubles team since 1951 to win all four Grand Slams in a
single season, also play today in the semifinals.  Gasquet beat fourth-seeded Ferrer of Spain 6-3, 6-1, 4-6,
2-6, 6-3 in 3 hours, 23 minutes, becoming the first Frenchman in
14 years to reach the U.S. Open semifinals. His only other
appearance in the final four at a Grand Slam was in 2007 at
Wimbledon, where he fell to eventual champion  Roger Federer .  While Gasquet is winless in 10 ATP Tour meetings against
Nadal, he remembers beating the Spaniard 14 years ago at a
junior tournament in Tarbes, France. A  video of the match’s
conclusion  on the video-sharing website YouTube shows Gasquet
clinching the deciding third set 6-4 with a forehand winner.  “I told my father after, ‘He’s a big fighter,’” Gasquet
said yesterday, remembering the match. “I didn’t lie. I was
true. In the future this one is biggest players in the world in
the history.”  Nadal, who has a winning record against every player in the
top 30, said yesterday that the 1999 loss in Tarbes came at one
of his first international tournaments.  “Richard was amazing in that moment,” he said. “It was a
great battle for me.”  Hard-Court Titles  A 12-time Grand Slam singles champion and No. 2 seed at the
 U.S. Open  behind Djokovic, Nadal has hard-court titles already
this year in  Indian Wells ,  California ;  Montreal , and Cincinnati.
His perfect record includes six wins over players ranked in the
top seven in the world, with two coming against Federer, a five-time U.S. Open champion.  The hard-court success also propelled Nadal to the top of
the U.S. Open Series standings, meaning he will receive an
additional bonus depending on his finish at the Open. If he wins
his second U.S. Open title next week, for example, he’ll receive
$1 million on top of the winner’s share of $2.6 million.  Azarenka Advances  Azarenka beat Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia 6-2, 6-3 to
advance to her seventh Grand Slam semifinal. The 24-year-old
Belarusian and two-time Australian Open champion lost to  Serena Williams  last year in the U.S. Open final.  Azarenka said yesterday that her strong play was a product
of increased fitness training following injuries this year to
her right knee and back.  “I came back on another fitness level,” she told
reporters yesterday. “I feel like I have heavier shots now.”  Pennetta, who did not play last year due to a wrist injury,
dispatched friend and compatriot Roberta Vinci 6-4, 6-1
yesterday in 65 minutes. Pennetta, 31, is the second Italian
woman in as many years to make the semifinals, after Vinci last
year became the first in 83 years to achieve the feat.  It’s Pennetta’s first career Grand Slam semifinal after
making three previous U.S. Open quarterfinals. She has never
advanced past the fourth round of any other major.  “I’m proud of me now,” Pennetta told reporters. “I’m 31,
and physically I feel good finally. I’m in the first semifinal
in Grand Slam. There is nothing to say more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in New York at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  