-- Neopost Takes on Software Companies With Digital Mail Offering
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-09-05T08:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/neopost-takes-on-software-companies-with-digital-mail-offering.html
Neopost SA (NEO) , the world’s second-largest supplier of mail-room equipment, will enable customers
to increase their use of online post in a bid to compete with
software companies.  “It’s driven by a desire by many of our customers to
communicate digitally,” Dennis LeStrange, head of Neopost for
the U.S., said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It helps to
drive more value, more efficiency with less cost.”  The Bagneux, France-based company, which provides postage
meters, folder inserts, addressing, mailing and letter-opening
systems and services, is targeting organic sales growth of at
least 5 percent at constant exchange rates this year as customer
demand for communication management solutions helps weather
Europe’s economic woes.  Neopost’s software, called Delivery Preference Manager,
will allow recipients of invoices and promotions to opt for
electronic mail instead of physical post, LeStrange said. Beyond
savings on paper, ink, and postage, it may also “reduce the
need for  call centers ,” he said.  The service will be introduced from Sept. 9 in the U.S.,
and offered in Europe in the next 12 months, he said.  GMC Software Technology, acquired by Neopost last year,
alongside  Pitney Bowes Inc. (PBI) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , EMC Document
Sciences,  Adobe Systems (ADBE)  and Thunderhead Ltd. are the leaders in
document output for customer communication management, research
company The Forrester Wave said in a September 2011 report.  Pitney Bowes, based in Stamford, Connecticut, is the
world’s largest provider of mail-room equipment.  Neopost fell 0.2 percent to 52.91 euros at 9:15 a.m. in
Paris. The stock has risen 32 percent this year while Pitney
Bowes is up 57 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  