-- Newcrest to Restrict Investor Contact After Reviewing Disclosure
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-09-05T01:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/newcrest-to-restrict-investor-contact-after-reviewing-disclosure.html
Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , the Australian
gold producer under regulatory scrutiny over its disclosure,
will restrict its dealings with investors and analysts after an
internal review.  The company will implement the recommendations made in the
review by Maurice Newman, a former chairman of the Australian
Securities Exchange, which include limiting outlook forecasts to
12 months, Melbourne-based Newcrest said today in a statement.  “Consideration should be given to changing the emphasis
from pro-active to reactive contact,” Newman wrote in the
report. While restricting discussions with shareholders and
analysts “may not be optimal for the investing public, it may
be the company’s most prudent approach,” Newman wrote.  The  Australian Securities and Investments Commission  is
investigating a drop in Newcrest’s share price ahead of a June 7
announcement when it flagged a writedown of as much as A$6
billion ($5.5 billion). Suisse Group AG, Citigroup Inc. and UBS
AG were among banks that cut their ratings on Newcrest in the
three days before its statement, prompting concern from
regulators. Newcrest is continuing to assist ASIC’s inquiry, the
company said.  Newman found no “smoking gun” evidence indicating
analysts received selective briefings from Newcrest ahead of the
announcement. He said he hadn’t been able to interview analysts
because of the ASIC inquiry and hadn’t sought access to
Newcrest’s e-mail records.  The gold producer fell 1.3 percent to A$13.23 at 10:36 a.m.
in Sydney trading.  Australia ’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index fell
0.5 percent. Newcrest is the  worst performer  this year among
Australia’s 50 largest publicly listed companies, declining 40
percent.  “The disclosure question is a bit of a sideshow to the
broader question that the chairman and CEO ought to be held to
account for A$6 billion in writedowns,” Stephen Mayne,
spokesman for the Australian Shareholders’ Association, said
today by phone. The association represented 277 retail investors
at Newcrest’s 2012 annual general meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  