-- Nomura Said to Begin Ashikaga Exit With $210 Million Sale
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-09-05T03:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/nomura-said-to-begin-ashikaga-exit-with-210-million-sale-1-.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  will begin its
exit from Ashikaga Holdings Co. by selling about 21 billion yen
($210 million) of preferred shares in the Japanese regional
bank, said two people briefed on the matter.  Nomura Capital Investment Co., a unit of Japan’s largest
brokerage, is poised to sell 8,000 preferred shares to closely
held Ashikaga next week for 2.58 million yen apiece, said the
people, who asked not to be named as the transaction is private.  The sale would further Nomura’s goal of exiting private
equity investments as Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai focuses
on bolstering profit growth. It joins global firms including
Bank of America Corp. in selling assets to raise cash and
concentrate on their main businesses as regulators tighten
capital and liquidity requirements.  Nomura, which first invested in Utsunomiya, Tochigi-based
Ashikaga in 2008 when it bought shares held by the government,
is preparing to sell a portion of the stake in an initial public
offering or through mergers and acquisitions, the people said.  Kenji Yamashita, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Nomura,
declined to comment, as did Ashikaga’s spokesman Ikumasa
Kobayashi.  Government Takeover  Nomura bought 46 percent of common shares in Ashikaga from
the government for about 61 billion yen in 2008, according to
the regional bank’s regulatory filings. Tokyo-based Nomura has
also invested about 58 billion yen in preferred shares and debt.
 Japan  took over the failed bank in 2003 after bad loans mounted
following the collapse of the country’s asset bubble.  Ashikaga will seek to buy back as many as 10,000 preferred
shares from investors and cancel them to reduce costs for
dividend payments and increase cash reserves, the lender said in
a statement on May 31.  Nomura almost halved its private equity-related investments
to 107 billion yen as of June 30 from 206 billion yen a year
earlier, according to an earnings presentation released in July.  It sold a stake in Annington Homes Ltd., a U.K. housing
estate company, for 914 million pounds ($1.4 billion) in
December. In 2011, the bank sold Japanese family restaurant
chain Skylark Co. to Bain Capital LLC and Tsubaki Nakashima Co.,
a bearing and machine-tool maker, to Carlyle Group LP.  Ashikaga hired Nomura as the lead manager of the IPO and
may sell new shares in addition to existing stock, two people
familiar with the deal said last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  