-- Nordics Need Tighter Lending Rules to Fortify Banks, IMF Says
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-09-05T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/nordics-need-tighter-lending-rules-to-fortify-banks-imf-says.html
The Nordic region should continue
tightening mortgage lending to ensure banks have enough funds to
withstand losses, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Sweden,  Norway ,  Denmark  and  Finland  should raise risk
weights for mortgages “to ensure adequate capital buffers for
banks while providing sufficient liquidity in the system,” the
Washington-based organization said in a report published today.  “The mix of large and integrated banks, high  household
debt  and elevated property prices creates shared regional
risks,” the IMF said. There would be “merit in deeper regional
cooperation and greater clarity on common bank resolution
procedures, even as the European financial architecture
continues to evolve.”  Sweden should restrict the availability of interest-only
mortgages while Finland should make its loan-to-value
recommendation on home loans binding, the IMF said. In Norway,
where housing prices have doubled over the past decade, the IMF
recommended addressing an overheating  property market  with
tighter regulations.  Rising household debt has become a preoccupation for policy
makers in the region, with credit ratios rising to about 200
percent of disposable income in Norway, about 170 percent in
Sweden and 117 percent in Finland. Danes bear the world’s
highest private debt burden, at 310 percent of disposable
incomes, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development estimates.  ‘On Track’  “Norway is on track to implement a counter-cyclical
capital buffer in mid-2014 and Sweden moved to increase capital
and liquidity buffers and introduced a risk-weight floor for
mortgages,” the IMF said. Sweden, the region’s largest economy,
should continue with accommodative  monetary policy , “assuming
household credit growth remains contained.”  Swedish banks must hold at least 10 percent core Tier 1
capital of risk-weighted assets this year, with the minimum
requirement rising to 12 percent in 2015. Risk weights determine
how much capital banks must set aside for mortgage lending.
Norway plans to impose higher core capital requirements on banks
than those set by international regulators. It’s targeting core
capital requirements of 10 percent of risk-weighted assets by
July next year, up from 9 percent. For systemically important
banks, the target will rise to 11 percent in 2015 and 12 percent
in 2016.  The Riksbank today kept its main lending rate unchanged at
1 percent for a fourth consecutive meeting. It has sought to
balance policy to address accumulating debt without stifling an
economic recovery.  Sweden ’s economy will expand 1.1 percent this
year and 2.3 percent in 2014, while Norway’s mainland economy,
which excludes oil and gas production and shipping, will grow
2.8 percent in both years, according to the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  