-- Norwegian Air’s New Dreamliner Stuck in Sweden Causes Delays
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-09-05T15:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/norwegian-air-s-new-dreamliner-grounded-in-sweden-causing-delays.html
Norwegian Air Shuttle AS’s (NAS)  second
 Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliner has been grounded in Sweden since
Sept. 2 with apparent brake difficulties, forcing the carrier to
lease two jets as it adds routes beyond the Nordic region.  The aircraft, delivered last month and not yet flown
commercially, is showing indications of a braking-system
malfunction. The Fornebu, Norway-based airline is working with
Boeing to diagnose the issue and hasn’t yet figured out what’s
wrong, spokesman Lasse Sandaker-Nielsen said by phone.  As the plane was scheduled to begin service this week,
flights to New York and Bangkok got backed up and the airline
had to lease two Airbus SAS A340s from Portugal’s Hi Fly to
carry passengers, he said. The jets were wet-leased, meaning
they come complete with crew.  “We had many hours delay on the  New York  and Bangkok route
and we’re still a bit behind,” Sandaker-Nielsen said. “We’ve
been working 24/7 with Boeing since Monday to try and fix this
but it’s still not fixed and we really don’t have a specific
timeframe.”  Boeing is working with Norwegian to get the plane into
service as soon as possible, U.K.-based spokeswoman Fiona
O’Farrell said by phone. The Chicago-based planemaker has
delivered a total of 83 Dreamliners to 13 customers, including
10 last month, according to the company’s website.  Error Message  Earlier today, an  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202)  787 flying to Ube,
Japan, from Tokyo, got an error message indicating an issue with
the plane’s hydraulic system, though the jet kept flying and
landed safely, Kyodo reported. The return flight was canceled,
the  news agency  said.  Boeing’s flagship airliner, which made its commercial debut
in 2011, came under scrutiny after a Dreamliner caught fire in
 London  in July, a blaze later linked to defective wiring in an
emergency beacon widely used by airlines. The aircraft,
distinctive for its composite fuselage and electrical
architecture, was grounded for three months earlier this year
after  lithium-ion batteries  smoldered on two 787s.  Norwegian, which last year ordered 222 Boeing and Airbus
airliners valued at 127 billion kroner ($21 billion), is flying
new routes and opening bases outside the Nordic region as it
steps up competition with state-backed  SAS Group AB. (SAS)  Norwegian,
founded in 1993, switched to a discount model in 2001, emulating
 Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and EasyJet Plc.  Earlier this week, the airline announced plans to fly from
Scandinavia to California, saying the latest batch of 787s made
such long-haul discount routes viable. Services linking
Stockholm with  Los Angeles  are set to commence in March, to be
followed by flights from Copenhagen in April and Oslo in June,
with an introductory fare of $236 each way. Oakland will be
served from Stockholm and Oslo starting in May.  Until the 787 can be put into service, the airline is using
the same wet-lessor as it did earlier this year when its first
Dreamliner delivery was delayed by the battery glitches that
grounded the Boeing model.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  