-- Novozymes Sticks to Sales Goal as China Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-06T01:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/novozymes-sticks-to-sales-goal-even-as-u-s-china-slow.html
(Corrects to say sugarcane-bagasse plants in fifth
paragraph of story originally published Sept. 5)  Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , the largest maker of
industrial enzymes, expects to achieve a target to sell its
output to more than 15 cellulosic-ethanol plants by 2017 even as
markets in the U.S. and  China  slow.  “That will happen, so I’m not so concerned,” Peder Holk Nielsen, chief executive officer of the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based
company, said in an interview in Beijing.  Novozymes, which hasn’t said how many cellulosic-ethanol
plants it already sells to, seeks to add clients as governments
study using more biofuel to replace gasoline. Its expansion in
 Brazil , where use of sugarcane biogas is growing, was given a
boost with its 2012 acquisition of a stake in  Beta Renewables
SpA , which uses Novozymes products to break down non-food crops
or waste and turn them into the sugary liquids used in biofuels.  Beta Renewables has sold a technology license to Brazil for
production of biofuels that use agricultural waste as feedstock,
Nielsen said yesterday.  The CEO expects more sugarcane-bagasse plants to open in
the Latin American country, the world’s top sugar producer,
around 2015. Residue from sugarcane processing “already sits in
the backyard of ethanol plants, so it’s very available and makes
it easiest for the Brazilians to go for it.”  Biofuels growth has eased in  North America  and China as
economic expansion ebbs. The U.S. corn-ethanol market shrank
last year after overproduction caused a glut and corn prices
soared, and will recover slowly, Nielsen said. China doesn’t yet
offer subsidies to blend cellulosic ethanol into gasoline,
curbing demand.  Expansion Slows  “Back in 2008, Chinese companies had very aggressive
plans, so did American companies, and everything got delayed
because of the crisis at least outside China and a lack of
political commitment to do it,” Nielsen said.  Beta Renewables has a cellulosic-ethanol  demonstration
plant  in Crescentino,  Italy , that started in the first half and
will produce as many as 20 million gallons a year. Producers of
biomass use the facility to process their material and can buy
enzymes -- the catalysts needed for conversion -- from
Novozymes, Nielsen said.  “There’s a long line of partners waiting to get in. We’re
working to get the plant running at full speed continuously,”
he said. He expects the site to operate at maximum capacity this
year.  Novozyme’s bioenergy division accounted for 15 percent of
 sales  in the first half. The household-care unit contributed the
biggest share at 35 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  