-- Apple Said to Near Deal With Japan’s DoCoMo to Sell IPhone
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o ,   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-09-06T06:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/ntt-docomo-said-to-be-near-agreement-with-apple-to-offer-iphone.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most-valuable company, is near a final agreement to offer its iPhone
through the largest mobile carrier in Japan,  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) ,
according to people familiar with the situation.  DoCoMo may begin offering the iPhone later this year, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. Apple will debut new iPhones at a Sept.
10 event at its headquarters in Cupertino,  California , a person
familiar with the matter has said.  For Apple, the agreement would eliminate one of the largest
remaining holdouts for its smartphone, which has been overtaken
in sales by Samsung Electronics Co. handsets.  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  and
 KDDI Corp. (9433) , the next two largest mobile carriers in  Japan ,
already offer the iPhone. Closing a deal with DoCoMo would leave
China Mobile Ltd. as the last major Asian carrier that Apple
doesn’t have an agreement with.  “That will promote the shift toward smartphones from
feature phones in Japan,” Hitoshi Hayakawa, an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo, said by phone today.
“Smartphone penetration is still about 40 percent in Japan, and
there is room for growth.”  Adding a provider that controls the largest share of
Japan’s mobile-phone market is critical for Cupertino,
California-based Apple as sales and  profit growth  have slowed
and it seeks new customers to buy its handsets. Apple plans to
open a store in  Tokyo ’s upscale Omotesando shopping district as
early as March, adding its first outlet in the city since 2005,
a person familiar with the plans said last month.  New iPhone  Apple shares have fallen about 30 percent from a September
peak as investors fret about whether it can deliver another
breakthrough product. The shares fell 0.7 percent to $495.27 as
of the close in  New York  trading yesterday.  DoCoMo shares rose 0.6 percent to close at 160,500 yen in
Tokyo. SoftBank, which offered the iPhone in Japan in 2008,
slumped 2.2 percent to 6,380 yen. KDDI, which began offering the
smartphone in 2011, dropped 0.2 percent to 4,895 yen.  The Nikkei news agency reported the talks earlier.  At next week’s event, Apple will unveil an update to the
iPhone, as well as a new less-expensive model, a person familiar
with the device has said. Japan accounted for $2.54 billion of
Apple’s $35.3 billion in sales last quarter.  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment on talks with the Japanese provider. DoCoMo said in a
statement, “we’re not the source of information and nothing has
been decided at this point.”  Sony, Sharp  DoCoMo has been adding fewer subscribers than KDDI and
SoftBank, partly because it doesn’t offer the iPhone. DoCoMo
added 43,000 users in August, compared with 209,200 at KDDI and
250,300 for SoftBank.  DoCoMo is reducing the number of phone models in its stores
by as many as half as its focuses promotions on  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
Samsung Electronics Co. handsets, Chief Financial Officer Kazuto Tsubouchi said in an interview last month.  The carrier would consider offering the iPhone if it could
limit the smartphone’s share of sales to less than 30 percent of
the company’s total, Tsubouchi said at the time. The Japanese
carrier’s online store, called dmarket, offers music, videos and
games, competing against Apple’s iTunes Store.  “It seems like DoCoMo’s decision came too late,” said
Tomoaki Kawasaki, an analyst at Iwai Cosmo Holdings Inc. in
Tokyo. “The company’s ability to give discounts on the iPhone
is limited” because it needs to promote phones using Google
Inc.’s Android operating system, he said.  DoCoMo forecast smartphone sales would rise 20 percent to
16 million units in the year ending March 31 from 13.3 million a
year earlier, the company said in April.  The carrier’s so-called two-top strategy to promote Sony’s
Xperia and Samsung’s Galaxy in its summer campaign is hurting
sales for other suppliers. NEC Corp. said in July it ended
development of smartphones, and Panasonic Corp. said Sept. 4 its
smartphone operations will likely shrink due to falling sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  