-- Home Depot CEO Sees Housing Recovery Boosting Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-09-06T20:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/home-depot-ceo-sees-housing-recovery-boosting-sales.html
Home Depot Inc. (HD)  Chief Executive
Officer Frank Blake said rising home prices this year will spur
renovation spending, helping the retailer even as increasing
mortgage rates put pressure on the U.S. housing recovery.  “As we look into the back half of 2013, we continue to see
the housing market improving -- not a blistering pace but a
steady, steady improvement,” Blake, 64, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters yesterday.  Analysts project rising borrowing costs will squeeze
property sales, which in turn could damp demand for big-ticket
items such as fridges, jacuzzis and granite counters at Home
Depot, the biggest U.S. home improvements retailer. Purchases of
new U.S. homes sank 13.4 percent in July, the most in more than
three years as mortgage rates have climbed since May.  The Atlanta-based company will continue to benefit this
year from a surge in business from private equity firms and
other investors fixing up properties and renting them out, Blake
said. The chain operates a unit catering to these customers, who
favor products that are durable and easy to replace, Blake said.  For these buyers, “style isn’t your top consideration,”
he said. Their mindset is to turn around the investment “in a
couple of years.”  The average rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate loan rose to 4.57
percent this week, close to a two-year high, according to
McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac.  Jobs Market  Still, a shortage of property inventory and an improving
jobs market is buoying house prices. The S&P/Case-Shiller index
of property values in 20 cities rose 12.1 percent in June from
the same month in 2012 after rising 12.2 percent in the year
ended in May, which was the biggest gain since March 2006.  “As home prices go up, people start going, ‘OK, my house
is now back to being a significant source of value for me,’”
Blake said.  Pent-up demand by homeowners who delayed spending in the
housing downturn “is working in Home Depot’s favor,” said
William Smead, who oversees about $600 million including the
retailer’s shares as CEO of Smead Capital Management in  Seattle .  “For homeowners, there’s a lot of work that goes on all of
the time,” Smead said today by telephone. “People postponed a
lot of that work.”  Analysts on average project Home Depot’s revenue will
increase 5.1 percent this fiscal year to $78.6 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That trails growth of
6.2 percent in the previous year. Home improvement spending in
the second-half periods of 2011 and 2012 was boosted by
hurricane damage, Blake said.  Home Depot fell 0.4 percent to $72.70 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 18 percent this year, compared with
a 16 percent advance by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Chris Burritt in Greensboro at +1-336-808-1348 or
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  