-- Honduran Violence Less Threatening Than Deficit, Mondragon Says
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-05T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/honduran-violence-less-threatening-than-deficit-mondragon-says.html
Honduras is overcoming investor
fears of drug violence and needs to rein in a widening  budget
deficit  to sustain economic growth four years after a coup,
central bank President Maria Elena Mondragon said.  The next government should eliminate tax exemptions to
increase revenue and control public  spending  following November
presidential elections, Mondragon said in an interview yesterday
in Tegucigalpa. The budget deficit is projected to reach 6
percent of gross domestic product this year from an initial
forecast of 4.5 percent, she said.  “The fiscal deficit continues to be a big challenge,”
Mondragon, 56, said in her office overlooking the national
soccer stadium. “There should be a simpler  tax policy  to be
able to control evasion and improve tax collection.”  Growth in Central America’s biggest coffee producer has
averaged 3.6 percent per year since the 2009 coup that sent then
President  Manuel Zelaya  into exile and caused Honduras’s $18
billion  economy  to contract 2.4 percent. His successor, Porfirio Lobo, boosted public sector debt to 52 billion lempiras ($2.5
billion) from 21 billion lempiras in 2009 to help stabilize the
economy as investors fled.  Yet a homicide rate of 86 for every 100,000 citizens, one
of the highest in the world and almost 20 times the U.S. level,
costs the country about 10 percent of GDP, the World Bank
 estimates . About 87 percent of all cocaine smuggling flights 
departing South America land in Honduras, the U.S. State
Department said in a March  report .  Bad Publicity  Drug-related violence “is undoubtedly a problem and we
recognize that it is a problem in the country,” Mondragon said.
“It isn’t a problem exclusive to Honduras, but unfortunately it
has been perceived as such due to negative publicity.”  Standard & Poor’s lowered Honduras’s  credit rating  last
month to B from B+, citing a rising debt burden and a limited
ability to fund deficit spending. The B rating, five levels
below investment grade, puts Honduras in the same category as
Ghana and  Venezuela .  Honduras’s dollar bonds lost 16 percent since being sold in
March, double the 8 percent decline for emerging market debt
over the same period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. The bonds now yield 10.7 percent.  “It’s just not sustainable for an economy to be growing on
the back of public sector investment,” said Carl Ross, managing
director at brokerage firm Oppenheimer & Co. in Atlanta. “It
needs to be replaced by private sector investment.”  Foreign Investment  Foreign direct investment since the 2009 turmoil will more
than double to about $1.1 billion this year, lagging behind
 Costa Rica ,  Guatemala  and  Panama , which is undertaking a $5.25
billion expansion of the Panama Canal, according to United
Nations  data .  Under Lobo, Honduras signed a $624 million contract with
Manila-based International Container Terminal Services Inc. to
improve port facilities and generate as many as 10,000 new jobs.
It also signed an accord with BG Group Plc to search for oil off
the Caribbean coast, the first offshore exploration effort in
Honduras in 30 years.  Economic growth is forecast to slow to 3 percent this year
from 3.3 percent last year, due in part to diminished coffee
exports stemming from leaf rust disease, the  International
Monetary Fund  said last month. Consumer prices rose 5.6 percent
in July from a year earlier, up from 5.3 percent in June, led by
increasing health costs, and may accelerate to 5.8 percent,
Mondragon said.  BBQ Ribs  Mondragon, who received a master’s degree from the
University of  Memphis  in  Tennessee , was the country’s second
female central bank chief and is one of about 20 in the world,
including governors in  Russia ,  Argentina  and  South Korea . She
said she picked up a taste for barbecued ribs and blues music
while in Memphis. The daughter of an economist, Mondragon
started her career at the bank in 1976, while still an
undergraduate.  “As a child, I never imagined I would study economics,”
Mondragon, a mother of three who was the first head of the
Central American Monetary Council, said. “I feel very honored
and proud to be in my position.”  With her term set to expire in January, Mondragon said the
next government will face a “tough job” in improving the
fiscal situation. Analysts agree.  “Addressing the fiscal deficit is an absolute must for the
incoming president, no matter who it is and the options are
limited and the situation is going to be very difficult,” said
Jefferson Finch, who tracks  Honduras  at the Eurasia Group in  New
York . “It’s going to be a very challenging fiscal situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in Tegucigalpa, Honduras at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  