-- Hongkong Land Seeks More Singapore Office Plots: Southeast Asia
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-09-06T06:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/hongkong-land-seeks-more-singapore-office-plots-southeast-asia.html
Hongkong Land Holdings Ltd. (HKL) , which
owns a stake in the biggest developer of Singapore’s new
financial center, will seek more commercial plots in the island-state as tenants seek to upgrade to new buildings.  Hongkong Land, part of a venture with  Cheung Kong Holdings
Ltd. (1)  and  Keppel Land Ltd. (KPLD) , will evaluate land purchases in
Singapore’s prime office areas when the government puts them on
sale, Executive Director Robert Garman said. The venture built
the key development in the new business district, Marina Bay
Financial Centre, for about S$4.5 billion ($3.5 billion).  Global banks such as Standard Chartered Plc and Macquarie
Group Ltd. upgraded their Singapore offices to new locations
developed by Hongkong Land and its partners, while Barclays Plc
and Nomura Holdings Inc. have relocated regional and global
functions to Singapore, ranked the easiest place to do business
for seven straight years by the World Bank. Monthly prime office
 rents  rose 4.2 percent in the June quarter from the previous
three months, according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  “We are confident of the Singapore office market,” Garman
said in an interview in Singapore on Sept. 4. “There are still
multinational companies that remain in older properties so one
can argue that there is sufficient demand that can be absorbed
in this new district.”  Marina Bay  The island-state’s move to open up its financial sector
after the 1997 Asian financial crisis has helped boost demand
for office space, according to CBRE Group Inc.  The area known as  Marina Bay  is a 360-hectare (890-acre)
development area created from reclaiming land off the sea
fronting the banking district, and now includes  Las Vegas Sands
Corp. (LVS) ’s Marina Bay Sands casino-resort with a convention center
that’s able to accommodate 45,000 delegates. Land reclamation
played a prominent role in the growth of Singapore’s central
business district, according to Los Angeles-based CBRE.  Rents in Marina Bay posted the strongest start to a
recovery with rents climbing 10.9 percent in the three months
ended June from the March quarter while the vacancy rate
declined 2 percentage points to 3.6 percent, property consultant
Cushman said.  “We are at a cusp where rents are bottoming out this year
and pricing power will shift back to the landlords next year,”
Vikrant Pandey, a Singapore-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian Pte,
said. “The economy is picking up, which will translate into
better office demand.”  Singapore  last month raised its forecast for economic
 growth  to a range of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent this year. The
government previously predicted growth of 1 percent to 3
percent. The economy expanded 2 percent in the first half, Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong said on Aug. 8.  Stagnant Recovery  Not all agree that Singapore’s office leasing market is on
a steady path to recovery. It remains difficult and fragile with
the global economy still searching for a sustainable growth
model, said Chia Siew Chuin, a Singapore-based director at
Colliers International UK Plc. The 17 countries that share the
euro remained the key area of concern with their governments
trapped in austerity and their banks reluctant to lend because
of economic uncertainties, she said.  Hongkong Land owns and manages about 450,000 square meters
(4.8 million square feet) of prime commercial space in Hong
Kong’s Central Business District. The company, based in the
city, develops premium residential properties in countries
including China and Singapore where its subsidiary, MCL Land
Ltd., is a developer.  More Relocations  Shares of Hongkong Land fell 2 percent to $6.26 as of 2
p.m. in Singapore trading, the biggest decline on the benchmark
Straits Times  Index. (FSSTI)  The stock has slid 10 percent this year,
compared with a 3.9 percent drop for the Straits Times Index.  Among companies that are set to upgrade their offices are
National Australia Bank Ltd. and Swiss Reinsurance Co., which
plan to take space at Asia Square Tower 2 in the new business
district, according to Colliers. The bank will move from Suntec
Tower Five while Swiss Re will relocate from One Raffles Place
Tower 1, Colliers said.  A lot of the new demand is also coming from energy and
mining sectors such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Plc. (RIO) ,
Garman said.  “Overall, we are confident on Singapore,” Garman said.
“Over the past 10 years, you have seen a migration of a lot of
companies out of older stock, particularly the banks where they
have more demanding needs that the older buildings cannot
provide.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  