-- Moody’s Thumbs Down on Upgrade With Tusk Debt Cut: Poland Credit
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o   a n d   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-09-06T08:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/moody-s-thumbs-down-on-upgrade-with-tusk-debt-cut-poland-credit.html
Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s  dashed hopes for a quick ratings upgrade for
Poland as Prime Minister Donald Tusk rattled investors with a
pledge to cancel bonds held by pension funds to cut public debt.  The government’s plans, designed to reduce its debt load by
$37 billion, “risk undermining investor confidence” and “do
not fundamentally alter our views” on creditworthiness, Jaime Reusche, an analyst at Moody’s in  New York , said two days ago.
Credit-default swaps, contracts insuring Poland’s debt against
non-payment, rose to a two-month high yesterday, while German
swaps declined, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on five-year Polish notes rose for the fifth day
even as Tusk’s plan will eliminate 21 percent of outstanding
zloty  government bonds . That will boost the share of the
securities held by foreign investors to 45 percent, according to
calculations based on Finance Ministry data, at a time when
speculation over the  Federal Reserve ’s stimulus tapering plans
is increasing market volatility.  “Debt metrics will improve, but the risk increases as a
higher share of foreign investors in the bond market is a
warning for rating agencies,” Dariusz Lasek, who helps manage 7
billion zloty ($2.1 billion) as head of debt investments at
Union Investment TFI SA, said by phone from Warsaw yesterday.
“The  debt market  is going haywire, it can’t find its balance.”  ‘Accounting Exercise’  Tusk intends to cancel 121 billion zloty of government
bonds held by the 14 privately managed pension funds and ban
them from buying such securities, he said two days ago. Yields
on five-year notes jumped seven basis points to 4.31 percent at
10:03 a.m. in Warsaw, the highest in 12 months and an increase
of 28 basis points since the overhaul was announced on Sept. 4.  The government plan is “essentially an accounting exercise
that swaps an explicit liability for a contingent one,”
Benjamin Young, an associate at S&P, said in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg questions yesterday.  The cancellation would reduce public debt by 7.4 percent of
gross domestic product to an estimated 49.9 percent for 2013,
according to Moody’s Reusche. The  Czech Republic , rated three
grades higher at S&P, two higher at Fitch and one higher at
Moody’s, had a debt-to-GDP ratio of 47.8 percent at the end of
the first quarter, according to Eurostat data.  ‘More Clarity’  Poland is ranked A2 by Moody’s Investors Service and A- at
Standard & Poor’s. It has last seen its grade changed six years
ago.  Fitch Ratings  reduced its outlook for the sovereign’s A-rating to stable from positive on Aug. 23.  “We are awaiting some more clarity and information and
then we will comment,” Matteo Napolitano, a director at Fitch
Ratings, said by e-mail yesterday about Poland’s pension plans.  Banning pension funds from buying government bonds “would
make the role of foreign investors even more important in price
setting, hence leaving Poland more exposed to global trends,”
Brown Brother Harriman & Co. strategists led by  Marc Chandler 
wrote in a note yesterday. “Indeed, the first bond auction this
week held after the reforms were announced saw borrowing costs
rise sharply for the government.”  Poland sold 5.7 billion zloty of bonds at an auction
yesterday, including securities maturing in July 2018 at a yield
of 4.22 percent. It last sold five-year paper yielding more than
4 percent in April 2012, Finance Ministry data show.  Positives Outweigh  Polish bonds would have performed better yesterday if not
for the rise in yields on core markets, according to Jakub Taborowicz, who helps manage 17 billion zloty in debt at
Poland’s largest mutual fund, PZU TFI SA in Warsaw.  “The positives of the reform outweigh the negatives,
although the price reaction doesn’t reflect it,” he said by
phone yesterday. “The fact that the yield on 10-year bunds
breached 2 percent doesn’t help Polish bonds.”  The yields on  Poland ’s 10-year government bonds rose eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.94 percent today,
the highest since Sept. 20. The yields on similar German bonds
declined two basis points to 2.02 percent.  The zloty advanced 0.2 percent to 4.2913 against the euro
after sliding 1 percent in the previous three days. Quarter-to-date the zloty appreciated 0.8 percent, the third-best
performance among the 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The extra yield on Poland’s dollar bonds over
Treasuries was unchanged at 146, according to indexes compiled
by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Poland’s credit-default swaps, contracts insuring the
nation’s debt against non-payment, fell three basis points to 93
from the highest since July 5, while  Germany ’s was little
changed at 28, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The resulting reduction in public debt is not a game
changer for credit ratings, while posing significant risks to
the local  bond market  in a post-quantitative-easing world,”
Bank of America/Merrill Lynch economists Mai Doan, Raffaella Tenconi and Arko Sen wrote in a note yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net 
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa in Warsaw 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  