-- Top Brazil Copper Smelter Rises on Cost-Cutting Relocation Plan
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-09-05T18:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/top-brazil-copper-smelter-rises-on-cost-cutting-relocation-plan.html
Paranapanema SA (PMAM3) ,  Brazil ’s biggest
copper smelter, rose to the highest in three months after its
chief executive said he is revising plans to install a new plant
in the country in a bid to reduce costs.  Shares rose 1.3 percent to 4.85 reais at 2:33 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo , and gained as much as 2.7 percent, while the Ibovespa
Small Cap Index was little changed. Paranapanema is the index’s
best performer in the past year with a 119 percent surge.  The company is considering installing a processing plant in
Santo Andre, Sao Paulo state if it proves a more profitable
option than Espirito Santo state, CEO Edson Monteiro said.
Paranapanema bought the facility in  Poland  and plans to rebuild
it in Brazil using financing from Banco do Nordeste do Brasil,
as part of a 1.22 billion-real ($520 million) investment plan.  “The economic scenario is leading the company to rethink
whether or not this is the solution,” Monteiro said in an
interview in Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo offices.  The company is 65 percent through a 2011-2015 investment
plan that includes a 180 million-real investment in the Polish
plant and upgrading existing installations.  Sales reached a record high 1.29 billion reais in the
second quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company had a loss of 12 million reais in the second quarter,
attributed to currency volatility. With improved operational
results, the company should return to profitability, Monteiro
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  