-- Top Fund Manager Adds Banks After Stress Tests: Corporate India
-- B y   A m e y a   K a r v e   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-09-05T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/top-fund-manager-adds-banks-after-stress-tests-corporate-india.html
Indian banks, which posted their
 biggest  rally in four years yesterday, will defy predictions of
worsening bad loans with the economy poised for a rebound,
according to the nation’s biggest money manager.  HDFC Asset Management Co.’s Mid-Cap Opportunities Fund is
raising stakes in non-state lenders after the fund’s stress
tests showed they were “attractive,” said Chirag Setalvad, who
manages the portfolio. A Bloomberg  gauge  of 11 banks surged 9.9
percent yesterday after new central bank Governor Raghuram Rajan
flagged measures to free up the industry. The index has declined
48 percent from a May high as the monetary authority raised
 interest rates  to stem the rupee’s unprecedented drop.  Setalvad forecasts banks’  profitability , already at the
lowest since 2009, will recover in two years as Rajan unwinds
measures to support the currency that increased costs for banks,
and as  Asia ’s third-largest economy recovers. Overseas and local
investors have been selling lenders since June as bad loans rose
to the highest level in five years.  “The banking sector has got issues and when that happens
it presents an opportunity,” Setalvad, whose company manages
$15.9 billion of assets, said in an interview, without
identifying companies. “Even the ugly is getting priced in
adequately. The general expectation is that the economy will
recover therefore asset quality will improve.”  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  yesterday surged 22 percent to 287.50 rupees,
paring this year’s loss to 38 percent.  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) ,  India ’s
biggest lender by market value, rallied the most since May 2009.
The BI Indian Banks index’s 50 percent decline this year made it
the worst performing among 222 Asian indexes tracked by
Bloomberg.  ‘Underweight Banks’  Yesterday’s “jump in bank stocks has to be short-covering;
no long-only fund comes and buys in the manner that we saw,”
Prateek Agrawal, chief investment officer at ASK Investment
Managers Pvt., said in an interview on Bloomberg TV India. “We
are seriously underweight banks. The stress on their balance
sheets in terms of bad loans will only increase.”  Foreigners  sold  $1.4 billion of shares in lenders in the
two months to July after buying $3 billion in the January to May
period, latest data from the market regulator show. Indian fund
managers cut their holdings in bank shares to 17 percent in July
from 21 percent in January, data  show .  Bad loans in the banking system rose to 3.92 percent of
total lending as of June 30, the highest in at least five years,
from 3.4 percent at the end of March, according to central bank
data.  Bad Loans  The stressed-asset ratio, which measures bad loans and
restructured assets as a percentage of loans, was at 10.02
percent at the end of June, central bank data show. The measure
is approaching 10.4 percent, a level last seen in 2002,
according to rating company ICRA Ltd.  Rajan’s move this week to flag the need to cut the
requirement for banks to invest in  government securities  and
ensure lending to productive sectors of the economy, as well as
allow some lenders to open branches without seeking RBI
approval, will help improve the delinquent loan situation, said
Manish Sonthalia, a Mumbai-based  money manager  at Motilal Oswal
Asset Management Co.  The central bank will also look at ways to improve the
recovery mechanism for bad loans and propose a database for
large loans across lenders, Rajan, the ex-International Monetary
Fund chief economist, said.  “The steps may not alleviate immediate stress,” Seshadri Sen, a Mumbai-based analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote in a
report dated Sept. 4. “But some will have a major long-term
impact on bank profitability and growth.”  State Banks  HDFC Mid-Cap Opportunities Fund (HDFMCOG)  added 100,000 shares of Yes
Bank in July boosting its holding to 1.4 million shares and
bought 30,000 shares of  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  to increase ownership to
500,000 shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Holdings in state-owned  Punjab National Bank (PNB)  and  Indian Bank (INBK) 
were unchanged in the period.  The cost to insure debt of  State Bank of India (SBIN)  surged 165
basis points in three months, according to data provider CMA.
Setalvad is switching into non-state banks after his “call on
public sector undertaking banks went wrong,” he said. “I
didn’t anticipate the economic environment to get so adverse and
as a result the asset quality to remain under pressure for as
long as it has.”  Rating Cut  India’s $1.8 trillion economy expanded 4.4 percent in the
three months through June from a year earlier, the  slowest pace 
since 2009 amid weakening industrial production. The
government’s failure to cut its fiscal and current account
deficits prompted Standard & Poor’s this week to reiterate it
may downgrade India’s rating to junk.  The  Reserve Bank  raised two interest rates in July to
support the currency, further imperiling economic expansion. The
 rate  at which Indian banks lend to each other for three months
surged to a five-year high of 11.59 percent on Sept. 4, compared
with 8.52 percent at the end of June.  Easing of restrictions on banks and the government’s move
to attract overseas investments may help revive economic growth.
The IMF forecasts  India’s economy  will expand 6.3 percent in
2014. The RBI predicts a 5.5 percent growth in the year ending
March 31.  India’s lower house of parliament passed a bill allowing
foreign investment in the country’s pension funds for the first
time. The government, which eased norms for retail companies and
airlines, is also negotiating with opposition parties to raise
the FDI cap in insurance to 49 percent from the current 26
percent.  “Expectations of earnings growth are low as investors are
extrapolating low economic growth and low profit margins,”
Setalvad said. “There is a chance that we will be positively
surprised because margins should revert and medium-term growth
may be better than what is currently expected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  