-- Orders to U.S. Factories Decreased Less Than Forecast in July
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-09-05T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/orders-to-u-s-factories-decreased-less-than-forecast-in-july.html
Orders placed with U.S. factories
fell less than forecast in July as rising fuel prices propelled
the biggest gain in non-durable goods in a year.  The 2.4 percent decrease in  bookings  followed a revised 1.6
percent gain in the prior month, a Commerce Department report
showed today in  Washington . The  median  forecast of 62 economists
in a Bloomberg survey called for a decline of 3.4 percent.
Demand for non-durable goods climbed 2.4 percent, the most since
July 2012, as petroleum sales shot up 7.3 percent.  The report also showed that orders for capital equipment
dropped more than estimated in last week’s durable goods report,
a sign business investment was off to a slow start in the third
quarter. At the same time, data this week showing the  Institute
for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index jumped to the
highest level in more than two years indicate the housing
rebound and surging demand for automobiles are sustaining
factory activity.  “It’s an uneven recovery in manufacturing,”  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in
 Detroit , said before the report. “The sector will keep
expanding but there are some near-term concerns.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from declines of
0.5 percent to 5 percent. The Commerce Department revised the
June figure from a previously reported gain of 1.5 percent.  Other reports today showed applications for  unemployment
benefits  dropped more than forecast last week, companies kept
boosting payrolls last month and worker productivity climbed
more than projected in the second quarter.  Fewer Claims  Jobless  claims  declined by 9,000 to 323,000 in the week
ended Aug. 31, less than the lowest estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, from a revised 332,000, according to
Labor Department data.  Companies boosted employment by 176,000 workers in August,
figures from the Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research
Institute also showed today. The median forecast of 43
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 184,000 gain.
Estimates ranged from increases of 150,000 to 225,000.  The measure of employee output per hour increased at a 2.3
percent annualized rate from April through June after a 1.7
percent decline in the prior three months, another Labor
Department report showed. The gain in worker productivity
exceeded the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists
that called for a 1.6 percent advance. The increase in
efficiency last quarter was initially reported as 0.9 percent.  The Commerce Department’s factory orders report showed
bookings excluding transportation equipment rose 1.2 percent,
the most since January, after a 0.3 percent decrease the prior
month.  Durable Goods  Bookings for durable goods, those meant to last at least
three years, declined 7.4 percent. They make up just over half
of total factory demand. Today’s reading compared with the drop
of 7.3 percent estimated by the government on Aug. 26.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the Chicago-based aerospace company, had said
it received orders for 90 aircraft in July, down from 287 the
previous month.  Demand for non-durable goods, including petroleum, is often
influenced by changes in prices as the data are not adjusted for
inflation.  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
measure of future business investment, fell 4 percent after
increasing 1.1 percent the prior month. The figure was revised
down from the government’s estimate of a 3.3 percent decline
issued last week.  Growth Impact  Shipments of those goods, used in calculating gross
domestic product, decreased 1.7 percent, also more than
previously estimated, after a drop of 1 percent the previous
month.  Factory inventories climbed 0.2 percent in July, today’s
report showed. Manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last
1.29 months at the current sales pace, down from 1.3 in June.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, is likely to keep contributing to growth this year. The
ISM’s  factory index  rose to 55.7 in August, the highest level
since June 2011, from 55.4 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group reported on Sept. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  