-- Morgans Holder Seeks New Directors After Burkle Demand
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-09-05T13:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/morgans-holder-seeks-new-directors-after-burkle-demand.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC)  shareholder
Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC said it plans to nominate a
new slate of directors for the company, less than three months
after a board ouster and two days after the resignation of Chief
Executive Officer Michael Gross was announced.  Kerrisdale Capital, which owns about 4 percent of New York-based Morgans, said a new board is needed to sell the boutique-hotel operator, according to a letter to  stakeholders , filed
today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “The current directors of Morgans Hotel do not adequately
represent the interests of the majority of shareholders,” New
York-based Kerrisdale said in the letter.  The investment-management firm said it intends to nominate
a separate set of directors in 2014. The proposal follows a
demand by billionaire Ron Burkle’s Yucaipa Cos., also a Morgans
investor, that the board put the hotelier on the market. Burkle
called for a sale in a letter to Chairman Jason Kalisman that
was filed with the SEC two days ago, after Gross’s resignation
was announced. Kalisman is serving as interim CEO of Morgans.  OTK Associates LLC, founded by Kalisman and the owner of
about 14 percent of Morgans  shares , led an ouster of the board
in June. Morgans, which operates properties including the
Mondrian in Los Angeles and the Delano in Miami’s South Beach,
has  incurred losses  each quarter since 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Value Leakage’  “Maintaining Morgans as a standalone entity is highly
undesirable because we doubt that any management team can add
sufficient operational value relative to the value leakage
incurred by delaying a sale,” Kerrisdale said in its letter.  Burkle said earlier this week Yucaipa has more than $200
million of Morgans  debt  and warrants for about 30 percent of the
company’s stock. OTK in April sued Morgans board members over a
recapitalization deal with Yucaipa. OTK called a proposed swap
for the Delano South Beach and a $100 million rights offer
“insider dealings” that would benefit Yucaipa while Burkle was
on the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  