-- Canada’s Two Largest Real Estate Markets Surge in August
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-09-05T14:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/toronto-august-home-sales-rise-21-from-year-ago-realtors-say.html
Home sales in  Canada ’s two largest
real estate markets continued their surge in August from a year
earlier.  Sales in Toronto, the largest market, rose 21 percent from
August last year to 7,569 units, the Toronto Real Estate Board
said in a statement today, with average prices gaining 5.4
percent.  Vancouver  existing home sales rose 52 percent, that
city’s real estate board said yesterday.  Housing-market data are showing few signs of a hard landing
after warnings from economists and policy makers that a bubble
may have been forming. Buyers have adjusted to tighter mortgage
rules imposed last year, according to Diane Usher, president of
the Toronto realtor group.  “Many households have accounted for the added costs
brought on by stricter mortgage lending guidelines and have
reactivated their search for a home,” User said in today’s
statement.  Other regions and cities recording double-digit sales gains
in August include Victoria and the Fraser Valley areas of
British Columbia. Calgary, the third largest market, posted a 28
percent gain in home sales in August, with average prices up 8.8
percent, from a year earlier. Montreal has yet to report data
for August.  The average price of a home sold in Toronto was C$503,094
($479,820) in August, the Toronto realtors group said today.  There are signs the country’s housing market may be losing
some steam. Existing home sales recorded their smallest monthly
gain in five months in July, the  Canadian real estate
association  said Aug. 15. Banks including Royal Bank and
Toronto-Dominion, the two largest lenders, also have raised
 mortgage rates  in recent weeks to reflect higher yields in the
 bond market .  The Canadian Real Estate Association publishes aggregated
national data around the middle of each month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  