-- Outotec Bond Sale Extending Record for Debut Issuers in Europe
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-05T10:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/outotec-bond-sale-extending-record-for-debut-issuers-in-europe.html
Outotec Oyj (OTE1V) , the Finnish supplier of
smelters to mining companies, is selling its first bonds,
extending this year’s record for companies making their debuts
in Europe.  Outotec is poised to become the 74th first-time issuer,
adding to the equivalent of $39 billion of bonds in euros and
pounds this year and outstripping the previous high of $32
billion in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. EDP-Energias de Portugal SA, the nation’s biggest utility,  Eni SpA (ENI) ,
 Italy ’s largest oil company and Polish broadcaster TVN SA, are
also selling securities, according to people with knowledge of
the sales.  Corporate treasurers are being drawn to the bond market as
banks shrink their loan books to meet new rules to protect
taxpayers after the financial crisis compelled governments to
bail out lenders. Loans to companies in the region fell 8
percent in the first half and are 36 percent lower than the $598
billion recorded in the same period of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Companies are finding the new issue markets are open for
pretty much anyone at rates that are still quite low, while
banks are reducing their balance sheets,” said Juan Esteban Valencia, a Paris-based credit strategist at Societe Generale
SA. “I expect issuance will be strong throughout September.”  Growth Strategy  Espoo, Finland-based Outotec, which is unrated, is raising
150 million euros from seven-year bonds that will yield 200
basis points more than swaps. “The bond will support our long-term growth strategy where mergers and acquisitions are an
integral part,” Mikko Puolakka, the company’s chief financial
officer, said in a telephone interview. “We wanted to diversify
our funding sources and think that this is a good time to be in
the bond market as interest rates are low.”  Lisbon-based EDP, rated one level below investment grade at
BB+ by Standard & Poor’s, is selling seven-year benchmark-sized
notes in euros that may yield 5 percent to 5.125 percent. The
company last sold bonds in euros in September 2012, Bloomberg
data show.  Eni is marketing 900 million euros ($1.2 billion) of 12-year notes to yield 130 basis points more than the mid-swap rate
while  Acea SpA (ACE) ,  Rome ’s local power company that last sold
securities in March 2010, is raising 600 million euros from
five-year bonds to yield 230 basis points more than swaps.  Average yields on  investment-grade  bonds rose six basis
points this week to a two-month high of 2.1 percent, up from a
record-low 1.4 percent in May, Bloomberg index data show. The
rate on  high-yield  notes is 4.95 percent, up from 4.2 percent
four months ago, according to the data.  TVN, Poland’s second-largest television network, is raising
430 million euros from seven-year bonds that the company can
redeem after three years through its TVN Finance Corporation III
AB unit. The Warsaw-based broadcaster will use the proceeds to
refinance  notes  maturing in 2017, according to a person familiar
with the sale.  -- Editors: Michael Shanahan, Shelley Smith  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  