-- Panasonic Sees Sales Growth in Europe as Economy Starts Recovery
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-09-05T11:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/panasonic-sees-sales-growth-in-europe-as-economy-starts-recovery.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s biggest
consumer-electronics maker, expects European sales to increase
next year as the economy starts to stabilize and businesses
boost investments.  Panasonic sees growth now in eastern  Europe  and Germany in
areas including automotive, and expects southern European sales
to start rising next year, said Laurent Abadie, chief executive
officer for Panasonic in Europe. The company plans a business-to-business smartphone for the U.S. and Europe early next year
after halting handset sales in Europe, he said.  “Overall, sales are stable now and next year we are
planning growth,” Abadie said in an interview at the IFA
consumer-electronics show in Berlin today. “In Europe, there’s
big opportunities and still room for us to grow. Even in  Spain 
we think that we have reached the bottom and we have some signs
of recovery.”  Economic expansion in Germany and France has led the euro
region out of its longest recession, supporting the gradual
recovery forecast by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi . Euro-area services expanded in August for the first time
in 19 months, while a gauge of German factory output rose to the
highest level in more than two years. Economic confidence in the
zone soared to a two-year high in August as the currency bloc’s
recovery gathered pace.  Serbian Factories  About 9 percent of the Osaka-based company’s revenue comes
from Europe. Panasonic expects the region to account for more
than 10 percent within three years as it invests in areas
including consumer electronics and B2B segments, Abadie said.  “We are in fact building two new factories in  Serbia ,
which will be effective for 2014 or 2015, and we plan to produce
high-end products for Europe and Russia,” Abadie said. “That
could be a good opportunity for us.”  Panasonic said yesterday that full-year earnings could beat
its forecast as a weaker yen lowers prices for its products in
overseas markets.  “We’re seeing better numbers than we had anticipated,”
President  Kazuhiro Tsuga , said in an interview, declining to
give details. The company in July forecast net income of 50
billion yen ($502 million) for the year ending March 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  