-- Parkway to Acquire Thomas Properties in Texas Expansion
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-09-05T20:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/parkway-to-acquire-thomas-properties-for-294-million.html
Parkway Properties Inc. (PKY) , an office
landlord in the southern U.S., agreed to acquire  Thomas
Properties Group Inc. (TPGI)  for about $294 million in stock to expand
its holdings in the fast-growing  Texas  market.  Parkway will issue 0.3822 shares for each of Thomas’s
shares, valued at $6.26 based on yesterday’s closing price, the
companies said in a statement today. That is 9.8 percent higher
than Thomas’s last close. Thomas, based in  Los Angeles , has
about 47 million shares outstanding.  Including the assumption of debt, closing costs and a
bridge loan Parkway intends to provide, the deal is valued at
about $1.2 billion, according to the companies.  Parkway, based in  Orlando ,  Florida , has been seeking to add
buildings in Texas, where thriving energy and technology
industries are boosting office rents and occupancies. The
acquisition will give the real estate investment trust two
properties in Houston and five in Austin after the sale of
Thomas’s interests in buildings in other areas.  “This transaction will significantly expand and upgrade
our presence in Houston and simultaneously will allow us to
fulfill our stated strategy of expanding into the Austin
market,” Parkway President and Chief Executive Officer James Heistand said in the statement.  Parkway shares fell 1.7 percent today to $16.09. Thomas
rose 5.3 percent to $6.  Brandywine Deal  Parkway separately agreed to sell almost all of Thomas’s
interests in two office towers in Philadelphia to  Brandywine
Realty Trust (BDN)  for $332 million. The buildings, One and Two
Commerce Square, comprise a full city block and total almost 1.9
million square feet (176,500 square meters), Brandywine said in
a statement today. The Radnor, Pennsylvania-based REIT also will
buy a property and land parcel in Austin for $51 million.  Parkway will provide Thomas with a loan of as much as $80
million to pay a portion of the company’s cost of liquidating
its joint venture with the California State Teachers’ Retirement
System, the second-biggest U.S. pension fund. As part of the end
of the venture, Calstrs will get City National Plaza in Los
Angeles, plus $163.8 million in cash. Thomas Properties will own
CityWestPlace and San Felipe Plaza in Houston and three
properties in northern  Virginia .  The Virginia properties are in special servicing and are
expected to be liquidated before or shortly after the closing of
the Thomas purchase.  Houston Growth  The buildings that Parkway will own are 90 percent
occupied, the company said. The deal will more than double the
size of its Houston holdings.  Investor demand for office  properties  in Houston and Austin
is rising as rents and occupancies climb. Office rents in
Houston, the fourth-largest U.S. city,  rose  to $21.35 per square
foot in the second quarter, the highest since at least 2007,
according to data from New York-based  Reis Inc. (REIS)  The  vacancy  rate
was 14.2 percent in the second quarter, compared with 14.6
percent a year earlier.  In Austin, the state’s capital, the office-vacancy rate was
13.5 percent, 2.3 percentage points lower than a year earlier,
according to commercial brokerage  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  Asking
rents climbed 3.9 percent.  Parkway shares jumped 17 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 1.9 percent decline in the Bloomberg
REIT Index. Thomas Properties rose 5.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kara Wetzel in  New York  at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  