-- Peru Heading for Deepest Slowdown in Decade, Kuczynski Says
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-09-05T17:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/peru-heading-for-deepest-slowdown-in-decade-kuczynski-says.html
Peru’s government is underestimating
the impact of falling export revenue on the commodity-dependent
economy, which is heading for its slowest period of growth in a
decade, according to former Finance Minister Pedro Pablo Kuczynski.  The pace of expansion will likely remain around 4 percent
to 5 percent for the next two years as slower global demand
depresses the price of metals that account for close to 60
percent of exports, Kuczynski said in an interview in  Lima 
today.  South America’s sixth-largest economy will expand 5.7
percent this year and 6 percent in 2014 the Finance Ministry
said Aug. 28. Though stronger U.S. and European growth will
likely boost demand for metals, it can’t fully compensate for
weaker Chinese demand, he said.  “The first six months of the year were not bad, the second
half will be much slower,” said Kuczynski, Peru’s most
influential economist according to a poll published this week by
Lima-based Semana Economica magazine. “We’re having a slowdown
-- that happens in the world -- but we’ll pull out of it in the
next few years.”  President Ollanta Humala’s government has pledged this year
to award $10 billion of contracts to build railways, roads and
power plants and cut red tape to spur investment after exports
slumped.  The Finance Ministry forecasts a 0.3 percent fiscal surplus
this year and a balanced budget in 2014. While new mines will
spur output, lower prices will reduce revenue and hurt tax
collection, creating a fiscal deficit of at least 1 percent next
year, Kuczynski said.  Investor optimism about the outlook for growth in July fell
to its lowest since Humala was elected two years ago.  Peru ’s  economy , which grew an average 6.5 percent a year in
the last decade, expanded 4.4 percent in June from the same
period of 2012, the second-slowest pace in more than three
years.  The pace of growth will rise to 7 percent to 8 percent from
the second half of 2016 as $15 billion of mining projects come
on stream, Kuczynski said. An additional $30 billion of
potential mining projects could be developed and extend the
investment boom, he said.  Peru’s sol fell 0.1 percent to 2.81 per U.S. dollar at 1:07
p.m. in
Lima, according to Datatec prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  