-- Petrobras Share Value Imperiled by Top Brazil Find, UBS Says
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-09-05T16:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/petrobras-share-value-imperiled-by-top-brazil-find-ubs-says-1-.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3) ,  Brazil ’s
state-run crude producer, risks losing  shareholder value  from
developing the country’s largest oil discovery as high costs and
taxes erode returns, according to  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Petrobras, as the biggest producer in ultra-deep waters is
known, may lose as much as 1.50 real ($0.64) a share from its
role in the Libra field that is estimated to hold as much as 12
billion barrels of recoverable crude, UBS analysts led by
Lilyanna Yang said in a note to clients. A signing bonus of 15
billion reais for Petrobras and its partners will strain the Rio
de Janeiro-based company’s cash flow, UBS said.  Petrobras, the worst performing oil company with a market
value of more the $50 billion this year, will have at least a 30
percent stake in Libra and be in charge of operations, according
to Brazilian law. The scheduled October bidding round is the
first under new legislation for the so-called pre-salt region in
deep waters that holds Brazil’s biggest discoveries. UBS expects
“low interest” from Petrobras’s foreign rivals.  “We continue to hold a fundamentally negative view on
Libra,” the analysts said in the report dated Sept. 4. “Our
concerns on Libra are mainly twofold: expected low returns and
low profitability visibility, and high signing bonus payment to
be disbursed upfront which will stress Petrobras’s already tight
balance sheet.”  Petrobras rose 3.3 percent to 17.41 reais at 12:31 p.m. in
 Sao Paulo , narrowing the decline this year to 11 percent. On a
U.S. dollar total return basis, the stock has lost 22 percent.
The stock is already pricing in Libra risks, the UBS analysts
wrote, reiterating a buy recommendation.  Extraction Costs  UBS expects it to take Petrobras and its partners until
2021 to start selling crude from Libra, about two years longer
than estimates from the oil regulator. Higher-than-expected
levels of natural gas at the field will increase extraction
costs and require more equipment, the UBS analysts said.  Libra will be auctioned under a profit-sharing model where
Petrobras and its partners will give the government at least
41.65 percent of production after deducting enough output to
cover costs.  Including taxes, royalties and so-called profit oil, the
government’s take will be at least 70 percent, Magda Chambriard,
chief oil regulator, said in a June 13 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  