-- Peugeot Said to Seek Overtime Pay Reduction From Workers
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-09-05T11:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/peugeot-said-to-seek-overtime-pay-reduction-from-workers.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest carmaker, will ask French workers to cut overtime
pay and accept more flexible working conditions to slash fixed
costs, a person briefed on the matter said.  The Paris-based company will meet with unions later today
to propose cutting additional overtime pay by 20 percent to 25
percent, and lowering added money for working night shifts by 3
percent to 15 percent, said the person, who asked not to be
named because the discussions are private.  The French automaker is seeking about 600 million euros
($792 million) in annual savings by 2016 through its current
restructuring plan and these additional measures, the person
said. In exchange, Peugeot management would guarantee not to
close any additional French plants and keep worker’s base
salaries at current levels, the person said.  Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a spokesman for Peugeot, declined to
comment.  Peugeot, which posted a first-half  operating loss  of 510
million euros in its automotive division, plans to eliminate
11,200 jobs in  France  by 2015 and will close the Aulnay factory
on the outskirts of Paris. Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin pledged to cut the manufacturer’s cash-consumption rate by
50 percent in 2013 after burning through 3 billion euros last
year.  Following Volkswagen  Peugeot management will also ask unions to accept more
flexible working conditions that would allow the carmaker to
have workers stay at home on days when no work needs to be done,
the person said.  The effort to lower labor costs and make rules more
flexible is reminiscent of moves  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  made about 10
years ago, said Erich Hauser, an analyst at ISI Group.  “I don’t think Peugeot is the next VW, but we are starting
to see improvements off a low base,” said Hauser.  Peugeot  shares  rose as much as 4.2 percent, or 45 cents,
and were up 3.1 percent to 11 euros at 1:07 p.m. in Paris
trading. The stock has doubled this year, boosting the company’s
market value to 3.9 billion euros.  The French manufacturer is curbing costs as European car
market stabilizes after six years of decline. Peugeot was hit
hard by the region’s slump because its sells many of its small,
mid-range cars in debt-strapped southern Europe.  The Peugeot and Citroen brands had combined European market
share of 11.1 percent in the first half, a decline from 12
percent a year earlier, according to figures from the ACEA
carmakers’ lobby.  Peugeot’s competitor Renault finalized a deal in March with
unions to cut its French workforce by 17 percent, or 7,500 jobs,
by 2016 and freeze wages this year. A majority of Renault’s
unions also agreed to increase the average number of working
hours from 35 to 32 per week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  