-- Polish Stocks Slump Most in World on Pension Plan: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-09-05T14:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/polish-stocks-slump-most-in-world-on-pension-plan-warsaw-mover.html
Polish stocks slumped the most in
the world and government bond yields rose to the highest level
in almost a year as  Poland  unveiled changes to its pension
system that stopped short of full nationalization.  The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  retreated as much as 6.2 percent, the most
since Sept. 2011, and traded 4.8 percent lower, the world’s
worst-performing equity market today, to 2,197.52 at 4:29 p.m.
in Warsaw. The volume of shares traded was more than double the
gauge’s 30-day average. Bank Handlowy SA, the Polish unit of
Citigroup Inc., dropped 7.3 percent, while Globe Trade Centre
SA, the nation’s second-largest property developer, lost 7.7
percent.  Poland will take over and cancel  government bonds  held by
its privately managed pension funds, stopping short of fully
“nationalizing” the system as it seeks to curb public debt,
Prime Minister Donald Tusk said yesterday. The government will
not seize stocks held by the funds and workers’ future
contributions will be voluntary, he said.  “The pension news likely represents a net negative in flow
terms for domestic equities,” Pasquale Diana, an economist, and
Ronan Carr, an equity strategist at Morgan Stanley in  London ,
said in a joint report today. “Despite macro tailwinds
elsewhere, valuations remain very full relative to peers.”  Warsaw’s WIG20 Index  trades  at 11.8 times 12-month
estimated earnings, compared with a multiple of 10.1 for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  While the “worst case was avoided - an outright
liquidation,” reduced inflows  “undermine one justification
for a valuation premium” on Polish equities, according to
Morgan Stanley.  ‘Game Changer’  Polish pension funds will also be banned from buying
government debt. The country’s 14 pension funds held 121 billion
zloty of government debt as of July 31, 21 percent of the
outstanding total, compared with 36 percent owned by foreign
investors, Finance Ministry data show.  The reduction in public debt as a result of canceling bonds
held by pension funds “is not a game changer for credit
ratings, while posing significant risks to the local  bond market 
in a post-quantitative-easing world,” Bank of America/Merrill
Lynch analysts wrote in a note today.  Yield on the government’s five-year zloty-denominated bonds
rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.22
percent, the highest level since October 2012. The  Finance
Ministry  sold today 5.71 billion zloty of bonds, including
securities maturing in July 2018 at a yield of 4.22 percent. It
last sold five-year paper yielding more than 4 percent in April
2012.  The zloty lost 0.1 percent to 4.2811 per euro, trimming
this quarter’s advance to 1 percent, the fourth-biggest among 31
major currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  