-- Privacy Groups Criticize Facebook in FTC Letter on Policies
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-09-06T00:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/privacy-groups-criticize-facebook-in-ftc-letter-on-policy-change.html
Privacy groups asked the Federal
Trade Commission to prevent  Facebook Inc. (FB)  from changing its data
use policies on concern with how the social-network operator
handles user information for advertising.  The proposed update would violate the company’s policies
and an earlier settlement with the FTC, according to a letter to
the agency dated yesterday and signed by officials at six
groups, including the Electronic Privacy Information Center.
Facebook last week proposed to clarify how it manages data for
advertisements as part of an agreement stemming from a
settlement of a class-action lawsuit.  “The Federal Trade Commission must act now to protect the
interests of Facebook users,” the letter said. “The right of a
person to control the use of their image for commercial purposes
is the cornerstone of modern privacy law.”  Facebook has come under scrutiny for how it handles
personal information at the world’s largest social-networking
service. The company has faced multiple privacy flaps over the
past few years, which it has taken steps to address. In late
2012, Facebook unveiled new privacy tools that provided
shortcuts for managing settings, including what members can see
on user accounts.  “We are taking the time to ensure that user comments are
reviewed and taken into consideration to determine whether
further updates are necessary and we expect to finalize the
process in the coming week,” Debbie Frost, a spokeswoman for
the company, wrote in an e-mailed statement.  Privacy Policies  The company also said updates to its “Data Use Policy”
and “Statement of Rights and Responsibilities,” seek to add
clarity for members.  “We revised our explanation of how things like your name,
profile picture and content may be used in connection with ads
or commercial content to make it clear that you are granting
Facebook permission for this use when you use our services,”
Frost said. “We have not changed our ads practices or
policies.”  Others privacy groups to sign the letter to the FTC include
the Center for Digital Democracy and Patient Privacy Rights.  The letter said the new rules “will allow Facebook to
routinely use the images and names of Facebook users for
commercial advertising without consent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  