-- Putin Ally Set to Defeat Top Critic Navalny for Moscow Mayor
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-09-06T07:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/putin-ally-set-to-rout-protest-leader-navalny-for-moscow-mayor.html
President Vladimir Putin’s ally is
poised for a decisive win in Moscow’s mayoral vote as Alexey Navalny, who led anti-government protests in the city, struggles
to challenge his rival’s stewardship of the Russian capital.  Acting Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin , appointed by then-President
Dmitry Medvedev in 2010 before resigning in June to call the
Sept. 8 ballot, will get 62.2 percent in Moscow’s first direct
elections in a decade, state-run pollster VTsIOM predicts. Anti-corruption activist Navalny will get 15.7 percent, it said.  The race pits the Russian authorities against an opposition
candidate in  Moscow  for the first time since Putin’s 2012 re-election ignited a wave of demonstrations in Europe’s biggest
city. While Navalny has set his sights on the 2018 presidential
ballot, his anti-graft platform isn’t a threat to Sobyanin,
whose tenure has focused on improving Muscovites’ living
conditions rather than politics.  “Russians are always ready to vote for the authorities
unless the authorities have given them compelling reasons to do
otherwise,” Alexander Oslon, president of the Moscow-based
 Public Opinion Fund , said yesterday by phone. “Moscow’s economy
is doing well, the city’s become cleaner under Sobyanin and
there’s no glaring reason to be disgruntled.”  Direct gubernatorial elections were restored after tens of
thousands took to the streets in the biggest demonstrations of
Putin’s rule. He won  48 percent  of votes in Moscow in his re-election last year, less than anywhere else in the country.  Predecessor Ousted  About 48 percent of Muscovites will turn out for the vote,
which features another four candidates, Valery Fedorov, VTsIOM’s
director, said Sept. 2.  Since taking over as mayor from Yury Luzhkov, who was
ousted by Medvedev, Sobyanin, 55, has sought to ease Moscow’s
traffic congestion and revamp infrastructure such as public
parks. He served as a deputy prime minister in 2008 to 2010 as
Putin completed a four-year stint as premier before reclaiming
the presidency.  Sobyanin’s platform consists of “solving transport
problems, creating a comfortable city, developing education,
health care, social security and safety, fighting illegal
immigration, boosting transparency and holding city officials
accountable,” according to his website.  Luzhkov oversaw a construction boom during his 18 years in
office, with his billionaire wife, who controlled a building
company, becoming  Russia ’s richest woman. In the last Moscow
election in 2003, he defeated newspaper tycoon Alexander Lebedev, who won 13 percent backing.  Economic Clout  Moscow, a city of 12 million people, has a $50 billion
budget and accounts for about a quarter of Russia’s gross
domestic product, official data show. The city plans to sell as
much as 160 billion rubles ($4.8 billion) of debt by year-end to
trim borrowing costs, according to the Moscow finance
department. Its three-year bonds due 2016 yielded 7.49 percent
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Navalny, who raised about $3 million for his mayoral
campaign, has pledged to reduce corruption, make Moscow’s
government more efficient and rein in illegal immigration, a
theme Sobyanin has also pursued.  He’s courted bankers from OAO Sberbank and Deutsche Bank AG
at a dinner at Moscow’s Ritz Carlton hotel and last month won
the backing of 38 Russian Internet entrepreneurs, who endorsed
his candidacy in a manifesto that called for the rule of law to
be upheld and government officials held accountable.  Daughters’ Flats  Navalny, 37, has also sought to challenge Sobyanin’s
credibility, asserting in August  blog  postings that two of the
acting mayor’s daughters own apartments worth $3.5 million and
$5 million. Sobyanin said the property holdings are legal.  Navalny’s participation in the Moscow ballot had been in
doubt after a court in the city of Kirov sentenced him in July
to five years in prison for defrauding a state timber company.
He was released a day later pending appeal after thousands
protested in Moscow and other major cities. If upheld, the
conviction would preclude him from ever holding public office.  “This gentleman has taken on the very fashionable theme of
fighting corruption and I say again, in order to fight
corruption you have to be crystal clear yourself,” Putin said
in a Sept. 3 interview with the Associated Press and state-run
Channel One. “But there are problems here, and in this regard I
unfortunately have a suspicion that this is just a way of
getting votes and not a genuine desire to solve the problem.”  Guriev, Kasparov  Putin, 60, has intensified a crackdown on the opposition
since winning his latest six-year term, tightening rules for
foreign-funded non-government organizations and imprisoning
protesters. A top economist, Sergei Guriev and former chess
grandmaster Garry Kasparov, critics fearing prosecution, fled
Russia this year.  Jailed oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky called on Muscovites
to vote for Navalny to ensure his electoral popularity prevents
the authorities from upholding his prison sentence.  “I am sure that Alexey Navalny will not be allowed to
become a mayor, but a million of your voices may save the person
from rotting in jail,” Khodorkovsky said in a statement e-mailed by his defense team.  While analysts including Gleb Pavlovsky, head of the
Effective Policy Foundation in Moscow, have suggested Sobyanin
may become a candidate to replace Putin in 2018 elections, the
Moscow mayoral battle may prove to be a launch pad for an
assault by Navalny on the higher echelons of power.  ‘Disgusting, Corrupt’  “My ambitions are to change my country and I’m ready to
take part in presidential elections,” Navalny said last week.
He’s vowed in the past to imprison Putin and his billionaire
allies if he comes to power, labeling the current political set-up as a “disgusting, corrupt system.”  For now, the very fact he’s able to take on Sobyanin is a
sign of political progress, according to Mikhail Vinogradov,
head of the St. Petersburg Politics Foundation.  “This is the first competitive federal election since
Putin came to power,” he said by yesterday phone from Moscow.
“For Navalny, the result isn’t as important as his ability to
exit on an emotional high because this clearly won’t be his last
or biggest campaign.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  