-- Rajan Brings Stature to RBI Hamstrung by India’s Deficits
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-09-05T06:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/rajan-brings-global-stature-to-rbi-hamstrung-by-india-s-deficits.html
India ’s newly installed central bank
Governor  Raghuram Rajan  burnished his international credentials
at a 2005 U.S. conference warning about the danger of a
potential crisis. Now he has one of his own to contend with.  Rajan, 50, joined the front lines of a battle to forestall
a record slump in the rupee yesterday with a package of measures
that may lure $10 billion in foreign-exchange inflows over three
months, according to Barclays Plc estimates. The currency and
stocks rose. Beyond the rupee, Rajan is also tasked with
reversing dwindling growth and reining in inflation hammering
826 million citizens who live on less than  $2 a day .  With mandates ranging from  price stability  to ensuring
credit flows, the ex-International Monetary Fund chief economist
inherits multiple goals with limited power to achieve them. A
narrower focus on inflation, along with government action to
shrink a fiscal deficit and boost infrastructure, would help as
emerging-market turbulence exposes India’s fragilities,
according to Rajan’s former IMF colleague  Eswar Prasad .  “The main problem right now is that monetary policy is
being forced to undertake an almost impossible balancing act,”
said Prasad, who teaches economics at  Cornell University  in New
York. “A narrower set of mandates could improve the RBI’s
effectiveness.”  Rajan said yesterday in his first press briefing that
achieving monetary stability is the  Reserve Bank  of India’s
primary role and “this means low and stable expectations of
inflation, whether that inflation stems from domestic sources or
from changes in the value of the currency, from supply
constraints or demand pressures.”  Policy Review  The comments reflected views that Rajan and Prasad laid out
in a 2009  report  that recommended India grant the central bank
operational independence and limit its goals, with a focus on an
inflation target. He said yesterday that a panel will report in
three months on how to “revise and strengthen” India’s
monetary policy framework.  Without statutory protections for now, Rajan will need to
manage ties with his former boss, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, who criticized the RBI last year for tardiness in
cutting  interest rates  -- even as inflation remained above its
tolerance zone.  The RBI chief, who began his three-year term after serving
as the  Finance Ministry ’s top economic adviser since August
2012, has said India will do whatever it takes to stabilize the
rupee.  Swap Window  Rajan said yesterday the central bank will open a swap
window to help attract foreign-currency non-resident dollar
funds. The central bank allowed commercial lenders to borrow an
additional 50 percent of their core capital and swap that with
the central bank at 100 basis points lower than the ongoing swap
rate prevailing in the market, it said in a release. The
monetary authority will also push for more trade settlements in
rupee, it said.  The currency rose 1.5 percent to 66.09 per dollar as of
11:20 a.m. in Mumbai today after the announcements, paring
losses over the past six months to 17 percent, still among the
steepest drops in the world, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The S&P BSE Sensex index advanced 2.2 percent. The
yield on the 7.16 percent government bond due May 2023 slid to
8.23 percent from 8.39 percent on Sept. 4.  Credit-default swaps insuring the bonds of  State Bank  of
India, considered a proxy for the sovereign, have climbed to 360
basis points, compared with 275 at the end of June, according to
data provider CMA.  Foreign Inflows  “As these fresh RBI measures are likely to raise the
possibility of better foreign-exchange inflows in the next three
months, we see potential for a near-term improvement in  market
sentiment  and the rupee’s trajectory,” Barclays said in a note
today. “Such improvements might provide an opportune moment for
the RBI to start unwinding its liquidity-tightening measures,
possibly in September-October, albeit gradually.”  India needs to reduce the requirement for lenders to invest
in  government securities  in a “calibrated way” to what is
needed from a prudential perspective, Rajan said. He also said
well-run commercial lenders will be allowed to open branches
without the central bank’s permission.  Budget Deficit  Beyond the immediate market boost, India still faces risks
from greater uncertainty in global financial markets as the
prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus spurs outflows from
 emerging markets , the threat of higher  oil prices , and the
government’s struggle to contain its budget deficit, according
to Barclays.  A deeper reliance on foreign capital and bigger borrowing
needs have seen India suffer more than most of its peers from
the volatility sparked by concern that the U.S. Federal Reserve
will pare back its stimulus. India’s current-account deficit
estimated by the IMF at 4.9 percent of gross domestic product
this year compares with a surplus of 1 percent for emerging and
developing economies as a group.  The government’s deficit will amount to 8.3 percent of GDP
this year, leaving a gross debt load of 66 percent, according to
the Washington-based IMF where Rajan served from 2003 to 2006.
Developing and emerging markets as a group have a budget gap of
1.8 percent, with a 34 percent debt burden relative to GDP.  “It’s completely shocking to see the way the economy is
run in India -- there is no control over expenditure,” said
Meghnad Desai, an emeritus professor at the  London School  of
Economics who began teaching there in 1965. “A lot of things
have gone wrong with India but the basic thing is the efficiency
in decision-making has gone wrong.”  Crisis Oracle  Rajan grabbed global attention in 2005 highlighting flaws
in decision-making of global regulators who pared back rules
limiting competition in the finance industry. Deregulation
contributed to a shift in manager incentives that increased
risk, Rajan wrote in a  paper  for that year’s gathering of
economists at Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  He concluded that “we should be prepared for the low
probability but highly costly downturn” -- years before the
world fell into its worst postwar recession.  “There is absolutely no doubt about Rajan’s credentials
given his knowledge and global experience,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, chief economist at  Bank of Baroda  in Mumbai. “But as
long as there is a fiscally irresponsible government, monetary
policy really can’t do much. The government has to set its house
in order. Without it, no matter if it’s Rajan or anyone else,
things won’t change.”  Singh’s Struggle  Chidambaram and Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who rescued
India from a balance-of-payments crisis working at the Finance
Ministry in the early 1990s, are struggling to contain the
current turmoil. While they have taken steps to usher greater
investment from foreign companies such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
and Etihad Airways PJSC, recent legislation stirred concern
about their focus.  The government’s most recent legislative initiatives
include a measure designed to boost food provision for the
country’s poor, and a revamp of laws on land acquisition that
improves compensation for owners.  The land bill “will slow the industrialization process,”
and raise costs, while the food-security guarantee “may widen
the fiscal deficit, raising inflationary pressures,” according
to Standard Chartered Plc economists Anubhuti Sahay and Samiran Chakraborty in an Aug. 30 note.  Political Pressure  With an election due by May, Rajan may face pressure to
lower borrowing costs and stoke growth. Chidambaram last October
said it would be “good” for the RBI, then led by  Duvvuri
Subbarao , to bring down interest rates.  “A key factor here is whether the individual will
typically buckle under government pressure or stand up to do the
right thing,” said  Rajeev Malik , an economist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Singapore. “This will be the ultimate test
for Rajan.”  His first task is shoring up a rupee that RBI adviser
Arvind Virmani said this week is in danger of sinking past 70
per dollar. He also needs to buttress the central bank’s
credibility, which according to Virmani was hurt by premature
intervention in the foreign-exchange market --before the
 exchange rate  had overshot its fair value.  Raising borrowing costs to help the rupee would risk
hampering GDP growth that weakened to 4.4 percent in the second
quarter. Other options include steps to increase India’s
foreign-exchange  reserves .  Dwindling Reserves  The reserves have dropped about 13 percent to $278 billion
since a 2011 peak and are equivalent to less than seven months
of imports. Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates India needs
as much as 10 months of import cover for currency stability.  A stabilized exchange rate would help alleviate price
pressures in a nation where gains in the benchmark wholesale
inflation gauge averaged 6.5 percent in the past year.  There should be a move toward “the maintenance of low and
stable inflation” as the RBI’s primary objective, a government-appointed panel led by Rajan said in the 2009 report. Rajan said
in 2011 that central banks should add financial stability to the
traditional goal of low inflation. Yesterday, he said that
inclusive growth and development, and financial stability, are
important mandates too.  “If we succeed in keeping inflation lower for longer as a
result of inflation targeting, it will pave the way for strong
economic growth and boost confidence,” said Dhawal Dalal, the
Mumbai-based head of fixed income at DSP BlackRock Investment
Managers Pvt., a unit of the world’s largest asset manager.  For now, with capital flight pushing up bond yields, low
inflation alone is insufficient, according to Dalal, who has
reduced holdings of long-term Indian government debt in favor of
cash in his portfolio.  “It’s the government which has to deliver on cutting down
on deficits, improve governance and the infrastructure -- absent
that, no one can make any difference,” said Brinda Jagirdar, an
independent economist who helped the Committee on Financial
Sector Reforms produce the 2009 proposals Rajan backed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  