-- Riksbank Holds Key Rate at 1% as Recovery Gathers Pace
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-09-05T08:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/riksbank-keeps-main-rate-unchanged-as-economy-gathers-pace.html
Sweden ’s central bank kept its  main
lending rate  unchanged and stuck to a plan to start tightening
late next year to allow for a recovery in the largest Nordic
economy to gain pace.  The repurchase rate was kept at 1 percent for a fourth
consecutive meeting, the Stockholm-based bank said in a
statement today, as was predicted by all 20 economists  surveyed
by Bloomberg . Policy makers kept a small easing bias, predicting
a rate of 0.96 percent in the first half next year and then a
rate of 1.25 percent in the fourth quarter.  “The repo rate needs to remain at the current low level
until economic activity is showing a clearer improvement and
inflation has risen for a while,” the central bank said. “As
before, the repo rate is not expected to be raised until the end
of 2014.”  Sweden’s economy is showing signs of a recovery after the
euro area emerged from its recession. Since the Riksbank’s
previous meeting in July, unemployment has fallen, manufacturing
is picking up and  consumer confidence  has risen to a two-year
high. Consumer borrowing has also gathered speed as the
government plans more tax cuts next year.  Unexpected Bias  Policy makers kept a “small short-term easing bias,”
Nordea Bank AB economist Andreas Wallstroem said in a note.
“We had expected the Riksbank to remove the easing bias
completely,” he said.  The krona fell 0.5 percent to 8.7491 per euro as of 9:51
a.m. in Stockholm.  Krona weakening has helped policy makers close in on their
2 percent  inflation  target and lending a hand to struggling
exporters by making their products cheaper abroad.  The bank today raised its forecast for underlying inflation
to 1 percent this year, and kept its forecasts for 1.4 percent
and 1.9 percent in the two following years. It lowered its
forecast for growth to 1.2 percent for this year and 2.7 percent
next year, versus 1.5 percent and 2.8 percent earlier. It
lowered its unemployment forecasts.  “The recovery abroad will contribute to brighter prospects
for the Swedish economy,” the bank said. “Confidence in both
the household and corporate sectors has risen and developments
on the labor market have been somewhat better than expected.  Two Reservations  Still, two members of the bank’s six-member board, deputy
governors Karolina Ekholm and Martin Floden, entered
reservations and advocated for a cut to 0.75 percent.  While still far below target, Sweden’s consumer prices
unexpectedly rose in July. Consumer prices rose an annual 0.1
percent after a 0.1 percent drop the prior month,  Statistics
Sweden  said on Aug 13. Prices were estimated to remain
unchanged. Adjusted for mortgage costs, price gains accelerated
to an annual 1.2 percent from 0.9 percent.  Inflation adjusted
for mortgages  has held below the target since 2010.  More recently, investors have sold the krona as liquidity
replaces public finance health as a driver of capital flows
following signals from the U.S. Federal Reserve that it’s
preparing to scale back stimulus.  Fed tapering of $85 billion in monthly bond purchasing
perhaps as early as this month is good news for the export-reliant Swedish economy since it’s evidence that the world
economy is improving, Hans Lindblad, director-general at the
 Swedish National Debt Office , said in an interview this week.  Tax Cuts  Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  last month called for a
fifth round of income tax cuts since he came to power in 2006 to
boost growth and cut unemployment. The government last month
said it will spend 25 billion kronor ($3.8 billion) on new
initiatives next year to boost demand.  Swedish  consumer confidence  rose to its highest level since
2011 last month as rising export orders prompted manufacturers
to scale back job cuts. Activity in the manufacturing sector
expanded at the second highest pace in two years last month,
while  unemployment  fell to 7.2 percent in July.  Meanwhile,  lending to Swedish households  grew the most in
more than a year in July, adding to fears of an emerging housing
price bubble. Household debt has almost doubled to more than 170
percent as a share of disposable incomes in the past 20 years,
while apartment prices have risen more than twofold since 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  