-- Romania Plans Second Eurobond Sale This Year to Fund Budget Gap
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-09-05T13:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/romania-plans-second-eurobond-sale-this-year-to-fund-budget-gap.html
Romania plans to sell international
bonds for the second time this year to help cover its budget
deficit, Budget Minister Liviu Voinea said.  The benchmark-size offering would probably raise at least 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) in Europe’s common currency, Voinea
said in an interview in Krynica,  Poland , today. The yield on
Romania’s 2019 eurobonds rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 4.16 percent as of 2:22 p.m. in  London , up
from a record low of 3.4 percent in May. Similar-maturity debt
from Poland yields 2.14 percent.  “We will issue this year because it’s part of our multi-year strategy, but we are not under pressure to do so today or
tomorrow,” Voinea said. “We’ll find the best window of
opportunity.”  The Finance Ministry is seeking to raise the equivalent of
2.5 billion euros abroad this year, having issued $1.5 billion
so far at a record low 4.5 percent yield in February. The yield
on the 10-year securities climbed six basis points today to 5.32
percent. The government will probably wait to sign its third
agreement with the International Monetary Fund to bolster
investment sentiment before proceeding with the sale, said Vlad Muscalu, Bucharest-based chief economist at ING Bank  Romania  SA.  The IMF’s board of directors will discuss Romania’s
precautionary loan in the last 10 days of September, Voinea said
today. The 4 billion-euro loan is split equally between the
Washington-based lender and the European Union. The European
Commission will probably approve it on Oct. 15, during a meeting
of economic and finance ministers known as Ecofin, providing
Romania with a two-year agreement, he said.  Falling Behind  The accord would be Romania’s third consecutive package and
the smallest since 2009, when the country got a 20 billion-euro
bailout from the lenders.  “They are probably waiting to sign the precautionary
agreement with the IMF in the hope of a favorable market
reaction, but I think they’re probably wrong to count on that,”
Muscalu said by e-mail. “The ministry has fallen behind its
domestic issuance plan, so it will be hard to skip this issue.”  The ministry raised 31 billion lei ($9.1 billion) in debt
from the domestic market this year by the end of August,
according to ING data. The administration may raise about 35
billion lei in the first nine months, below an annual target of
49 billion lei outlined in the ministry’s 2013 strategy,
according to ING estimates.  Five-year credit-default swaps, contracts insuring
Romania’s debt against default, dropped to 176 basis points in
May, the lowest since 2008, from 769 basis points in February
2009. The swaps were at 209 basis points today.  Under its agreement with the IMF and the EU, Romania plans
to sell a 15 percent stake in natural-gas producer Romgaz at the
end of October and other stakes in hydropower generator
Hidroelectrica SA and power distributor Electrica SA in the
first half of next year, Voinea said.  The government also aims to sell about 40 percent in
Romtelecom SA, the local unit of  Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO) , late this year or early in 2014, Voinea said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Krynica, Poland at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  