-- Rostelecom Said to Hire JPMorgan, Credit Suisse for Tele2 Deal
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-09-05T14:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/rostelecom-said-to-hire-jpmorgan-credit-suisse-for-tele2-deal.html
OAO Rostelecom,  Russia ’s state-run
phone company, hired advisers to help it combine with wireless
carrier Tele2 Russia to form a fourth mobile operator, a person
briefed on the matter said.  The phone company hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  as advisers, said the person, who asked not to
be identified as the discussions are private. State-controlled
 VTB Group (VTBR)  acquired Swedish  Tele2 AB’s (TEL2B)  Russian unit in a $3.55
billion deal in April. While Rostelecom is majority owned by the
state, it also has private shareholders.  A combination would help the two companies challenge market
leaders  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) ,  OAO MegaFon (MFON)  and  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) 
as the mobile-phone market in Russia expands with increased use
of smartphones to browse the Internet.  Rostelecom has almost 14 million mobile users, while Tele2
Russia has 23 million. Working in different regions, the
companies fit well together and would form a fourth countrywide
wireless operator if combined, according to Konstantin Malofeev,
a private shareholder in Rostelecom.  The banks are proposing to combine the Moscow-based
companies’ wireless assets into a joint venture where Rostelecom
would have control,  Vedomosti  reported today, citing
unidentified sources. Rostelecom said last month it plans to
finalize its strategy including wireless expansion in October.  Andrey Polyakov, a Moscow-based spokesman for Rostelecom,
declined by phone to comment, as did Irina Rybakova, a
spokeswoman for Tele2 Russia, and VTB’s press office. JPMorgan
and Credit Suisse press officials didn’t immediately return
calls requesting comment.  Seeking Acquisition  Rostelecom shares rose as much as 1.2 percent and traded up
0.6 percent by 6:01 p.m. in Moscow, giving it a market value of
$9 billion.  Mobile TeleSystems and VimpelCom have said they’ve been
seeking to acquire Tele2 Russia. Within Russia, MTS had almost
72 million users at the end of the second quarter, while MegaFon
had 64 million and VimpelCom had 57 million, according to
researcher AC&M Consulting.  “The potential integration of its mobile assets with Tele2
will be a strategically logical development for Rostelecom,”
Konstantin Chernyshev, a telecommunications analyst at VTB
Capital, said in a note today. “Any financial implications are
hard to estimate at this point when the terms remain unclear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  