-- Sabesp Rallies on Report Rate Increase Granted: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-09-05T20:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/sabesp-rallies-on-report-rate-increase-granted-sao-paulo-mover.html
Cia. de Saneamento Basico do Estado
de Sao Paulo ,  Brazil ’s biggest water distributor, rallied the
most in five years after a report that government officials will
allow the company to increase rates.  Shares of Sabesp, as Cia. de Saneamento is known,  rose  11
percent to 21.75 reais at the close of trading in Sao Paulo, the
steepest one-day advance since October 2008. It was the best
performer on the benchmark Ibovespa, which  added  1.2 percent.  The water utility will be allowed to increase customer
rates in line with inflation, O Estado de S. Paulo’s news agency
reported yesterday after the market closed, citing an interview
with Jose Anibal, the state energy secretary.  “Since the Brazilian government forced power companies to
reduce rates, the Sao Paulo government canceled a subway fare
raise and the Sao Paulo mayor suspended a bus fare raise
following protests, there is so much uncertainty about rate
increases for companies that provide public services,” Marcelo Varejao, an analyst at the brokerage firm Socopa, said in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo. “The secretary’s comments are a
relief for shares and investors.”  Anibal’s press office didn’t immediately respond to a call
from  Bloomberg News  seeking comment. Sabesp’s press office
declined to comment.  Increases Halted  President  Dilma Rousseff , as part of an effort to slow
inflation that peaked at 6.7 percent in June, has sought to cut
power prices by pressing utilities to lower rates.  Brazil’s largest cities faced the biggest street protests
in two decades in June after increases to public transportation
fares. The state of Sao Paulo governor, Geraldo Alckmin, halted
an increase to subway fares and city mayor Fernando Haddad
canceled an increase for buses.  The state utilities regulator decided in July to postpone a
decision on whether the company can raise rates because it is
missing three directors and didn’t have a quorum for meetings.
Arsesp plans to maintain the suspension until Sabesp fully
explains its request for a rate increase, the utility said in a
regulatory filing Sept. 2. Sabesp said in the filing that it
will need three months to make all the needed changes to its
proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  