-- SAC Case Delay, Fannie Mae Risk, Bank Size: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/sac-case-delay-fannie-mae-risk-bank-size-compliance.html
The exchange of evidence in the
government’s forfeiture lawsuit against SAC Capital Advisors LP
was delayed by a judge until Jan. 6 while the U.S. pursues
insider trading prosecutions tied to the hedge fund.  A postponement of the case is warranted until insider
trading cases against the company, as well as SAC fund manager
Michael Steinberg and former SAC portfolio manager Mathew
Martoma, are concluded, Assistant U.S. Attorney Micah Smith told
U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan yesterday in Manhattan
federal court. Steinberg and Martoma face separate trials in
November.  A federal grand jury in July indicted the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based hedge fund owned by  Steven A. Cohen . The
government also filed a related money laundering lawsuit seeking
forfeiture of ill-gotten gains. The delay of civil cases while
related prosecutions proceed is a standard government request.  Cohen has denied any wrongdoing.  Smith cited a concern that defendants would want to depose
government witnesses who might not have testified yet at trial.
He also said the stay could be in place until after the Martoma
and Steinberg trials are concluded.  Michael Schachter, a lawyer for the hedge fund, said
yesterday that the defendants didn’t oppose the request for a
stay. He said that the government had already produced
“multiple terrabytes” of information.  The judge granted the request saying that by Jan. 6 he
expected to receive a letter from the parties about the status
of the SAC criminal cases as well as if lawyers in this case
believed discovery could begin.  The cases are U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-cr-00541;
U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP 13-cv-05182, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Compliance Policy  Equifax, TransUnion, Experian Put on Notice by CFPB Over Reports  U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau put credit
reporting companies on notice about their responsibility to
investigate consumer credit report disputes, the agency said in
a  bulletin  posted on its website.  The Consumer Bureau said  Equifax Inc. (EFX) , TransUnion Corp. and
 Experian Plc (EXPGY)  must also report the results of investigations to
the consumer reporting company that sent the original dispute.
In addition each company must also correct inaccurate
information.  If the Consumer Bureau determines a company has violated
the law, it will take proper enforcement actions and possibly
seek restitution to harmed consumers.  Compliance Action  Fannie Mae Prepares Investors for Mortgage Risk-Sharing Bonds  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , the government-controlled mortgage-finance
company, is starting to prepare investors for the first
transaction in which the firm would share the risk of homeowner
defaults with bond buyers.  Executives at Washington-based Fannie Mae, which bought or
guaranteed $468 billion of residential mortgages in the first
half of the year, was expected to discuss its  credit-risk 
management practices on an invitation-only Web conference for
investors yesterday, according to an online posting.  Competitor  Freddie Mac  sold risk-sharing bonds in July tied
to almost $23 billion of home loans being held by the typical
securities it guarantees, as regulators seek to reduce the role
of the two firms in the market and assess whether they are
charging enough for the insurance.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  has overseen  Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac since they were seized in 2008 amid the worst
housing slump since the Great Depression. With government-backed
mortgages accounting for more than 85 percent of new lending,
the FHFA has been directing the companies to raise how much they
charge to guarantee their traditional mortgage bonds and asked
each to attempt to share risk on $30 billion of home loans this
year.  “We are working with FHFA to meet the goals of the
Conservatorship Scorecard for 2013,” Callie Dosberg, a Fannie
Mae spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The company has hired  Bank of America Corp.  to manage the
transaction, said Zia Ahmed, a spokesman for the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based lender.  Courts/Tribunals  Commerzbank’s Hypothekenbank Sued in U.S. for Trust Payments  A unit of  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest bank,
was sued in a U.S. court by investor Ocampo International SA for
more than 50 million euros ($65.8 million) in missed payments
since 2010 from trust securities.  The unit, Hypothekenbank  Frankfurt  AG, formerly Eurohypo
AG, set up two Delaware trusts to raise capital from
international investors, and stopped making payments in 2009,
British Virgin Islands-based Ocampo said in a Delaware Chancery
Court complaint filed Sept. 3 in Wilmington.  “Due to the actions of its ultimate parent, Commerzbank,
the bank has ceased to be a profit-maximizing business” and
“it is now impossible for the bank to record a balance sheet
profit,” according to court papers.  Germany’s top civil court, the Federal Court of Justice,
ruled May 28 that Eurohypo wrongly stopped payouts on the
securities and that Frankfurt-based Commerzbank must continue to
pay interest.  Commerzbank spokeswoman Margarita Thiel wasn’t immediately
available to comment on the lawsuit at her Frankfurt office.  The case is Ocampo International SA v. Eurohypo Capital
Funding LLC I, CA8863, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Morgan Stanley Ordered to Pay Fired Commodity Trader $8 Million  Morgan Stanley (MS)  must pay $8.01 million in deferred
compensation to an energy trader the firm fired for not meeting
with government investigators in 2009, a Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority arbitration panel ruled.  Amit Gupta was awarded $4.7 million of stock units he was
promised from 2006 to 2008 and a deferred-cash award of $1.84
million from 2008, plus interest, according to the  panel’s Aug.
29 ruling . Gupta, who earned more than $64 million in pay during
his time at Morgan Stanley, also sought as much as $14.2 million
in lost earnings from 2010 to 2012, the ruling shows.  Morgan Stanley didn’t consider “mitigating circumstances”
and follow contractual obligations when it chose to fire Gupta
for cause after he refused to meet in 2009 with the Manhattan
District Attorney’s office, which was investigating a trade,
arbitrators wrote without elaborating on the probe. No charges
were ultimately brought against Gupta.  “The decision to terminate him ‘for cause’ was so flawed
that it does not constitute valid action by Morgan Stanley,”
the arbitrators wrote in the ruling.  Morgan Stanley is among Wall Street firms that have
increased pay deferrals and strengthened clawback provisions to
recoup compensation from employees fired for cause in the wake
of the financial crisis.  One of the three arbitrators,  John Martin , dissented. Gupta
knew at the time that Morgan Stanley policy required he
cooperate with the inquiry, Martin wrote.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment. Eric Seiler, an attorney for Gupta, said he
was pleased with the ruling and that it speaks for itself.
Reuters reported the decision earlier.  Interviews  Jain, Oudea Defend Bank Size Against European Regulatory Excess  The chief executive officers of three of Europe’s largest
banks defended themselves against criticism they’re too big,
saying the region needs lenders with scale to support clients
around the world.  At a conference in Frankfurt yesterday, Frederic Oudea, who
heads  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , cited the need for lenders to be able
to fund billion-dollar deals, while  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-CEO
Anshu Jain said clients want banks that can provide an array of
financial services. Federico Ghizzoni, CEO of Italy’s  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) , said growth of companies outside their domestic market will
require banks able to make investments in their infrastructure.  Global leaders have ordered banks to raise capital to avoid
a repeat of the taxpayer-funded rescues after the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sparked a global financial
turmoil. While the CEOs voiced support for the rules designed to
bolster the financial health of their firms, they warned
European regulators against overreach that could put them at a
disadvantage to competitors in the U.S. and elsewhere.  “Size matters, there’s no discussion,” said Ghizzoni, who
leads Italy’s largest bank. Even while there is a “more
stringent liquidity ratio,” and “we’re under pressure on
revenues,” there is “a huge need for investment,” he said.  There are “a few banks that will be big by nature in order
to compete with the large universal banks in the U.S.,” said
Oudea, who heads France’s second-largest bank based in Paris.  Some speakers at the conference organized by Euroforum and
Handelsblatt newspaper signaled concerns.  Georg Fahrenschon, president of the DSGV association of
German savings banks, said small lenders can’t be liable for
large ones, potentially guaranteeing the existence of
“systemically relevant institutions.”  Scott Skyrm Sees No Paper Trail Leading to Corzine  Author Scott Skyrm discussed his book, “The Money Noose:
 Jon Corzine  and the collapse of MF Global.” Skyrm talked with
Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox and  Carol Massar  on  Bloomberg Radio ’s
“Taking Stock” on Sept. 3.  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  CFPB Bank Supervision Chief Antonakes Named Cordray’s Top Deputy  Steven Antonakes, the former Massachusetts regulator who
started the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s bank
supervision unit, has been named deputy director of the federal
agency.  The promotion for Antonakes, who has been acting deputy
since January after Raj Date stepped down, was announced by the
bureau in a statement yesterday. He will continue as head of
bank supervision, enforcement and fair lending in his new role.  Antonakes, who joined the bureau in 2010, previously was
the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  