-- Scandinavian Bank ‘Widgets’ Fueling Downgrade Risk in S&P Study
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-09-05T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/scandinavian-bank-widgets-fueling-downgrade-risk-in-s-p-study.html
Scandinavia’s  biggest banks  have
failed to curb funding risks linked to financial innovation and
will probably only avoid downgrades if national regulators force
through stricter measures, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  Steps taken to date by lenders including  Denmark ’s  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE)  and Nykredit A/S, as well as  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  in Sweden, aren’t enough, said Per Tornqvist, a
Stockholm-based analyst at S&P. As competitive pressure “forces
banks to maintain short-term funding,” regulators need to step
in and help banks extend their funding maturities, he said.  “The more widgets and gadgets you bring to the table, the
more complex the product will be and the more risks there will
be,” Tornqvist said in an interview. “The government creates
the level playing field for market participants.”  AAA-rated Scandinavia’s biggest banks are more vulnerable
to funding shocks than their peers in the U.S.,  France  and
 Italy , according to a July analysis by S&P, which measured
liquidity risks five years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. paralyzed the global financial system. The rating
company criticized Nordic lenders’ practice of using funds as
short as one year to finance loans as long as 30 years, as well
as a reliance on short-term offshore borrowing.  “Denmark, Sweden and  Norway  are scoring particularly
badly,” Tornqvist said.  Half GDP  Swedish banks are more dependent on market funding than
banks in most other countries, according to the Financial
Supervisory Authority in  Stockholm . The nation’s banks need to
refinance about 20 percent of their assets every year, the
equivalent of more than half  Sweden ’s $540 billion economy, the
FSA estimates.  In Denmark, home to the world’s largest mortgage bond
market per capita, banks refinance as much as $228 billion
annually, spread over quarterly auctions. About 50 percent of
Danish borrowers refinance their mortgages annually, according
to the FSA in Copenhagen.  Efforts to sidestep funding mismatches by inventing new
securities will do little to persuade S&P the lenders are really
addressing liquidity risks, Tornqvist said.  “It’s not up to us to decide, but we can see for sure that
the old 30-year or 20-year or 10-year annuity loans with
matching funding take away everything but the risk of the client
not being able to pay,” he said.  New Securities  Banks are responding to the latest regulator demands that
they protect themselves against funding misalignments by
inventing new securities.  Realkredit Danmark, Danske Bank’s mortgage arm, unveiled a
home loan last month with a rate that resets every six months
and that’s funded with three-year bonds. The lender designed the
security in anticipation of stable funding rules that require
banks to show they can survive 12 months without tapping
markets.  Swedish and Danish banks, whose assets are about four times
the size of their economies, depend more heavily than lenders
elsewhere on markets because their deposit bases are smaller,
according to the S&P study. Still, Sweden’s biggest banks are
among  Europe ’s best capitalized, helping drive down their
funding costs.  While regulators have urged banks to become less reliant on
short-term funding, demand for the securities from borrowers and
investors such as Pacific Asset Management Co. shows little sign
of evaporating.  Credit Watch  S&P cited a shortening of funding maturities when it placed
Handelsbanken and Swedish state-backed mortgage lender SBAB Bank
AB on credit watch negative, and reiterated its negative
outlooks for Nordea and SEB AB in July. S&P also cut outlooks on
Danske and three other Danish banks.  The central banks of Sweden and Denmark have asked lenders
to reduce their reliance on short-term funding. While Swedish
Finance Minister  Anders Borg  has criticized his country’s banks
for what he says is an overuse of short-term dollar funds,
Denmark’s government has mostly supported its mortgage lenders.  Danish Business Minister Henrik Sass Larsen said last month
the market should be left to itself to decide the fate of the
country’s one-year mortgage bonds.  “This is a very political issue,” Tornqvist said. “If
you tell the banks, extend your funding, that’s going to hit Mr.
and Mrs. Jensen by Christmas, no later. If you say to the
Swedish banks, go extend your funding, it’s going to trickle
through, but it’s less obvious.”  S&P is waiting to see what requirements governments place
on lenders deemed systemic to their local economies before
taking any ratings actions, Tornqvist said.  “We have signaled that if you do something -- and we
expect that to be the case -- it might neutralize our negative
outlook,” Tornqvist said. “If the government says, ‘This is
fine, it’s the best system ever, nothing needs to be fixed,’ we
probably wouldn’t agree with that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  