-- Scotiabank’s Waugh Says Regulators’ Rules Lack Balance
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-05T17:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/scotiabank-s-waugh-says-regulators-rules-lack-balance.html
Bank of Nova Scotia  Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Waugh  said global regulators’ emphasis on
leverage ratios to strengthen the world’s banks doesn’t strike
the “right balance” between  managing risk  and economic growth.  “In an effort to restore confidence in the system,
regulation has changed and increased significantly -- especially
as it relates to capital and leverage ratios,” Waugh, 65, said
in remarks prepared for delivery today in Toronto at an event
sponsored by the Empire Club of Canada. “The problem is,
capital and leverage ratios only tell part of the story and
solve part of the problem.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  and regulators
around the world are setting new rules for financial-services
firms to prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis, which
almost destroyed the global economy. Canadian banks, ranked the
soundest for the sixth straight year yesterday by the  World
Economic Forum , weathered the crisis without bailouts.  An over-reliance on prescribed capital and leverage rules
has a direct impact on economic growth, and can have unintended
consequences, Waugh said. The focus by officials around the
world on leverage ratios, which measure the relation of equity
to total assets, is “troubling” because there’s no agreement
on the appropriate ratio and it doesn’t measure risk, he said.  “The industry is moving to ensure it makes good decisions
on managing the risks,” said Waugh, who’s also a vice chairman
of the Washington-based  Institute of International Finance .
“Regulators must resist adding more capital rules and instead
collaborate with the industry on finding the right balance.”  Waugh, who began his career with Scotiabank in Winnipeg,
Manitoba, in 1970 as a teller, is retiring as CEO of Canada’s
third-largest lender by assets on Oct. 31. He’ll be succeeded by
 Brian Porter , 55, the Toronto-based bank’s current president.  Waugh led the lender through the financial crisis and added
acquisitions in Latin America and Asia while expanding
domestically through Canadian takeovers, including the C$3.1
billion ($3 billion) purchase of ING Groep NV’s Canadian
business in November. Scotiabank has operations in more than 55
countries including Chile, Mexico and Thailand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  