-- Scotiabank Says Higher Rates Cure for Any Housing Bubble
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-05T19:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/scotiabank-says-higher-rates-cure-for-any-housing-bubble.html
Canadian policy makers should raise
 interest rates  if they fear a housing bubble, rather than
imposing more rules on banks,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Waugh  said.  “If you really are concerned about a bubble, raise the
interest rates,” Waugh told reporters in Toronto today after a
luncheon speech to the Empire Club of Canada. “It’s not an
underwriting or a credit problem, it’s the fact that interest
rates do cause bubbles.”  Canadian housing market data are showing few signs of a
hard landing after warnings from economists and policy makers
that a collapse may be coming. Home sales in Toronto and
Vancouver, the country’s two largest real estate markets,
continued their surge in August from a year earlier.  “I do not think there is a bubble, but if you’re really
concerned and you’re a policy maker, you know what the right way
to do it is: raise interest rates,” Waugh, 65, said.  The  Bank of Canada  yesterday kept the benchmark rate on
overnight loans among commercial banks at 1 percent for the
24th-consecutive meeting. At the same time, lenders including
Toronto-based Scotiabank have been raising fixed-term  mortgage
rates  to reflect higher yields in the  bond market .  Existing home sales in Toronto, the largest market in
Canada, rose 21 percent from August last year to 7,569 units,
the Toronto Real Estate Board said today in a statement, with
average prices gaining 5.4 percent. Vancouver existing home
sales rose 52 percent, that city’s real estate board said
yesterday.  Tighter Rules  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened rules on insured
mortgages for the fourth time in four years in July 2012 on
concern some regional housing markets were overheating.  Canadian banks are “well regulated,” Waugh said, adding
that he accepts recent rule changes, including tighter
underwriting standards set by the country’s banking regulator.  “Regulators and politicians shouldn’t direct banks or
anybody as to what assets they should and should not lend
into,” said Waugh, who is stepping down as CEO of Canada’s
third-biggest bank next month. “If you are concerned about
bubbles, do what you do and take the right course on interest
rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  