-- Seoul No Singapore as Korea Housing Bears Raise Rents
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-09-06T06:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/seoul-no-singapore-as-korea-housing-bears-raise-rents.html
Kim Joon Hyung met more than 20
realtors and searched for months to find a place to rent in
 Seoul . In July, he finally signed a two-year contract on a two-bedroom apartment that requires him to make monthly payments, a
rarity in  South Korea  where landlords and tenants have favored a
century-old method of lump-sum deposits to lease homes.  “I finally gave up,” said 34-year-old Kim, a marketer at
a home-appliance company who’s getting married this month.
“This monthly charge rent home was the only thing available.”  South Koreans like Kim are increasingly choosing to rent
rather than buy, driving up costs of leasing amid expectations
that residential property prices, mired in the worst slowdown in
13 years, will fall further. Their loss of faith in the housing
market prompted President Park Geun Hye to announce measures
last month “to shift demand from rentals to home purchases,”
including cutting home-purchase taxes, bucking a trend from
 Singapore  to  Hong Kong  where governments are trying to curb
potential property bubbles.  “For the government, it must be a big task to tackle rents
with not much policy room,” said Choi Seong Heon, an analyst at
 Real Estate 114 Inc. , a Seoul-based real estate information
provider. The tax cuts “may spur transactions a little in the
beginning, but the impact may be short lived. Tax cuts don’t
seem enough to expel the anxiety over price declines.”  Home prices fell 4.3 percent from January 2012 through
August in Seoul and the surrounding  metropolitan area , according
to Kookmin Bank data. The  consumer price index  that tracks rents
gained 2.8 percent in the January-August period compared with
the same period last year, more than double the 1.3 percent gain
in the broader  CPI (KOCPIYOY)  this year, Statistics Korea said on Sept. 2.  ‘Depreciating Asset’  “The rent price surge is evidence that people don’t
believe that  home prices  will rise,” said Suh Jeong Yeal, a
real estate and finance department professor at  Youngsan
University  based in Gyeongnam province. “Why would people put
their money into a depreciating asset? As long as pessimism
dominates, people will stay in the rental market.”  Home prices in South Korea have been stagnant since they
 peaked  in 2008 after a 41 percent surge in the previous four
years elevated household debt to record levels. A shortage of
supply in key metropolitan areas had undermined government
measures from 2003 to 2007 to cool the market, such as higher
property taxes and tougher mortgage lending rules that included
introducing debt-to-income and loan-to-value ratios to reduce
the amount borrowers could get from banks.  Efforts to breathe life back into the property market since
2008 -- including temporary tax cuts, relaxing the debt-to-income measures that apply to  mortgage loans  and increasing home
supply -- have stumbled after the global financial crisis.  Not Hong Kong  The average apartment transaction price in Seoul was 488
million won ($444,000) in August, down 9.8 percent from January
2012, according to data from the Korea Appraisal Board, a state-run agency. In the capital’s metropolitan area, it was 332
million, dropping 9.2 percent in the same period.  South Korea stands in stark contrast to other parts of
 Asia , such as Hong Kong and Singapore, where governments have
been struggling to come up with measures to prevent housing
bubbles, partly because the nation’s property market relies
largely on local demand, and like the economy, is more insular.  “The residential  property market  is also very closed,
rigid and small,” said Suh at Youngsan University. “When
there’s no ample internal demand to boost prices, there’s no
incentives for foreign investors to join the market. That’s the
key difference” between Seoul and international cities like
Hong Kong and Singapore, Suh said.  Prices in the Seoul metropolitan area, where almost half of
the nation’s 50 million people reside, fell 3 percent last year,
the biggest annual drop in 13 years, according to data from
Kookmin Bank, the nation’s biggest mortgage lender.  ‘Happiness Era’  President Park, who took office in February, has identified
reversing the sluggishness in the residential market as key to
bolstering economic growth and to fulfill her campaign pledge to
usher in a “people’s happiness era.”  The government will cut home-purchase taxes and increase
the supply of cheaper mortgages to spur homebuying, as well as
adding to rental housing stock and giving tax breaks on rental
expenses for low-income households.  “Even people who can afford buying homes are now
preferring to rent due to the concerns over prices dropping,”
Park Won Gap, the senior real estate market analyst at Kookmin
Bank, said. The steps “may persuade a limited number of people
who are about to buy homes, but it won’t likely create massive
new demand,” he said.  Rental Changes  The nation’s rental market is also experiencing a shift.
The  lowest interest rates  in at least six years and little
prospect of  capital appreciation  if homes are sold, are
prompting some South Korean landlords to abandon Jeonse, a lump-sum deposit rent dominant since the 1870s and widely used as a
financing tool in the 1980s through early 2000s when mortgage
loans were scarce.  Landlords typically used the upfront deposit -- which is
returned to the tenant at the end of the rent contract -- as a
down payment on other properties when prices were rising.  Now they are opting for contracts that stipulate monthly
rents because there is little prospect of capital gain if they
buy another home, and returns from bonds and stocks are lower
than rental yields.  The number of monthly rent contracts jumped 23 percent in
the first seven months of this year from the same period in
2012, according to the  land ministry  data. They accounted for 39
percent of all rent transactions in the seven months through
July, the highest proportion since the ministry started
gathering the data in 2011 as more landlords began asking for
monthly leases.  Rents Rise  “Monthly rents will be the major stream sooner or later,”
said Youngsan University’s Suh. “We may see the emergence of
home rental companies like in Western countries. The Korean
rental market is facing structural change.”  The average Jeonse rent for Seoul apartments was 280
million won in August, gaining 4.5 percent from January 2012,
and 197 million won in the metropolitan area, up 3.6 percent in
the period, according to the Korea Appraisal Board.  Yields on monthly rents are about 6 percent to 10 percent
annually, according to the Aug. 28 government statement.  The average rate for new timed and savings deposits at
Korean banks was 2.64 percent in July, according to Bank of
Korea data. The central bank on Aug. 8 left the  benchmark
interest rate  at 2.5 percent, the lowest level since 2011.  The  Kospi (KOSPI)  stock index has dropped 2.1 percent this year and
was up 0.2 percent at the close of trading in Seoul, while the
yield on  three-year government bonds  that mature in June 2016
rose to 3 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Better Deal’  Charging monthly rents is “a much better deal for home
owners in the low-rate era,” said Park. “There are not many
investment tools for home owners with the deposit money received
from renters. It’s a very reasonable economic activity for
landlords to turn to a monthly rent system.”  A day before South Korea unveiled its latest steps to
stimulate the housing market, Singapore said that it will cut
the maximum tenure for new housing loans and restrict foreign
permanent residents from buying government-built homes.  Hong Kong in February said it would double a  sales tax  on
property costing more than HK$2 million ($258,000) and targeted
commercial real estate in the government’s latest and harshest
measures as bubble risks spread.  Meanwhile, South Koreans are still smarting after prices
tumbled following the 2005-2008 boom and  economic growth  is at
risk from a slowdown in  China  and record  household debt .  Horrified Experiences  Homebuyers “were horrified by their experience, leaving a
buzzword like house-poor and chilling sentiment on the property
market,” said Choi at Real Estate 114. “After the 2008 global
financial crisis, people have become more nervous about their
future income amid an uncertain economy. It’s hard to lure the
young, new demand into the buying market.”  Kim, the renter is one of those reluctant to take the
plunge and buy a property. He is resigned to paying the 1
million won ($900) in monthly rent from this month because he
says he has little faith in home prices going up.  “Paying mortgage interest to banks and paying rents to
landlords, what’s the difference?” he said. “At least, I can
avoid a nightmare of losing money from the house financed with
debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  