-- Six Chinese Investigators Charged in Suspect’s Death
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-06T03:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/six-china-investigators-charged-over-suspect-s-death-in-custody.html
(Corrects name of lawyer Pu Zhiqiang’s firm in sixth
paragraph.)  A Chinese court charged Communist
Party investigators with assault after an executive allegedly
died in their custody, a lawyer for the victim’s family said.  The court in Quzhou, in eastern  China , charged six
investigators, including five from the party’s Central
Commission for Discipline Inspection, with intention to inflict
harm in the April 9 death of Wenzhou Industry Investment Group
Co. chief engineer Yu Qiyi, lawyer Pu Zhiqiang said yesterday.  The case is a rare instance of Chinese courts addressing
alleged abuses by the party’s discipline inspection commission,
which has the power to hold people under extralegal detention.
The indictment may be part of efforts to give the courts more
independence and balance the party’s power as President Xi
Jinping works to bolster its six-decade rule.  “It goes to the whole relationship between the party and
the state,” Jean-Pierre Cabestan, a professor of political
science at Hong Kong Baptist University, said in a phone
interview. “Xi Jinping is trying to negotiate a fine line,
keeping a one-party state and giving more legal security to the
middle class and society as a whole.”  Pu didn’t say why Yu had been taken into custody. The
investigators forced Yu to strip naked and dunk his head under
water for more than an hour, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing court documents shown to the newspaper by Yu’s family.
They stopped after realizing he wasn’t struggling anymore, the
newspaper said.  Attend Proceeding  “We plan to attend the court proceeding, but so far the
court hasn’t announced when it will start,” said Pu, of Beijing
Huayi Law Firm, who is representing the victim’s family along
with Wu Pengbin of  Shanghai ’s DeBund Law Offices. “We had also
applied to access the case dossier which was rejected by the
court.”  Calls to two different phone numbers at the Quzhou
Intermediate People’s Court rang unanswered yesterday. Wenzhou
Industry Investment is a state-owned company. The trial may
begin as early as next week, the South China Morning Post
reported yesterday.  The 82 million-member Communist Party has its own
enforcement system, led by Vice Premier  Wang Qishan , who is a
member of the ruling Politburo Standing Committee. Cadres can be
placed under “shuanggui” -- a phrase that literally means to
report at a specific time at a specific place -- which is the
party’s form of extra-judicial custody.  Officials including former Politburo member Bo Xilai and
former PetroChina Co. chairman  Jiang Jiemin  both faced Communist
Party sanctions before any legal actions. At his trial last
month on corruption-related charges, Bo argued that some
confessions he gave while in custody in the months before his
trial were made against his will, according to edited court
transcripts.  Overseeing Crackdown  Xi and Wang are overseeing a crackdown on corruption that
has seen officials across the country charged with what the
party calls “serious discipline violations,” often leading to
corruption charges. The indictment comes amid a surge in
activity by the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection,
which started a  website  earlier this month with information
about corruption cases.  Public disclosure of sanctions against party investigators
is rare. In 2000 party discipline officials in Taizhou, in
eastern China’s Zhejiang province, were  charged  for the beating
death of a 69-year-old retired department store worker, the
official China News Service reported at the time. That case was
billed as the first prosecution of party discipline officials
for causing intentional injury.  Four officials were jailed for the killing, according to a
 report  on Enorth Netnews, a website under the Tianjin Municipal
Propaganda Department.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Hong Kong at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  