-- Sluggish Retail Sales Seen as Bad Sign for Holiday Season
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-09-05T20:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/sluggish-august-retail-sales-seen-boding-ill-for-holiday-season.html
L Brands Inc. (LTD) , which owns Victoria’s
Secret and has powered through a choppy economy, reported August
same-store sales that narrowly missed estimates, the latest
evidence of weakness among U.S. apparel chains.  Sales at L Brands stores open at least 12 months rose 2
percent, compared with a predicted gain of 2.1 percent. Teen
chain The Buckle Inc. posted an increase of 1 percent, just
surpassing analysts’ estimates for a gain of 0.6 percent.  The results come after retailers from  Macy’s Inc. (M)  to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  missed second-quarter sales estimates and cut
forecasts. Retailers also had a sluggish start to the back-to-school shopping season in July. The chains reporting August
sales today have done little to buck that trend, which may
continue into the holiday shopping season, the largest spending
period of the year.  “There has been a shift away from spending on apparel and
other discretionary items and a shift toward purchases of homes
and automobiles,” Jennifer Davis, an analyst with Lazard
Capital Markets in New York, said in a phone interview today.
“The consumer is feeling better and is willing to make larger
item purchases but that leaves them with less money in their
wallet to spend on other things. The items you can live without,
people are living without.”  Auto Sales  Many Americans are eager to replace cars after postponing
such purchases for years. The U.S. auto sector posted August
sales results that exceeded already rosy estimates, with a total
surpassing any month in more than six years and the fastest
sales rate since 2007. Consumers’ spending on home-related
products also lifted sales for both  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and Lowe’s
Cos.  L Brands declined 2.1 percent to $56.90 at the close in New
York. The Buckle fell 1.2 percent to $51.70.  August same-store sales for the more than 10 companies
tracked by Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose
3.8 percent. While that surpassed analysts’ projections for a
gain of 3.2 percent, the results were bolstered by a strong
showing by  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  and  Walgreen Co. (WAG)   Gap Inc., the largest U.S. specialty apparel retailer,
posted a gain in same-store sales of 2 percent after U.S.
markets closed. Analysts projected an increase of 1.9 percent.  Anemic Sales  “Back-to-school so far is anemic at best,”  Adrienne Tennant , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC said in a
conference call with clients before the results. “That usually
has had a high correlation with holiday” sales.  A year ago, shoppers ignored economic headwinds and helped
push retailers to a same-store sales gain of 5.9 percent. Back
then 20 companies reported. Since then half have dropped out,
saying they would rather focus on quarterly rather than monthly
results, which can be volatile.  Most chains tally same-store sales using locations open at
least a year, making the figure a closely watched gauge of a
retailer’s health because it tracks only established stores.  This year, U.S. households are planning to shell out an
average of 7.8 percent less for back-to-school shopping because
of the bumpy economic recovery, the National Retail Federation
estimated. Store traffic has fallen in nine of the past 11
weeks, though the declines moderated in the week ended Aug. 31,
according to ShopperTrak, a Chicago-based research firm.  Francesca’s Holdings Corp. (FRAN) , the operator of women’s
boutiques, reduced its full-year profit forecast yesterday after
same-store sales in the second quarter fell 1 percent because of
lower levels of store visits that will continue.  Teen Chains  Teen chains such as  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and  Aeropostale
Inc. (ARO)  also painted a bleak picture last month after earnings and
sales in the second quarter trailed analysts’ estimates.
Aeropostale also said it would be closing more stores than it
previously indicated and Abercrombie’s third-quarter forecast
for earnings per share was less than half of what analysts
projected. Neither retailer reports monthly sales.  “We’ve definitely seen more weakness in the teen space,”
Davis said. “Part of it is due to Mom has less money that she
is willing to spend on teens. Part of that is also due to lack
of a meaningful fashion trend.”  Sales may pick up this month as teens who waited for school
to start to see what their friends are wearing return to the
malls, Tennant said in a note to clients on Aug. 29. To entice
shoppers, retailers are offering discounts of as much as 50
percent.  “Promotions were aggressive across the mall, particularly
over Labor Day weekend, raising concerns about margin pressure
for retailers’ third-quarter earnings,” said Ken Perkins,
president of Retail Metrics in an e-mailed statement. “We may
see stepped up discounting as these retailers are forced to
compete even harder for a limited pool of consumer discretionary
dollars.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  