-- Snowden Leak Said to Derail Brazil Trip Before U.S. Visit
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-05T21:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/snowden-leak-said-to-derail-brazil-trip-ahead-of-visit-to-obama.html
Brazilian authorities have canceled
a trip to  Washington  to prepare for President Dilma Rousseff’s
state visit next month, to protest allegations the U.S. spied on
top officials in Latin America’s largest economy.  Diplomats were scheduled to head to the U.S. on Sept. 7 to
organize the first state visit by a Brazilian president in
nearly two decades, according to a government official who is
close to Rousseff. The official, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public, said he didn’t know
whether Rousseff would cancel her Oct. 23 White House meeting
with President  Barack Obama .  Obama and Rousseff arrived late to a dinner with heads of
state in  St. Petersburg , Russia after meeting on the sidelines
of the Group of 20 summit. U.S. deputy national security adviser
 Ben Rhodes  told reporters that while he had no information to
share about Brazil’s plans, he expected the president and
Rousseff to discuss the issue.  Brazilian officials denounced as a violation of their
country’s sovereignty allegations that the U.S. National
Security Agency monitored Rousseff’s communications with top
aides. The outrage may be short-lived and probably won’t affect
commercial ties, said Rubens Barbosa, a former Brazilian
ambassador to the U.S.  “At some point, this will be overcome, because it wasn’t
just Brazil being spied on,” Barbosa, now a director for trade
policy at the Sao Paulo Industrial Federation, said in a phone
interview. “Rousseff will probably end up going through with
the trip and speak out against the espionage in Obama’s face.”  Fighter Jets  Relations between  Brazil  and the U.S. have failed to live
up to their potential in recent years, Barbosa said. Contentious
issues include a dispute over U.S. cotton subsidies and slow
progress on a plan to jointly promote biofuels in  Africa .  A decade-long push by  Boeing Co. (BA)  to sell the South American
nation a fleet of fighter jets is also stalled over Brazilian
concerns that the U.S., unlike other bidders Sweden and France,
won’t transfer sensitive military technology as part of the
deal, he added.  “If we don’t buy the jets it won’t be because of the
spying episode,” Barbosa said.  Brazil typically sends officials abroad in advance of major
trips to organize details. The routine is followed for domestic
trips as well.  “We understand how important this is to the Brazilians,”
Rhodes said. “We carry out intelligence like just about every
other country around the world. If there are concerns we can
address, consistent with our national security requirements, we
will aim to do so.”  Snowden Documents  The spying allegations were made on Sept. 1 by U.S.
journalist Glenn Greenwald, who obtained secret documents from
fugitive security analyst Edward Snowden in May, on Brazil’s
most-watched TV news magazine, “Fantastico.”  Greenwald said the information was part of the first batch
of documents he received from Snowden when he met him in Hong
Kong in May. That was before Snowden, a former  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)  employee, was granted a one-year asylum
in Russia on President  Vladimir Putin ’s condition that he stop
disclosing documents that harm U.S. interests.  Brazilian authorities will file a complaint with the  United
Nations  and reach out to developing nations, including the other
countries in the BRICS group, Russia,  India ,  China  and  South
Africa , Foreign Minister Luiz Alberto Figueiredo said.  Police Protection  Brazil’s presidential press office and Foreign Ministry
didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment on the preparatory
trip’s cancellation.  Brazil’s Senate is creating a committee to probe the spying
allegations and seek federal police protection for Greenwald,
who lives in Rio de Janeiro, according to a statement posted on
the upper house website Sept. 3.  Telecommunications regulator  Anatel  is analyzing contracts
between national operators and foreign companies to investigate
possible breaches of privacy in light of the spy report, an
Anatel press officer said yesterday in an e-mailed response to
questions.  “This represents an inadmissible and unacceptable
violation of Brazilian sovereignty,” Figueiredo said on Sept.
2. “This kind of practice doesn’t live up to the type of trust
needed to have a strategic partnership.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  