-- Sotheby’s Extends Guarantees to $166 Million Before Sales
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-09-06T08:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/sotheby-s-said-it-extends-guarantees-to-166-million.html
Sotheby’s (BID)  said it entered into
auction guarantees totaling $166.4 million, according to a
filing, in a move aimed at winning more consignments.  The New York-based auction house said last night it’s
reducing its exposure by “irrevocable bids” of $23.5 million,
which are from undisclosed third-party guarantors. It may
further reduce risk by additional “irrevocable bids” before
auctions in the fourth quarter, it said in the filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Auction houses can encourage sellers by offering them a
minimum price, guaranteed either by the auction house or a third
party. Returns can be higher without guarantee, though there is
a chance of a work not selling. Sotheby’s previously reduced
guarantees after it lost $60 million from them in 2008, as
artworks sold for less than the minimum guaranteed price or
didn’t sell at all.  Sotheby’s recently increased borrowing capacity to provide
as much as “$300 million of net outstanding guarantee
exposure,” Chairman and Chief Executive William Ruprecht said
in an Aug. 6 conference call.  “We did this to enhance our flexibility as we negotiate
deal opportunities and hopefully provide us with an opportunity
to improve margins and profitability by taking prudent balance
sheet risk,” Ruprecht said.  Fall Sales  Sotheby’s major sales coming up include events in  Hong Kong 
and  London  in October and  New York  in November. Christie’s
International Plc and other auction houses plan sales.  Sotheby’s, the world’s largest publicly traded auctioneer
of fine arts and collectibles, is being targeted by  Daniel Loeb ’s  Third Point  LLC activist hedge-fund firm, which amassed a
5.7 percent stake. Third Point intends to engage Sotheby’s board
and management in talks, according to an Aug. 26 regulatory
filing.  Sotheby’s  stock  is at $46.89, up from $33.03 in April and
near its Aug. 26 close of $47.21, which was its highest in two
years.  Muse highlights include New York and London  weekend guides ;
 Lewis Lapham  on history;  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater; and  Greg
Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on movies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 