-- South Korea Orders Arrest of Lawmaker Accused in Rebellion Plot
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-09-05T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/south-korea-court-mulls-arresting-lawmaker-over-rebellion-charge.html
 A South Korean court ordered the
arrest of a lawmaker after he led meetings where fellow party
members allegedly discussed plans to steal weapons and blow up
infrastructure in the event of war with  North Korea .  The Suwon District Court yesterday issued the order to
arrest Lee Seok Ki, a member of the United Progressive Party, on
charges of plotting to overthrow the government, court spokesman
Lee Jung Won said by phone. Lee is already in custody over the
allegations and hadn’t been formally arrested.  South Korea ’s National Assembly lifted Lee’s immunity Sept.
4 amid the allegations raised by the National Intelligence
Service. His party said that the alleged plot, discussed at a
meeting in May, amounted to a joke by a handful of members.  “South Koreans find what the UPP did very laughable,” Seo
Bok Kyeung, a researcher at the Sogang Institute of Political
Studies in  Seoul , said by phone. “At the same time, if the
court eventually rules this is a rebellion, it could make people
feel threatened about their rights.”  The allegation against Lee and his party has the effect of
shifting public and media attention away from the  National
Intelligence Service ’s alleged intervention in presidential
elections last year, Lee Ho Chul, a political science professor
at Incheon National University, said by phone.  Former NIS chief Won Sei Hoon is being tried on charges of
meddling in last year’s elections in which Park Geun Hye won the
presidency. Spy agents allegedly posted comments that criticized
opposition figures and praised Park in a bid to influence the
outcome.  Lee was sentenced to two and a half years in prison in 2003
for his role in a pro-North Korean organization. He was later
pardoned. South Korean lawmakers tried and failed last year to
oust him from parliament after his own party found
irregularities in its primaries. Lee’s United Progressive Party
holds six seats in the 300-seat legislature.  South and North Korea share a heavily armed border and
remain technically at war after their 1950-53  Korean War  ended
in a truce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  