-- South Sudan Government Negotiates $50 Million IMF Loan
-- B y   M a d i n g   N g o r
-- 2013-09-17T08:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/south-sudan-negotiating-500-million-imf-loan-to-bolster-economy.html
South  Sudan  is in talks with the
International Monetary Fund for a loan of as much as $50 million
to help the two-year-old country recover from a halt to oil
exports, central bank Governor Kornelio Koriom Mayik said.  Foreign-exchange in the East African nation dwindled after
South Sudan shut crude production in a dispute that began last
year with neighboring Sudan over border security, oil-transit
fees and citizenship issues. The country stopped pumping from
January 2012 to April and then reduced output again in June
because of the disagreements, which were resolved this week.  South Sudan already borrowed about $500 million from
external sources, including $100 million from Qatar National
Bank SAQ, to offset the dollar shortage and fund government
spending, Mayik said in an interview in the capital, Juba, on
Sept. 4. It arranged an additional $100 million credit line
three months ago with CFC Stanbic Bank Holdings Ltd., a unit of
Johannesburg-based Standard Bank Group Ltd., he said.  “It has been difficult without oil,” Mayik, 71, said.
“We managed to run the budget of the government for a period of
about five to six months, from this little money that was
borrowed from the financial institutions in the country.”  The country quadrupled revenue collection and introduced
austerity measures, the finance ministry said April 27. The
government started collecting as much as 60 million South
Sudanese pounds ($19 million) in taxes and customs duties
monthly, compared to 14 million pounds before production of
crude was halted.  Oil Dependence  South Sudan relies on oil to generate 98 percent of its
foreign-currency earnings. The central bank rationed the use of
foreign exchange to be used for purchases of basic supplies such
as food, fuel, medicines and building materials. That helped
slow inflation, which surged to a record 79.5 percent in May
2012, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. Prices
declined 9.8 percent from a year earlier in July, the third
successive monthly drop, according to the latest available data.  South Sudan became a member of the IMF last year and is
eligible for concessional lending. The country doesn’t have a
credit rating. To secure the IMF loan, South Sudan plans to
harmonize an official foreign-exchange rate of 3.06 South
Sudanese pounds per dollar with the black market rate, which is
currently at about 4.35 against the U.S. currency, Mayik said.  Exchange Rate  “We’re going to pressure the market rate to come near to
the official rate and then when we either come to the official
rate or we come near to it, we shall unify our rate and make it
the official rate,” he said. The central bank plans to use
reserves to “intervene when there’s a deviation from it.”  The proceeds from the planned loan will be used to revive
infrastructure projects that were shelved when the government
introduced the austerity budget to cope with the halt to oil
production, Mayik said.  South Sudanese President  Salva Kiir  and his Sudanese
counterpart, Umar al-Bashir, this week signed an agreement to
keep South Sudan’s oil flowing. The two met in Sudan’s capital,
Khartoum, on Sept. 3 after al-Bashir threatened to halt
shipments of crude through Sudan’s territory on Sept. 6 unless
the south withdrew support for rebels opposed to his rule. South
Sudan denies backing the fighters and accuses Sudan of deploying
troops in its oil-producing Upper Nile region.  South Sudan gained independence from Sudan in July 2011.
The only way South Sudan can export its oil is via pipelines
that traverse the northern neighbor to a terminal at Port Sudan
on the Red Sea. The country is considering building pipelines
via neighboring  Ethiopia  to  Djibouti  and through  Kenya .  Talks Breakthrough  The breakthrough in the talks may help the country secure
the IMF loan, Mayik said.  The IMF says that “if everything goes well and your oil is
flowing, and because your start has been bad, we can be able to
give you a loan so that you can make a good start and it will
make it possible for your development to be possible,” Mayik
said.  South Sudan may be the world’s fastest-growing economy this
year, with growth expected to be 32.1 percent, according to the
IMF’s  website . The country’s oil is pumped mainly by China
National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and
India’s ONGC Videsh Ltd.  The IMF’s representative in South Sudan, Joseph Karangwa,
didn’t respond to e-mailed questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mading Ngor in Juba at 
 mngor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  