-- Corn Futures Fall to Three-Week Low on Weather Outlook
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-09-05T19:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/soybeans-rebound-as-usda-may-cut-production-estimate-on-weather.html
Corn futures fell to a three-week
low on speculation that rain will help boost yields in  Iowa  and
 Illinois , the largest U.S. growers. Wheat posted the longest
slump in nine weeks, while soybeans gained.  Precipitation may fall in the “heart of the Corn Belt”
from  Nebraska  through Illinois in the next five days, QT Weather
said in a report. As much as 2 inches (5.1 centimeters) of rain
fell in the past 24 hours in parts of Nebraska and Iowa, the
Chicago-based company said. Corn has tumbled 34 percent this
year on speculation that the crop will be the biggest ever in
the U.S., the world’s top producer.  “The overnight weather models showed more rain in the
Midwest,” Arlan Suderman, a senior market analyst at Peoria,
Illinois-based Water Street Solutions, said in a telephone
interview. “That pulled the rug out from under the markets, and
we’ve been trading lower since.”  Corn futures for December delivery dropped 1.8 percent to
settle at $4.61 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Earlier, the price touched $4.57, the lowest for a most-active contract since Aug. 15.  Wheat futures for December delivery fell 0.9 percent to
$6.4025 a bushel. The price declined for the seventh straight
session, the longest since July 1. This year, the grain has
slumped 18 percent.  Soybean futures for November delivery rose 1.1 percent to
$13.675 a bushel.  As of Sept. 1, U.S. crop  conditions  deteriorated for the
third straight week after hot, dry weather threatened  yields  in
the Midwest, Department of Agriculture data showed.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, followed by soybeans, hay
and wheat, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  