-- Spanish Competition Authority Investigates Car Price Fixing
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2013-09-05T11:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/spanish-competition-authority-investigates-car-price-fixing.html
Spain’s competition authority is
investigating whether car retailers colluded to fix prices and
share information, as automakers suffer falling sales amid
Spain’s five-year economic slowdown.  The National Competition Commission started an
investigation into possible price fixing in the sale of brands
including Volkswagen, Audi and Toyota. It is also investigating
carmakers including Nissan Iberia SA, Renault Espana SA, Ford
Espana SL and  Chevrolet  Espana SA for possible practices
including sharing market-sensitive information, the regulator
said on its  website  yesterday.  Spain has been in and out of  recession  since 2008, when a
debt-fueled housing and consumer boom collapsed, undermining car
sales. In the first eight months of the year new car
registrations shrank 3.6 percent, adding to a decline of 13
percent seen in 2012, even amid government incentive programs
for automakers.  The probe into the companies for possible information-sharing also includes Toyota Espana SL, Chrysler Espana SL,
General Motors Espana SLU,  Fiat Group Automobiles Spain SA,
Hyundai Motor Espana SLU, Honda Automoviles Espana SA, KIA
Motors Iberia SL, Peugeot Citroen Automoviles Espana SA,
Volkswagen Audi Espana, and Seat. The investigations may take as
long as 18 months, the regulator said.  Ford (F)  said in a statement it always operates strictly within
the law and will cooperate with the regulator. Joaquin Torres, a
spokesman for Chevrolet, said in a phone interview that
competition in the Spanish car market is “very clear”, and the
company expects that to be demonstrated by the investigation.  Representatives for Seat and Toyota said they had no
comment on the probe. Nobody was available to comment at the
other automakers contacted by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  