-- Storm Gabrielle Probably Won’t Strengthen in Caribbean
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2013-09-05T13:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/storm-gabrielle-probably-won-t-strengthen-in-caribbean.html
Tropical Storm Gabrielle isn’t
expected to gain much strength as it churns in the Caribbean Sea
on a path between  Puerto Rico  and the  Dominican Republic , the
U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  Gabrielle was about 65 miles (105 kilometers) west-southwest of Ponce, Puerto Rico, at 8 a.m.  New York  time, with
top winds of 40 miles per hour, the Miami-based center said in
an  advisory . The storm is bringing heavy rains to Puerto Rico
and adjacent islands.  “Gabrielle is currently poorly organized and little change
in strength is expected today,” the center said. “Some slight
strengthening is possible tonight and Friday,” although the
system isn’t expected to reach hurricane strength in the next
five days.  The current  track forecast  takes the system through the
Mona Passage, a part of the Caribbean that separates the
Dominican Republic from Puerto Rico. Gabrielle is then expected
to curve north and east into the Atlantic without becoming a
further threat to land.  A flash flood watch has been posted for Puerto Rico and the
 U.S. Virgin Islands  through tomorrow, according to the  National
Weather Service  in Carolina, Puerto Rico.  Three to 6 inches (8 to 15 centimeters) of rain may fall
across the islands with as much as 12 inches in the mountains,
the weather service said.  “These rains could cause dangerous flash floods and mud
slides over mountainous terrain,” the agency said.  Seventh Storm  Gabrielle is the seventh tropical storm of the 2013
 Atlantic hurricane season , which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30.
None of the Atlantic systems has strengthened into a hurricane,
which has winds of at least 74 mph.  The hurricane center is tracking three other areas of
disturbed weather across the Atlantic that have the potential
for becoming tropical systems. The most threatening of them is
located in the Bay of Campeche, in the southwestern  Gulf of
Mexico .  Petroleos Mexicanos ,  Mexico ’s state-owned oil company, has
most of its output in the bay. The system has a 30 percent
chance of becoming tropical in the next two days as it drifts
west toward the coast of Mexico.  In the eastern Pacific, the hurricane center is tracking a
tropical depression that is expected to grow into Tropical Storm
Lorena later today and then follow a path parallel to Mexico’s
Baja California peninsula.  The depression had top sustained winds of 35 mph and was
155 miles southwest of Manzanillo, Mexico.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  