-- Straight Path, Brewery Vivant: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-05T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/straight-path-brewery-vivant-intellectual-property.html
Straight Path Communications Inc. (STRP) ’s
Straight Path IP Group unit persuaded the U.S. International
Trade Commission to begin an investigation of a range of
communications devices.  The  Glen Allen , Virginia-based company has said devices
made by LG Electronics, Panasonic Corp., Sharp Corp., Sony Corp,
Toshiba Corp., Vizio Inc., and AmTran Technology Corp. infringe
its patents.  The Washington-based trade commission, which has the power
to exclude the entry of products that infringe U.S. patents,
said in a  statement  posted on its website yesterday that it will
investigate the products.  In August, Straight Path filed patent infringement suits in
federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia , against Panasonic,
Toshiba, Atlanta-based Vocalcity Inc., Telesphere Networks Ltd.
and Sharp Corp. The disputed patents are related to point-to-point Internet communication, according to court filings.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Brewery Vivant Demands Pennsylvania Brewery Drop ‘FarmHands’  Brewery Vivant , a  Grand Rapids , Michigan-based brewery,
persuaded a  Pennsylvania  brewery to change the name one of its
beers.  According to a statement posted on its website,  Tired Hands
Brewing Co.  of Ardmore, Pennsylvania, is retiring its
“FarmHands” label. Brewery Vivant had claimed this infringed
the “Farmhand” trademark it uses for its French farmhouse-style beer.  Jean Broillet IV, owner of Tired Hands, said the name
change is being made reluctantly.  “Marketplace confusion sucks, but we have never had that
problem in our industry because what we sell is necessarily
unique to the producer,” Broillet said in a  statement  on the
website. “We’re not making widgets here, we are crafting an
organic product that has inherent value beyond ‘branding.’”  “As an industry, we are heading down a gnarled and
paranoiac path that will only serve to isolate our customers by
truncating the creativity of fellow beer producers; effectively
losing sight of what made this industry so great when I entered
into it nearly a decade ago,” he said.  The brewery will hold a celebration Sept. 26 to mark the
end of the FarmHands label, according to the statement.  Mosque Opponent Files Appeal of Trademark Application Rejection  The  American Freedom Defense Initiative , a conservative
organization opposed to the building of a  mosque  near the site
of the World Trade Center destroyed on 9/11, has said that the
U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  rejected one of its trademark
applications.  The New York-based organization said it applied to register
“Stop Islamisation of America” and that an appeal board at the
patent office affirmed the trademark examiner’s denial of the
application. According to court filings, the examiner said the
requested trademark “consists of or included matter that may
disparage or bring into contempt or disrepute persons,
institutions, beliefs or national symbols.”  David Yerushalmi, whose American Freedom Law Center is
representing the group, said in a  statement  on his
organization’s website that the rejection was “based on the
political correct narrative about anything Islam,” according to
Family News Network.  Yerushalmi has filed an appeal of the board’s ruling Aug.
30 with the Washington-based U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit.  In his filing, he argued that “Islamisation” in the
context of the trademark does not apply to “all things Islamic
but rather a very dangerous politicization of Islam where
Islamic law supplants secular constitutional law and civil
liberties in political society.”  The case is In re: Pamela Geller, 12-1412,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Ministry of Sound Label Sues Spotify Over Music Playlists  Record label Ministry of Sound Ltd. said it sued Spotify
Ltd. for copying its dance music albums.  Spotify, an online music provider, made playlists available
to its users that mirrored Ministry of Sound compilation albums,
the label said in a statement. The company said a lawsuit was
filed in  London  on Sept. 2.  “We aim to ensure that our creativity is protected and
respected,” said Lohan Presencer, Ministry of Sound’s chief
executive officer, in the statement.  Angela Watts, a spokeswoman for Spotify in London, declined
to comment on the lawsuit.  Jeremy Scott to Destroy Clothing Infringing Skateboard Designs  Fashion designer  Jeremy Scott , whose edgy clothing is worn
by Madonna, Lady Gaga and Beyonce, has acknowledged he copied
designs from a  Santa Cruz , California-based skateboard
manufacturer for a clothing collection he showed at  New York 
Fashion Week in February, the Santa Cruz Sentinel newspaper
 reported .  Scott said that the offending items -- shirts, handbags and
other apparel -- won’t be manufactured, and the garments he
showed at fashion week will be destroyed in front of a witness
from the skateboard company, according to the Sentinel.  Bob Denike, chief executive of  NHS/Santa Cruz Skateboards ,
told the newspaper his company is dealing with infringement “on
a weekly basis” and that the negative publicity generated by
the dispute was “actually quite damaging to us.”  No financial terms of the agreement were disclosed,
according to the Sentinel.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Sun Corp. Unit’s Trade Secrets Case Set for Pretrial Conference  Japan-based  Sun Corp. (6736) ’s Cellebrite unit’s  trade secrets 
case against Micro Systemation AB is set for a pretrial
conference Sept. 18, according to a court filing.  Cellebrite sued Micro Systemation in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia, Aug. 16, accusing the Swedish company of
extracting trade secrets from Cellebrite’s products and
integrating them into its own software. Micro Systemation is
also accused of infringing Cellebrite’s copyrights and
trademarks.  The suit is related to Cellebrite’s UFED product, which is
sold to  law enforcement , and used to extract, decode and analyze
data from mobile devices. Cellebrite said that the product,
which specifically decodes data from Samsung and BlackBerry
devices, is infringed by Micro Systemation products that also
work against Samsung and BlackBerry devices.  The suit alleges that Micro Systemation accessed, extracted
and decrypted Cellebrite products and copied and integrated them
into Micro Systemation’s Samsung Solution and BlackBerry
Solution products.  The company said it is harmed by Micro Systemation’s
actions and asked the court for money damages, including extra
damages to punish the Swedish company for its actions.
Additionally, it asked for awards of litigation costs and
attorney fees.  The case is Cellebrite Mobile Synchronization Ltd. v.  Micro
Systemation AB (MSABB) , 1:13-cv-01014-TSE-TRJ, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  