-- Stronach’s Death-Penalty Backing Upends Austrian Vote Support
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-09-05T11:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/stronach-s-death-penalty-backing-upends-austrian-vote-support.html
Frank Stronach, the 80-year-old
Austrian billionaire campaigning in this month’s federal
election, upset supporters by saying he backs the death penalty.  “For professional hit men there should be a death penalty
because they are a threat to society,” Stronach said, according
to a  transcript  of a question-and-answer session published today
by the  Vorarlberger Nachrichten  newspaper. The remarks prompted
Stronach’s own party to distance itself from the candidate.  “We personally think that it is seriously dangerous to
even think about instituting the death penalty in our country
because of legal, moral and ethical reasons,” said a statement
issued today by Team Stronach, the Carinthian chapter of the
political party set up last year to elevate the founder of  Magna
International Inc. (MG)  to power.  Voters go to the polls on Sept. 29 to decide whether to
give the ruling Social Democratic and Austrian People’s Party a
new mandate to govern the country of 8.4 million. The Socialists
lead the polls with 27 percent while the People’s party is
second at 24 percent. Team Stronach, with 7 percent, joins the
Pirate Party and the Austrian Neos as newcomers on the ballot.  Capital punishment has been outlawed in Austria since 1950.
The country has adopted United Nations and European Union
conventions outlawing the death penalty. Authorities in the
southern city of Graz stripped Arnold Schwarzenegger’s name from
its soccer stadium in 2005 because the ex-California governor,
who grew up in  Austria , refused to pardon a death-row inmate.  Stronach’s campaign issued a  statement  that the candidate
was expressing his personal opinions about the death penalty and
that they aren’t part of his party’s platform.  Stronach is worth about 2.35 billion euros ($3.1 billion)
according to Trend magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  