-- Structured Note Buyers Renew Gold Bets as New Fed Chair Looms
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-09-05T17:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/structured-note-buyers-renew-gold-bets-as-new-fed-chair-looms.html
U.S. investors are increasing bets
on structured notes that profit on gains in gold, as its price
rebounds on the prospect of the  Federal Reserve  keeping interest
rates low and military action in  Syria .  Banks in August sold $107.4 million of notes tied to gold
or companies that mine the precious metal, the biggest month
since January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold prices will stay high because whoever succeeds Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  probably won’t raise interest rates,
said Douglas Groh, co-portfolio manager at Tocqueville Asset
Management LP, in a telephone interview in  New York . Bernanke’s
term expires in January.  “I think the outlook for gold is still very positive,”
Groh said. “We’re going to see more easy monetary policy under
a new Federal Reserve chairman.”  The Fed may begin trimming asset purchases later this year
and end them around mid-2014 if the economy improves in line
with officials’ expectations, Bernanke said June 19. The Fed
plans to hold its target interest rate near zero as long as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for
inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  The prospect of U.S. military intervention in the  Middle
East  also may make gold more valuable because investors would
view it as a “haven,” Groh said. “If a coalition does go to
war and does implement some type of discipline on Syria, gold
would likely have a very positive response initially,” he said.  Military Action  President  Barack Obama  said Syrian forces used chemical
weapons to kill more than 1,400 people in a Damascus suburb. A
U.S. Senate panel yesterday voted to authorize a limited
military operation in the country, the first step toward
congressional endorsement of the effort.  The spot price of gold rose 16 percent from a low of
$1,200.67 an ounce on June 27 to $1,391.57 an ounce yesterday.  The largest structured note offering in August that
benefits from gold rising was $40.3 million of two-year notes
tied to the NYSE Arca Gold Miners Index sold by  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  The securities, issued Aug. 29, yield three times the
gains of the benchmark, with returns capped at 50.19 percent and
protection against 5 percent of losses, according to a
prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The bank, which charged 2 percent in distribution
fees, estimated the note’s initial value at 95.9 cents on the
dollar.  Susan McCabe, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, declined
to comment on the securities.  Investors bought $38 million of notes tied to gold miner
and producer  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  last month,
Bloomberg data show. That’s the largest sales month for the
securities since February.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  