-- Sugar Surplus Forecasts Shrink on China to Indonesia Demand
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-09-05T17:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/sugar-surplus-shrinks-on-quickening-demand-in-china-to-indonesia.html
The global sugar surpluses for this
year and the next are narrowing as rising population means
accelerating demand in developing nations from  China  to
Indonesia, the world’s largest raw sugar importer.  Sugar production will outstrip demand by 2 million metric
tons in the 2013-14 season that starts in October in most
countries, according to Czarnikow Group Ltd., which has clients
in 83 countries. That’s down from a previous forecast of 3.9
million tons. The surplus will shrink as output falls 2.2
percent and consumption advances 2.3 percent in 2013 and 2
percent next year, the London-based company estimated today.  Production for 2012-13 will be 183 million with demand at
173 million tons, leaving a record surplus, the International
Sugar Organization says. Prices in New York fell 15 percent this
year. Consumption may be about 3 million tons more than
anticipated when the 2012-13 season began, said Robin Shaw, an
analyst at Marex Spectron Group.  Indonesia ’s imports will double
this year and China’s demand will be a record.  “Three million tons of extra demand has meant that the
massive surplus that we all foresaw isn’t that massive, it’s
quite moderate,” said Shaw, who has followed sugar since 1971.
“If you live in a city, your mother doesn’t do the cooking, you
go out and you buy a ready-made meal and that contains sugar.
You don’t have mom making soft drinks at home so you go out and
buy coca cola. It’s a westernization of eating habits.”  Sugar Futures  Raw sugar futures declined 37 percent the past two years as
surpluses emerged. The futures for October delivery were up 0.8
percent at 16.51 cents a pound today on ICE Futures U.S., down
from the 30-year high of 36.08 cents a pound in February 2011.
The global population will increase by 33 percent to 9.6 billion
people by 2050, led by growth in developing regions, the United
Nations  estimates . The world will need 70 percent more food by
2050, says the UN’s Food & Agriculture Organization in  Rome .  Indonesia’s raw sugar imports will double to 5.4 million
tons this year, Achmad Widjaja, secretary general of the
Indonesia Sugar Association, said Aug. 26. Chinese raw sugar
imports will rise to a record 4 million tons in 2012-13 from 3.6
million tons a year earlier, estimates Czarnikow, which traded
2.4 million tons of the raw sweetener last year and 800,000 tons
of the white, or refined, variety.  Pocket Money  “When we look at what’s been happening across commodity
markets, with prices falling, food prices falling, the money in
the pocket of consumers is stretching further,” said Toby Cohen, a director at Czarnikow. “When things are getting more
affordable, you can be more generous with yourself. Quite
clearly, in a lot of the fast-growing Asian economies, the
urbanization trend is really important in terms of driving
consumption. The big growth volume for most consumer-goods
companies come from the Asian market.”  Chinese imports are climbing partly as a government policy
to stockpile local sweetener pushed domestic prices above the
international market, prompting more buying. Sugar is gaining
market share over high-fructose  corn syrup , an alternative
sweetener, because prices have dropped, Marex Spectron’s Shaw
said. Sugar demand will gain as it’s now more competitive with
corn sweeteners, Czarnikow’s Cohen said by phone today.  “We are surprised to see how demand is still coming,”
Fabienne Pointier, an analyst at Lausanne, Switzerland-based
researcher Kingsman SA, said by phone yesterday. “China keeps
importing, demand is still there from Indonesia. Most of the
unexpected demand is coming from the Far East.”  Sugar Buyers  Brazil , the world’s largest producer and exporter, shipped
a record 15.4 million tons of sugar from January to August,
according to consultancy SA Commodities and shipping agency
Unimar Agenciamentos Maritimos, both in Santos, Brazil. That’s
up from 12.4 million tons in the same period last year, 14.4
million tons in 2011 and 15.2 million tons in 2010. China, the
United Arab Emirates,  Algeria ,  Bangladesh  and Nigeria were the
top five destinations for Brazilian sugar in the period.  “Demand has been strong,” said Nicolle de Castro, an
analyst at SA Commodities. “People tend to remember 2010 as the
year of very high demand because of all the congestion we had at
the ports, but we’ve shipped more this year.”  Global sugar output will fall to 181.8 million tons in
2013-14 from 185.8 million tons a year earlier, Czarnikow said.
Consumption will be 175.2 million tons this year and 178.8
million tons in 2014, Stephen Geldart, a senior analyst at the
company, said by phone from London today. More consumption may
mean a smaller surplus in 2013-14 and support for prices, said
Pointier of Kingsman, a unit of McGraw Hill Financial Inc.’s
Platts. Kingsman will update its 2013-14 forecast next week.  “The important lesson to take from all of this is not only
the surplus this year is more moderate, but the surplus we are
expecting for next year, if this pattern is continued, is going
to disappear and we may even be in deficit,” Shaw said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  