-- Suntech to Trina Gain as Buyback Lifts 21Vianet: Night
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-09-05T20:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/suntech-to-trina-gain-as-buyback-lifts-21vianet-night.html
Solar manufacturers drove a rally in
Chinese stocks traded in  New York , led by Suntech Power Holdings
Co., amid growing optimism that global demand for renewable
energy will improve producers’ profitability.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity  Index (HSCEI)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. added 0.7 percent to a seven-month
high of 98.85 yesterday. Suntech surged 12 percent and  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  rose to a two-year high. Internet data center
operator  21Vianet Group Inc. (VNET)  soared as it plans to buy back $10
million of shares and  Sina Corp. (SINA)  jumped after  China  Business
News reported Alibaba Group Holdings Ltd. is in talks with the
social media company to buy a stake in its video business.  Japan and China will provide new growth for solar energy
after profitability improved for producers in the second quarter
as average selling prices stopped falling, according to an
analyst report by Bloomberg Industries. Deutsche Bank AG said in
a note this week that growth in the U.S. solar market over the
next few years will benefit Chinese manufacturers including
Trina and  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)   Many investors have concluded that “margins have troughed
for the solar companies,”  Gordon Johnson , an analyst with Axiom
Capital Management Inc. said by phone in New York. “A number of
well-respected analysts are now making calls that grid parity is
going to drive significant installations of solar in key
markets.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed for a fifth day,
rising 1 percent to a three-month high of $37.23. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1 percent as investors weighed data on
the labor market and American services industry before the
monthly jobs report.  Solar Spending  Suntech’s American depositary receipts jumped to $1.12,
rising the most since July 15. Trina added 3.6 percent to
$11.14, the highest price since September 2011. Baoding, China-based Yingli, the world’s biggest panel-maker, gained 4.2
percent in its fifth day of rally to $5.51, the highest level
since February 2012.  Developers will spend more than $134 billion annually by
2020 on solar-energy systems, up 51 percent from this year, as
falling panel prices make electricity produced from sunlight
cost-competitive with power from other sources, according to a
July report from  Navigant Consulting Inc. (NCI)  By 2017, the year
after some U.S. tax incentives are cut, solar power will achieve
grid parity “in most major markets,” meaning it’s able to
compete subsidy-free with traditional generators.  21Vianet, based in Beijing, said its board authorized a
plan to repurchase as much as $10 million of shares on the open
market with the company’s cash, according to a statement
yesterday.  Alibaba Talks  Its ADRs surged 7.2 percent to $14.82 in New York, the
highest price since May 2011.  Sina, owner of Weibo, a Twitter-like service provider in
China, advanced 4.3 percent to $82.84, increasing the most in a
month.  Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company, is talking to
Sina to buy a stake in Sina’s video service, China Business News
 reported  yesterday, citing an unidentified person with knowledge
with Alibaba’s plan. In April, Alibaba agreed to pay $586
million for about 18 percent of Sina’s Weibo unit.  YY Inc. (YY) , owner of an entertainment website, rose 6.8
percent in its third day of advances to a one-month high of
$43.70. ADRs of the Guangzhou-based company were raised to a buy
equivalent at Pacific Crest Securities LLC from hold.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index advanced 1 percent to
a three-month high of 10,338.89. The Shanghai Composite Index
slipped 0.2 percent to 2,122.43, declining for the first time in
a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  