-- Swiss Stocks Pare Advance Before ECB Policy Decision
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-09-05T08:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/swiss-stocks-pare-advance-before-ecb-policy-decision.html
Swiss stocks  pared their advance as
investors awaited a monetary-policy decision from the  European
Central Bank  and as the  Federal Reserve  said the  U.S. economy 
continued to grow at a “modest to moderate pace.”  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  increased 2.2 percent, posting its
longest winning streak in eight weeks, after Morgan Stanley
upgraded its rating on the stock. UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group
AG each climbed at least 1 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.1 percent to 7,888.82 at
10:55 a.m. in Zurich, paring a gain of as much as 0.8 percent.
The equity benchmark has rallied 16 percent so far this year,
the third-best performance of 24 developed markets tracked by
Bloomberg, as the economy of the 17-nation euro area returned to
growth. The broader Swiss Performance Index also gained 0.1
percent today.  “For once, the pressure has been quite limited on the ECB
to do anything,” Philipp Baertschi, chief investment officer
for private clients at Bank J. Safra Sarasin AG in Zurich, told
Anna Edwards on Bloomberg Television. “They’re quite pleased
with the recovery starting now, with Europe coming out of
recession. We see a broadening of the global recovery starting
in the U.S.”  ECB policy makers meeting today will probably leave their
benchmark interest rate unchanged at a low of 0.5 percent,
according to all 56 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The ECB
will announce its interest-rate decision at 1:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt and President  Mario Draghi  will hold a press
conference 45 minutes later.  The U.S. economy, the world’s largest, continued to grow
from early July through late August, even as borrowing costs
increased, the Fed said in its Beige Book survey of economic
conditions. Increased spending on cars and housing helped the
U.S. economy maintain the pace of expansion, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  