-- U.A.E. Mulls Rail Law, Border Controls as First Train Line Looms
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-09-05T14:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/u-a-e-mulls-rail-law-border-controls-as-first-train-line-looms.html
The  United Arab Emirates  said it’s
drawing up safety and operational rules for its fledgling rail
industry as the desert country dominated by road and sea
transport spends $25 billion to build a network from scratch.  A draft law is under scrutiny as the first part of an $11
billion freight line connecting the U.A.E.’s seven sheikdoms
nears completion. Light rail projects are also under way in  Abu
Dhabi  and Dubai, costing $8 billion and $2 billion respectively.  “Rail is a newborn industry,” Nadheem Bin Taher, acting
director general of the U.A.E National Transport Authority, said
in Dubai. “To encourage the private sector to do business they
must know the law in the country.” Clear rules should help draw
bids for train operation, signaling and rolling stock, he said.  The U.A.E. is building railways to reduce its reliance on
moving freight by road as part of a bigger plan to connect all
Gulf Cooperation Council countries from  Kuwait  in the north to
Oman on the  Indian Ocean  by 2018. Its budget represents about 10
percent of the $250 billion being devoted to rail investment in
the whole of the  Middle East  and North Africa, public works
minister Abdulla Mohamed Al Nuaimi said today.  The 750-mile Etihad Rail freight project is on schedule,
with Phase 1 -- linking Shah in the interior with Habshan and
Ruwais closer to the coast -- to be completed this year and the
line opening soon after, he said. Work on Phase 2, opening 2017,
has already begun and a tender process to run it is under way.  Oman’s rail line will also be completed by 2017, allowing
trains to run between the two countries, while  Saudi Arabia  has
begun its part of the project, according to Al Nuaimi.  GCC governments are also studying immigration, tax and
customs questions and will establish a Gulf-wide rail authority
“very soon” to regulate those issues, Bin Taher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  