-- U.K. Stocks Rise as Investors Await BOE, ECB Meetings
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-09-05T08:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/u-k-stocks-rise-as-investors-await-boe-ecb-meetings.html
U.K. stocks  advanced for a second
day as investors awaited meetings by the Bank of England and the
 European Central Bank , and as the Federal Reserve said it saw a
recovery in the U.S. economy.  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  climbed 3.7 percent after
UBS AG recommended the shares.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc paced a rally in U.K. lenders, each rising at
least 2 percent.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  added 2.8 percent as the discount
airline said its passenger numbers rose in August from a year
earlier.  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  surged to to its highest price since
September 2008 after agreeing to sell its Turkish operations and
receiving an offer for its Pixmania unit.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 50.52 points, or 0.8 percent, to
6,525.26 at 9:23 a.m. in London. The gauge fell 3.1 percent in
August as concern grew the  Federal Reserve  will start reducing
stimulus measures this year and that the U.S. and its allies
will take military action against Syria. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also climbed 0.8 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index rose 0.9 percent.  Bank of England officials will probably maintain the stock
of bond purchases 375 billion pounds ($585 billion) and hold its
bank rate at 0.5 percent this month, economists forecast in
Bloomberg surveys. The decisions are due at noon in London,
after the Monetary Policy Committee meets for the first time
since the central bank introduced forward guidance.  The European Central Bank will announce its interest-rate
decision at 1:45 p.m. in Frankfurt. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey forecast the central bank will maintain the rate at 0.5
percent. President  Mario Draghi  holds a press conference 45
minutes later.  Beige Book  In the U.S., demand for automobiles and housing helped
boost growth in the world’s biggest economy, the Fed said in its
Beige Book survey.  “Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest
that national economic activity continued to expand at a modest
to moderate pace during the reporting period of early July
through late August,” according to a statement late yesterday.  U.S. data today may show first-time  jobless claims  fell
last week, while the services industry  expanded  at a slower pace
in August from a month earlier, according to the median
forecasts of economists in separate surveys.  Another release from Automatic Data Processing Inc. may
show companies in the U.S. hired 182,000 workers in August,
compared with 200,000 in July, according to the median
prediction of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The volume of shares traded in FTSE 100-listed companies
was 26 percent higher than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  