-- U.S. Second Quarter Productivity and Cost Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-05T12:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/u-s-second-quarter-productivity-and-cost-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the U.S.
productivity and costs report for the second quarter released  PRODUCTIVITY AND COSTS  Second Quarter 2013, Revised  Nonfarm business sector  labor productivity  increased at a 2.3 percent 
annual rate during the second quarter of 2013, the U.S. Bureau of Labor 
Statistics reported today. The increase in productivity reflects increases 
of 3.7 percent in output and 1.4 percent in hours worked. (All quarterly 
percent changes in this release are seasonally adjusted annual rates.) 
From the second quarter of 2012 to the second quarter of 2013, 
productivity increased 0.3 percent as output and hours worked rose 2.1 
percent and 1.7 percent, respectively. (See table A.)   Labor productivity, or output per hour, is calculated by dividing an index 
of real output by an index of hours worked of all persons, including 
employees, proprietors, and unpaid family workers. The measures released 
today were based on more recent source data than were available for the 
preliminary report.  Unit labor costs in nonfarm businesses were unchanged in the second 
quarter of 2013, as hourly compensation increased at the same 2.3 percent 
rate as productivity. Unit labor costs rose 1.5 percent over the last four 
quarters. (See table A.)  BLS defines unit labor costs as the ratio of hourly compensation to labor 
productivity; increases in hourly compensation tend to increase unit labor 
costs and increases in output per hour tend to reduce them.  Manufacturing sector productivity rose 1.9 percent in the second quarter 
of 2013, as output declined 0.6 percent and hours worked declined 2.4 
percent. Productivity increased 3.3 percent in the durable goods sector 
and 0.2 percent in the nondurable goods sector. Over the last four 
quarters, manufacturing productivity increased 1.9 percent, as output 
increased 1.9 percent and hours were unchanged. Unit labor costs in 
manufacturing rose 2.3 percent in the second quarter of 2013 and decreased 
0.5 percent from the same quarter a year ago. (See tables A and 3.)   Preliminary second-quarter 2013 measures of productivity and costs were 
announced for the nonfinancial corporate sector. Productivity increased 
3.2 percent in the second quarter of 2013, as output and hours rose 4.8 
percent and 1.5 percent, respectively. Unit labor costs fell 0.9 percent, 
as the 2.3 percent gain in hourly compensation was less than the 3.2 
percent gain in productivity. (See tables C and 6.)  The concepts, sources, and methods used for the manufacturing and 
nonfinancial corporate output series differ from those used in the 
business and nonfarm business output series; these output measures are not 
directly comparable. See Technical Notes for a more detailed explanation.  Revised measures  The measures released today are based on more recent source data than were 
available for the preliminary report. Tables B and C present previous and 
revised productivity and related measures for the major sectors: nonfarm 
business, business, and manufacturing, as well as nonfinancial 
corporations.  In the second quarter of 2013, nonfarm business productivity increased 
2.3 percent, rather than 0.9 percent as reported August 16. The revised 
figure reflects both an upward revision to output and a downward revision 
to hours worked. Unit labor costs were revised down due solely to the 
upward revision to productivity. In the manufacturing sector, 
productivity growth was revised down due to a downward revision to output 
and an upward revision to hours. Due to the downward revision to 
productivity, unit labor costs increased more than previously reported, 
2.3 percent.  In the first quarter of 2013, nonfarm business productivity was 
unrevised, and manufacturing productivity was revised down slightly from 
the August 16 release. In the nonfarm business sector, hourly 
compensation and unit labor costs decreased less than previously 
reported.     In the nonfinancial corporate sector, productivity, output, and unit labor 
costs were subject to revisions for the full period of these series, which 
begin in 1947. Measures of output and compensation for the nonfinancial 
corporate (NFC) sector now incorporate the revised National Income and 
Product Accounts (NIPA) data released on July 31 and corrected on August 
15 by the  Bureau of Economic Analysis , U.S. Department of Commerce. Hours 
were also revised for the NFC sector for 2001 forward, to include revised 
NIPA data on the proportion of sector compensation paid to employees of 
corporations and of nonprofit institutions. Also, all index measures for 
the NFC sector have been converted to a base year of 2009. A new base 
generally has little or no effect on percent changes. Historical revisions 
to measures for all other sectors due to the NIPA revision and BLS base 
year change were published with the August 16, 2013 release of 
Productivity and Costs.   In the first quarter of 2013, nonfinancial corporate sector productivity 
declined 4.1 percent, rather than increasing 0.3 percent as reported June 
5. Unit labor costs declined 2.1 percent in the first quarter, compared to 
the 1.5 percent decrease published June 5.   Annual Average productivity growth for 2012 in the nonfinancial corporate 
sector was revised to 1.4 percent from 0.7 percent due to an upward 
revision to output. For the full series from 1947 to 2012, the average 
annual rate of growth is 2.4 percent, slightly higher than the 2.3 percent 
rate published June 5.  Revised quarterly and annual series for recent years for all sectors 
appear in tables 1-6. Revised annual indexes for the NFC sector for all 
years appear in appendix table 1. Full historical annual and quarterly 
measures can be found on the productivity and costs home page 
 http://www.bls.gov/lpc/#data .  ______________  The preliminary Productivity and Costs press release for third-quarter 2013 
is scheduled to be released on Wednesday, November 6, 2013 at 8:30 a.m. (EST). 