-- Hungary’s Balog Says Rate Cut ‘Consistent’ With Market
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-09-05T13:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/hungary-central-banker-says-cut-consistent-with-market-view.html
(Corrects month in fifth paragraph.)  A further cut to  Hungary ’s  base rate 
would be in line with market expectations, central bank Deputy
Governor Adam Balog said, as investors bet it will continue its
cutting cycle even as the forint weakens.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank lowered its two-week deposit rate
to a record-low 3.8 percent from 4 percent last month, more than
the 10 basis point, or 0.1 percentage-point, cut economists
predicted. The central bank will probably extend its 14-month
series of cuts by reducing its base rate to 3.7 percent on Sept.
24, according to a  Bloomberg survey  of three analysts.  “If the council would decide so, it will be consistent
with the market view,” Balog said in an interview in Krynica,
Poland. He said inflation data had “surprised a bit” and
“showed we still needed to cut further,” before the board’s
last decision to cut on Aug.27.  The forint weakened 0.2 percent to 301.92 per euro by 1:01
p.m. in Budapest. The currency has weakened 2.5 percent since
the beginning of July after the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled it
may trim asset purchases, triggering a retreat from emerging-market assets. Political tension in  Syria  and fears over the
Hungarian government’s plans to convert foreign-currency
mortgages to forint have also dented the currency’s allure.  Limited Room  The more uncertain global environment, combined with the
forint’s weakening through 300 per euro after the August rate
meeting, “will limit, in our view, the scope for further
monetary easing,” Gyorgy Kovacs, a London-based economist at
UBS AG who foresees one more 10 basis-point cut in September,
said in an e-mailed note today.  “We are getting increasingly convinced that the scope for
additional easing is disappearing quickly,” he said.  Several central bankers have said the regulator doesn’t
have a forint exchange-rate target. Balog said the speed of
moves was more important.  “We more look into volatility of the forint, if it’s
moving too fast, that’s what we try to take into account and
obviously it has an indirect impact on inflation,” he said.  Investors betting on future interest-rate moves expect the
central bank to cut its benchmark rate to 3.7 percent in the
next three months and then gradually increase rates to 4.4
percent by September 2014, forward-rate agreements tracked by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Krynica,  Poland  at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  