-- Turkey Reinforces Syria Border as Erdogan Backs U.S. Attack
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-09-05T17:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/turkey-reinforces-syria-border-as-erdogan-backs-u-s-attack.html
Turkey deployed tanks and anti-aircraft guns to reinforce its military units on the Syrian
border, as the U.S. considers strikes against  Syria .  Convoys carrying tanks and rocket-launchers headed to
border areas in Hatay, Gaziantep and Sanliurfa provinces today
and yesterday, according to Hurriyet newspaper and  Anatolia news
agency . Tanks, missile launchers and anti-aircraft guns on
hilltops near the border town of Kilis were aimed Syria, state-run TRT television said. F-16s, tanker and cargo planes as well
as at least one drone landed at southern Incirlik Air Base,
Anatolia said.  Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has
expressed a willingness to join any international coalition
against Syria, yesterday vowed to respond to any attack from its
southern neighbor. He spoke after Syrian Deputy Foreign Minister
Faisal al-Mekdad was cited by the Wall Street Journal as saying
that Syria will strike U.S. allies Israel, Jordan and  Turkey  if
the Obama administration attacks his country over its alleged
use of chemical weapons on Aug. 21.  “Our country is ready for such a situation,” Erdogan
said, according to Hurriyet. “Is Syria ready for this? I can’t
know.”  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization is prepared to
defend Turkey against a possible spillover of the civil war,
Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said Sept. 2.  ‘Great Panic’  Turkey, which has sided with the rebels fighting to oust
President Bashar al-Assad, has a border with Syria that
stretches for more than 900 kilometers (559 miles). Six Patriot
missile batteries, supplied by fellow NATO members, have been
stationed in the country for eight months to help defend against
a missile attack from Syria.  Syrian forces shot down a Turkish reconnaissance plane in
the east Mediterranean in June 2012, and errant Syrian shells or
bullets from across the border have killed or injured several
Turks.  Turkish financial markets have extended losses since the
chemical attack prompted calls for a Western military response.
The benchmark stock index is down 4.5 percent in that period,
and the lira has slid by a similar amount, to a record low.  Ipek Ozkardeskaya, a currency strategist at Swissquote Bank
SA in Geneva, said by e-mail today, that “if Syria is bombed,
Turkey’s geopolitical risk will increase considerably.”  Turkey may commit warplanes, help arm the rebels or allow
U.S. access to its air base at Incirlik for attacks or patrols
over Syria, said Nihat Ali Ozcan, an analyst at the Economic
Policy Research Foundation in Ankara.  “If you are willing to join a coalition against Syria,
then it means you are ready to do whatever it takes,” Ozcan
said by telephone. “I don’t see a great security risk from
Syria, as long as Turkey does not engage in a cross-border
ground attack.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  