-- USDA Sugar-Loan Risk Growing as Domestic Glut Spurs Forfeitures
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-09-05T21:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/usda-sugar-loan-risk-growing-as-domestic-glut-spurs-forfeitures.html
The U.S. Department of Agriculture
took 85,000 short tons of sugar as payment for $34.5 million of
loans to processors that came due last month and said there is
“substantial risk” of more forfeitures after government
measures failed to erase a domestic glut.  Borrowers repaid loans from the USDA’s Commodity Credit
Corp. with sugar rather than cash after the price of the
sweetener dropped more than 30 percent from a year ago and below
the government’s minimum support price, Kent E. Politsch, a
department spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement. Most
of the loans will come due at the end of September, “presenting
a substantial risk that borrowers will repay some off these
loans with collateral instead of cash,” he said.  The USDA took steps to remove sweetener from the market,
including export waivers and subsidized sales to ethanol makers,
after a record beet-sugar crop and surging imports from  Mexico 
sent domestic prices to the lowest in more than four years. The
U.S. limits sugar imports to protect domestic growers and
provides loans that assure a minimum price.  “This tells us that there’s a big quantity of sugar out
there, which outweighs the demand,” Michael McDougall, a senior
vice president at Newedge Group in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  About $306.7 million of sugar-beet and cane loans are
coming due at the end of this month, USDA data show. The loans
are for a maximum term of nine months. The agency doesn’t
identify the borrowers.  Lower Prices  USDA loans to processors can be repaid with sugar if prices
fall below certain levels, currently about 21 cents a pound for
raw sugar and 24.09 cents for refined product. Unrefined sugar
for November delivery closed today at 21.02 cents on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York. While prices are up 12 percent from a record
low of 18.7 cents on July 8, after the USDA began taking steps
to curb the surplus, they are down 23 percent from a year
earlier.  The agency spent about $61.7 million in June and July to
reduce the glut through a mix of purchases and export credits.
The department also subsidized the sale of 7,100 tons at 6 cents
a pound to ethanol makers for the first time under the Feedstock
Flexibility Program. Almost all U.S. ethanol is made from corn,
and farmers this year are harvesting the biggest crop ever,
sending prices down 42 percent from a year ago.  “They are not finding enough demand from ethanol producers
because corn prices are fairly cheap,” McDougall said.  Front Range Energy LLC, based in Windsor,  Colorado , was the
only ethanol maker to buy the USDA sugar.  Green Plains Renewable
Energy Inc. (GPRE) , the fourth-largest U.S. ethanol producer, decided
not to participate, citing concerns over its cost and
regulations.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the third-biggest producer,
also skipped the program, spokesman Bill Day said in a statement
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  