-- Versace to Sell Minority Stake Privately Ahead of IPO, CEO Says
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-09-05T10:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/versace-to-sell-minority-stake-privately-ahead-of-ipo-ceo-says.html
Gianni Versace SpA, the Italian
luxury-goods maker weighing options to pay for growth, said it
plans to sell a minority stake privately before selling shares
to the public in three to five years.  “We decided to open a minority stake sale” before an
initial public offering, Chief Executive Officer Gian Giacomo Ferraris said today in  Macau , where the Milan, Italy-based
company unveiled plans to open a hotel in 2017. “We’re well on
track for this,” he said, declining to specify Versace had
started talks with potential investors.  Ferraris said in June that the Italian maker of $950
flower-print jeans expected to decide by October or November
whether it would sell a minority stake publicly or privately.
Versace hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Banca IMI SpA last
year to explore growth options.  Versace expects “double-digit” percentage growth in sales
in each of the next three to five years, Ferraris said today. In
2012, Versace reported Ebitda of 44.5 million euros ($58.7
million) on revenue of 408.7 million euros.  The company, founded by the late Italian designer of the
same name in 1978, has a valuation of about 1.4 billion euros,
based on the 32 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, that Qatar’s Mayhoola for
Investments SPC paid last year for Valentino Fashion Group SpA.  Donatella Versace and her brother Santo Versace have helped
run the company known by its Medusa-head logo since their
brother Gianni’s murder in 1997. Donatella serves as creative
director, while Santo is chairman.  Donatella owns 20 percent of Versace, Santo owns 30 percent
and Donatella’s daughter Allegra, a non-executive director, owns
the rest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  