-- Wal-Mart Protesters Arrested Outside Board Director’s Office
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-09-05T18:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/wal-mart-protesters-arrested-outside-director-s-manhattan-office.html
One current and two former workers
from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  were arrested on charges of disorderly
conduct while trying to deliver a petition demanding better
working conditions at the chain to the Manhattan office of a
company board director, police and organizers said.  The protest outside the Fifth Avenue office of Wal-Mart
board member Chris Williams, chief executive officer of The
Williams Capital Group investment bank, was one of at least 15
demonstrations against the retailer today in cities from  Boston 
to San Francisco, protest organizers said.  The workers involved in the demonstrations had given the
world’s largest retailer a deadline of Labor Day, on Sept. 2, to
reinstate employees they said had been wrongly fired or
disciplined after protests earlier this year. The group also
called on the company to publicly commit to improving jobs and
offering higher wages.  “They’re setting the standard in the retail industry by
having a poverty wage,” Colby Harris, a 23-year-old  Dallas 
resident who works at the Wal-Mart store in Lancaster,  Texas ,
said in a telephone interview. Harris said his supervisors
disciplined him multiple times for participating in earlier
protests, telling him he violated the company’s attendance
policy. He planned to demonstrate in Dallas today.  The workers and activists, organized by union-backed OUR
Walmart, called today’s protests its largest demonstration
against the retailer since Black Friday, the day after
Thanksgiving. Last year’s protests didn’t harm Wal-Mart’s
traffic during the national shopping day, as the company said it
had larger crowds than the year before.  ‘Just a Show’  “It’s just a show,” Kory Lundberg, a Wal-Mart spokesman,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Many of them don’t
work at Wal-Mart or are affiliated with the company in any
way.”  About a quarter of the retailer’s almost 1 million hourly
workers have been with the company for 10 years or more,
Lundberg said. The average wage for full-time hourly workers is
$12.83, he said.  Since the company’s annual shareholders’ meeting in June,
Wal-Mart has disciplined about 80 workers and fired about 20,
according to  OUR Walmart , or Organization United for Respect at
Walmart. The group said it has filed more than 100 Unfair Labor
Practice charges against the Bentonville, Arkansas-based
retailer with the National Labor Relations Board.  Employees Disciplined  Barbara Gertz, 45, who stocks shelves at the Wal-Mart store
in Aurora,  Colorado , was one of the employees to be disciplined
after she demonstrated at the June shareholders’ meeting. Last
week, Wal-Mart’s home office ordered her Aurora supervisor to
reverse the disciplinary action, saying Gertz’s strike was
“protected,” she said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Lundberg said he was unaware of communication between home
office and Gertz’s store. He said the personal discussion she
had with her supervisor about her June absences didn’t count as
formal discipline.  Gertz, who demonstrated in  Manhattan  today and was one of
the three to be arrested, yesterday called the company’s
decision to overturn the disciplinary action “a huge victory.”  “Wal-Mart is having to start to listen to associates and
to OUR Walmart,” she said.  Minimum Salary  The petition Gertz and the other demonstrators brought to
Williams’ office called on Wal-Mart to provide a minimum salary
of $25,000 for full-time work, reinstate workers who were fired
for demonstrating and agree to stop retaliation against workers.
More than 200,000 people signed it, organizers said. Williams, a
director since 2004, is on the board’s executive and audit
committees.  Yesterday, Williams’ assistant said the board member was
traveling, saying he was expected to be in the office today.
Williams didn’t return a message seeking comment.  Led by a seven-member band, the protesters in New York
chanted “Wal-Mart, Wal-Mart, you’re no good. Treat your workers
like you should.” About two dozen police officers monitored the
sidewalk protests by about three dozen demonstrators.  The protesters, some wearing green shirts with the OUR
Walmart symbol and others wearing yellow shirts from  the United
Food and Commercial Workers International Union , didn’t gain
entry to Williams’ office. Five of them formed a human chain
outside the revolving door to the building. Three of them were
arrested on charges of disorderly conduct, Timothy Beaudette, an
inspector from the New York Police Department, said in an
interview.  OUR Walmart  Following the arrests, the New York group planned to
protest outside a Wal-Mart store on Long Island.  Wal-Mart employs 36,000 people in New York state, Lundberg
said, “but they fly people in from out of state to get
arrested. It shows you who is behind it.”  OUR Walmart, which formed two years ago, is holding the
protests a week after fast-food workers walked off the job in
more than 50 U.S. cities to pressure companies including
McDonald’s Corp. and Wendy’s Co. to raise wages. The non-union
fast-food workers were demanding the right to organize and wages
of $15 an hour, more than double the federal minimum of $7.25.
They now make $9 an hour on average, according to the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  