-- Wall Street Pay Is a Model of Clarity? Yes.
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-09-05T22:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/wall-street-pay-is-a-model-of-clarity-yes-.html
If you want to know how much money a
U.S. company’s  top five  executives make, there is lots of
information to be found. As for total employee pay? Not so much.  It’s a void that makes little sense. Accounting standards
say some categories of employee compensation must be disclosed
in excruciating detail, often with lengthy footnotes. Examples
include stock-based compensation, pension costs and other post-retirement benefits, all of which have been hot-potato issues
for accounting rule makers in the past. Disclosures about top
executives’ pay -- another politically touchy subject --
frequently go on for many pages in companies’ proxy statements.  At  CBS Corp. (CBS) , for example, the  proxy  shows the broadcaster
paid its top five executives $60 million in salary and bonuses
last year. That was more than at any other company in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , according to a recent report by
Jack Ciesielski, editor of the  Analyst’s Accounting Observer 
newsletter. And that was about half of the executives’ total
compensation.  So how much did CBS pay its 25,930 employees in total last
year? That isn’t disclosed and doesn’t have to be. Ciesielski, a
longtime commenter on the accounting scene and a former member
of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s investor-advisory
 panel , makes a strong case that pay disclosures should be more
comprehensive.  Information Drought  The way he explains it, over the past few decades, “we’ve
become more of a service economy and more dependent on
intellectual capital, including a workforce that we pay to
produce services.” Yet investors receive little information
about the cost of that labor.  “We get information about five officers in nearly
voyeuristic detail,” Ciesielski says. “But we don’t have
anything consistently that tells us how much it costs to run a
communications network, or build software, or how much it costs
to devise advertising or build cars. All these things require
labor as an input.”  In this respect, many banks and securities firms are a
model of transparency by comparison. Every year, there are
 rounds  of  stories  about how much money  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and Morgan Stanley pay their employees, for instance. Each
company discloses total compensation and benefit expenses as a
 line item  on its  income statement , making the news articles
possible.  Some transportation companies, such as  Southwest Airlines
Co. (LUV) , also engage in this practice, which Ciesielski traced to
the days when they were more highly regulated and had to report
such information to the government. The company provides great
detail about its top five executives’ pay and employee benefits,
just like other public companies do. It also has a line on its
 income statement  called “salaries, wages and benefits,” which
was $4.75 billion last year. That represented almost 29 percent
of total operating expenses. You can’t get a similar percentage
at CBS or most other public companies.  I asked some old-timers why the accounting and disclosure
rules turned out this way: extreme granularity about a few types
of compensation but no requirement to show total employee pay.
Nobody I spoke with could recall anyone making a fuss about it
before.  “It would be useful information,” said Walter Schuetze,
one of the original  members  of the  Financial Accounting
Standards Board  when it was formed in 1973 and chief accountant
for the Securities and Exchange Commission from 1992 to 1995.
“It should be fairly easy to do.”  ‘Chosen Few’  There would be lots of details to work out if rule makers
ever took up the topic. For instance, some compensation costs
initially are included in asset values, such as inventory,
rather than expenses. It would make sense for companies to show
a breakdown every quarter. Other questions that could arise
include whether contractors’ pay should be classified
differently than employee compensation.  Those are minor points in the grand scheme of things. Here
is how Ciesielski framed one of the bigger issues: “How can
investors make decisions about whether or not executive-pay
packages are a fair deal for shareholders when they have too
much information about a chosen few, and only scraps of
information about the rest of the human capital employed in a
firm?”  As voluminous as many companies’ quarterly and annual
reports have become, it’s remarkable that basic data such as
this can be left out.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 