-- What’s Liquidity and Why Do We Need It?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-05T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/what-s-liquidity-and-why-do-we-need-it-.html
Concern about a thing called
liquidity has become one of the biggest obstacles to reforms
aimed at making the U.S. financial system more resilient. Wall
Street banks say that new  capital requirements  or constraints on
speculative trading will cause it to dry up. They warn of dire
consequences.  They’re wrong: At the very least, they’re exaggerating the
problem. To see why, consider what this magic substance actually
does. Once you understand that, you see that more liquidity
isn’t always better -- and it’s possible to have too much.  In the broadest sense, liquidity is the ease with which
something can be traded for something else. Cash is extremely
liquid, because people will readily accept it as payment for
just about anything. A bond issued by a troubled company tends
to be less liquid: Finding a buyer could take months, making it
hard to know what the bond is worth at any moment.  When markets are active, with lots of trading, all kinds of
assets become liquid. This is good. Transaction costs drop as
intermediaries, typically the market-making operations of large
banks, charge less to connect buyers and sellers. People who
need cash can sell stocks at a moment’s notice. Mutual funds can
buy and sell large blocks of securities without sending the
market into gyrations. In theory, prices in liquid markets
should contain more information about the outlook for companies
and the economy, because they reflect the combined wisdom of
more individual trades. More accurate prices, in turn, should
make everyone better off by improving the allocation of capital.  Wall Street banks have used the need to preserve the many
benefits of liquidity as an argument against various pieces of
the Dodd-Frank financial reform act. They  say  that the Volcker
rule, designed to ban speculative trading at federally insured
banks, will harm trading by forcing banks to curtail their
market-making operations. They say that if new capital rules
require banks to finance themselves with more loss-absorbing
equity, the added costs will make them less willing to hold the
inventory of assets needed to keep markets running smoothly.  What their arguments ignore is that beyond a certain point,
the advantages of liquidity wane. The great ease and low cost of
trading can encourage investors to chase short-term price moves
that have nothing to do with fundamental value -- a  problem 
 identified  by  economists  including  Joseph Stiglitz ,  Larry Summers  and  Adair Turner , the former chairman of the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority. This “noise trading” doesn’t
necessarily make prices more informative and can even make
markets too volatile.  The challenge is to find the point at which liquidity
ceases to be useful. If U.S. markets haven’t reached it, with
tens of thousands of trades per second and transaction costs
measured in hundredths of a percentage point, then concerns
about the adverse effects of regulation are valid, and
regulators would have to weigh the balance between safer banks
and less liquid markets. If they’ve already passed it, a bit
less liquidity might be helpful in its own right.  New  research  by three economists -- Jennie Bai of
 Georgetown University , with Thomas Philippon and Alexi Savov of
 New York University  -- offers a clue as to where the threshold
might be. They find that prices of stocks and bonds in the U.S.
are no better at predicting the profitability of companies than
they were 50 years ago, despite the vast increase in trading
volumes and sharp decrease in transaction costs over the same
period. In other words, in terms of price discovery and capital
allocation, it’s possible that liquidity could be rolled back to
the level of the 1960s with no adverse effect.  Somebody must benefit from all the extra trading, you might
think. True: Extra trading means extra fees. Separate  research 
by Philippon shows that over the past 30 years, financial
intermediaries’ income as a share of output has risen to its
highest level in more than a century. He estimates that despite
advances in technology that should have improved efficiency, the
aggregate fee that intermediaries extract from all the assets
that pass through their hands has increased to 2.3 percent, from
roughly 1.5 percent in the 1970s.  When banks invoke liquidity, there’s a chance they’re not
talking about the kind that makes everybody better off.
Regulators would do well to keep this in mind as they work on
putting Dodd-Frank into effect.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 