-- Wrestling Officials Say Olympic Threat Brought Important Changes
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-09-05T17:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/wrestling-officials-say-olympic-threat-brought-important-changes.html
Wrestling’s top official says its
proposed ouster from the Olympics may bring benefits as
increased media coverage and management changes have
strengthened the sport.  The wrestling federation, known as FILA, replaced its
president, changed rules to appeal to broadcasters and added
weight categories to increase female participation after the
 International Olympic Committee  moved Feb. 12 to cut the sport
from the 2020 Summer Games.  The IOC decision sparked a global outcry over the expulsion
of one of the most traditional Olympic sports, bringing it more
media coverage than it had ever had, new FILA President Nenad
Lalovic said in an interview. About 100 IOC members will vote in
three days whether to give wrestling a reprieve or replace it
with squash or a joint offer of baseball and softball.  “Wrestling has been spoken about more in the last six
months than during the last 60 years and that has helped us a
lot,” Lalovic said today in  Buenos Aires , where the IOC is
meeting. “If we move successfully from this crisis, this
decision from the IOC will have had a big impact on our sport.
It gave us the strength to show our strength by changing in such
a short time.”  The sport had been resistant to change, he said.  “Every sport, even the oldest one like ours, must be
updated and we failed to do so,” said Lalovic, who took over in
May. Wrestling has been part of the modern Olympics since their
1896 start. The sport was part of the ancient games in Olympia,
Greece, as early as 708 B.C.  ‘Were Sleeping’  “We were sleeping all that time on the pillow of our
history -- that was our problem,” the Serb said. “You have to
know your history but in a way you can clearly see your future.
We saw very well our history but we didn’t use that to see our
future.”  A global campaign that brought together  Russia ,  Iran  and
the U.S., a trio of countries not known for their cordial
relations, looks like it has worked. Two of six contenders for
the IOC’s presidency -- Denis Oswald and Thomas Bach -- have
said wrestling will probably be restored.  In May U.S. wrestlers took on rivals from Iran and Russia
in  New York ’s  Grand Central Terminal  in an exhibition to promote
the sport. That cooperation is a contrast to American-Iranian
political relations. The countries don’t have embassies on each
other’s land and the U.S. is among nations whose atomic-development sanctions against Iran have caused that nation’s
income from oil exports to be cut in half since 2011. Russia and
the U.S. are also in disagreement over how to tackle escalating
violence in  Syria .  ‘Take a Stance’  “This is the thing wrestling shows: it’s universality,”
Georgy Bryusov, a Russian who is director of FILA’s Wrestling
2020 campaign group. “Wrestling is much more than sport. It’s
very simple to find your own language by wrestling. That’s why
in this moment wrestling unified not only Russia, Iran and the
U.S. but all the nations from  Japan ,  India ,  Africa  and  Latin
America .”  Wrestling’s campaign slogan “Take a Stance” saw famous
faces like  Magic Johnson  join the sport’s fans, and even couples
posing on their wedding day, to offer their support. The
interest hasn’t gone unnoticed by potential sponsors, according
to Lalovic, who said talks about new partnerships are under way.  “Never before have we had so many opportunities to promote
wrestling in different countries,” Bryusov said. “Now the IOC
gave us a real chance to promote our sport, to be a real part of
the modern world and to play a very important role in the
relations between nations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Buenos Aires via the Rio de Janeiro newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  