-- WTI Crude Increases After Stockpiles at Cushing Hub Drop
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-09-05T20:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/wti-crude-rises-on-projections-of-a-u-s-oil-supply-drop.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
climbed as a government report showed that inventories in
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for the contract, dropped
to the lowest level in a year and a half.  Futures rose 1.1 percent after the Energy Information
Administration said Cushing stockpiles fell 1.83 million barrels
to 34.8 million last week, the fewest since February 2012.
Nationwide supplies slipped 1.84 million barrels to 360.2
million. Prices also gained as President  Barack Obama  searched
for diplomatic backing for a U.S. military strike on  Syria  while
at the Group of 20 summit in  St. Petersburg ,  Russia .  “Inventory levels continue to come down, which is
supportive of the market,” said Adam Wise, who helps manage a
$6 billion oil and gas bond portfolio as a managing director at
Manulife Asset Management in  Boston . “The market’s really
holding its breath waiting for the full impact of the Syria
situation to play itself out.”  WTI crude for October delivery increased $1.14 to settle at
$108.37 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
up 18 percent this year. The volume of all futures traded was 38
percent below the 100-day average at 4:25 p.m.  Brent oil for October settlement climbed 35 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $115.26 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Trading was 3 percent lower
than the 100-day average. The European benchmark crude’s premium
to WTI narrowed to $6.89 from $7.68 yesterday, the widest level
since June 14.  WTI-Brent  “WTI should be rising more than Brent because of the
Cushing number,” said Julius Walker, global energy markets
strategist at UBS Securities LLC in  New York . “Cushing
stockpiles drew for a ninth week.”  Inventories at Cushing have decreased as improved pipeline
networks and shipments by rail eased a North American supply
glut created by rising oil production from shale formations. The
new pipeline capacity caused WTI to shift into backwardation in
June and July, a market structure in which oil for immediate
delivery is more expensive than crude for future shipment.  Refinery utilization also climbed for a third week.  “When you look at Cushing, we’re seeing the results of new
pipelines coming online and diverting oil, along with increasing
refinery runs creating more demand,” said  Andy Lipow , president
of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “All of that is
happening in a market that moved from contango to backwardation
in July, resulting in a lack of any economic incentive to store
barrels.”  Stockpile Projections  Overall U.S.  stockpiles  were forecast to drop 2 million
barrels, according to the median response of 12 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  U.S.  crude production  rose 0.2 percent to 7.62 million
barrels a day, according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical unit. Output has surged to the highest level since
October 1989 as the combination of horizontal drilling and
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has unlocked supplies trapped
in shale formations in the central part of the country.  Refineries operated  at 91.7 percent of capacity, up 0.5
percentage point from the prior week. Utilization rates usually
peak during the summer months when U.S. gasoline demand rises
and decline as the season comes to an end.  “It’s important to keep in mind that this is really the
last report of the summer driving season,” said Bob Yawger,
director of the futures division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
in New York.  Fuel Supplies  Gasoline stockpiles dropped 1.83 million barrels to 216
million. Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, increased 549,000 barrels to
129.6 million.  Total  fuel consumption  dropped 1 percent to 19.2 million
barrels a day on average over the past four weeks, the lowest
level since June.  “Demand wasn’t good at all but the inventory numbers were
bullish,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “The market is
taking its cue from the inventory numbers today.”  Obama began rounds of meetings with other leaders of the
G-20, trying to persuade allies to give the U.S. a measure of
political cover even if they withhold military support.  Senate Resolution  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted yesterday to
authorize Obama to conduct a restricted operation following the
alleged use of chemical weapons by President Bashar al-Assad,
clearing the way for consideration by the full Senate. Obama is
seeking approval from Congress before taking action against
Syria. Lawmakers are scheduled to reconvene on Sept. 9 after a
five-week break.  The resolution supports the use of force in a “limited and
specified manner against legitimate military targets” during a
60-day period following enactment, with a possible 30-day
extension at the president’s request. The full Senate next week
will consider the resolution, which doesn’t authorize the use of
U.S. ground troops in combat roles.  The  Middle East  accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil production in the first quarter of this year, according to
the  International Energy Agency . Syria borders  Iraq , the largest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
after  Saudi Arabia .  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 25 percent, down from 27.8 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 350,539
contracts as of 4:26 p.m. It totaled 472,131 contracts
yesterday, 26 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.86 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  