-- WTI Near Week Low as U.S. Weighs Limited Syrian Strikes
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-05T12:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/wti-trades-near-week-low-as-u-s-weighs-limited-syrian-strikes.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
climbed from the lowest price in more than a week as a U.S.
Senate committee approved military strikes on Syria, heightening
the threat of a wider conflict in the  Middle East .  Futures advanced as much as 0.8 percent in  New York  after
falling by the most in two weeks yesterday. The Senate Foreign
Relations Committee voted to authorize President  Barack Obama  to
conduct a restricted operation following the alleged use of
chemical weapons by President Bashar al-Assad, clearing the way
for consideration by the full Senate. U.S.  crude stockpiles 
shrank by 2 million barrels last week, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of analysts before government data today.  “Crude is finding a little support from U.S. saber-rattling and across-the-board falls in U.S. inventories,” said
 Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in
London. “While intervention in Syria may discourage the use of
chemical weapons, by weakening Assad’s forces just as they were
regaining a degree of superiority over the rebels, it may just
serve to prolong the civil war.”  WTI for October delivery increased as much as 81 cents to
$108.04 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , and was at $107.86 at 1:29 p.m. London
time. The contract dropped 1.2 percent to $107.23 yesterday, the
biggest decline since Aug. 20 and the lowest settlement since
Aug. 26. The volume of all futures traded was about 50 percent
below the 100-day average.  Brent for October settlement was 40 cents higher at $115.31
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $7.39 to WTI,
compared with $7.68 yesterday.  Syria Conflict  Obama is seeking approval from Congress before taking
action against  Syria . U.S. lawmakers are scheduled to reconvene
on Sept. 9 after a five-week break.  The resolution supports the use of force in a “limited and
specified manner against legitimate military targets” during a
60-day period following enactment, with a possible 30-day
extension at the president’s request. The full Senate next week
will consider the resolution, which doesn’t authorize the use of
U.S. ground troops in combat roles.  The vote was the first hurdle for Obama in his bid for
congressional support for strikes againstal-Assad, who has
threatened to retaliate. Two of Obama’s fellow Democrats on the
panel voted against the measure after voicing concern that the
U.S. risked being drawn into Syria’s civil war.  Fuel Supplies  The Middle East accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil production in the first quarter of this year, according to
the  International Energy Agency . Syria borders  Iraq , the largest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
after  Saudi Arabia .  Crude stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer, dropped by 4.16 million barrels in the week ended Aug.
30, the  American Petroleum Institute  reported yesterday.
Gasoline inventories slid by 387,000 barrels, the industry group
in  Washington  said.  Supplies  probably declined  by 700,000 barrels, according to
the median forecast of 12 analysts surveyed before today’s
Energy Information Administration report. Distillate fuels,
including heating oil and diesel, decreased by 109,000 barrels,
compared with a projected 600,000 barrel gain in the survey.  The API collects supply information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  Brent has technical resistance along its 30-day upper
Bollinger Band, at about $116.45 a barrel today, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Futures halted intraday advances near this
indicator the past three days. Sell orders tend to be clustered
around chart-resistance levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  