-- Xiaomi Beats Apple to Smart TV With $490 Set Coming Next Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-05T11:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/xiaomi-beats-apple-to-smart-tv-with-490-set-coming-next-month.html
Xiaomi Corp., the smartphone maker
that outsells  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in  China , has beat it on another front.
The Chinese company will soon offer a TV that connects to the
Web and runs on the Android operating system.  The 47-inch (119-centimeter) TV costs 2,999 yuan ($490) and
will be available next month, Lei Jun, founder and chief
executive officer of the three-year-old company, said at a press
conference in Beijing today. Lei also introduced a new handset
he said would be the world’s fastest smartphone.  After building market share by selling mobiles priced at
less than a third of the iPhone 5 in China, Xiaomi is entering
another market where Apple has said it is seeking to develop
products. Xiaomi joins Chinese internet companies  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. that have announced TV ventures.  “Xiaomi and the others are trying to change the business
model and thus undercut hardware markers,” said Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, an analyst at JI Asia in Hong Kong. “They provide
hardware at cost and make money from provision of content and
advertising.”  Baidu announced this month it will start selling a 48-inch
TV smart TV with TCL Multimedia Technology Holdings Ltd. to
compete with Alibaba, which said in July it had designed a smart
TV operating system and set-top box. Samsung Electronics Co.
said today it would start selling a 98-inch TV.  Apple TV  Apple now offers a $99 Apple TV  product  that doesn’t carry
live network broadcasting and is mainly used for downloading
movies and shows from the iTunes media store or streaming
content from services such as Netflix Inc. The Cupertino,
California-based company, is working on a “grand vision” to
update TV-viewing, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said in May.  Xiaomi plans to compete with Apple and Samsung overseas in
the smartphone market. The company currently sells its devices
in Hong Kong,  Taiwan  and the Chinese mainland.  Lei in June said the company this year would more than
double handset sales to 15 million. Xiaomi is looking to emulate
 Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (763) , which
all used the local market as a springboard to become among the
largest smartphone makers in the world.  The company’s new handset, Xiaomi Phone 3, uses Qualcomm
Inc.’s Snapdragon and Nvidia Corp.’s Tegra 4 processors, Lei
said during the briefing today.  Xiaomi, backed by investors including Temasek Holdings Pte
and Qiming Venture Partners, last month said it completed a
round of funding that gave it a valuation of $10 billion.  China Smartphones  In the China smartphone market, Xiaomi rose to sixth place
in the quarter ending June 30 from eighth a year earlier,
researcher Canalys said Aug. 9. Apple was seventh.  Xiaomi has won sales with inexpensive handsets running
Google’s Android system. Apple sells the iPhone 5 on its China
website from 5,288  yuan .  Last month Xiaomi started sales of its first device for
 China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest phone company with 745
million subscribers at the end of July. The handset is priced at
799 yuan. Apple has yet to offer a device through China Mobile.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  