-- ThyssenKrupp Falls After Hybrid Bond Report: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-09-05T11:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/thyssenkrupp-falls-after-hybrid-bond-report-frankfurt-mover.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  fell to the lowest
level in seven weeks after Handelsblatt said Gemany’s largest
steelmaker plans a hybrid bond of as much as 1 billion euros
($1.3 billion).  The stock tumbled as much as 2.2 percent to 15.405 euros,
the lowest intraday level since July 15, and traded 0.7 percent
lower at 15.645 euros at 12:24 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  The Essen, Germany-based company plans to issue the bond
after it sells new stock, Handelsblatt reported, citing people
familiar with the matter. The share issue would equal less than
10 percent of the stock now outstanding, and may be sold to a
hedge fund, it said. The value of the shares would be about 800
million euros at current prices. Nicola Roettger, a spokeswoman
at ThyssenKrupp, declined to comment on the company’s plans.  Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger  “seems to be in
an impasse and is testing the market reaction,” Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH & Co KG, said by phone
from Kronberg near Frankfurt. “That’s not the necessary all-out
attack. The company would need four billion euros or more.
Hiesinger has to deliver and doesn’t do so.”  ThyssenKrupp has for more than 15 months tried to sell its
Steel Americas unit on which it spent almost 12 billion euros.
After several writedowns, the current book value of the
Brazilian and U.S. steel-plant assets is 3.4 billion euros. That
resulted in an equity ratio -- or total equity to total equity
and liabilities -- of 8 percent by June 30, down from 21 percent
a year earlier. The net debt to equity, or gearing, ratio almost
tripled to 186 percent.  Wodniok doesn’t consider hybrid bonds as equity while it is
handled as equity on the balance sheet, he said.  After earlier not having ruled out a capital increase
Hiesinger confirmed yesterday with the supervisory board that
there will be one after the disposal of Steel Americas,
Handelsblatt reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  