-- Yuan Forwards Gain a Second Day on Optimism Economy Stabilizing
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-09-05T02:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-05/yuan-forwards-gain-a-second-day-on-optimism-economy-stabilizing.html
Yuan  forwards advanced for a second
day on speculation reports on factory output and trade will add
to evidence that a slowdown in the world’s second-largest
economy is bottoming out.  The People’s Bank of  China  raised the yuan’s daily fixing
for the first time in three days ahead of data next week that
may show exports and industrial production increased in August,
according to separate Bloomberg surveys. The official
manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index jumped to a 16-month
high in August, according to a report on Sept. 1.  “Domestic economic indicators are a bit more stable,”
said Suan Teck Kin, an economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in
Singapore. “The appreciation path for the  renminbi  is
continuing despite what’s happening in the emerging-market
space.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.04 percent to
6.2312 per dollar as of 10:52 a.m. in  Hong Kong , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts earlier reached 6.2295,
the highest since May 29, and last traded at a 1.8 percent
 discount  to the onshore spot rate, which was little changed at
6.1190 in Shanghai.  The PBOC raised the yuan’s  reference rate  by 0.05 percent
to 6.1696 per dollar. The currency is allowed to diverge a
maximum 1 percent from the fixing. The yuan has appreciated 1.8
percent this year, the only currency showing a gain among 24
emerging-market exchange rates tracked by Bloomberg.  Enhance Coordination  China’s growth is still unbalanced as wealth management
products and trust businesses bring systemic risks,  Hu Xiaolian ,
the central bank’s deputy governor, said at a conference in
Beijing today. China must enhance coordination between monetary
policy and regulatory policies, Hu said.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan traded at 6.1135
per dollar, compared with 6.1137 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility in the
onshore yuan, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.06 percent.  Sheng Songcheng, head of PBOC’s statistics and analysis
department, said conditions and timing are gradually maturing
for China to accelerate the opening of the yuan’s capital
account, China Securities Journal reported today.  The U.S. is ready to stop its monetary-stimulus policy and
this may bring changes to global money flows, according to Sheng.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  