-- Abu Hamza Held for Arraignment in Al-Qaeda Terrorism Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/abu-hamza-arrives-in-new-york-to-face-terror-trial.html
Abu Hamza al-Masri, the Islamic
cleric accused of helping Osama bin Laden’s al-Qaeda network,
faces arraignment on terrorism charges in the U.S. on Oct. 9
after fighting extradition for more than eight years.  Abu Hamza, 54, is charged in an 11-count indictment with
supporting the Taliban with money and troops and aiding a 1998
kidnapping in  Yemen  that left four hostages dead. He was one of
five suspects extradited from the U.K., three of whom appeared
yesterday in federal court in New York and the two others in
Connecticut.  “These are men who were at the nerve centers of al-Qaeda’s
acts of terror, and they caused blood to be shed, lives to be
lost, and families to be shattered,” U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara in Manhattan said in a statement. “After years of
protracted legal battles, the extradition of these three alleged
terrorists to the U.S. is a watershed moment in our nation’s
efforts to eradicate terrorism.”  The accusations against Abu Hamza, who the U.S. identifies
as Mustafa Kamel Mustafa, include trying in 1999 to start a
terrorist training camp in Bly,  Oregon . He appeared yesterday
before U.S. Magistrate Judge Frank Maas in Manhattan.  Four other men, Khalid al-Fawwaz, Adel Abdel Bary,  Babar
Ahmad  and Syed Ahsan, were also denied their bids in the U.K. on
Oct. 5 to block extradition to the U.S. The five left RAF
Mildenhall airport in two planes that day just before midnight,
the  Metropolitan Police Service  said in an e-mailed statement.  2:45 A.M. Arrival  Hamza, al-Fawwaz and Bary, arrived at Westchester County
Airport north of  New York City  in a Gulfstream V aircraft, the
FBI said. Assistant U.S. Attorney Sean Buckley told Maas that
all three had arrived in the U.S. from the U.K. at about 2:45
a.m. yesterday.  Abu Al-Fawwaz, 50, and Bary, 52, both entered not guilty
pleas through their defense lawyers and were arraigned by Maas.
Abu Hamza, who is charged in another case, appeared in court
before Maas separately after the hearing for al-Fawwaz and Bary.  Maas ordered the three men detained. All three are
scheduled to appear before federal judges in  New York  on Oct. 9.  Andrew Patel, a lawyer for Bary, and Jerrod Thompson-Hicks,
a lawyer for Al-Fawwaz, asked Maas to direct that both men
receive medical attention. Bary has asthma while Al-Fawwaz has
high  blood pressure  and a stomach issue, their lawyers said.  Sabrina Shroff, a lawyer for Abu Hamza, asked that he be
evaluated by a doctor.  Nairobi, Dar es Salaam  Al-Fawwaz and Bary are charged in a 1998 indictment with
being part of a global conspiracy with bin Laden to attack U.S.
citizens, including the near-simultaneous bombings of U.S.
embassies in Nairobi,  Kenya , and  Dar es Salaam , Tanzania, on
Aug. 7, 1998.  The embassy attacks killed 224 people, including 12 U.S.
citizens. More than 4,500 people were injured.  Ahmad, 38, and Ahsan, 33, are charged by federal
prosecutors in  Connecticut  with conspiracy and providing
material support to terrorists. They appeared yesterday before
U.S. District Judge Janet Hall in  New Haven  and pleaded not
guilty, according to court records. Both face life in prison if
convicted of conspiracy. They were ordered held without bail and
an initial status conference was set for Oct. 15.  Born in  Egypt  and granted British citizenship in 1986, Abu
Hamza was indicted in April 2004. He was arrested by the
Metropolitan Police in London in May 2004 at the request of the
U.S. His U.K. lawyers had sought to delay his extradition on
health grounds.  Block Extradition  Abu Hamza was sentenced by a U.K. court in 2006 to seven
years in prison for encouraging his followers in sermons from
1997 to 2000 to kill Jews and other non-Muslims.  He sought to block his extradition to the U.S. for eight
years through a series of court cases that concluded last month
with a ruling by the Human Rights court in Strasbourg,  France ,
refusing to consider claims that U.S. prison conditions would be
inhumane.  Abu Hamza appeared in court yesterday wearing navy blue
jail fatigues. He is missing both of his hands and wrists and
has two reddish stumps that end midway through to his forearms.  Shroff, his federal defender, told Maas that her client had
his prosthetics removed after he was taken into U.S. custody.
She asked the judge that they be returned and that he be
evaluated by a doctor at the Metropolitan Correctional Center,
the federal jail in Lower  Manhattan  or be sent to a prison
hospital.  Special Shoes  Shroff told Maas that her client suffers from high blood-
pressure and diabetes and requires special shoes needed to help
him balance. Maas said he would direct U.S. Bureau of Prisons
officials to give Abu Hamza proper medical care.  The hostage-taking charges against Abu Hamza could carry
the death penalty or life in prison, then-U.S. Attorney General
John Ashcroft said at a news conference in May 2004.  Al-Fawwaz had fought extradition for 14 years. The U.S. has
been seeking Bary’s extradition since July 1999 when he was
arrested in London.  U.S. prosecutors have said al-Fawwaz worked with bin Laden
in 1994 and helped establish a media information office in
 London  that publicized bin Laden’s statements. He also helped
recruit the group’s military trainees and provided assistance,
including disbursing funds and equipment, the U.S. alleged.  Bin Laden’s Phone  Al-Fawwaz obtained a satellite phone in New York that bin
Laden used to communicate with his followers before the 1998
embassy attacks, prosecutors have said.  Bary’s fingerprints were found on statements that took
responsibility for the embassy bombings, according to U.S.
prosecutors. The documents included a declaration issued by bin
Laden in February 1998, inciting violence and war against U.S.
citizens. The papers were found during a police search in an
office in London that Bary rented, the U.S. has said.  The extraditions “are a major milestone in our effort to
see these alleged high-level terrorists face American justice,”
Mary Galligan, the FBI’s acting assistant director-in-charge,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The indictments allege the
direct participation of these defendants in planning and
carrying out some of the most odious acts of al-Qaeda
terrorism.”  Five other men have been convicted in federal court in New
York for charges tied to bin Laden’s conspiracy to attack U.S.
nationals and installations.  Ahmed Ghailani was convicted at trial in November 2010 of
one count of conspiracy for his role in the embassy attacks.
Four co-defendants, were convicted of all charges against them,
including joining an al-Qaeda conspiracy to kill U.S. nationals
and all 224 counts of murder. The five are serving life terms in
prison.  The cases are U.S. v. Mustafa, 04-cr-00356, and U.S. v. al-
Fawwaz, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  