-- Asia Stocks Rise This Week on U.S. Economic Data, Draghi Pledge
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-10-06T01:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/asia-stocks-rise-this-week-on-u-s-economic-data-draghi-pledge.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week on signs
a U.S. recovery is taking hold and after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said the bank stands ready to buy bonds
to ease the debt crisis.  Nintendo Co. rose 12 percent in Osaka on a Forbes report
that pre-orders for its Wii U gaming console have sold out.
 Arrium Ltd. (ARI) , an Australian iron ore producer, surged 47 percent
in Sydney after rejecting a $1 billion offer from Noble Group
Ltd. and some South Korean investors.  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the
Asian unit of  Sheldon Adelson ’s Las Vegas gaming company,
dropped 3.6 percent in Hong Kong after Macau casino revenue
missed analyst estimates.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.1 percent to 122.64 this
week, ending two weeks of declines. Shares rose on speculation
U.S. employment and services data would beat estimates.  “At the moment, the market is telling us there won’t be an
additional blowup or crisis in Europe in the near term,” said
 Donald Williams , Sydney-based chief investment officer at
Platypus Asset Management Ltd., which manages about $1 billion.
“Equity markets are turning up. It almost doesn’t matter which
market you look at.”  Stocks on Asia’s benchmark index were valued at 12.8 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.9 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.2 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  dropped 0.1 percent as the
 Bank of Japan  yesterday maintained its asset purchase plan at 55
trillion yen ($702 billion) even as the economy minister sat in
on the meeting to add pressure for more easing.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index decreased 0.3 percent.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.8 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi Index dropped less than 0.1 percent in a week that
was shortened by holidays. Markets in China were shut all week.  Australia Rates  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 2.5 percent after the
nation’s central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  to the
lowest level since 2009 amid a deepening global slowdown.  In India, trading in the  S&P CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY)  and some
individual companies were halted for 15 minutes yesterday after
the 50-stock measure plunged as much as 16 percent. The National
Stock Exchange of India said it is probing a “freak” trade
that caused the slump.  In the U.S., data from ADP Employer Services on Oct. 3
showed private payrolls increased by 162,000 last month, more
than economists estimated.  Service industries  expanded more than
forecast in September. Shares also rose this week after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  renewed a pledge to sustain
record stimulus.  After close of market, data released in the U.S. showed
 unemployment  unexpectedly fell to 7.8 percent in September,
compared with the median estimate for a rise to 8.2 percent by
economists, according to a Bloomberg survey.  ECB Pledge  In Europe, ECB President Mario Draghi said on Oct. 4 the
central bank is ready to start buying government bonds of
indebted euro nations as soon as the necessary conditions are
fulfilled. The ECB kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at
a historic low of 0.75 percent.  Esprit Holdings Ltd., a clothier that counts Europe as its
largest market, gained 8.7 percent to HK$12.96 this week in  Hong
Kong .  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a building-materials supplier
that depends on the U.S. for more than two-thirds of its
revenue, rose 5.1 percent to A$9.14 in Sydney.  Nintendo jumped 12 percent to 11,110 yen this week in
Osaka. The shares rose after Forbes reported on Sept. 30 that
pre-order options for its Wii U console from some U.S. retailers
sold out ahead of its Nov. 18 release.  EAccess Ltd. (9427)  a telecom that is being bought by Softbank
Corp., surged more than threefold to 47,000 yen in Tokyo after
the trading limit on the stock was lifted. Softbank said on Oct.
1 it will acquire eAccess for $2.3 billion, three times the
company’s market value at the time.  Arrium Soars  Arrium jumped 47 percent to 80 Australian cents this week
in Sydney after rejecting an offer from Noble Group and South
Korean investors, saying the bid was too low and conditional.  In China, services industries expanded at the weakest pace
since at least March 2011 as officials struggle to reverse a
slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy. The  purchasing
managers’ index  fell to 53.7 from 56.3 in August, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in Beijing on Oct. 3.  Among stocks that fell, Sands China fell 3.6 percent to
HK$28.05 this week in Hong Kong, while  Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  fell 0.5
percent to HK$20.85. Macau gambling revenue rose 12 percent in
September, the city’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau
said in a statement Oct. 4, missing the 15 percent to 20 percent
growth predicted by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “We are getting favorable indicators about the  U.S.
economy , and stocks are reacting,” said Takashi Ito, a
strategist equity market at Nomura Securities Co., Japan’s
biggest brokerage. “Each nation has been easing policy to reach
their own targets. For the U.S. it’s employment, and that’s why
markets are bound to react to the jobs data.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  