-- Australian Banks Seeing ‘Relentless’ Increase in Costs, ANZ Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-10-07T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/australian-banks-seeing-relentless-increase-in-costs-anz-says.html
Australian banks are seeing a
“relentless” increase in costs even as they shift their
reliance to deposits from wholesale funding,  Australia and New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer Phil Chronican said.  The cost of funding has “gone up and up, although it has
stabilized this year,” Chronican said in an interview on the
Inside Business program on the Australian Broadcasting Corp.
“We’re refinancing this year borrowings that were made three,
four and five years ago at materially lower costs.”  The cost of retail deposits hasn’t fallen by as much as the
cash-rate target, as banks haven’t reduced the rates they pay
customers to the same extent as the central bank’s cuts,
Chronican said.  The lenders have reduced reliance on wholesale markets
since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., with
deposits swelling to 53 percent of funding this year, the
biggest share since 1998. ANZ Bank has yet to respond after the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia reduced its benchmark rate by 25 basis
points on Oct. 2.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia  passed on 20 basis points of the cut to
borrowers, and  Westpac Banking Group (WBC)  18 basis points.  Profits in Australia’s financial services industry rose 3
percent in the three months to June 30, bringing the increase in
the past 12 months to 20 percent, statistics bureau data show.
Mining earnings fell 1 percent during the quarter and 18 percent
from a year earlier as export demand waned on slowing growth in
 China .  Banks’ Strength  Unlike banks in many other developed economies, “no
Australian bank had to be bailed out by taxpayers, no Australian
depositor had their savings put at risk,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
said in his weekly economic note yesterday. “No investor in a
rated Australian mortgage-backed security ever lost a cent of
principal.”  The lenders would weather a slowdown, and only
unprecedented levels of loan losses would force them to raise
new capital, Moody’s Investors Service wrote in a Sept. 18
report.  “Strong profitability and capital levels, together with
solid asset quality, have positioned the major banks well for an
unexpected economic downturn,” wrote Ilya Serov, a vice
president and senior credit officer at Moody’s.  Retail Sales  Australian retail sales climbed 0.2 percent in August, half
the pace forecast by economists, as weaker demand at household-
goods outlets and restaurants offset a rebound in spending at
department stores. The nation’s building industry shrank in
September by the most in 12 months, led by a deepening downturn
in residential and commercial construction.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  last week signaled weaker growth
at home and abroad, reflected in lower prices for Australia’s
key exports of iron ore and coal, as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis
weighs on global growth.  “The  International Monetary Fund  has indicated it’s likely
to cut its forecast for world growth this week because of
deterioration in global conditions in recent months,” Swan said.
“While weaker global demand inevitably impacts on our economy
and government tax revenues, it’s important to remember
Australia’s fundamentals remain strong.”  Further Cuts  The RBA lowered  borrowing costs  by 1.25 percentage points
from November to June to help shield the economy from Europe’s
debt crisis and slower growth in China. Traders are pricing in
an 82 percent chance of another quarter-point reduction next
month, according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m not sure there’s a lot of merit in having  interest
rates  cut as the only tool,” Chronican said. “There’s a lot of
uncertainty about what the regulatory environment will be like,
what the overseas environment will be like and I think getting
some confidence and stability into those things is probably just
as important as the level of interest rates.”  Two bailouts and the biggest debt write-off in history have
so far failed to halt  Greece ’s slide into a fifth year of
recession. The Bank of  Spain  said Sept. 26 the Spanish economy
contracted at a “significant pace” in the third quarter.
Reports showed French  consumer confidence  dropped for a third
month in September and Italian retail sales declined in July.  While these concerns have some impact on  Australia , the
nation is unlikely to face the same fate as European economies,
Chronican said.  Australia’s banks have A$4.7 billion ($4.8 billion) or 0.2
percent of their assets, in Greece, Ireland,  Italy , Spain and
 Portugal , the RBA said in its semiannual  financial stability
review  on Sept. 24.  State and federal governments have “set out programs for
getting back from deficits and into surplus over some reasonable
timeframe, and I think that’s a good thing,” he said. “The
banks are doing their bit by reducing the reliance on offshore
and wholesale funding and improving their reliance on core
domestic deposits, which I think is the right thing as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  