-- Bernanke Says Nationals Offer a Lesson for Washington
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-10-06T04:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/bernanke-says-nationals-offer-a-lesson-for-washington.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said America’s capital city should take a leadership
lesson from the  Washington  Nationals after the hometown baseball
team won the National League East division title.  Many in Washington “could learn a thing or two” from the
season in which the Nationals defied conventional wisdom to
finish with the best record in Major League Baseball, Bernanke
wrote in a Wall Street Journal  essay  yesterday.  “People decry the absence of leadership in Washington
these days,” Bernanke wrote. “My response: Look no further
than the home-team dugout at Nationals Park.”  The Nationals captured the NL East on Oct. 1, the team’s
first division crown since moving to Washington in 2005. It’s
also the first major-league title for the nation’s capital since
the former Washington Senators won the pennant in 1933.  Bernanke, who said he’s been a Nationals fan since 2005,
cited the reliance of the team’s manager, Davey Johnson, on
statistical analysis to spot and nurture talent. Johnson, who
took over in June 2011, understands how to apply statistics to
determine lineups and pitcher-hitter matchups, the 58-year-old
Fed chief wrote.  Johnson’s use of so-called sabermetrics to identify the
best players appeals to an economist because it submits the
“conventional wisdoms of baseball to rigorous statistical
tests,” Bernanke wrote.  Johnson received a bachelor’s degree in mathematics from
Trinity University in San Antonio in 1964, according to the
school’s  website . He played for 13 seasons in the major leagues,
hitting .261 over his career with 136 home runs and 609 runs
batted in and being named to All-Star teams four times.  ‘Early Proponent’  Johnson has led five big league teams -- the Nationals, Los
Angeles Dodgers, Baltimore Orioles, Cincinnati Reds, and  New
York  Mets -- over 15 seasons to achieve a career-winning
percentage that ranks second to Earl Weaver of the Baltimore
Orioles among living managers with at least 10 years of
experience, the Nationals said in a 2011  statement . Johnson was
manager of the Mets team that won the 1986 World Series over the
Boston Red Sox.  “He was an early proponent of the use of statistical
analysis in baseball decision-making, and it is clear in his
tactical management of games that he is very conversant with
sabermetric principles,” Bernanke wrote in the Journal.  The Nationals play the St. Louis Cardinals in the first
game of the National League Division Series tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  