-- Canadian Dollar Rallies as Jobs Gains Boost Rate-Increase Views
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-06T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/canadian-dollar-rallies-as-jobs-gains-boost-rate-increase-views.html
The Canadian dollar rose for the
first time in three weeks as jobs gains last month that were
five times higher than forecast added to speculation the Bank of
Canada may be moving closer to boosting interest rates.  The loonie, so called for the image of the waterfowl on the
C$1 coin, strengthened and stocks gained amid increased demand
for riskier assets as the unemployment rate in the U.S., the
nation’s largest trade partner, unexpectedly fell to a three-
year low. Canada’s trade deficit narrowed in August from a
record in July, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before a report on Oct. 11.  “It’s all about employment right now and that’s been the
driver,”  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities unit in Toronto, said in a phone interview.
“The loonie is most closely correlated with equities, so over
the balance of the week, the stronger backdrop for equity
performance flows through to the Canadian dollar.”  The Canadian dollar rose 0.5 percent this week to 97.86
cents per U.S. dollar in Toronto, the first gain since the five
days ended Sept. 14. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0219.  Position Changes  Futures traders  trimmed  bets the Canadian dollar will gain
against the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the
number of wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators on
an advance in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a drop
-- so-called net longs -- was 101,176 on Oct. 2, compared with
net longs of 105,346 a week earlier.  Implied volatility for one-month options, the anticipated
price swings for the dollar- Canada  exchange rate, fell to 6.71
percent yesterday, the least since Sept. 28. Implied volatility,
which traders quote and use to set option prices, signals the
expected pace of currency swings.  Canadian government bonds fell for the  first time  in three
weeks, pushing the yield on 10-year debt up eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 1.81 percent. The 2.75 securities
declined 75 cents to C$108.33.  The Bank of Canada will auction C$2.7 billion ($2.8
billion) in three-year notes on Oct. 10. The last sale of this
note maturity on Aug. 29 was C$2.9 billion and yielded 1.278
percent with a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.73.  Macklem View  Canada’s dollar rose after Bank of Canada Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem reiterated on Oct. 4 that policy makers
may withdraw monetary stimulus as the nation’s economy recovers.  “To the extent that the economic expansion continues and
the excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed, some
modest withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy
stimulus may become appropriate,” Macklem said in a speech in
Winnipeg, Manitoba.  The central bank’s benchmark interest rate has been 1
percent for more than two years, the longest pause since the
1950s. The central bank has indicated since April it may raise
rates, and in July forecast the economy may reach full capacity
in the second half of next year.  Overnight Index Swap implied probabilities yesterday show
99.1 percent of the market expects no change in the central
bank’s benchmark rate at the Oct. 23 Bank of Canada meeting.  Jobs Growth  Canadian employment rose by 52,100 jobs following an August
gain of 34,300, Statistics Canada said yesterday. The nation’s
jobless rate rose to 7.4 percent from 7.3 percent as the labor
force grew by 72,600. The job gain exceeded all 24 forecasts in
a Bloomberg survey, while the unemployment rate was projected to
be unchanged.  “The economic fundamentals of Canada are still pretty
sound,” Steve Butler, director of foreign-exchange trading in
Toronto at a unit of  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , said before the
report. “A strong employment number gives support to the Bank of
Canada’s stance that they would prefer to withdraw stimulus
sooner rather than later.”  Canada’s trade deficit was C$1.9 billion in August, down
from a record C$2.4 billion in July, according to the median in
a Bloomberg News survey of 17 economists,  The loonie declined earlier during the week as economic data
from  China  weakened, adding to concern about slowing global
economic growth.  China’s nonmanufacturing industries expanded at the weakest
pace since at least March 2011 as the purchasing managers’ index
fell to 53.7 in September from 56.3 in August. Readings above 50
indicate expansion.  Stocks advanced 1.4 percent this week, snapping two weeks
of losses. The Standard & Poor’s Index has rallied 17 percent
this year. Oil declined 2.5 percent to $89.89 a barrel, capping
a third weekly drop on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Canada’s dollar has gained 2.1 percent this year against
nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback has dropped
2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  