-- Cardinals, Orioles Win MLB Wild Cards to Reach Division Series
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-10-06T05:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/cardinals-will-face-nationals-after-mlb-wild-card-win-at-atlanta.html
The  St. Louis Cardinals  will face the
Washington Nationals, while the  Baltimore Orioles  meet the  New
York Yankees  in  Major League Baseball ’s division series after
wins in the sport’s first wild-card round.  The Cardinals defeated the Atlanta Braves 6-3 in the
National League wild-card game played under protest after an
infield-fly call caused a 19-minute delay as grounds crew
cleaned up debris thrown on the field by fans at Turner Field in
Atlanta.  “That call was right there in the gray area,” said
Atlanta third baseman  Chipper Jones , who ended his 19-year
career in a game in which he committed an error at third base
that helped lead to runs for St. Louis. “That call didn’t cost
us the ball game, three errors did and mine was probably the
biggest. We just dug ourselves a little too big of a hole.”  In the American League wild-card contest, the Orioles
downed the Texas Rangers 5-1 for Baltimore’s first postseason
win since 1997. Baltimore hosts the Yankees in the first of the
best-of-five game AL Division Series.  The Cardinals and Nationals also begin their NL Division
Series tomorrow in St. Louis. The Nationals finished with the
best record in the league, four games ahead of Atlanta in the NL
East.  The other division series games begin today, when the
 Oakland Athletics  visit the  Detroit Tigers  in the AL at 6 p.m.
 New York  Time and the San Francisco Giants host the Cincinnati
Reds in the NL about 3 1/2 hours later.  Baseball’s postseason was expanded this year to four rounds,
including a second wild-card in each league for two non-division
winners with the best records.  Protest Denied  Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez, whose protest was denied by
MLB, said he thought the ball hit by Andrelton Simmons was too
far out for it to be an infield fly.  “From where I was, I thought we had a legit beef,” he
said.  Gonzalez said he was disappointed at the fans’ reaction.  “For me, it’s uncalled for,” the Braves’ manager said.
“It’ doesn’t look good.”  A throwing error by Jones in the top of the fourth led to
the start of the Cardinals’ three-run inning.  Matt Holliday  hit
a solo home run in the sixth to lead the defending  World Series 
champions.  Braves pitcher Kris Medlen allowed five runs over 6 1/3
innings in the loss. Atlanta had won the previous 23 games
Medlen started, breaking a record he shared with  Whitey Ford  and
Carl Hubbell.  Baltimore’s J.J. Hardy hit a run-scoring single in the
first inning and then scored on  Adam Jones ’s sacrifice fly in
the sixth to give the Orioles a 2-1 lead at Rangers Ballpark in
Arlington, Texas.  Manager ‘Shocked’  Nate McLouth had a one-run single in the seventh inning for
the Orioles, with Manny Machado driving in Lew Ford and Robert Andino scoring on McLouth’s sacrifice fly in the ninth.  Ian Kinsler  scored the Rangers’ only run when  Josh Hamilton 
grounded into a first-inning double play.  “I’m shocked,” Rangers manager  Ron Washington  said.
“That’s the way a winner feels and I’m a winner.”  The Rangers, runners-up in the World Series the past two
years, lost the AL West title on the final day of the regular
season when they were defeated by the Athletics.  Joe Saunders, who was 0-6 against the Rangers going into
last night’s game, allowed one run on six hits and struck out
four in 5 2/3 innings.  “It was a little dicey in the first inning,” Saunders
said, adding he wanted to “minimize the damage and keep us in
the game.”  Rangers’ Pitching  Yu Darvish gave up five hits and struck out seven in 6 2/3
innings for the Rangers.  Atlanta fans littered the field with cups, bottles and
other debris in the eighth inning after Simmons was called out
on the infield-fly-rule play.  A pop-up by Simmons landed on the left-field grass between
 St. Louis  shortstop Pete Kozma and outfielder Holliday about 20
feet behind the infield dirt.  The rule, which means the batter is automatically out, is
called when a ball can be caught by an infielder with an
“ordinary effort,” when first and second, or first, second and
third bases, are occupied, before two are out. It’s intended to
prevent an infielder from intentionally dropping a pop-up to try
to create a double or triple play.  The Braves would have had the bases loaded with one out if
the rule hadn’t been called. Instead, they ended the inning
without scoring a run.  The Cardinals, who entered the postseason with a losing
record (38-43) away from home, had lost five of six regular-
season games against the Braves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net 
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  