-- Chelsea, Manchester City Stay Unbeaten in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-06T18:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/chelsea-manchester-city-stay-unbeaten-in-english-premier-league.html
Chelsea and  Manchester City  easily
won at home, leaving them as the only unbeaten teams in English
soccer’s Premier League.  Chelsea defeated Norwich 4-1 to increase its lead at the
top of the standings, and defending champion Manchester City
handed Sunderland its first loss, 3-0.  “We played some fantastic football, created a lot of
chances and maybe could have scored a couple more,” Chelsea
manager Roberto Di Matteo said on the club’s website. “We can
only try and continue this momentum and form.”  Arsenal won 3-1 at West Ham, West Brom held on to defeat
last-place Queens Park Rangers 3-2, Swansea rallied for a 2-2
tie with Reading, and Everton came from behind to draw 2-2 at
Wigan.  Winless Norwich took a surprise lead at Chelsea on  Grant
Holt ’s goal in the 11th minute. It was short-lived as  Fernando Torres  drew the Blues even three minutes later with a header.  Frank Lampard  put Chelsea in front in the 22nd minute with
a shot from the edge of the penalty area, and Eden Hazard made
it 3-1 nine minutes later. Branislav Ivanovic then clinched the
victory with a goal in the 76th minute.  Chelsea has won six of its seven league games for 19
points. Manchester City is four points back after its fourth win
moved it above Everton into second place.  Aleksandar Kolarov,  Sergio Aguero  and  James Milner  scored
at Etihad Stadium as Manchester City beat Sunderland, which had
a win and four draws to open the season.  Kolarov put City in front with a fifth-minute free kick.
Aguero doubled the lead in the 60th minute and Milner closed the
scoring with another free kick in the 89th minute.  Gunners Win  Theo Walcott and Santi Cazorla scored second-half goals to
lift Arsenal past West Ham.  Mohammed Diame gave West Ham the lead in the 21st minute, 
before Arsenal’s Olivier Giroud scored his first league goal just 
before halftime. Walcott put the Gunners in front in the 77th 
minute after getting behind the defense and Cazorla clinched 
the win six minutes later with a shot from about 25 yards out.  James Morrison , Zoltan Gera and Youssuf Mulumbu scored as
West Brom made it four wins in four home league matches and
moved up to tie Everton for third place with 14 points.  Adel Taarabt and Esteban Granero scored for QPR, which is
winless in 17 away matches and sits last in the standings with
two points.  Swansea scored twice in the final 19 minutes to end a
three-match losing run and deny Reading its first victory.  Swansea Goals  First-half goals from Pavel Pogrebnyak and Noel Hunt gave
the Royals the lead in  Wales . Miguel Michu then scored in the
71st minute for Swansea and Wayne Routledge added the second
goal seven minutes later.  Leighton Baines scored with a penalty kick in the 87th
minute as Everton drew at Wigan. Nikica Jelavic also scored for
the Toffees, while Arouna Kone and Franco Di Santo got the Wigan
goals.  Manchester United  visits Newcastle, Tottenham hosts  Aston
Villa , Southampton is home for Fulham and Stoke is at Liverpool
in tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 