-- Chile Sept. Consumer Prices Rose Faster-Than-Forecast 0.8%
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-10-06T11:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/chile-sept-consumer-prices-rose-faster-than-forecast-0-8-1-.html
Chilean  consumer prices  rose 0.8
percent in September from the previous month, the fastest pace
since March 2011.  The median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for prices to increase 0.6 percent. Annual inflation
accelerated to 2.8 percent from 2.6 percent in August, the
National Statistics Institute said in a report today. Core
consumer prices, which exclude fuel and produce, climbed 0.5
percent from August.  While the inflation rate has fallen from 4.4 percent at the
end of last year, consumer-price pressures persist after
economic growth in the Andean nation accelerated in the second
quarter, central bank board members said in last month’s
meeting. That threat to prices weighed on policy makers as they
opted against monetary easing in September.  “The option to lower the monetary policy rate was ruled
out on this occasion, taking into account output gap and labor
market tightness, which posed a risk to the medium-term
inflation outlook,” central bankers said, according to minutes
published Oct. 3. “It was probable that the external slowdown
would contribute to clear this risk in the coming months.”  Bank board members have kept their benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 5 percent for eight straight months following a
quarter-point reduction in January that surprised economists.
Chile has the highest borrowing costs of major rate-setting
Latin American nations behind  Brazil .  The one-year interest rate swap, which reflects traders’
views of average borrowing costs, decreased 1 basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 4.97 percent yesterday from Sept. 13
when policy makers last met. The next meeting is Oct. 18.  Full Employment  Chile is near full employment after the  jobless rate  fell
to 6.4 percent in the three months through August from 6.6
percent at the beginning of this year, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told lawmakers in Valparaiso on Oct. 2.  Gross domestic product, which expanded 5.4 percent in the
first half of this year, will grow 5 percent this year before
slowing to 4.8 percent in 2013, he said. Inflation will pick
back up next year, ending 2013 at 3 percent, he said.  Policy makers target 3 percent inflation, plus or minus 1
percentage point over two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  