-- Dollar Drops as Investors Seek Riskier Assets on Growth Outlook
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-06T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/dollar-drops-as-investors-seek-riskier-assets-on-growth-outlook.html
The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell for the first
time in three weeks as stronger-than-forecast U.S. economic data
spurred bets growth in the world’s biggest economy is building
momentum, prompting investors to seek higher-yielding assets.  The U.S. currency rose versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said the ECB is ready to start buying euro-bloc nations’ debt to
stem the region’s debt crisis. The  Federal Reserve  will issue
its  Beige Book  regional business survey next week in preparation
for its policy meeting this month.  “European bond buying has given the market some confidence
to actually apply some risk,”  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in
Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., said in
a phone interview. “The market is also trying to buy into North
American growth. If the U.S. keeps the ship upright, the market
will find more conviction and want to own more risk.”  The  Dollar Index , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners including the euro and the yen, fell 0.8 percent
to 79.336 this week in New York. It touched 79.103 yesterday,
the lowest level since Sept. 21.  The dollar dropped 1.4 percent to $1.3045 per euro, after
gaining 0.9 percent in the five days ended Sept. 28 and rising
1.2 percent the previous week. The 17-nation currency gained 2.4
percent to 102.57 yen. The Japanese currency depreciated 0.9
percent to 78.67 to the dollar.  Net Shorts  Futures traders raised their bets the euro will fall
against the dollar, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
showed. The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds 
and other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared
with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 50,265 on
Oct. 2. That compared with 50,238 a week earlier. Net shorts
reached a record 214,418 on June 8.  The dollar slid versus most peers Oct. 4 after minutes of
the Fed’s September meeting showed policy makers saw manageable
risks in a third round of U.S. bond buying they decided to start
under the quantitative-easing stimulus strategy. The central
bank is purchasing $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month until
the economic recovery is well-established, prompting concern
financial markets will be disrupted and inflation will rise.  “Most participants thought these risks could be managed
since the committee could make adjustments to its purchases, as
needed, in response to economic developments  or to changes in
its assessment of their efficacy and costs,” the minutes said.  The U.S.  jobless rate  unexpectedly dropped to 7.8 percent
last month, its lowest level since January 2009, Labor
Department data showed yesterday. Payrolls increased by 114,000
workers, almost matching a Bloomberg News survey estimate of
115,000, the data showed.  ‘Reduce Expectations’  “That the  unemployment rate  is moving lower will have an
impact on the length and size of this new QE program from the
Fed,” Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist at Gain Capital
Group LLC in New York, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“The unemployment rate moving lower, faster, is going to reduce
expectations that the Fed is going to need to print more
dollars.”  The labor-market data followed Institute for Supply
Management indexes this week that showed U.S.  manufacturing 
unexpectedly expanded last month, and U.S. services industries
grew more than forecast.  The Fed’s next meeting will be Oct. 23-24. The central bank
releases its Beige Book, designed to provide policy makers
anecdotal evidence on the economy before the session, Oct. 10.  Top Performer  The euro has gained 1.9 percent over the past month in the
best performance among 10 developed-nation counterparts tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar slid 1.9
percent, and the yen dropped 2.3 percent.  The shared currency had its biggest single-day gain against
the dollar in nearly three weeks on Oct. 4, climbing 0.9 percent
as the ECB’s Draghi said the currency was irreversible and the
central bank’s decision to buy bonds helped ease tensions.  The ECB is ready to start bond purchases under its plan
known as Outright Monetary Transactions “once all the
prerequisites are in place,” Draghi said at a press conference
in Ljubljana, Slovenia. After last month’s policy meeting, he
unveiled a program of unlimited debt buying to cap borrowing
costs for debt-ridden nations.  South Africa ’s rand was the worst performer among major
currencies this week as strikes spread across the nation’s
mining and transport industries. The currency tumbled yesterday
to 8.8465 per dollar, the weakest level since April 2009, and
ended the week down 5.3 percent at 8.7793.  Volatility Slides  Implied  volatility  among major currencies, which signals
the expected pace of price swings, reached an almost five-year
low this week. It touched 7.5 percent, the least since Oct. 16,
2007, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index for Group-of-Seven currencies
showed. Lower volatility makes investments in currencies with
higher key lending rates more attractive because the risk in
such trades is that market moves will erase profit. The five-
year average is 12.4 percent.  The Australian dollar fell against all of its most-traded
peers except the rand after the nation recorded its widest trade
deficit since 2008 and the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
unexpectedly lowered its benchmark  interest rate  to 3.25
percent, the lowest since 2009.  The Aussie dropped 1.8 percent to $1.0187 and reached
$1.0152, the weakest level since July 13. It lost 0.9 percent to
80.14 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, dropped versus
the greenback for the first week since August after data showed
 China ’s non-manufacturing industries grew at the weakest pace
since at least March 2011. China is New Zealand’s second-largest
import market and Australia’s biggest trade partner.  The kiwi depreciated 1.5 percent to 81.80 U.S. cents.  It
touched 81.53 cents, the lowest since Sept. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  