-- Elon Musk’s SolarCity Plans IPO, Supported by Solar Slump
-- B y   J u l i e   A l n w i c k   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-10-06T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/elon-musk-s-solarcity-plans-ipo-supported-by-solar-slump.html
SolarCity Corp., the developer of
rooftop solar-power systems whose chairman is Elon Musk, filed
to raise more than $200 million in an initial public offering
that shows there are areas within the renewable-energy industry
that benefit from cheap panels.  The $201.3 million the company filed to raise is a
placeholder amount used to calculate fees and may change,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday. SolarCity plans to
list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol SCTY.  The company is seeking to go public at a time when shares
in publicly traded solar companies have slumped and prices for
panels are plunging. SolarCity may do better because its
business model depends on buying and installing power-generating
systems instead of manufacturing them, according to Aaron Chew,
an analyst at Maxim Group in New York  “This is the first real interesting downstream business
model, and it has a chance to prove that solar is economically
viable if you’re in the right place in the value chain,” Chew
said in an interview.  The  Bloomberg Global Large Solar Index (BISOLAR)  of 17 companies
declined 36 percent in 2012 as a global oversupply pushed down
 prices  for panels 28 percent.  Falling panel prices will be an advantage for SolarCity,
Anthony Kim, a solar analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in
New York, said in an e-mail.  “This may be a pretty game-changing moment for the solar
industry,” he said. “We can finally see how plummeting
component costs benefit a company operating on the downstream
side of the solar business.”  Unprofitable Company  SolarCity reported total revenue of $59.6 million in 2011,
an 84 percent increase from a year earlier, and has posted at
least five consecutive annual losses, the filing shows.  The IPO may value SolarCity at more than $1.5 billion, a
person with knowledge of the matter said earlier this year.  Musk, also chairman of  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the startup
electric-carmaker that received $465 million in U.S. Energy
Department loans, holds almost one-third of SolarCity’s shares,
according to the filing. The company sells power to customers in
14 states, including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Intel Corp., and
plans to expand internationally, the filing shows.  The company was founded in 2006 by brothers  Lyndon Rive ,
the company’s chief executive officer, and Peter Rive, chief
operations and technology officer, Musk’s cousins.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank
of America Corp. are leading the offering,  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Alnwick in New York at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  