-- Former SEC Watchdog Kotz Violated Ethics Rules, Review Finds
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-10-06T19:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/former-sec-watchdog-kotz-violated-ethics-rules-review-finds-1-.html
The former internal watchdog for the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission violated ethics rules by
overseeing investigations that touched on people with whom he
had “personal relationships,” an outside review found.  H.  David Kotz , who resigned as the agency’s inspector
general in January amid questions about his tactics and conduct,
shouldn’t have participated in a probe of the SEC’s office re-
organization because he engaged in “extensive” and
“flirtatious” communications with an employee associated with
the project, according to the review.  Kotz also shouldn’t have opened an investigation related to
R. Allen Stanford’s Ponzi scheme because he was friends with a
female attorney who represented victims of the fraud,
investigators said in the 66-page report.  The outside review of Kotz’s activities was led by  David
Williams , the inspector general of the U.S. Postal Service. It
was requested by the commission after an investigator in the
inspector general’s office raised allegations about Kotz’s
personal conduct. The report, dated Sept. 17, was released in
response to a public records request.  Kotz, who didn’t respond to requests for comment, is a
director at Berkeley Research Group, a consulting firm in
 Washington .  Kotz “appeared to have a conflict of interest” when he
opened and supervised an investigation into the court-appointed
receiver in the Stanford case because of his relationship with
Gaytri Kachroo, a Massachusetts attorney, the review found. One
month after beginning the probe, Kotz listed her as a business
reference and a “personal friend,” the report noted.  Seeking Business  Kachroo, who declined to be interviewed for the report,
said she was one of many who asked Kotz to probe the Stanford
receiver.  “My understanding is that the investigation of the
Stanford receivership would not have been initiated but for
numerous complaints made before ours,” Kachroo said in an e-
mail. “The request made by my firm was a formal letter request
made on behalf of hundreds of Stanford victims my firm
represents, who have no relationship with Mr. Kotz whatsoever.”  In a response included in the report, Kotz said that he met
with Kachroo after his departure from the SEC in an effort to
“drum up business” for his new job. He indicated that their
meeting didn’t result in a close business relationship or
additional work for his company.  Madoff Case  The review also called into question Kotz’s work on his
most high-profile investigation --  of the SEC’s failure to
catch the Bernard Madoff Ponzi scheme -- because of his
friendship with the whistleblower in the case,  Harry Markopolos .  While investigators were unable to determine when the two
became friends, Williams concluded it would have violated U.S.
ethics rules if their relationship began before or during Kotz’s
probe. Markopolos had tried to flag the Madoff fraud to the SEC,
but was rebuffed.  On the office re-organization report, the review found
there was no evidence Kotz interfered with his investigators’
conclusions. Still, it noted, Kotz’s “flirtatious
communications” with a woman working at the SEC occurred during
the investigation.  ‘Retail Therapy’  In a July 20, 2008 e-mail included in the review, the
woman, whose name was blacked-out in the text, wrote to Kotz
that she had “resorted to retail therapy.”  Kotz answered: “Nice, what are you buying? How about a
short skirt or two?”  The woman asked in response whether she was exempt from the
dress code, to which Kotz replied, “Special exemption for after
work get togethers.”  During a Sept. 4 interview with investigators, Kotz denied
having any personal, romantic or sexual relationship with the
woman. When the e-mails were discussed, Kotz indicated he was
simply talking to her the way he would talk to any other
employee and that he didn’t believe any of the communications
were inappropriate, the report said.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who has pushed
for a strong inspector general at the SEC, said in a statement
that the report “reveals poor judgment by several top
employees, including the former inspector general himself.”  Still, he said that “the report also found that the
integrity of important audit and investigative work conducted by
the office was not compromised.”  Probes Questioned  Kotz had a controversial four-year tenure at the SEC. He
was lauded by some lawmakers for his thorough investigations and
willingness to hold the agency accountable for missteps
overseeing  Wall Street . Still, the watchdog was publicly
criticized by SEC employees and alumni who said some of his
probes lacked evidence of wrongdoing and unfairly damaged
workers’ reputations.  He also drew criticism for an interview he gave last year
to a Philadelphia-area financial adviser, Phillip Cannella III,
for a paid radio program. Cannella uses Kotz’s remarks to market
a “crash-proof retirement” to senior citizens and has refused
requests by the SEC to take video clips from the interview off
his website.  After his meeting with Kotz, Cannella procured three club-
level tickets to a sold-out Philadelphia Eagles football game
for the watchdog and his children. Kotz reimbursed Cannella $95
apiece; the team said the tickets had a value of $240 each.  Kotz has said his investigations helped turn around an
ineffective agency that had fallen down on the job. He also said
he followed ethics advice in his interactions with Cannella.  The SEC watchdog office is being overseen on a temporary
basis by Jon Rymer, the inspector general of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 