-- French Police Kill One Man, Arrest 10 in Anti-Terror Sweep
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-06T18:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/french-police-kill-one-man-arrest-10-in-anti-terror-sweep.html
French police killed one man and
arrested 10 people today, in what officials called “a vast
counter-terrorism operation” following a grenade attack on a
kosher shop last month.  Police found evidence including a list of Jewish
associations in the Paris region, an al-Qaeda publication, wills
and more than 27,000 euros ($35,240) in cash in arrests near the
capital and in eastern and southern  France , public prosecutor
 Francois Molins  said today.  The people were part of a “radical Islamic” network “who
were in permanent contact and who met regularly,” Molins said
in a televised press conference in Paris. Investigators are
reviewing evidence and interrogating suspects to determine the
group’s plans, he said.  The investigation began after a grenade exploded on Sept.
19 at a kosher grocery in Sarcelles, a northern suburb of Paris,
injuring a customer. That same day, France said it would close
diplomatic sites in 20  Muslim countries  on concern a French
satirical magazine’s publication of cartoons mocking the  Prophet
Muhammad  would provoke violence. The caricatures were published
days after U.S. Ambassador to  Libya , Chris Stevens, and three
others were killed in a wave of protests outside American
embassies against a film seen as insulting Islam.  An 11th person was arrested this afternoon in Cannes,
 Agence France-Presse  said, citing an unidentified judicial
official.  A breakthrough in the investigation came on Sept. 25 when
DNA on the grenade led them to a “delinquent” in Strasbourg
who had been known to intelligence services since this spring as
having been “converted” to radical Islam after a 2008 arrest
for dealing drugs, Molins said.  Death in Strasbourg  The 33-year-old man was sitting on his couch this morning
when police came to his apartment. He was shot and killed after
emptying his gun at them, injuring three officers.  He “wanted to die a martyr,” said Pierre Poirret, the
prosecutor for Strasbourg, in a televised press conference
there.  Molins described the others in custody as in their 20s and
born in France. Some appear to have been radicalized after
arrests for theft or drugs, like the Strasbourg man, and one was
carrying a loaded gun, “ready to fire,” when he was arrested
upon returning from “a place of prayer,” he said.  They are being held for “varying degrees of involvement”
in a terrorist enterprise, weapons charges and assault on police
officers, Molins said.  The authorities will continue to “protect the French
against all terrorist threats,” President  Francois Hollande 
said today in a statement praising the police for the operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  