-- Greece’s Coalition Government, Troika Pause on Budget Talks
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-10-06T16:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/greece-s-coalition-government-troika-pause-on-budget-talks.html
Greece  and its European Union and
International Monetary Fund creditors made progress on talks
on a 13.5 billion-euro ($18 billion) package of austerity
measures for the next two years and said negotiations would 
continue next week.  Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told reporters in  Athens 
after briefing Prime Minister Antonis Samaras on the latest
round of negotiations that he hoped the inspectors would give
euro-area finance ministers meeting on Oct. 8 a good report.  “Talks are continuing,” Stournaras said. “There are
differences and we’re not there yet. We will continue next week.
We just hope that we will get a positive presentation from the
troika at the eurogroup meeting.”  Negotiations between the government and the inspectors on
spending cuts necessary to meet rescue agreements worth 240
billion euros have dragged on for weeks. Agreement on the budget
measures are central to to the release of the next payment of 31
billion euros, destined primarily to recapitalize Greece’s banks
in a bid to boost liquidity in a cash-starved economy.  Talks have been stalled over reluctance by Samaras and his
coalition partners,  Evangelos Venizelos  of the socialist Pasok
party and Fotis Kouvelis of Democratic Left, to sign off on more
pension and wage reductions that will hurt Greeks already going
through a fifth year of recession. The country’s statistical
service said late yesterday that the economy shrank 7.1 percent
last year, more than the 6.9 percent previously thought.  Convincing Creditors  Samaras, who formed a governing coalition after winning the
country’s second set of elections this year, is trying to
convince Greece’s creditors that his government has done enough
to secure the next payment as well as an additional two years to
implement spending cuts and structural reforms.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will visit Athens on Oct.
9, a day after the euro-area finance ministers meet, in what is
being seen as a signal to critics to silence the debate on
pushing Greece out of the euro.  Two bailouts and the biggest debt writeoff in history have
so far failed to halt Greece’s recessionary slide, prompting
 Christine Lagarde , the IMF’s managing director, to signal last
month that another writedown might have to be considered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  