-- Iran Traders and Merchants at Work After Protests Over Rial
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-10-06T15:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/iran-traders-and-merchants-at-work-after-protests-over-rial-1-.html
Foreign-currency traders and bazaar
merchants in Tehran opened their shops today following last
week’s protests over the tumbling national currency, which led
to the deployment of police in the capital’s streets.  In the first day of the Iranian week, there were no reports
of a police presence in Tehran’s main area for currency traders,
Ferdowsi and Manouchehri streets, though not all exchange houses
in the neighborhood displayed rates in their windows.  Tehran’s Grand Bazaar resumed activity, the state-run  Fars 
news agency said. Still, some merchants concerned about possible
price hikes, avoided giving prices or selling their merchandise,
it said.  On Oct. 3, Iranian riot police sealed off parts of downtown
Tehran, fired tear gas and broke up groups of passers-by amid
protests triggered by a drop of about 32 percent in the rial’s
value over a week. Police were also sent to the city’s merchant
bazaar after some shopkeepers failed to open for business and
garbage cans were set on fire. Security forces arrested 16
people accused of fueling unrest.  The rial fell to a record low of 35,000 per dollar on Oct.
1, an 18 percent drop, on the unofficial market. The currency
traded at 13,200 November and has since plummeted due to tighter
U.S. and European financial sanctions to pressure the Persian
Gulf country to curb its nuclear program.  The currency gained in value after last week, trading today
at 29,000 per dollar on the open market, according to the state-
run  Mehr  News Agency. Some traders are willing to sell the
greenback for 27,000 rials, though they refuse to purchase
dollars, Fars said.  While gold-shop owners in the bazaar opened following an
agreement with the police, many avoided conducting business,
telling those inquiring about prices to come back later, Fars
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  