-- Israeli Forces Shoot Down Drone Over Desert, Military Says
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-10-06T17:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/israeli-forces-shoot-down-drone-over-negev-desert-military-says.html
Israeli forces shot down an unmanned
aerial vehicle that entered the country’s southern airspace
today, the military said in an e-mailed statement.  Soldiers were searching the Negev desert, where the drone
was downed, to locate the wreckage and then identify the
aircraft, Army spokeswoman Lieutenant Colonel Avital Leibovich
said by telephone. She said the drone entered Israeli airspace
from the  Mediterranean Sea  and that the military doesn’t know
its origin.  “We view the attempt to violate Israel’s airspace very
gravely and we will consider our reaction,” Defense Minister
 Ehud Barak  said, according to an e-mailed statement from the
 Defense Ministry .  The interception comes amid escalating tension over the
nuclear aims of Shiite Muslim  Iran , which has called for
Israel’s destruction and supports the Shiite Hezbollah group in
Lebanon. Iran denies allegations by the U.S., Israel and many of
their allies that it may be trying to develop atomic weapons.  In December, the Iran televised images of a U.S. drone used
for gathering intelligence that came down on Iranian territory.
Last month, the Persian Gulf nation said was equipping its own
drones with missiles.  Gerald Steinberg , a professor of political science at Bar
Ilan University outside Tel Aviv, said it will be very important
for Israel to find out the origin of the drone. The aircraft
probably was being used for surveillance, he said.  “This is not a new strategic threat,” Steinberg said by
phone. The incident “isn’t surprising, given the ongoing war
led by Iran, whether directly or by proxies,” he said.  Israel has a nuclear facility in Negev desert town of
Dimona, which it says is for research. The country’s policy has
been neither to confirm nor to deny possession of nuclear arms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  