-- New Zealand Secures Rugby Championship Sweep as Australia Wins
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-07T03:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/new-zealand-beats-south-africa-to-seal-rugby-championship-sweep.html
New Zealand beat South Africa 32-16
to complete a perfect Rugby Championship campaign as  Australia 
closed the inaugural tournament with a 25-19 win in Argentina.  Sam Whitelock, Aaron Smith, Ma’a Nonu and Conrad Smith got
tries at FNB Stadium in Soweto and fly-half Dan Carter kicked 12
points for the world champion All Blacks, who outscored the
Springboks 20-0 in the second half.  New Zealand, which secured the southern hemisphere
championship with a game to spare last week, finished atop the
standings with 26 points from its six-game sweep. Yesterday’s
victory lifted the All Blacks’ winning streak to 16 Tests since
losing to Australia in the final Tri-Nations match last year.  “You have to take your opportunities in these big Tests,”
All Blacks captain Richie McCaw said in a televised interview
after becoming the first player to win 100 Test matches. “We
were happy to win the championship in  Argentina  last week, but
we knew the big challenge was to come. It is hugely satisfying
to get a win here.”  Winger Bryan Habana touched down in the first half for
South Africa’s only try, to tie former New Zealand full-back
Christian Cullen’s record of seven tries in one southern
hemisphere championship. Fly-half Johan Goosen added the
conversion and a penalty before going off injured in the first
half and his replacement Elton Jantjies booted two penalties  Trailing 16-12 at halftime, the All Blacks reclaimed the
lead 22 seconds into the second half when Nonu scored went over.
His midfield partner Conrad Smith got New Zealand’s fourth try
in the 52nd minute, which Carter converted to make it 26-16.  Record Streak  Carter added a drop goal and penalty to complete the
victory, which took New Zealand within two wins of setting a
record for consecutive Test victories by a top-tier rugby nation.
New Zealand and South Africa share the elite mark of 17 straight
Test wins. The All Blacks face Australia in  Brisbane  on Oct. 20
before undertaking a four-match tour of  Europe .  “At 16-12 we were in the game,” said Springboks coach
Heyneke Meyer. “Just after halftime they scored from a turnover,
then Carter took over. They were superb to close out the game
and we need to learn from that.”  In Rosario, Australia held on for a six-point victory to
leave Argentina winless in its tournament debut and move above
South Africa into second place in the standings by virtue of
having won more games. Both teams finished with 12 points.  “It wasn’t much of a spectacle but it was character and it
was guts from our guys,” Wallabies captain Nathan Sharpe said
in a televised interview.  Winger Digby Ioane scored the Wallabies’ only try, while
full-back Mike Harris kicked six penalties and a conversion for
a personal haul of 20 points. Juan Imhoff touched down for
Argentina, which also got four penalties and a conversion.  Harris kicked five penalties to give the visiting team a
15-9 halftime lead before Ioane’s 65th-minute converted try sent
the Wallabies 10 points clear. Although Imhoff’s try cut the
deficit with three minutes left, handling errors cost the Pumas
the chance of a comeback victory.  “It’s very very tough, they are the best teams in the
world,” Pumas captain Juan Martin Fernandez Lobbe said. “We’re
going to try to improve in every game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  