-- Osborne Faces Shrinking BOE Pool as O’Neill Withdraws
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-10-08T14:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/osborne-confronts-small-world-of-boe-as-choice-looms-on-governor.html
George Osborne  is about to find out
just how many people think they are clever enough to be governor
of the Bank of England.  The chancellor of the exchequer will discover today the
full list of applicants to replace  Mervyn King  at the helm of
the U.K. central bank, managing monetary policy and banking
regulation for a single eight-year term. Candidates had until
8.30 a.m. to express their interest to the Treasury in London.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker ’s odds on
getting the job narrowed today. Three possible candidates,  Jim O’Neill ,  Gus O’Donnell  and  DeAnne Julius , said they didn’t
apply, leaving Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  and Independent Commission on Banking Chairman  John Vickers  among the main potential challengers to Tucker’s claim
for the post when King steps down in June.  “It’s going to be a difficult choice to make,” said Grant Lewis, head of research at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe and a
former Treasury official. “Every one of the main candidates is
adequately qualified. In these circles, it’s a small world. The
panel and the candidates know each other. It makes the task of
interviewing them harder.”  O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said
in an e-mail to Bloomberg News today that he has an “important
job” and had not applied. Former Bank of England policy maker
DeAnne Julius also hasn’t applied, according to an e-mail from
her office. O’Donnell, previously head of the U.K. civil
service, said in an interview with the Financial Times that he
was also not seeking the post.  Even Money  William Hill narrowed its odds on Tucker to even money from
6-4, meaning a winning 1-pound ($1.60) bet would yield a 1-pound
profit. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  is 9-4, Turner is
5-2 and Vickers is 9-1. Julius was at odds of 12-1.  A U.K. Treasury official declined to say how many people
had applied for the Bank of England position. He reiterated that
the government plans to announce King’s successor by the end of
the year.  Bank of Canada spokesman  Jeremy Harrison  said that Carney
was unavailable to comment because today is a holiday in Canada.
Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  hasn’t been
approached about the Bank of England role, a spokeswoman said
after the Sunday Times reported yesterday that he is among the
contenders.  Interview Process  Candidates were asked to send a resume, a cover letter and
a questionnaire disclosing prior political activity and
potential conflicts of interest. A panel of officials will draw
up a shortlist and notify those who haven’t made it. They will
then conduct interviews and make a recommendation to Osborne,
with his Liberal Democrat coalition partners also having a say.
The decision will be announced by the end of 2012.  The selection panel comprises Treasury Permanent Secretary
Nicholas Macpherson, Second Permanent Secretary Tom Scholar and
David Lees, chairman of the bank’s court of directors. Lawmakers
will also question the new governor before the job commences.  “Since London is the world’s financial centre, this is a
job for a diplomat,” Anthony Browne, chief executive officer of
the British Bankers Association, said in a statement. “Somebody
who can manage a busy inbox, who can balance the demands of an
extraordinary array of special interests and –- crucially -– who
has that rare gift not only of saying exactly what they mean but
also of being clearly understood.”  Recent probes over rigging of the London Interbank Offered
Rate, which led in June to Barclays Plc being fined a record 290
million pounds ($466 million), have harmed chances of former
bankers from applying.  John Gieve , a former Bank of England
deputy governor, said last month it would be “very difficult”
for anyone who has recently worked in banking to get the job.  Tucker’s Chances  Tucker, who has spent more than three decades at the
central bank, remains the favorite to succeed King even after
his questioning by lawmakers in July over his knowledge of Libor
rate-rigging raised concerns about his suitability for the job.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat, said in
an interview on Sept. 24 that Tucker’s chances hadn’t been hurt
by the Libor probe and that the governor needs to be someone who
“understands banking but who isn’t captured by banking.”  “Tucker is the best qualified,” said Shamik Dhar, a
former  Bank of England  economist and head of investment strategy
at Aviva Investors, which oversees $409 billion in London. “If
this wasn’t a quasi-political appointment, he’d get it.”  The government’s desire to appear committed to reforming
the banking industry may favor a candidate with experience of
financial regulation, such as Vickers, said Dhar.  Scare Banks  Vickers, a professor at Oxford University and a former Bank
of England chief economist, was appointed by the government in
June 2010 to lead the Independent Commission on Banking, an
inquiry designed to promote stability and competition in the
U.K. banking industry. The government has pledged to take action
on the commission’s findings by 2015.  Appointing Vickers “would scare the banks sufficiently, a
way for the government of saying ‘we’re serious about banking
reform, but we’re not downright out to get you,’” said Dhar,
who worked at the central bank when Vickers was chief economist.
“From that perspective, Vickers fits the bill. The question is,
does he have the authority to run a large institution?”  Turner, who steps down as FSA chairman next year when the
regulator is split into two agencies, has been the most
outspoken critic of banks among the candidates, saying in 2009
that many of the activities carried out by financial-services
companies were “socially useless.” In July, he signaled his
interest in the job, saying in an interview that he would
“obviously not rule myself out.”  O’Donnell had previously indicated he might apply.  “When they do advertise it, I’ll make up my mind whether I
want to apply or not,” he said in an interview after he joined
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  as an adviser in June.  Bigger Role  Whoever is appointed will take over a beefed-up institution
with new powers over financial regulation to add to its role
setting monetary policy. The job of the next governor is “near
impossible” and “only superhumans need apply,”  Ed Balls ,
economics spokesman for the opposition Labour Party, has said.  “The new job is a much bigger role,” said  Steven Bell , a
former Treasury official who is now chief economist at hedge
fund GLC Ltd. in London.  “It requires someone who has the
authority to walk the corridors of government.”  The  International Monetary Fund  is set to reduce its global
forecast for this year tomorrow at an annual meeting in Tokyo
where officials will tackle a slowdown triggered by Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  U.K. industrial production  fell 0.5 percent in August,
economists said in a Bloomberg News survey before a report
tomorrow. The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
will publish its estimate for third-quarter gross domestic
product after the production numbers are released.  Industrial Data  In Germany,  industrial output  fell 0.5 percent in August
from July, when it gained 1.2 percent, the  Economy Ministry  said
today. Economists had forecast a drop of 0.6 percent. A separate
report showed exports unexpectedly rose for a second month.  Separately, the  World Bank  said policy makers in Asia’s
emerging economies have room to provide more fiscal stimulus as
China’s slowdown drags the region’s growth to an estimated 11-
year low in 2012. Growth in developing East Asia, which excludes
Japan and India, will probably ease to 7.2 percent from 8.3
percent in 2011, it said. That is the slowest pace since 2001,
according to World Bank data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  