-- Pope’s Former Butler Convicted of Theft in Vatican Leaks Trial
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-10-06T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-06/pope-s-former-butler-convicted-of-theft-in-vatican-leaks-trial.html
Pope Benedict  XVI’s former butler was
convicted of theft by a Vatican court after he admitted to
leaking confidential papal documents to an Italian journalist.  Paolo Gabriele, 46, was sentenced to 18 months in prison
after the court reduced a three-year term citing extenuating
circumstances.  Gabriele’s trial and the leaks that prompted his arrest
shed light on power struggles within the  Holy See . Italian
journalist Gianluigi Nuzzi, who used documents provided by
Gabriele in a bestseller published this year, detailed how
loyalists to Pope Benedict were trying to check the growing
influence of Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, the Vatican’s de facto
prime minister. Gabriele, in his testimony Oct. 2, said he acted
out of love for the Pope and that Benedict was easily
manipulated.  The three-judge panel ruled after hearing testimony this
week from Gabriele, Benedict’s secretary Monsignor Georg Gaenswein, and the security personnel who carried out the search
of the butler’s home. Gaenswein spoke about his suspicions of
Gabriele, and the gendarmes detailed the discovery of classified
documents. Gabriele said he was innocent of the charges, while
admitting to betraying Benedict’s confidence.  “My intention was to find a trusted person to vent to,
given my feelings and the discomfort about the situation that
had become unbearable all around in the Vatican,” Gabriele told
the court on Oct. 3. He never accepted money or benefits in
exchange for information, Gabriele said.  Possible Appeal  Gabriele told the court today in his concluding statements
he doesn’t feel like a thief, Ansa reported. His lawyer
Cristiana Arru said the sentence was good and balanced,
according to Ansa. Arru will read the panel’s written decision
before deciding whether to appeal, the newswire reported.  A papal pardon is likely, Vatican spokesman Federico
Lombardi told reporters, Ansa said.  The search of Gabriele’s house uncovered documents as well
as a check made out to the pope for 100,000 euros ($130,000), a
16th-century book and a gold nugget, according to court
documents published on the Vatican’s website in August.  Nuzzi’s book, “The Secret Papers of Benedict XVI,” came
out in May as the leaks narrowed the number of potential
informers. Gaenswein said it was the publication of three
documents, including an e-mail from Italian talk-show host Bruno
Vespa that made him suspect Gabriele because they had never left
the pope’s office. The butler, a layman who lives in Vatican
city with his wife and three children, was arrested in May.  Vatican judicial officials have opened an investigation to
determine whether Gabriele was abused in confinement. The butler
testified that in his first cell, where he was held for about 20
days, the lights were kept on around the clock and the space was
so narrow that he was unable to lift his arms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  