-- 
Home Prices in U.S. Probably Fell, Raising Risk of Extended Sales Decrease

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-29T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-25/home-prices-in-u-s-probably-dropped-consumer-confidence-rose.html
Residential real estate prices
probably dropped in January by the most in more than a year,
raising the risk that home sales will keep slowing, economists
said before a report today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 3.2 percent from January 2010, the biggest 12-month
decrease since November 2009, according to the median forecast
of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may
show  consumer confidence  declined in March as gasoline prices
climbed.  Rising foreclosures are swelling the number of houses on
the market, which may lower prices further in coming months.
Falling home values, in turn, may keep potential buyers on the
sidelines waiting for better deals, hurting construction and
consumer spending as owners’ equity evaporates.  “The more home prices fall, the easier it is for people to
wait to buy, and that can reinforce the downward cycle,” said
Steven Blitz, a senior economist at ITG Investment Research,
Inc. in New York. “The flip side is people still need to sell
because you’ve got a lot of people who have stressed budgets.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index, based on a three-month average,
is due at 9 a.m.  New York  time. Survey estimates ranged from
declines of 3.7 percent to 2.4 percent, after a 2.4 percent drop
in December.  The New York-based Conference Board’s consumer confidence
gauge, due at 10 a.m., fell to 65 from 70.4 in March, according
to the survey median. Estimates ranged from 59 to 72.  Confidence Wanes  The projected drop compares with similar surveys in which
consumers’ economic outlook dimmed. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index last week dropped to the lowest level since
August, and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment
index fell to a 16-month low.  The Case-Shiller report may show home prices fell 0.4
percent in January from the prior month, the seventh straight
decline, according to the Bloomberg survey.  The year-over-year gauges provide better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Unemployment at 8.9 percent indicates the number of
distressed properties may increase, leading to more price
declines as homeowners struggle to make mortgage payments. About
8.2 percent of loans outstanding were delinquent in the fourth
quarter of 2010, according to Mortgage Bankers Association data.  Hurting Recovery  Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said the housing slump is the biggest challenge
limiting the U.S. economic recovery.  “The problem of delinquent mortgages and falling home
values is the most stubborn, entrenched and damaging economic
problem our country faces today,” Moynihan said March 23 in
 Detroit , at a meeting of the city’s Economic Club.  Faced with declining  home prices  and the growing glut of
unsold homes, residential real estate developers are reluctant
to boost construction. Housing starts in the U.S. dropped more
than forecast in February to the slowest pace since April 2009,
and building permits slumped to a record low, the Commerce
Department reported March 16.  Homebuilder shares have underperformed the broader stock
market since the middle of last year. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilder Index of 12 companies has declined 10
percent in the 12 months ended yesterday, compared with a 12
percent increase for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  