-- ‘Fun Home’ Turns Secrets Into Soaring Show; ‘Luce’: Stage
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-10-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/-fun-home-turns-secrets-into-soaring-show-luce-stage.html
Most of “ Fun Home ,” the shimmering
new musical based on Alison Bechdel’s ground-breaking graphic
memoir, takes place in a funeral home.  This story about a young woman coming to terms with her
father’s probable suicide is suffused with death, not as a
source of despair but of inspiration.  The 2006 book exploded the possibilities of the graphic
format. The musical by composer Jeanine Tesori and writer Lisa
Kron -- with an enormous assist from Sam Gold’s inventive,
sensitive staging -- lifts the story to a spectral plane without
ever losing its grounding in the exurban Pennsylvania setting of
Bechdel’s Funeral Home in Beech Creek, 200 miles west of  New
York City .  We meet Alison at three ages. Sydney Lucas plays her as a
loving child in thrall to her closeted gay father.  Alexandra Socha is the teenage Alison beginning to discern
the secrets stashed in every corner of the Victorian house her
father has restored with devotion verging on the fanatical. In
college she also makes a not altogether surprising discovery
about her own desires. (Roberta Colindrez is ideal as Alison’s
knowing first girlfriend.)  Ultimate Acts  Beth Malone is Alison as narrator, now a graphic artist who
has embraced her homosexuality just as her father Bruce (Michael Cerveris in a performance of powerful delicacy and pathos)
commits the ultimate act of self-denial.  The three irresistible actresses frequently share David
Zinn’s set, which suggests over-the-top home that doubles as the
family business. Tesori and Kron also pay attention to the
impact of Bruce’s shadow-life on his marriage to Helen (Judy
Kuhn, perfectly cast, though in the show’s most underwritten
part).  The book and lyrics bring us into Alison’s life much as the
drawn images of Bechdel’s book do. Tesori’s music injects the
show with spiritual leavening. It’s closer in tone to her
heartfelt Tony Kushner collaboration, “Caroline, or Change”
than the genre-spanning “Violet,” with its pastiche score.  But the composer can still strut her comic stuff, as in a
hilarious number when young Alison and her friends create a
singing commercial for the funeral home. It’s a reminder how
full of life this house of death becomes, even in memory.  Through Nov. 17 at the  Public Theater , 425 Lafayette St.
Information: +1-212-967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org .
Rating: ****1/2  New ‘Luce’  Just $20 will buy a seat to “Luce,” the new play by JC
Lee at the small Claire Tow Theater above the Beaumont at
Lincoln Center. It’s a play with a lot of challenging ideas from
a writer who hasn’t quite sorted out what to do with them all.  Luce (Okieriete Onaodowan) is the Congo-born adopted son of
Amy (Marin Hinkle) and Peter (Neal Huff), who are smug, touchy-feely white liberals.  Their comforting image of Luce as a high school academic
and sports star begins to unravel when a teacher (Sharon
Washington), alerted by a violent essay he’s written, searches
his locker and finds fireworks inside.  Is his cover story true? What about the ex-girlfriend who
tells Amy she doesn’t really know her own son? Is Luce a bad
seed?  Lee raises these questions without digging very deep into
any of them, never mind offering answers. “Luce” isn’t a
mystery, just a drama without resolution.  But the playwright couldn’t have dreamed up a better
showcase, with this fine cast and concise staging by May Adrales
that never lets any question linger too long.  Through Nov. 17 at the Claire Tow Theater,  Lincoln Center .
Information: +1-212-362-6200;  http://www.lct3.org .
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on music and
 Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 