-- Ace’s Greenberg Says Accounting Change Serves Academics
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-10-23T20:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/ace-s-greenberg-says-accounting-change-serves-academics.html
Ace Ltd. (ACE)  Chief Executive Officer
Evan Greenberg said the push for new U.S. accounting standards
may distract investors from the most useful metrics in gauging
insurers’ financial status.  “I don’t know whose benefit you’re ultimately serving
except a bunch of academics,” Greenberg said today on a
conference call.  The Financial Accounting Standards Board proposed in June
to revise how insurers measure liabilities as part of a push
toward a “converged international standard.” Zurich-based Ace
operates in more than 50 nations and counts North America as its
largest market.  “The insurance accounting as it stands today has been
around a long time and it’s been tested through all kinds of
environments, and it’s reasonable,” Greenberg said. “And I
don’t know what kind of problem we’re trying to chase here by
making changes.”  Greenberg’s critique was welcomed by Paul Newsome, an
analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, who said on the call
that changes in accounting could create a “train wreck.”  Under the proposed standards, market fluctuations such as
changes in  interest rates  could play a greater role in
quantifying book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities,
Newsome said in an interview after the call. The approach could
amplify negative results and make it harder for regulators to
weigh a company’s financial strength, he said.  “The concern is that if a company is having problems at
the same time the rest of the financial markets are having
problems, the accounting would make the rates look even worse,”
he said.  Buffett’s View  Ace fell 1.5 percent to $96.29 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York 
trading, trimming its gain for the year to 21 percent. Third-quarter net income climbed 43 percent to $916 million, the
insurer said yesterday.  Greenberg said that operating income is a favored metric
among investors even though it doesn’t comply with generally
accepted accounted principles.  Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  competes with Ace selling insurance, has also said
that accounting conventions provide an incomplete picture of a
company’s health.  “It’s much easier to criticize than to improve such
accounting rules,” Buffett wrote in a  letter  to investors in
1981. “The inherent problems are monumental.”  U.S. insurers, including  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU) , the largest sellers of life coverage in the
country, have also said new regulations could be misguided. The
companies have been pressing the  Federal Reserve  to avoid
regulating insurers with bank-like capital rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marci Jacobs in New York at 
 mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  