-- Madagascar Seeks End to Isolation in First Post-Coup Vote
-- B y   A n n e l i e   R o z e b o o m
-- 2013-10-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/madagascar-seeks-end-to-isolation-in-first-post-coup-vote.html
Madagascar is holding its first
presidential vote since former disc jockey  Andry Rajoelina  took
power in a military-backed coup in 2009 that left the nation
gripped by international isolation and economic stagnation.  Thirty-three candidates are competing tomorrow to replace
Rajoelina, who deposed President  Marc Ravalomanana  almost five
years ago, causing the  African Union  to suspend the country and
donors including the U.S. to freeze at least  $400 million  in
aid. That forced the government to scale back services including
education,  water  and health care, deepening poverty in the
world’s second-biggest vanilla-producing nation.  Among the top contenders are former Finance Minister Hery Rajaonarimampianina; Jean Louis Robinson, a medical doctor and
former cabinet minister under Ravalomanana; Roland Ratsiraka, a
nephew of ex-President Didier Ratsiraka; and ex-Foreign Minister
Pierrot Rajaonarivelo.  “Everyone is keen to avoid any semblance of unfair, un-free, violent elections,” Robert Besseling, senior political
adviser at IHS Global Insight, said by phone from Johannesburg
on Oct. 22. “But in the end none of the people running are the
key political influences in the country; they are proxies for
Rajoelina and former presidents Ravalomanana and Ratsiraka.”  Rajoelina, Ratsiraka, Ravalomanana and his wife, Lalao, are
barred from running. The three men will remain influential
figures and still wield power from behind the scenes after the
vote, U.S.-based Strategic Forecasting Inc. said in an e-mailed
note on Sept. 18.  “Barring them from candidacy could result in a backlash as
their supporters respond with violence,” Stratfor said.  Economic Stagnation  Under Rajoelina, economic growth ground to a halt. The
 tourism industry , worth $390 million-a-year before the coup,
 declined  as much as 50 percent, and exports, especially
textiles, suffered after the U.S. suspended Madagascar from the
African Growth and Opportunity Act, which enables duty-free,
quota-free access for some goods to the U.S. market.  The economy has posted  no growth  in the past four years,
compared with an average 5.7 percent annual expansion in the
four years before Rajoelina took power, according to
International Monetary Fund data.  More than 90 percent of the country’s 23 million people
lives on less than $2 a day, according to the  World Bank . The
country is  ranked  151 out of the 187 countries on United Nations
Human Development Index, which measures social and economic
indicators.  Titanium Mine  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , based in  London , has a $5 billion titanium
mine in the country,  Canada ’s  Sherritt International Corp. (S)  has a
40 percent stake in the Ambatovy nickel operation, and  Lemur
Resources Ltd. (LMR) , a Perth, Australia-based coal-exploration
company, runs the Imaloto thermal-coal project.  The withdrawal of foreign aid, which previously accounted
for 40 percent of the budget, forced the government to slash
expenditure, according to a 2012 U.S. Congressional Research
Service report.  “Development challenges in Madagascar have been compounded
by periodic political unrest that has hampered economic growth
and limited public investment,” according to the report. “With
most donor aid to the government currently suspended due to the
2009 coup, public spending has dramatically decreased.”  If no one wins 50 percent of support in the first round, a
run-off vote will be held on Dec. 20, along with parliamentary
elections. More than 7.8 million registered voters are eligible
to cast a ballot at about 20,000 polling stations across the
country between 6 a.m. and 5 p.m.  Provisional results are expected between Nov. 2 and Nov. 8
and the final outcome will be announced by Nov. 23, according to
the Antananarivo-based electoral commission’s website.  “This election is important, as it should help us to end
the political crisis,” said Juvence Ramasy, a political analyst
with the University of Toamasina. “We’re not sure if it will be
able to do this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annelie Rozeboom in Antananarivo at 
 arozeboom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  