-- Afghanistan Hospital Almost Two Years Late, Auditor Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-23T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/afghanistan-hospital-almost-two-years-late-auditor-says.html
A U.S.-funded effort to build a 100-bed civilian hospital in eastern Afghanistan has fallen almost
two years behind its planned completion because of poor
contractor performance and deficient internal controls,
according to an inspector general’s audit.  The deficient internal controls led to overpayments of at
least $507,000 to an Afghan construction company that’s since
been fired, according to the report released today by the office
of the U.S. Special Inspector General for Afghanistan
Reconstruction.  John Sopko, a Washington-based lawyer appointed as
inspector general by President  Barack Obama , has turned out a
stream of reports citing waste, fraud and abuse in Afghanistan.
He has faulted U.S. military and civilian agencies as lacking a
strategy to combat corruption after providing $96 billion in
reconstruction aid since 2002.  The Gardez Hospital and several other facilities will
support Afghan Ministry of Public Health efforts “to provide
urgently needed health service,” the U.S. Agency for
International Development says on its website.  The hospital “is significantly behind the original
schedule,” Sopko said in the report. The audit recommended that
the agency seek reimbursement for the $507,000 and conduct a
detailed financial audit to determine if other overpayments
occurred.  The overpayments included $300,000 for 600 gallons of
 diesel fuel , which is about $500 a gallon compared with an
average rate of $5 a gallon, the report found. Contract
personnel also paid $220,000 for an automatic temperature-control device that should have cost no more than $10,000.  USAID Response  The U.S. aid agency is conducting a review and “if the
allegations prove to be true, USAID will take swift action to
address any problems and recover funds, as appropriate,” agency
spokesman Benjamin Edwards said in an e-mailed statement.  The Gardez Hospital “is part of a larger program to build
education and health facilities in Afghanistan,” he said.  “Five of seven health facilities built under this program
have already been completed and USAID remains committed to
completing the Gardez Hospital as soon as possible,” he said.  Construction has been “slower and more challenging”
because the  hospital “is located in a remote and conflict-prone part of  Afghanistan  near the Pakistan border,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  