-- Akamai Declines on Quarterly Forecast That May Miss Estimates
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-10-24T14:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/akamai-drops-on-fourth-quarter-forecast-that-may-miss-estimates.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , a company
that helps speed the delivery of Internet data, dropped the most
in more than eight months after forecasting profit and sales
that may fall below analysts’ estimates.  Akamai fell 11 percent to $46.50 at 10:08 a.m. in  New York .
Shares of the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company, which had
gained 27 percent through yesterday, dropped as low as $46.20 in
today’s session, the biggest intraday decline since February.  Fourth-quarter adjusted earnings will be 49 cents to 53
cents a share, Akamai said yesterday on a conference call. That
compares with the 52-cent average estimate of analysts compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales were forecast to reach $412 million to $430
million, compared with a $424 million estimate.  Akamai, which helps customers from banks to sports leagues
have faster-loading websites and move information online, said
it’s counting on strong holiday-season Internet activity to help
it reach the high end of its forecast. It reported adjusted
third-quarter earnings of 50 cents yesterday, topping the
average estimate of 46 cents, on better-than-estimated sales.  Akamai expects one of its largest customers to renegotiate
for lower pricing in the coming months, affecting its forecast,
the company said. The customer may account for as much as 9
percent of Akamai’s revenue, according to an estimate by  Greg Miller , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. in New York.  “In spite of near-term headwinds from the expected
downward repricing of a large media customer contract, we
believe the outlook for Akamai remains strong,” Miller said in
a report. He recommends buying the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  