-- Alibaba Forms U.S. Investment Team to Boost Global Footprint
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-10-23T18:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/alibaba-forms-u-s-investment-team-to-expand-global-footprint.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
largest e-commerce company, set up an investment team in the
U.S. to work with entrepreneurs focused on Internet commerce and
technology.  The team will be run by Michael Zeisser, who oversaw
 Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) ’s e-commerce group, and will be based in the
San Francisco area, the company said in an e-mail yesterday.  Alibaba has expanded its U.S. foothold with investments in
ShopRunner, Quixey Inc. and Fanatics Inc. as it seeks to move
beyond its focus on China. The company, which has been valued by
investment banks at as much as $190 billion, is considering a
U.S. initial public offering after talks with Hong Kong’s
exchange broke down, two people familiar with the matter said
last month.  “These Internet companies in China have reached a point
where their  cash flow  is growing strongly,” said Billy Leung,
an analyst at RHB Research Institute Sdn. in  Hong Kong . “It’s
sort of the mentality why spend all their time developing the
technology when they can actually buy it.”  The U.S. investment team includes Peter Stern, a former
banker with Credit Suisse Group AG, who advised Alibaba on the
$7.6 billion stock repurchase from Yahoo! Inc. in 2012.  “The team has been active over the past several months and
we have already completed a few investments in the U.S.,”
Joseph Tsai, executive vice chairman of Alibaba and head of its
strategic investments, said in the statement.  ShopRunner, Quixey  Alibaba led a $206 million investment in ShopRunner this
month. The members-only site aggregates offers from retail
partners, including Toys “R” Us Inc. and Brooks Brothers Inc.,
and provides free two-day shipping.  The company was joined by  American Express Co. (AXP)  in the
funding round, according to ShopRunner, which is run by former
Yahoo Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson .  Fanatics is an online retailer of officially licensed
sports merchandise, and Quixey develops search technology for
content within mobile apps.  Alibaba, co-founded by former English teacher Jack Ma, has
been valued at as much as $190 billion by Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. That would put its value above Facebook Inc. The only
Internet companies that rank higher are Google Inc. and
Amazon.com Inc.  Alibaba’s proposed partnership structure, which would see
Ma and his senior executives maintain control after an IPO, has
been accepted by the  New York  Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. The
partnership was discussed with Hong Kong exchange before talks
broke down, the people familiar with the matter said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  