-- Aluminum Premiums’ Gain Seen Driven by Surging Withdrawal Orders
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-10-23T12:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/aluminum-premiums-gain-seen-driven-by-surging-withdrawal-orders.html
Premiums added to aluminum prices in
the U.S. and Europe rose amid surging orders to remove the
lightweight metal from warehouses monitored by the London Metal
Exchange,  Harbor Intelligence  said.  The surcharge reached 9 to 9.8 cents a pound in the U.S.
Midwest, against 8.5 to 9.5 cents two weeks ago, according to
the Austin, Texas-based researcher. The European premium rose to
$190 to $200 a metric ton from $150 to $170, it said. Waiting
times for withdrawals lengthened at the two biggest global
repositories as bookings soared, according to Harbor.  Canceled warrants , as the orders are known, jumped 12
percent so far this month, poised for the biggest increase since
December, according to daily LME data compiled by Bloomberg.
Premiums are rebounding from the lowest levels in more than a
year, reversing a slump caused by an LME proposal to increase
delivery rates from warehouses.  “Firmer premiums are the result of the cancellations that
we have seen in the past weeks, without any doubt,” Jorge Vazquez, Harbor’s managing director, said by phone yesterday.
“The queues have lengthened considerably.”  The surcharges are added to the price of metal for
immediate delivery on the LME, which oversees more than 700
warehouses around the world. The premium for  Europe  excludes
European Union import duties.  18 Months  Canceled warrants are up 4.9 percent in October in the
Dutch city of Vlissingen, the biggest storage site for LME
aluminum, and 21 percent in Detroit, which ranks second. That
equates to respective net increases of 46,500 tons and 178,475
tons. Waiting times for removal lengthened to a near-record 18.9
months in Detroit from 17 months on Oct. 14 and 18 months in
Vlissingen, compared with 15.3 months on Oct. 4, Vazquez said.  “The patterns that we’ve seen in the LME warehousing
system, specifically Vlissingen and Detroit, haven’t changed,”
he said. “The cancellations are exactly the same pattern that
we have seen since 2011, so it seems to me that nothing has
changed here and only the LME approval of the proposal may be a
factor for these patterns to change.”  The LME has suggested obliging warehouses where withdrawals
take more than 100 days to ship out more metal than they accept.
The change will take effect April 1 if it’s approved this month
by the exchange’s board. U.S. regulators and lawmakers stepped
up scrutiny of warehousing after complaints from consumers
including brewer MillerCoors LLC.  Glencore Xstrata Plc’s Pacorini Metals unit owns the most
warehouses in Vlissingen and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Metro
International Trade Services LLC dominates in  Detroit , according
to LME data. Physical premiums reflect logistical costs of
sourcing and moving metal, according to Vazquez.  Aluminum for delivery in three months traded at $1,867 a
ton at 1:38 p.m. on the LME. The metal, used in industries from
packaging to aerospace, fell 9.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  