-- American Realty Capital to Buy Cole for $6.85 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-10-23T20:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/american-realty-capital-to-buy-cole-real-estate-for-6-85-billion.html
American Realty Capital Properties
Inc. (ARCP)  agreed to buy  Cole Real Estate Investments Inc. (COLE)  for about
$6.85 billion as it seeks to become the largest owner of U.S.
single-tenant buildings.  American Realty will pay 1.0929 common shares, valued at
$14.59 apiece, for each Cole share, or $13.82 in cash, the
companies said in a statement today. Based on yesterday’s
trading, the stock offer is 14 percent higher than Cole’s
closing price. Including debt, the deal is valued at $11.2
billion, according to the statement.  The deal is the biggest acquisition of a U.S. real estate
investment trust in more than two years and extends a spree of
purchases by New York-based American Realty, which this year
agreed to buy  CapLease Inc. (LSE)  and American Realty Capital Trust IV
Inc. The REIT, led by investor Nicholas Schorsch, was rebuffed
earlier this year in an effort to buy a predecessor company to
Phoenix-based Cole.  “We’re a better partner today than we were then,”
Schorsch, chief executive officer of American Realty, said in a
telephone interview. “At the end of the day, we just looked at
each other and said, ‘Let’s figure this out.’ And the teams have
been working cooperatively and harmoniously for now three, four
weeks, feverishly.”  The combined company will have 3,732 properties in 49
states and  Puerto Rico , according to the statement. The current
largest single-tenant REIT, Escondido, California-based  Realty
Income Corp. (O) , had 3,681 single-tenant buildings as of June 30.  Biggest Deals  With debt included, it’s the biggest acquisition of a U.S.
REIT since since AMB Property Corp. bought Prologis for $16.5
billion in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  When the deal is complete, the company would pay a 7.5
percent dividend yield, more than double the 3.3 percent average
of the top 15 public REITs, Cole CEO Marc Nemer said in an
interview.  The transaction would reduce the combined company’s debt
compared with earnings by the end of 2014, create a higher-quality income stream and add “the well-respected and highly
connected real estate professionals from Cole, that have decades
of experience acquiring one-off properties,” Daniel Donlan, a
New York-based analyst with Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., said in a
research note. He raised his rating on American Realty to buy
from hold.  ‘Deliberate Approach’  Schorsch said American Realty may be done pursuing large
additions to its portfolio, at least until the completion of the
Cole deal.  “Cole was not just the next conquest,” he said in the
interview. “Cole was a very strategic, transformational deal
that we have to digest. We have to take a very deliberate
approach, take a break, finish these transactions, and then see
what comes next.”  American Realty said it had lined up $2.75 billion of
financing for the acquisition, which it expects to complete
early next year. The transaction has been approved by both
companies’ boards, according to the statement.  Schorsch offered to buy Cole Credit Property Trust III
Inc., a nonlisted REIT, in March in a deal valued at about $6.7
billion. Cole Credit rejected that bid and proceeded with a plan
to buy its management company and go public as Cole Real Estate
Investments.  Cole’s stock gained about 18 percent through yesterday
since trading began in June. American Realty’s  shares  fell 25
percent from a May high on concern that rising  interest rates 
will increase costs.  Cole Rises  American Realty dropped 2 percent to $13.09 at the close in
New York. Cole rose 8.8 percent to $13.95.  The decline in American Realty shares since May forced it
to adjust the way it plans to pay for ARCT IV. In July, it said
it would purchase it for 2.05 shares of common stock, valued at
$31.02 based on American Realty’s share value at the time and at
least $30.62, for each ARCT IV share. Shareholders could elect
$30 a share in cash. The cash election was limited to 25 percent
of ARCT IV shares outstanding.  American Realty, on Oct. 7, changed its method of payment
and valued the deal for ARCT IV shareholders at $30.43 a share,
according to a statement. It plans to pay for ARCT IV with a mix
of cash, common stock and perpetual preferred securities.  ‘Solid Premium’  The planned price for Cole is more than a 24 percent
premium to the consensus net asset value for Cole, Michael Gorman and Timothy Feron, analysts at Janney Capital Markets,
wrote in a report today. American Realty “appears to be paying
a solid premium for Cole shares and the deal does not appear
initially accretive” to the company’s 2014 adjusted funds from
operations, the analysts wrote.  “They are improving their balance sheet,” Gorman said in
a telephone interview. “They’re increasing the size of their
portfolio.”  Low interest rates have been a boon for the companies
because the cost of borrowing is low compared with returns on
buying property. Shares of single-tenant landlords are sometimes
known as net-lease or triple-net because the tenant is
responsible for costs relating to the property, such as taxes,
in addition to the rent. Higher interest rates may reduce profit
from property purchases, which has hurt shares of single-tenant
landlords.  Pharmacies, Burgers  Triple-net-lease landlords rent to pharmacy chains
including  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and such food
outlets as Chick-fil-A and Red Robin Gourmet Burgers under
multiyear agreements. The leases often have rent increases built
in over their lifespans, providing steady cash flow and
protection against rising costs, much like investing in an
inflation-adjusted bond.  American Realty “has clearly positioned itself as one of
the key consolidators in the triple-net space, and in recent
years, investors have shown a willingness to provide sector
consolidators with a premium multiple,” Gorman and Feron wrote.
“Conversely, ARCP is paying a substantial premium for Cole, and
the company’s newly enlarged portfolio could make external
growth going forward more difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  