-- Anglo to Keep South Africa Investments as Long as Costs Balanced
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-10-23T05:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/anglo-to-keep-south-africa-investments-as-long-as-costs-balanced.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , owner of the
world’s second-biggest diamond producer, will keep on investing
in new South African projects for as long as operations remain
profitable, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said.  “We will continue to support South Africa, but at the same
time we have to remain profitable,” he told reporters at the
Venetia diamond mine owned by Anglo’s De Beers unit. “Sometimes
we have to make tough decisions and make sure we get that
balance right.” De Beers yesterday started the $2 billion
expansion of the open-pit operation to include an underground
mine, extending the life of the asset beyond 2040.  Anglo’s underlying earnings fell 54 percent to $2.84
billion in 2012 following a decline in commodity prices and an
increase in costs. Its  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  unit, which
is the world’s biggest producer of the metal and has most of its
operations in South Africa, is consolidating five mines with
nine shaft systems into three operating mines to reduce output
and help return to annual profit.  Anglo, based in  London , may report  underlying earnings  of
$2.1 billion this year, according to the average estimate of 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The most important thing is that we manage within our
means and when prices pull back we have to be very careful where
we spend our money and we have to make sure we have the right
margins. We have to work both sides.”  Output Start  Underground output at Venetia is forecast to start in 2021
and the below-surface operation will replace the open pit as
South Africa’s biggest diamond mine, De Beers said in an e-mailed statement. The operation, which contains an estimated 96
million carats of the gems, will support more than 8,000 direct
jobs.  The global market in polished diamonds may reach $31
billion by 2016, De Beers forecast last year. OAO Alrosa
produced 34.4 million carats of diamonds last year, surpassing
De Beers’s 27.9 million carats output to become the world’s
largest producer of the gems.  South Africa must “provide the right environment for
growth,” President Jacob Zuma told reporters yesterday at the
Venetia mine near Musina, about 600 kilometers (372 miles) north
of Johannesburg. “This includes the implementation of
transformation measures and also to promote labor-market
stability in the sector.”  Inter-union rivalry has fueled tension at South African
platinum mines, where the National Union of Mineworkers has lost
its status as the most powerful workers’ body to the Association
of Mineworkers and Construction Union. At least four union
members have died this year as the organizations compete for
membership.  Strikes shaved 0.5 percentage point off  economic growth  in
2012 and an estimated 0.3 percentage point this year, Zuma said
in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  