-- China Overseas Land Offers Dollar Debt as Beijing Pushes Growth
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-10-23T04:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/asia-pacific-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
China Overseas Land & Investment
Ltd. (688) , the largest-listed mainland developer in Hong Kong, is
marketing dollar-denominated bonds as the government balances
the need to maintain economic growth amid soaring house prices.  China Overseas Land plans to sell five-, 10- and 30-year
bonds as soon as today, a person familiar with the matter said,
asking not to be identified because the terms aren’t set.
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd., the nation’s third-largest
Hong Kong-listed developer, is also marketing notes in the U.S.
currency, as is India’s HDFC Bank Ltd., separate people said.  Beijing is striving to bolster growth that economists
predict will slump to 7.6 percent this year, while reining in
 home prices  that last month jumped the most since January 2011
in China’s four major cities. Developers from the world’s
second-largest economy have sold $1.25 billion of bonds this
month, more than a fifth of total issuance from China and  Hong
Kong , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “As we expect the government to be supportive of the
economy, we do not see many signs that it will implement massive
new tightening measures,” said Agnes Wong, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “Chinese developers have been
aggressive in acquiring land and some need money for
refinancing, so we believe the supply of property bonds should
continue for a while before Christmas.”  New home prices in September rose 20 percent in the
southern business hubs of Shenzhen and  Guangzhou , 17 percent in
 Shanghai  and 16 percent in Beijing from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said in a statement yesterday.
Prices climbed in 69 of the 70 cities the government tracks.  Initial Pricing  China Overseas Land is marketing five-year notes at about
240 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, 10-year
securities at about 325 basis points more than government debt
and 30-year bonds at a 310 basis-point spread, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter. Evergrande, based in
Guangzhou, capital of  Guangdong province , plans to sell five-year bonds at about 9 percent, a separate person said.  HDFC Bank is marketing notes due November 2016 at about 280
basis points more than three-year Treasuries, a person with
knowledge of the details said. South Korea’s Hana Bank meanwhile
plans to meet investors in  Asia ,  Europe  and the U.S. next week,
another person said.  Tapering Delay  U.S. employers hired fewer-than-estimated people in
September, a report showed yesterday, spurring speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  will need to delay any reduction of bond
purchases. Tapering could be delayed until the second quarter of
2014, Robert Carnell, ING Bank NV chief international economist
said in a note to clients.  Bill Gross , the founder of Pacific
Investment Management Co., said the Fed is unlikely to slow
stimulus “anytime soon,” in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Mike McKee .  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds in the
Asia-Pacific region against non-payment fell, according to
traders of credit-default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan dropped 3 basis points to 132 basis
points as of 7:56 a.m. in Singapore, Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. prices show. The gauge is set to decline 24.4
basis points from Sept. 30, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index retreated 2 basis points
to 103.5 as of 10:56 a.m. in Sydney, according to ANZ prices.
The benchmark is poised for its lowest close since Sept. 19,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  Japan CDS  The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell 2 basis points to 83.75
basis points as of 8:54 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup
Inc. prices. The measure, which has ranged from 77.3 to 110.2
this half, is on track for a 13.6-basis-point decline this
month, the most since April, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  