-- AT&T Exceeds Earnings Estimates After Adding Subscribers
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-10-24T20:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/at-t-beats-earnings-estimates-after-adding-more-subscribers.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S.
wireless carrier, reported third-quarter profit that exceeded
analysts’ estimates after adding subscribers and generating more
revenue from smartphone data plans.  Earnings climbed to 66 cents a share, excluding one-time
items, Dallas-based AT&T said in a statement yesterday. Analysts
had projected 65 cents on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 2.2 percent to $32.2 billion, in line with
the average estimate.  AT&T’s fourth-generation LTE wireless network and its U-verse fiber-optic system are helping fuel growth, Chief
Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  said. The company added
363,000 contract wireless customers in the period, compared with
151,000 a year ago. Analysts had predicted 342,000, according to
an average of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is impressive, especially given significant fears
about AT&T losing share to other Big 4 carriers,”  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  Chicago , wrote in
a note.  AT&T shares  fell 1.8 percent to $34.63 at the close in  New
York . The stock is up 2.7 percent this year.  Third-quarter net income attributable to AT&T rose 4.9
percent to $3.81 billion, or 72 cents a share, from $3.64
billion, or 63 cents, a year earlier.  Wireless Rollouts  Even with the jump in subscribers, AT&T’s gains were
dwarfed by Verizon’s 927,000 new contract users last quarter. T-Mobile US Inc., meanwhile, gained an estimated 401,000 monthly
subscribers, according to an average of seven projections
compiled by Bloomberg.  AT&T is spending heavily -- $6 billion in the third quarter
-- to upgrade its networks and gain an advantage against its
competitors, and the pressure is evident in the margins, said
Kevin Roe, an analyst at Roe Equity Research LLC in Dorset,
 Vermont .  “Unfortunately for AT&T wireless, the competitive
challenges they are facing will only intensify through the first
half of 2014 as T-Mobile and Sprint play catch-up on their
national LTE rollouts,” Roe said.  AT&T is facing renewed price competition from T-Mobile, a
company it once attempted to acquire. That may be taking a toll
on its customer growth, said Colby Synesael, an analyst at Cowen
& Co. in New York.  Price Competition  “There’s a component of AT&T’s subscriber base that is
shifting to T-Mobile based on price,” said Synesael, who has a
neutral rating on AT&T and the equivalent of a buy on T-Mobile.  AT&T added 178,000 smartphone customers last quarter. That
segment now represents 75 percent of total wireless users, up
from 66 percent a year ago. The increase helps boost the amount
customers spend on their monthly service plans because
smartphones gobble up more data.  “We’re setting the standard for 4G LTE speeds and network
reliability,” Stephenson said in the statement. “With these
initiatives, we’re seeing excellent growth across our major
platforms -- mobility, U-verse and strategic business
services.”  AT&T’s wireless service profit margin remained even with a
year ago, at 42 percent. Analysts had predicted 41.3 percent.
The average monthly wireless bill for contract customers was
$66.20, in line with the average estimate.  Cash Boost  AT&T’s landline revenue declined 1 percent to $14.7
billion, hurt by slumping demand for traditional phone
connections. The company added 265,000 U-verse TV customers,
though, helping make up for landline losses.  AT&T will raise $4.85 billion from a cell-tower deal with
Crown Castle International Corp., announced earlier this week.
The carrier agreed to sell or lease 9,700 towers to Crown Castle
and lease back antenna space needed for its network.  The extra money, which will roughly double its cash
holdings, gives the carrier the ability to fund some of its
record $14 billion in planned network upgrades, pursue spectrum
purchases or expansion abroad.  Stephenson has said AT&T is looking at the global
opportunities, aiming to capitalize on the growth of mobile
Internet use worldwide. Earlier this month, he outlined a wish
list of industry policy changes that could make  Europe  more
attractive for investment.  In its first major acquisition since its failed T-Mobile
takeover in 2011, AT&T agreed to buy Leap Wireless International
Inc. in July for $1.2 billion, adding 5 million customers and
additional airwaves. Earlier yesterday, Leap said it has to
reschedule its third-quarter earnings report due to an
accounting error. The company plans to  restate  some of its
financial filings dating back to 2011.  Leap also rescheduled its shareholder meeting to Oct. 30,
in Denver, when stockholders will vote on the AT&T offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  