-- Australia Inflation Exceeds Estimates as RBA Rate-Cut Bets Pared
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-10-23T01:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/australian-consumer-prices-rise-more-than-estimated-last-quarter.html
Australia ’s  consumer prices  gained
more than economists forecast last quarter, sending the local
currency higher as money markets pared bets the central bank
will extend its two-year easing of monetary policy this year.  The trimmed mean gauge of core prices rose 0.7 percent from
the previous quarter, the  Bureau of Statistics  said in Sydney
today, compared with the median forecast of 25 economists for a
0.6 percent gain. The consumer price index gained 1.2 percent
from the previous three months, compared with economists
forecast for a 0.8 percent increase.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  reduced
borrowing costs eight times -- for a total of 2.25 percentage
points -- from November 2011 to a record low 2.5 percent in
August. With annual price rises within its 2 percent to 3
percent target, he’s seeking to boost job-intensive industries
such as construction as a mining investment boom crests.  “It’s still a story that inflation is subdued but perhaps
it’s not so much of a non-issue as markets have thought,” said
 Besa Deda , chief economist at St. George Bank in Sydney. “It
makes the hurdle for an RBA cut a little higher and our
expectation is that they won’t cut any further, but will keep
rates on hold for longer.”  Non-tradables, or domestic inflation for goods and services
that aren’t imported such as fast food and utilities, climbed
1.1 percent from the previous quarter, the report showed.  Tradables, such as imported electrical goods and clothing,
rose 1.2 percent in the biggest increase since the second
quarter of 2011. Australia’s dollar declined 12 percent in the
three months through June.  Stronger Aussie  The currency, which has shown renewed strength since the
U.S. Federal Reserve unexpectedly delayed tapering, rose. It
bought 97.42 U.S. cents at 11:56 a.m. in Sydney compared with
97.12 immediately before the report.  Investors see an 85 percent chance the RBA will hold rates
through year-end, up from 77 percent odds yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg from swaps contracts show.  Today’s report showed transport prices rose 2.4 percent in
the third quarter from three months earlier as fuel prices
gained. Housing costs advanced 2 percent as property rates and
charges increased.  The weighted-median gauge of inflation, a second core
measure that excludes the largest price increases and declines,
advanced 0.6 percent in the third quarter, matching economists’
estimates.  On an annual basis, the trimmed mean gauge rose 2.3
percent, compared with economists’ forecasts for a 2.1 percent
gain. The weighted median increased 2.3 percent, matching
estimates, today’s report showed.  RBA Band  The central bank aims for inflation of between 2 percent
and 3 percent on average. The CPI climbed 2.2 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, compared with economists’
forecast for a 1.8 percent increase.  The statistics bureau also released a seasonally adjusted
 consumer price index  that showed a 1 percent increase last
quarter, for an annual gain of 2.3 percent.  The RBA is trying to rebalance the economy as resource
investment wanes in the nation’s north and west, and stimulate
growth in manufacturing, residential construction and retail in
the south and east.  “The likelihood of the RBA cutting the cash rate below the
record-low 2.5 percent seems remote,” Katrina Ell, an economist
at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said before the report.
“Interest rate-sensitive sectors are responding to the large
pipeline of stimulus filtering through the economy, and further
gains are expected in coming months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  