-- Australia Government Sues ACT Over Same-Sex Marriage Law
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-10-23T06:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/australia-government-sues-act-over-same-sex-marriage-law.html
Prime Minister Tony Abbott’s
government sued to overturn a day-old law allowing same-sex
marriage in one of  Australia ’s territories.  The federal government urged the High Court to hear the
case at the earliest possible date, saying in the writ of
summons that uncertainty hangs over the validity of the
Australian Capital Territory’s marriage act.  “I am a traditionalist,” Abbott said in a radio interview
today. “From time immemorial” such a “solemnized relationship
has been between a man and a woman,” he said.  Australia, which created the ACT about a century ago to
host Canberra as its capital, is lagging nations that have
allowed gay marriage. Ceremonies were held in New Jersey Oct.
21, hours after it became the 14th U.S. state to legalize gay
marriage. New Zealand legalized same-sex marriage in April
following countries such as Brazil, France, South Africa and the
U.K.  The new law contradicts the federal Marriage Act by
allowing the union of two adults or persons of the same sex, the
federal government said. It sought a declaration from the court
that the law is invalid or void and suggested both sides be
ready for a hearing by Nov. 25.  Federal Attorney General George Brandis said yesterday it
would be distressing to same-sex couples if they married in the
territory, only to find the law invalid.  ‘Causing Distress’  “The only people causing distress are the prime minister
and Senator Brandis,” Simon Corbell, the attorney general for
the ACT, said in a phone interview today. He called the comments
“patronizing.”  There’s no need for a speedy hearing and everyone should be
given reasonable time to prepare, Corbell said. Other states and
territories may decide to take part in the lawsuit, with
additional third parties potentially also seeking permission
from the court to participate, Corbell said.  Since federation in 1901, there has existed a public
interest in maintaining a uniform marriage law throughout
Australia, Abbott’s government said in the writ of summons.  Australia’s most populous state, New South Wales, is
scheduled next week to debate in the Senate a bipartisan
proposal to legalize same-sex marriage, the Australian
Broadcasting Corp.  reported.   Federal Australian lawmakers defeated a private member’s
bill to allow gay and lesbian couples to marry in September
2012, with then Prime Minister Julia Gillard joining with
members of Abbott’s coalition to vote down the legislation by 98
to 42.  An Australian judge threw out a challenge to a ban on same-sex marriage in February, ruling that since neither gay men nor
lesbians are allowed to marry, both sexes are treated equally
under the law and there is no case of discrimination.  The case is between the Commonwealth of Australia and the
Australian Capital Territory. C13/2013. High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  