-- Socceroos Hire Postecoglou as Coach Through Next Two World Cups
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-23T07:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/australia-hires-postecoglou-as-soccer-coach-on-5-year-contract.html
Ange Postecoglou was hired as head
coach of  Australia ’s national soccer team on a five-year
contract through the next two World Cups and 2015 Asian Cup
after his club agreed to release him.  Postecoglou, who was under contract to coach the Melbourne
Victory through the 2014-2015 season, had been the bookmakers’
favorite for the job since Holger Osieck was fired Oct. 12 after
6-0 losses to France and  Brazil . Postecoglou’s first game will
be the Nov. 19 exhibition against  Costa Rica  in Sydney.  The 48-year-old Postecoglou, a four-time national
championship-winning coach, becomes the first Australian to take
permanent charge of the Socceroos in eight years at a time when
the team is in need of regeneration.  “When your country calls you answer,” Postecoglou said at
a televised news conference in Sydney. “I understand the
enormity of the challenge. I understand where we currently sit
and what needs to be done.”  While the Socceroos qualified for next year’s  World Cup  in
Brazil under Osieck, their world ranking fell to 57 this month
from 26 at the end of 2010. Postecoglou wrote in the Sydney
Morning Herald on Oct. 18 that the team  needed to rediscover  its
spirit, commitment and courage in the face of adversity.  Postecoglou won two titles with South  Melbourne  in the
defunct National Soccer League. He most recently guided the
Brisbane Roar to back-to-back A-League championships in 2011 and
2012, overseeing a 36-game unbeaten run, which is a record in
the country’s elite football and rugby competitions.  He also previously coached Australia’s national youth teams
and was chosen to lead the A-League All Stars in their inaugural
match against English champion Manchester United in July.  Athens-born Postecoglou, who emigrated to Australia at age
five, is the first local appointed as the Socceroos coach since
Frank Farina’s tenure ended in 2005. Dutch pair  Guus Hiddink  and
Pim Verbeek preceded Germany’s Osieck.  “He’s the right person for us at this time of our
development,” Football Federation Australia Chairman  Frank Lowy 
told reporters. “Now is the time for an Australian coach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  