-- Ayala Land Takes on Sy in Manila Bay Reclamation: Southeast Asia
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-10-24T05:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/ayala-land-takes-on-sy-in-manila-bay-reclamation-southeast-asia.html
Ayala Land  Inc., the biggest
Philippine builder, is seeking to reclaim land in  Manila  Bay in
a move that may spark a bidding war with its largest property
rival in the country.  Ayala Land is considering a counter offer for the 300-hectare (741-acre) project to gain a foothold in Manila Bay, an
area being developed into the capital’s new entertainment and
business district, according to Chief Operating Officer Bobby Dy. The developer is open to tying up with a partner who has
reclamation experience, he said in an interview yesterday.  The announcement came two weeks after SM Land Inc. made a
54.5 billion peso ($1.3 billion) offer for the reclamation
project to the Pasay City government, where the bay is located.
The site is next to the Mall of Asia complex, the single biggest
property in Manila for SM Land, which is controlled by
billionaire  Henry Sy .  “We’re just focused on the market opportunities right now
and every market we participate in, there are obviously
competitors and that’s good for the industry and consumers,” Dy
said. “It’s in no way in relation to any particular industry
player.”  Ayala Land, controlled by the billionaire Zobel family, has
clashed with Sy’s group over multiple deals in the  Philippines ,
including a property company owned by the Ortigas family,
another prominent group in the country. The Zobels and Sys also
fought over the development of a 7.7 hectare government property
in  Bacolod City  in 2011.  Financial Muscles  “It’s these two developers that have the strongest
financial muscles” to bid for projects, said Allan Yu, the
chief investment officer at Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. “Both
Ayala Land and SM are headed towards outdoing each other. And
this won’t probably be the last project that they will compete
head-on.”  The two companies are focusing on the capital and its
neighboring cities, known as Metropolitan Manila, as the area
accounts for 36 percent of the $250 billion Philippine economy.
A per capita income of 183,747 pesos, or three times the
national average, is drawing migrants from the provinces,
boosting demand for housing and services.  Ayala Land shares fell 1.8 percent to 29.85 pesos at the
Manila midday trading break, heading for its biggest loss in
more than three weeks.  SM Investments Corp. (SM) , SM Land’s parent,
dropped 1.7 percent to 848 pesos, the most in two weeks.  Costly Bidding  The decline pared Ayala Land’s gain this year to 13
percent, matching the advance in the Philippine benchmark stock
index. SM Investments climbed 20 percent this year.  “Some investors are wary of the prospective bidding war
between the two groups that could be very costly for both
parties,” says Astro del Castillo, managing director at First
Grade Holdings.  Ayala Land, which developed the Makati City business
district, views the reclamation as a “significant” opportunity
to achieve its goal of boosting its presence in all major growth
centers, according to Dy.  Ayala Land has more than 6,000 hectares of land for
development nationwide, Dy said. It won a government bid last
year to develop 74 hectares of prime land in an area called Food
Terminal Inc. and has been building large-scale residential and
commercial communities throughout the country. The company
estimates a backlog of 4 million homes nationwide.  Spreading Thinly  With Makati City maturing, “Ayala Land has to look for
other areas of growth in Manila,” said  Jomar Lacson , an analyst
at Manila-based Campos Lanuza & Co. “It’s looking for long-term
sources of growth, but it could be spreading itself thinly with
this as it’s developing several large mixed-used property
developments in various parts of Manila at the same time.”  Dy said the company will consider its spending plans before
committing to any new projects.  For Sy, whose SM Investments owns banks, malls and grocery
stores, Manila is the area of its focus because that’s where the
consumers are, Vice Chairwoman Teresita Sy said in an Oct. 2
interview. SM President Harley Sy couldn’t be reached in his
office after business hours yesterday for a comment.  Ayala Land will decide on the proposal when the local
government grants the 60-day extension for its bid and a
reduction in the 5 million peso non-refundable fee, according to
Dy. The government only required a fee of 500,000 pesos for the
Food Terminal auction, he said.  Ayala Land also asked the Pasay City government why it
would need to have reclamation experience on at least 120
hectares to bid, according to its letter to Mayor Antonino
Calixto. The local government may act on the request this week,
Dy said. A call to Calixto’s office after business hours wasn’t
answered.  “We’ve adopted a posture wherein you would try to be
present” in every opportunity, Dy said. “If that means that
we’re more aggressive now, then the answer is yes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  