-- Baidu Declines on Post-Earnings Concern: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-10-23T20:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/baidu-declines-on-post-earnings-concern-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities slumped the most in
four months as Internet companies from  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  to  YY Inc. (YY) 
fell on concern third-quarter earnings will trail estimates.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid 2.9 percent to 102.78 yesterday.
Baidu, China’s biggest web search engine, and YY, which operates
a social entertainment platform, slumped for a third day after
rising to records last week. Real estate information website
 SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  slipped on concern China may tighten
property curbs.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  traded at the
biggest discount in two weeks to its Hong Kong stock.  The China-US gauge has slumped after surging 25 percent
since the end of second quarter, mirroring the Nasdaq Internet
Index’s 1.5 percent slide from a record high on Oct. 21. Baidu
is set to report on Oct. 29 that  third-quarter profit  dropped 1
percent from a year ago while sales rose 40 percent, according
to the average estimate of at least nine analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  China ’s benchmark money-market rate jumped the most
since July as the central bank refrained from adding funds.  “There’s a correction in the Internet sector including
both U.S. and Chinese names like Baidu because we really had
excessive gains previously,” Ming Zhao, the founder of Hong
Kong-based 86Research Ltd. said by phone yesterday from Beijing.
“Investors are also becoming cautious before earnings as some
expect selloffs if the results won’t beat forecasts.”  ETF Declines  The iShares China Large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slumped 3.3 percent to $36.90
in  New York , dropping the most since June. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange China ETF Volatility Index, measuring
predictions of price fluctuations in the  ETF (FXI) , jumped the most
this month. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent as
earnings forecasts at companies from Caterpillar Inc. to
 Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  disappointed investors.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts fell 2.2 percent to
$155.07, extending a three-day decline to 6.5 percent.
Guangzhou-based YY tumbled 5.5 percent to $48.13, the biggest
retreat in two weeks.  YY plans to  release  third-quarter earnings on Nov. 6, it
said in a statement yesterday. The company, which started
trading in the U.S. in November, may report adjusted net income
of $17.2 million, according to the average of two analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. That would compare with $20.4 million in
the prior three months.  Property Curbs  SouFun, China’s biggest real estate information website,
slipped 1.2 percent in a third day of declines to $53.87. Its
ADRs climbed to a record high on Oct. 18. Xinyuan Real Estate
Co., a Beijing-based developer, fell 1.9 percent to $7.06, the
largest slump since Oct. 8. Xinyuan’s ADRs surged to a four-year
high of $7.30 on Oct. 21.  The central government may issue new property curbs this
quarter and “hot-spot” cities may announce fine-tuned
policies, China Securities Journal reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified analyst.  Home prices  in China’s four major cities
jumped the most since January 2011, according to government data
Oct. 22.  Melco Crown, an operator of casino facilities in Macau,
plunged 3.5 percent to $33.68 in New York, the biggest slump
since July. Its ADRs, each representing three ordinary shares,
traded 3.9 percent below its Hong Kong stock, the widest
discount since Oct. 8.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) , China’s
biggest private education company, dropped 0.6 percent to $26.47
in New York. The ADRs retreated from a 16-month high after
reporting results for the three months ended in August.  Revenue for the Beijing-based company rose 15.7 percent
from a year earlier to $388.7 million, it said in a statement
yesterday. That fell short of the $396.7 million average
estimate of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Adjusted profit
of $131.9 million compared with analysts’ mean projection of
$129.5 million.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 1.8 percent
to 10,457.32 yesterday, while the Shanghai Composite Index
slumped 1.3 percent to a three-week low of 2,183.11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  