-- Banks Said to Seize ‘Footnote 513’ to Keep Swaps Private
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/banks-said-to-seize-footnote-513-to-keep-swaps-private.html
Wall Street, trying to preserve
profits from swap trading in the face of tougher scrutiny from
Washington, has found a new way to keep some of its overseas
deals private. It’s called Footnote 513.  Banking lawyers have seized on the wording of the footnote,
contained in an 84-page  policy statement  issued in July by the
main U.S. regulator of derivatives. The largest banks told swap
brokers in late September that the language means certain swaps
still don’t fall under the agency’s new trading rules, according
to three people briefed on the discussions.  London-based  ICAP Plc (IAP) , one of the largest swap brokers,
told the banks it didn’t agree with their interpretation, said
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions weren’t public. Other brokers accepted the banks’
position and have been trading billions of dollars in contracts
outside the new regulatory system, the people said.  The deals in question include swaps for foreign clients
that are arranged by U.S.-based traders or brokers and then
booked through a U.S. bank’s overseas affiliate. Bank lawyers
say that if the trade goes through an affiliate it can stay
private and doesn’t need to be handled on one of the public
electronic trading platforms approved by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, two people said.  Of the dozens of derivative rules being completed by the
CFTC, the most contentious have involved how to oversee swaps
traded across borders. The biggest banks sometimes trade half
their swaps with overseas clients.  Foreign Units  CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler has sought to extend U.S.
authority to those transactions, arguing that the global nature
of the 2008 credit crisis proved that American taxpayers could
be at risk when banks book them in foreign units.  ICAP asked the CFTC to issue formal guidance on the debate
over the footnote, three people briefed said. The CFTC hasn’t
yet responded, in part because of the 16-day government shutdown
over the budget.  Bart Chilton, one of the CFTC commissioners, said he
favored having the agency publish new guidelines.  “I want to ensure everyone is playing according to the
same rules, and regret the lack of clarity,” Chilton said in an
interview.  Spokesmen for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , two of the biggest swap traders, declined to comment.
Industry executives and attorneys who spoke on condition of
anonymity said the banks aren’t using the footnote as a loophole
to skirt the law. Rather, they are striving to interpret often-murky guidelines and ICAP is the only major firm to push back on
their position, they said.  Registered Platforms  In an interview, Gensler said he was aware of the
controversy. While he declined to discuss the footnote, he said
swap dealers must be careful how they interpret regulations. He
said trades made in the U.S. are meant to fall under CFTC rules.  “If they’re taking on transactions in New York, or Chicago
or  Connecticut , then that’s activity related to U.S. commerce”
that should be on a registered platform, Gensler said.  The electronic platforms, known as Swap Execution
Facilities, or Sefs, were created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank law to
make prices more public and reduce risk in the system. They
started trading on Oct. 2. ICAP and more than a dozen other
firms have registered Sefs with the CFTC, including  GFI Group
Inc. (GFIG) , Tradeweb Markets LLC,  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX)  and
Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.  One-Sixth  Sef trading is off to a slow start as firms test the waters
before the new rules become mandatory, according to a Goldman
Sachs research report released yesterday. The bank’s analysts
estimated that for  interest-rate swaps , the biggest part of the
overall market, only about one-sixth of the volume has been
traded on Sefs.  Under the CFTC’s rules, most U.S. swaps will be required by
early 2014 to trade on the platforms. The latest dust-up over
Footnote 513 involves how a swap is determined to be a U.S.-
related product.  The four-sentence footnote appears at the bottom of page 60
of the guidance the agency published in July to explain how the
CFTC’s rules affect U.S.-based banks doing business overseas and
foreign banks doing business in the U.S. Although the passage
doesn’t deal directly with trading rules, the banks are using it
to justify their trading methods.  The banks’ assertion is focused on what the footnote
doesn’t say, rather than on what it does say. It mentions bank
“branches” -- which generally are part of the parent company -
- and not “affiliates” -- which are considered legally
separate.  Executed Deals  The banking lawyers are taking the omission to mean that
deals that are set up in the U.S. and are booked in their
foreign affiliates can escape many CFTC rules, according to the
people briefed on the conversations.  For example, under that interpretation traders at a New
York-based bank could enter into a swap with a Japanese bank,
using brokers also based in New York to set it up. As long as
the deal is executed in the Wall Street bank’s London affiliate,
it wouldn’t need to be traded on a Sef or fall under CFTC
trading regulations.  ICAP’s position has been costing it business as banks take
their swaps to brokers who agree with their interpretation of
the footnote, the people briefed said. ICAP also is being
cautious about CFTC rules after paying $65 million in September
to settle an enforcement case with the agency over some of its
brokers’ attempts to manipulate the Libor interest-rate
benchmark, two people said.  Guy Taylor, a spokesman for ICAP, declined to comment.  Overseas Dispute  The debate highlights a long-running dispute over the
parity of swaps regulation in the U.S., Europe and Asia.
Comparable trading rules haven’t been completed in European or
Asian jurisdictions. The CFTC and foreign regulators also have
been fighting over how much they will defer to each other’s
requirements for trades that stretch across borders.  The overseas reach of the CFTC’s rules has been one of
Gensler’s most common themes since he became chairman of the
agency in 2009. In a June 6 speech, he reiterated that domestic
or foreign swap dealers dealing with “U.S. persons” had to
comply with Dodd-Frank rules to ensure that risk accumulated
somewhere else doesn’t land back in the U.S.  “It was financial institutions operating complicated swaps
businesses in offshore entities that nearly toppled the U.S.
economy” in 2008, Gensler said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 