-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-10-23T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying
the  Bank of Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight
rate target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in
Ottawa.  The Bank of Canada today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  The global economy is expected to expand modestly in 2013,
although its near-term dynamic has changed and the composition of
growth is now slightly less favourable for Canada. The  U.S.
economy  is softer than expected but as fiscal headwinds dissipate
and household deleveraging ends, growth should accelerate through
2014 and 2015. The nascent recovery in  Europe , while modest, has
surprised on the upside.  China’s economy  is showing renewed
momentum, while growth in a number of other emerging market
economies has slowed as their financial conditions have
tightened. Overall, the global economy is projected to grow by
2.8 per cent in 2013 and accelerate to 3.4 per cent in 2014 and
3.6 per cent in 2015.  In Canada, uncertain global and domestic economic conditions
are delaying the pick-up in exports and business investment,
leaving the level of economic activity lower than the Bank had
been expecting. While household spending remains solid, slower
growth of household credit and higher mortgage interest rates
point to a gradual unwinding of household imbalances. The Bank
expects that a better balance between domestic and foreign demand
will be achieved over time and that growth will become more self-sustaining. Real GDP growth is projected to increase from 1.6 per
cent in 2013 to 2.3 per cent in 2014 and 2.6 per cent in 2015.
The Bank expects that the economy will return gradually to full
production capacity, around the end of 2015.  Inflation in  Canada  has remained low in recent months,
reflecting the significant slack in the economy, heightened
competition in the retail sector, and other sector-specific
factors. With larger and more persistent excess supply in the
economy, both total CPI and core inflation are expected to return
more gradually to 2 per cent, around the end of 2015.  Although the Bank considers the risks around its projected
inflation path to be balanced, the fact that inflation has been
persistently below target means that downside risks to inflation
assume increasing importance. However, the Bank must also take
into consideration the risk of exacerbating already-elevated
household imbalances. Weighing these considerations, the Bank
judges that the substantial monetary policy stimulus currently in
place remains appropriate and therefore has decided to maintain
the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  