-- Bank of Canada Drops Bias to Lift 1% Policy Rate
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-10-23T20:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/bank-of-canada-drops-bias-to-lift-1-policy-rate.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz surprised investors by dropping language about the need
for future interest rate increases, a move that’s leading to
investor speculation about possible rate cuts.  Poloz removed the language, which had been in place for
more than a year, citing greater slack in the economy, while
keeping his benchmark rate on overnight loans between commercial
banks at 1 percent for the 25th consecutive meeting today. The
country’s currency and government bond yields fell after the
announcement.  The central bank abandoned its tightening bias while
maintaining warnings that Canadians are carrying too great a
debt burden. Poloz told reporters that the current policy rate
is still appropriate because it strikes an appropriate balance
between the danger of excessive consumer spending and the risks
of economic weakness.  “If you wished to take out some insurance against those
risks, you would be exacting a price,” Poloz said. “The price
would be in the form of increased risk on financial
imbalances.”  Central banks from Santiago to  Washington  to  Frankfurt  are
either sustaining or stepping up accommodation.  Chile ’s central
bank on Oct. 17 unexpectedly cut its key interest rate by a
quarter point for the first time in 21 months, citing slower
economic growth and inflation and the weaker global outlook.  The Federal Reserve surprised markets last month by
deciding not to taper $85 billion in monthly bond purchases. In
July, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said he would
keep the ECB’s benchmark interest rate at its current level or
lower for an “extended period.”  Dropped Language  Removing the bias in Canada “makes an already dovish
central bank even more dovish,” said Derek Holt, vice-president
of economics at Bank of Nova Scotia. The change represents “a
fairly explicit nod by the Bank of Canada in the direction of
wanting to tamp down some of the rate pressures that had swept
through global fixed income markets,” he said by telephone from
Toronto.  The Canadian dollar fell 1 percent to C$1.0385 per U.S.
dollar at 4:16 p.m. in Toronto. One dollar buys 96.29 U.S.
cents. Government bond yields fell, with the five-year security
declining to 1.73 percent from 1.79 percent.  Investors have priced in about 6 basis points of interest
rate increases by the end of 2014, based on trading in overnight
index swaps. That compares with 8 basis points yesterday and 38
basis points at the end of July.  Delayed Improvement  The Bank of Canada said “uncertain global and domestic
economic conditions are delaying the pick-up in  exports  and
business investment,” leaving the economy weaker than had been
expected, according to a statement from Ottawa today. The
document dropped a phrase from the last decision about the
expected “gradual normalization” of monetary policy.  “Markets will pay particular attention to the fact the
forward language has been dropped,” said Toronto-Dominion Bank
Chief Economist Craig Alexander.  Poloz said that if Canada received “more data flow which
was negative for that inflation outlook” then the central bank
“would need to re-think that balance of risks.”  “Those risks are balanced as we sit here,” Poloz said
when asked if Canadian interest rate rises or cuts were equally
likely. “Policy is dependent on the data flow and how it
impacts our outlook for  inflation. (CACPIYOY) ”  Alexander said the bank’s forecast “wouldn’t suggest the
Bank is preparing the market for a cut in interest rates. What
they are signaling is it’s going to take longer for the Canadian
economy to absorb all the slack.”  Slow Inflation  Inflation will remain below the 2 percent target until the
end of 2015, two quarters longer than forecast in July, with the
risks of further weakness taking on “increasing importance,”
policy makers led by Poloz, 58, said.  Royal Bank of Canada and National Bank Financial economists
expected Poloz would keep the tightening bias he inherited from
Mark Carney as a warning to consumers about the dangers of
taking on too much debt. While policy makers said today they are
taking into account the risk of making record household debt
levels worse, the bank’s projections show growth will continue
to be driven by consumers, with a lower contribution from
exports and business spending.  The bank’s economic growth forecast for this year was cut
to 1.6 percent from 1.8 percent. The outlook for 2014 was
lowered to 2.3 percent from 2.7 percent, and the 2015 projection
cut to 2.6 percent from 2.7 percent.  Excess Capacity  “Inflation in Canada has remained low in recent months,
reflecting the significant slack in the economy,” the central
bank said in its statement. The excess capacity in the economy
is equal to about 1.5 percent of gross domestic product, which
will help restrain inflation at an average of 1.2 percent in the
first quarter of next year.  Business optimism over new investments fell to a four-year
low in the central bank’s  survey  published earlier this month.
Today’s forecast cut the contribution to 2014 growth from
investment to 0.4 percentage point from 0.6 percentage point,
and for net exports to 0.3 point from 0.6 point.  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  of Waterloo, Ontario, the country’s biggest
spender on research and development, has announced plans to fire
4,500 workers and is seeking a buyer for the company after sales
of its signature smartphones fell short of forecasts.  The bank lowered its estimate for the growth rate of the
economy’s potential output to 1.9 percent for this year and
next, from 2.1 percent and 2.2 percent respectively. Slower
growth in potential output reduces the amount that the economy
can expand before it sparks inflation.  Policy makers also cut their forecast for growth next year
in the U.S., which buys three-quarters of Canada’s exports, to
2.5 percent from 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  