-- Barclays Said to Consider Pay Plan to Mitigate EU Bonus Caps
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-10-23T14:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/barclays-said-to-consider-pay-plan-to-mitigate-eu-bonus-caps.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, is drawing up plans to revamp its pay
structure to counter European Union proposals on  executive
compensation , a person briefed on the discussions said.  The lender may give executives an additional cash payment
on top of base pay and variable bonuses, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the matter is private. It
would help the London-based bank to control fixed costs, while
maintaining performance-related pay for senior employees, the
person said.  The plans come after the EU brokered a draft deal in
February to outlaw banker bonuses that are more than twice fixed
pay, a move lawmakers said would prevent excessive payouts and
curb irresponsible risk-taking. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  opposed the curbs, saying they would harm the
competitiveness of the nation’s finance industry.  Barclays’s plan, which is one of many being considered, is
at an early stage and would need shareholder approval, said the
person.  Sky News  reported the story earlier today.  The U.K. has 1,300 code staff with regulatory approval who
would be affected by the EU cap,  Andrew Bailey , Britain’s top
bank supervisor, said on March 13. According to “back of the
envelope” calculations, employees at banks may get as much as
500 million pounds ($808 million) more in base pay to offset the
limit, he said.  The European Banking Authority, which coordinates the work
of supervisors in the 28-nation bloc, is deciding which
employees will be covered by the curbs after the EU said they
would apply to risk-takers. Banks are trying to have the rules
apply to fewer workers by recommending that the definition of a
risk-taker be made stricter, people familiar with that process
said in April.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest lender, said in August
it may raise salaries to combat the proposed EU rules.  “We’re very confident that we will be able to come up with
a competitive remuneration proposal,” Chairman  Douglas Flint 
said at the time. Raising salaries is “one option,” he said.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Dylan Griffiths  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  