-- BASF to Add Pigment Production in Asia as It Scraps Europe Jobs
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-23T13:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/basf-to-add-pigment-production-in-asia-as-it-scraps-europe-jobs.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest
chemical maker, will shutter a pigment production plant in
Scotland while adding capacity in Asia as it seeks to boost
profitability at its performance products division.  The measures are part of plans to cut 650 jobs in the
pigments unit globally by 2017, Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF
said in a statement. The company will meanwhile invest 250
million euros ($344 million) in expanding capacity in Nanjing,
China and Ulsan,  South Korea , as well as in research.  “The measures we are undertaking will make us more
responsive to market and customer needs,” Markus Kramer, the
head of BASF’s dispersions and pigments operations, said in the
statement. “The future global production network will enable us
to reliably and efficiently supply our partners from a
competitive base.”  The cuts add to the scrapping of 500 positions in the
plastic-additives and pigment operations around Basel,
Switzerland announced in April. BASF is joining rivals  Saudi
Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  and  Clariant AG (CLN)  in making cutbacks as the
advent of low-cost producers in Asia and a renaissance in the
U.S.’s commodity chemical industry on the back of shale gas
changes the dynamics of the marketplace.  The closure of the pigments plant in Paisley, Scotland will
see 143 employees lose their jobs, while a further 140 employees
will leave the manufacturing site in Huningue, France. BASF may
also sell or close its Maastricht factory in the Netherlands.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization at the performance products division as a
proportion of sales  fell  to 13.3 percent last year from a 2010
peak of 17.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  