-- BAT Nine-Month Shipments Drop as Tobacco Consumption Falls
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-10-23T08:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/bat-nine-month-cigarette-shipments-drop-amid-falling-consumption.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,
Europe’s largest maker of cigarettes, reported a further decline
in shipments as smokers cut back from  Russia  to Brazil.  The quantity of products sold fell 3 percent in the nine
months ended Sept. 30, the London-based company said today in a
statement, compared with the median estimate of eight  analysts 
surveyed by Bloomberg News for a 2.9 percent drop.  Volume declined in Brazil, Russia,  Turkey , Ukraine,  Egypt 
and western Europe, the maker of the Pall Mall and Dunhill
brands said. Increased prices for BAT’s cigarettes meant sales
rose 3.5 percent, excluding currency shifts, compared with the
median prediction for 4 percent growth.  “The group continued its good performance against a
backdrop of adverse exchange-rate movements, lower industry
volume and instability in some parts of the world” and remains
“on track for a year of solid earnings growth,” Chief
Executive Officer Nicandro Durante said in the statement.  The shares fell as much as 1 percent to 3,350 pence and
were down 0.6 percent at 3,364.5 pence at 8:48 a.m. in London.  BAT’s four global “drive brands” -- Dunhill, Kent, Lucky
Strike and Pall Mall -- increased volume by 1.9 percent as they
took an increased share in their top 40 markets.  In addition to declining cigarette consumption, volume in
the period was affected by comparison with a leap year and an
excise-tax increase in  Brazil  late last year, BAT said.  Electronic Cigarettes  “Despite the slight miss” on sales, “we believe the
results do little to change the buy case,” Bank of America
Merrill Lynch analyst Nik Oliver said in a note to investors.  Currency movements cut reported revenue growth to 0.7
percent in the nine-month period. After reducing sales growth by
2.8 percentage points in the nine months, most analysts
anticipate a 5 percentage-point reduction for the year, said
Chris Wickham, an analyst at Oriel Securities in London.  CEO Durante said early signs for Vype electronic cigarettes
are “encouraging.” BAT is stepping up the development of
alternative nicotine products amid stricter government
constraints on smoking. It started selling the Vype brand in the
U.K. in June and expects to sell an aerosol-based device as
early as next year, pending approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  