-- Beijing Air Worse Than Official Standard 62.5% of Last Quarter
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-23T05:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/beijing-air-worse-than-official-standard-62-5-of-last-quarter.html
Air quality in the Chinese cities of
Beijing, Tianjin and the surrounding province of Hebei failed to
meet government standards on 62.5 percent of days in the third
quarter, the nation’s environmental ministry said.  Seven of 10 Chinese cities with the worst air pollution
during the three-month period ended in September were in Hebei,
the Ministry of Environmental Protection said in a statement
posted to its website yesterday. The other three were Tianjin,
Jinan and Zhengzhou, while Beijing wasn’t among them.  Chinese authorities have sought to clean up the nation’s
air and water in an effort to assuage public anger sparked by
environmental degradation. Pollution is the top cause of social
unrest in  China , according to Chen Jiping, a former leading
member of the Communist Party’s Committee of Political and
Legislative Affairs.  In the first half, air quality in Beijing, Tianjin and
Hebei failed to meet national standards on 69 percent of days,
the environment ministry said in July.  The cities of Haikou, Lasa, Yinchuan and Fuzhou met air-quality standards on every day in the third quarter, the
ministry said yesterday.  China’s national standard for the concentration of PM2.5,
fine air particles that pose the greatest health risk, is 35
micrograms per cubic meter in cities. The World Health
Organization advises day-long exposure of no higher than 25. The
environment ministry’s statement yesterday didn’t give third-quarter PM2.5 levels for any cities.  Schools Shut  The concentration of PM2.5 in the northern city of Harbin
surged to more than 500 micrograms on Oct. 21, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported. That forced the city to shut
schools and ground flights as air quality deteriorated to
“hazardous” levels, according to Harbin Daily, a newspaper
controlled by the city government.  Pollution has surged in Harbin since the city began
providing public heating from Oct. 20, Xinhua reported
yesterday, citing the city’s environmental bureau. The city
burns coal to produce steam that’s piped into homes and offices
for heating, according to the Harbin Daily. Weaker winds and
farmers in the region burning straw in their fields after
harvests also contributed to the smog, according to Xinhua.  Harbin met national air-quality standards on more than 80
percent of days in the third quarter, according to the
environment ministry.  In Beijing, the concentration of PM2.5 was 25 near
Tiananmen Square as of noontime today, according to the website
of the city’s air-monitoring center. In January this year, PM2.5
levels in the Chinese capital rose to as high as 993.  Beijing yesterday released plans for dealing with
“serious” levels of pollution in the city. The city will order
30 percent of government cars off roads, close kindergartens,
middle and primary schools, and halt some industrial production
when “serious pollution” is forecast, according to the plan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  