-- Berlusconi Indicted in Naples on Charges of Bribing Senator
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-23T17:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/berlusconi-indicted-in-naples-on-charges-of-bribing-senator.html
Former Italian Premier Silvio Berlusconi was indicted by a judge in Naples on charges he
bribed a senator to help topple then-Premier Romano Prodi in
2008.  The trial will start in Naples Feb. 11, his lawyer Michele
Cerabona said by phone. Prosecutors allege Berlusconi paid
former Senator Sergio De Gregorio 3 million euros ($4.1 million)
from at least 2007 to help bring down Prodi, who governed with a
thin majority until 2008, when he lost a confidence vote in the
Senate after defections. Cerabona and Niccolo Ghedini, another
Berlusconi lawyer, said they are confident the trial will show
the accusations are groundless, according to a statement after
the court decision.  Berlusconi, whose tax-fraud conviction was rendered final
on Aug. 1, faces the charge of corruption in the Naples trial.
The former premier is appealing separate convictions in Milan
for illegal wiretapping and sex with a minor. His legal problems
have increased tensions within Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s
coalition.  The three-time premier has repeatedly threatened to bring
down the government if Letta’s Democratic Party votes to expel
him from the Senate following his definitive tax-fraud ruling.
The Senate will vote in the next few weeks on whether to strip
him of his Senate seat. Letta this month won a confidence vote
in parliament as Berlusconi’s attempt to topple the premier was
thwarted by divisions in the billionaire’s party.  Cash Payment  Investigators are reviewing 3 million euros of payments,
two of which were in cash, allegedly made to De Gregorio,
according to  court documents .  “I committed crimes, I had the courage to say so,” De
Gregorio, elected in 2006 with Prodi’s coalition, told reporters
March 11, admitting he was paid 2 million euros in cash. “The
Prodi government would have fallen anyway.”  Berlusconi’s party and De Gregorio had a legitimate
political agreement and there were no illegal payments, the
lawyers said. The statute of limitations for the alleged crime
kicks in after seven and 1/2 years, Cerabona said. It may take
effect in September 2015, according to La Stampa. A verdict by
the top court, after all appeals are exhausted, would have to
come before that to make any conviction final.  Today Judge Amelia Primavera accepted a plea bargain for De
Gregorio, who was sentenced to 20 months.  Berlusconi, 77, has denied all the charges against him,
saying they amount to political persecution. His four-year
prison sentence for tax fraud regarding the purchase of
broadcasting rights by his Mediaset group has already been
reduced to one year due to a law against prison overcrowding and
will probably be converted into house arrest or community
service.  “The strategy of a part of the judiciary is clear, and so
are its goals,” Mara Carfagna, a lawmaker and spokeswoman for
Berlusconi’s party in the Chamber of Deputies, said in an e-mailed statement after the court’s decision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  