-- BG Says Tunisia More Reliable Than Egypt to Gas Producers
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-10-23T09:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/bg-says-tunisia-more-reliable-than-egypt-to-gas-producers.html
Tunisia is proving a more reliable
place to produce natural gas than  Egypt  as the smallest nation
on the North African coast pays its fuel bills on time, a  BG
Group Plc (BG/)  executive said.  “The ability for Tunisia to continue to honor its
contracts and to continue to pay for its energy supplies is
fundamental for BG’s continued appetite,” Michael Rees, BG
president in Tunisia, said in an interview yesterday in Tunis.
“Unlike Egypt, where there are lots of challenges in terms of
payments and in terms of renegotiation of contracts, this
stability is needed because it’s a tough place geologically to
invest.”  BG Group is delaying the West Delta Deep Marine project in
Egypt amid political turmoil that has curtailed the nation’s
ability to pay foreign companies, the Reading, England-based
company said last month.  Secular and Islamic conservative groups that united two
years ago in Tunisia and Egypt to overthrow their respective
leaders later failed to agree on how to govern. The army
intervened in Egypt to topple an elected Islamist president
while the Islamist-led government in Tunisia is trying to
resolve a conflict with the secular opposition through dialogue.  Tunisia is a net fuel importer, unlike neighboring Libya
and  Algeria  that sit respectively on  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves and second-largest gas reserves.  BG is the largest gas producer in Tunisia, supplying the
nation with 60,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, or 60
percent of its consumption, from the offshore Hasdrubal and
Miskar fields, in the Gulf of Gabes. The country buys the rest
of its gas from Algeria.  Hasdrubal, Miskar  Hasdrubal came on stream in 2010 and has reached its
plateau production of about 35,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day, while Miskar, which has been in production for 17 years,
supplies 25,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, according to
Rees. BG plans work to slow down the decline in Miskar and the
two fields should produce at the same rate next year, he said.  “It’s been a fantastic performance for Hasdrubal this
year, it’s been safe, it’s been consistent and delivering in
excess of 98 percent of operational efficiency,” he said.  BG is also looking to allow other companies operating in
the Gulf of Gabes to use its pipelines and facilities in return
for a fee, he said. “We have the infrastructure in which we
invested heavily, Tunisia is very keen and BG is very keen to
use this infrastructure,” he said.  OMV AG (OMV) ,  PA Resources AB (POU)  and  Sonde Resources Corp. (SOQ)  are among
companies operating in the Gulf of Gabes, according to the
website of the Tunisia’s state-oil company ETAP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Tunis at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  