-- BHP Board Candidate Says Chairman Misunderstands Climate Change
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-10-23T17:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/bhp-board-candidate-says-chairman-misunderstands-climate-change.html
A former  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
executive who is seeking election to the board of the world’s
biggest mining company believes  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is
underestimating the future effects of climate change.  Ian Dunlop, 71, once an advocate for the industry as
chairman of the Australian Coal Association before turning to
promoting climate change awareness, is standing for election to
the board of Melbourne-based BHP at its annual general meeting
today in  London . Chairman Jac Nasser has told investors to vote
against the nomination because Dunlop’s focus “primarily on a
single issue will not add to the effective governance of the
business,” according to the meeting’s notes.  “The very fact that Jac can say that demonstrates to me
they don’t understand what climate is about,” Dunlop said in an
interview yesterday in London. He’s scheduled to meet Nasser for
talks before the vote. “This is not a single issue. This is an
issue that’s going to permeate every single thing that BHP do.”  Most known reserves of fossil fuels will need to stay
unburned to stop temperatures rising beyond a target that seeks
to curb  climate-change  dangers, according to the United Nations.
BHP produces thermal coal in  Australia ,  South Africa ,  Colombia 
and the U.S. and has oil and gas operations in the U.S.,
Trinidad and Tobago, U.K and  Pakistan .  Shareholder Value  “They face significant loss of shareholder value” if they
choose to ignore climate change and “a real impairment to their
ability to prosper in the longer term in a low-carbon world,”
Dunlop said. The company may also be exposed to write-downs on
the loss of value of fossil-fuel assets, he said.  BHP has assessed climate change and policy scenarios and
has experience in these areas, the company said in an e-mailed
statement. “The board agrees with Mr. Dunlop that climate risk
is very important but believes that he does not meet the
threshold for skills and experience and will not add to the
effective governance of the business,” it said.  The  United Nations  has said combined global carbon targets
are less than half what’s needed to curb the temperature rise in
the industrial era to the international target of 2 degrees
Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit). UN scientists said last month
that humans have now emitted more than half the carbon
permissible to remain within the 2-degree limit.  “Most of the  mining industry  is tied up in how the hell do
we squeeze the last possible bit of juice out of the Chinese
lemon,” Dunlop said. “If you sit and look at what’s going on,
it’s patently obvious that the official world has not woken up
to the realities of what we now have to deal with.”  Binding Targets  Climate envoys from 194 countries are seeking to devise by
2015 a global deal to fight climate change that includes binding
commitments from all nations. The treaty would come into force
after 2020, replacing the current  Kyoto Protocol , which set
binding emissions targets only for developed countries.  BHP, listed in Sydney and London, will hold the Australian
leg of its annual general meeting in Perth on Nov. 21. Dunlop
said it will be difficult for him to win a seat on the board.  “It’s an uphill battle, the proxy advisors are not
supporting it and that makes it hard,” he said. “On the other
hand, investors are certainly curious. It’s engendering a lot of
conversation about what is actually going on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  