-- Billionaire Sy Faces Counterbid for Manila Bay Prime Real Estate
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-10-23T05:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/billionaire-sy-faces-counterbid-for-manila-bay-prime-real-estate.html
Ayala Land Inc. (ALI) , the largest
Philippine builder by market value, plans to counter billionaire
Henry Sy’s offer to reclaim prime land along  Manila  Bay for
development.  Ayala Land has asked the local government for an extension
of the Nov. 4 deadline to submit competing bids, the Manila-based builder said in an e-mailed statement today. “This will
confirm our interest to submit a counter proposal,” Ayala Land
said.  Sy’s SM Land Inc., rivaling Ayala Land as the nation’s
biggest developer, made an unsolicited offer of 54.5 billion
pesos ($1.3 billion) to the Pasay City government this month for
the 300-hectare (3 square kilometers) reclamation project. The
offer comes amid scarcity of large plots for development in the
area comprising the capital and its neighboring cities, known as
Metropolitan Manila, which accounts for 36 percent of the $250
billion Philippine economy.  “It is a strategic move on the part of Ayala Land to
counter the developments of SM,”  Jomar Lacson , an analyst at
Manila-based Campos Lanuza & Co., said by phone. “This project
can further diversify Ayala Land’s products and market.”  The current deadline is “too short to develop a master
plan, study its financial and environmental impact, and how to
maximize the benefits to Pasay, the national government, and the
public at large,” Ayala Land said.  Ayala Land was unchanged at 30.60 pesos as of 1:35 p.m. in
Manila trading, taking its gain this year to 16 percent.  SM
Investments Corp. (SM) , the parent of SM Land, climbed 1.4 percent to
857 pesos.  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH) , which will hold SM
Investments’ property assets, rose 3.2 percent, headed for the
biggest gain since Sept. 19.  Sy is the  Philippines ’ richest man, with a net worth of
$14.2 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  