-- Blame Liberals for Obama’s Illegal Drone War
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-10-23T19:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/blame-liberals-for-obama-s-illegal-drone-war.html
The advocacy groups  Amnesty
International  and  Human Rights Watch  are accusing the
administration of U.S. President  Barack Obama  of possible  war
crimes  for drone strike campaigns in Pakistan and Yemen. These
charges won’t have much weight within the U.S. -- after all,
even Hollywood now  portrays  the way we tortured detainees, and
no one has been held to account.  But the reports presage what will probably become history’s
verdict on drone strikes taking place off the battlefield in
weak states: bad for human rights, bad for the rule of law --
and bad for U.S. interests in the fight against terrorism.  There will be plenty of blame to go around, yet I can’t
escape the gnawing feeling that people like me --  legal critics 
of the George W.  Bush administration ’s detention policy -- bear
some moral responsibility for creating incentives for the Obama
administration to kill rather than capture. True, we didn’t
realize that condemning interrogation practices and quasi-lawless detention at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, would lead a
Democratic president to break new ground in unfettered
presidential authority. But that’s just the point: We should
have seen it coming. And we didn’t.  To be clear, I’m not saying that lawyer-critics caused the
turn to drone strikes. We’re not that important as a class.  Consequences Ignored  Most of the blame for the adoption of drones as systematic
policy will land, rightly, on policy makers. Largely civilian,
but partly military, these officials considered drones a
convenient and clean way of killing the enemy without
endangering U.S. troops. Enamored of technology and of war from
a distance, they failed to consider the consequences.  The deaths of innocent civilians mistakenly targeted are
horrible, of course. But innocent civilians can also be
mistakenly killed by manned aircraft, not to mention ground
troops. The strategic error was failing to realize that drone
strikes away from the battlefield would systematically alienate
the populations in whose midst they occurred. Far from
strengthening the governments of  Pakistan  and Yemen by killing
terrorists, the strikes undercut the sovereignty of those
already weak governments.  Even when strikes successfully targeted al-Qaeda members or
other terrorist groups, they reminded the local public that
their governments weren’t actually sovereign in their own
territory. A 2011 poll in Pakistan’s Waziristan region, financed
by the British government, found 63 percent of respondents
saying the strikes were never justified.  This trend went directly contrary to the basic doctrine of
counterinsurgency developed in the later Bush years, according
to which the overarching goal is to strengthen the local
government and win support from the population to defeat the
insurgents.  Although the tactical appeal of drone strikes is
significant, it doesn’t fully explain the Obama administration’s
preference for them. Part of the policy choice resulted from the
practical impossibility for the president of doing anything with
al-Qaeda-linked terrorists if they should be captured. Having
pledged to close the prison at Guantanamo during the 2008
presidential campaign, Obama could hardly add detainees there.
But why had Obama come out against Guantanamo in the first
place?  The answer had everything to do with legally inflected
criticisms of detention as practiced by the Bush administration.
You remember the tune: There was no clear legal authority to
hold detainees. Harsh interrogation tactics violated domestic
and international law. Guantanamo itself was a legal black hole,
chosen because it wasn’t inside the U.S., but also (according to
the U.S.) wasn’t under Cuban sovereignty because of a disputed
100-year-old treaty.  Reasonable Criticisms  When people including myself made these criticisms to
reasonable people in the Bush administration -- yes, there were
reasonable people there, such as Matthew Waxman, who worked in
both the State and Defense departments, and Jack Goldsmith, of
the Office of Legal Counsel (and now my colleague at  Harvard Law
School ) -- we got a pretty  consistent answer . Look, they said,
detention is problematic, but it is better than just killing
people!  These Bush administration moderates pointed out that in
choosing military targets, mistakes were sometimes made --
collateral damage was even accepted under international law.
Detention, too, might involve errors, but it was necessary as an
alternative to shooting first and asking questions later.  I found these arguments unconvincing at the time. The rule
of law, I believed, was being fundamentally distorted by
intentional acts of detention and interrogation that were not
authorized and that deviated from legal norms. The detainees
were being subjected to human rights violations, which was bad
enough; but executive power was also being drastically expanded
in the attempt to provide some doubtful justification for what
was going on.  I stand by those criticisms. But in retrospect, perhaps I
and others should have been more attuned to the likely
consequences of making them. Democrats focused on Guantanamo and
the anonymous black detention sites as symbols of all that was
wrong with the Bush administration’s detention policy. That in
turn obligated Obama to do the same, leaving him with almost no
room to maneuver on detention.  Then came the drones -- and with them a series of legal
justifications that arguably went much further than the Bush
administration had gone in expanding executive power. One
Justice Department memorandum, which has still outrageously not
been released to the public, apparently justified the killing of
U.S. citizens by drone strikes in part through the argument that
due process had been satisfied by internal deliberations within
the executive branch. If the reports are accurate, this amounts
to the first time I know of in our tradition since the  Magna
Carta  in 1215 that due process has been deemed satisfied without
giving the victim of a government deprivation of life and
liberty the opportunity to be heard by a neutral decision-maker.  The costs to the rule of law under this system match those
of the Bush administration. And though the  Amnesty International 
and  Human Rights Watch  reports aren’t likely to go anywhere, it
seems clear that the targeting and killing of civilians based on
loose “signatures” without detailed intelligence almost
certainly violates the law of war.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Cool War: The Future of Global Competition,” is
a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on Twitter at
 @NoahRFeldman .)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Noah Feldman  at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at  tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 