-- BOE Unanimous on Policy as MPC Sees Little Case for Easing
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-23T08:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/boe-unanimous-on-policy-as-mpc-sees-little-case-for-easing-1-.html
Bank of England  officials voted
unanimously to keep policy unchanged this month as economic data
pointed to a “robust” recovery.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor
 Mark Carney , voted 9-0 to keep the target of their quantitative
easing program at 375 billion pounds ($606 billion), according
to the minutes of the Oct. 8-9 meeting published in London
today. All members also agreed to hold the  benchmark interest 
 rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent.  “The news on the month had continued to suggest a robust
recovery in activity,” with confidence rising and surveys
pointing to  growth  of about 2 percent over the second half of
the year, according to the minutes. “Market rates had fallen
back over the month and output appeared to be expanding at least
as fast as expected” in August. “All members therefore agreed
that there was currently little case for increasing the degree
of monetary stimulus further.”  The pound stayed lower against the dollar after the report
and was trading at $1.6172 as of 9:31 a.m. in  London , down 0.4
percent on the day. The benchmark 10-year gilt yield was 4 basis
points lower at 2.6 percent.  Carney introduced forward guidance in August, saying
officials will not raise the key rate at least until
 unemployment , now at 7.7 percent, drops to 7 percent.  While officials forecast that won’t happen before 2016,
they noted this month that improving labor market conditions
indicated that slack in the economy was being eroded “a little
faster” than forecast in August.  Investor Bets  Investors are betting on a faster increase in  interest
rates  as one of the policy’s inflation-linked clauses is
triggered or joblessness declines faster than the monetary
authority predicts.  All committee member agreed that neither the  inflation 
linked knockouts nor the financial stability clause had been
breached. “No MPC member thought it appropriate to tighten the
stance of monetary policy at the current juncture,” the minutes
said.  The U.K. economic recovery has gained momentum this year
and the  International Monetary Fund  this month raised its growth
forecast for the country.  Data this week will show economic expansion accelerated to
0.8 percent in the third quarter from 0.7 percent growth in the
previous three months, according to the median forecast of 40
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That would be the fastest
rate of growth since the second quarter of 2010. The number will
be released by the  Office for National Statistics  on Oct. 25.  Sterling Gain  The pound’s gain may ease the pressure on real incomes by
dampening import price inflation, while also weighing on export
growth in the medium term, BOE officials said.  Sterling appreciated about 4.6 percent in the past six
months through yesterday, the best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes.  Officials also noted that the outlook for the  U.S. economy 
had softened slightly on the month, the recovery in the euro
area remained modest and there was a risk of a sharp slowdown in
emerging economies.  “Overall, therefore, there was a risk that the recovery in
the U.K. might be less well balanced between exports and
domestic consumption than was ultimately needed,” the BOE said.
Medium-term inflation expectations remained “sufficiently well
anchored.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  