-- BOE Seen Conceding on Rates as Growth Accelerates: U.K. Credit
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/boe-seen-conceding-on-rates-as-growth-accelerates-u-k-credit.html
Britain probably had its strongest
economic growth in more than three years in the third quarter,
paving the way for the  Bank of England  to concede that interest
rates may have to rise sooner than it initially forecast.   Gross domestic product  expanded 0.8 percent between July
and September, up from 0.7 percent in the second quarter,
according the median of 40 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.
It would be the fastest growth since the second quarter of 2010.
The  Office for National Statistics  will publish the data at 9:30
a.m. tomorrow.  Bank of England officials are preparing new quarterly
forecasts, which Governor  Mark Carney  will present on Nov. 13.
Banks from Citigroup Inc. to Nomura International Plc predict he
will give ground to investors who have signaled doubts he can
keep the  benchmark rate  at 0.5 percent for another three years
by pushing up gilt yields. Carney is due to speak in London
tonight.  “The forecast changes will shorten the horizon for the
guidance framework,” said  Michael Saunders , an economist at
Citigroup in London who forecasts the first interest-rate
increase will happen in 2015. “What we’ll see in the run-up to
the November meeting are greater hints that the threshold for
unemployment may be hit a bit earlier than expected.”  The first of those hints came yesterday, when minutes of
the Monetary Policy Committee’s Oct. 8-9 meeting reported
officials saying a “robust recovery” is under way and that
slack in the economy is being eroded faster than forecast in
August.  Faster Growth  The MPC said it “seemed probable that  unemployment  would
be lower, and output growth faster, in the second half of 2013
than expected at the time of the August Inflation Report,” the
minutes showed. Bank staff now project quarterly growth of
around 0.7 percent or “a little higher,” more than previously
forecast.  The comments suggest officials are preparing the ground to
raise their growth projections and predict   unemployment  will
reach the 7 percent threshold for considering a rate increase
sooner than the end of 2016, as they forecast in August.  All main U.K. industries expanded together for the first
time since 2010 in the second quarter, and purchasing manager
surveys from Markit Economics suggest the economy picked up
momentum in the third, with services leading the increase amid a
resurgent housing market. Credit-default swaps insuring U.K.
sovereign debt have fallen 25 percent over the past three
months, the most among Group of Seven nations, as the economy
heads for its fastest annual growth since 2010.  Gilt Losses  Investors betting  interest rates  will have to rise sooner
than the Bank of England predicts have put gilts on course for
their worst performance since 1994. Their 2.4 percent loss this
year compares with a decline of 1.8 percent for Treasuries and
1.6 percent for German bunds, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes.  The debate over how fast unemployment will fall centers on
productivity. The BOE argues companies will increase the output
of existing workers before they hire new ones, meaning
unemployment will only fall gradually from 7.7 percent now.  Carney may give clues as to his current thinking when he
delivers a speech at a Financial Times event at 5:45 p.m. in
London. His comments will be followed by a press conference.  Incomes Squeeze  “The bank may pat itself on the back a bit if one of the
reasons the economy’s doing better is because of the certainty
on rates,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas SA
in London and a former central bank official. “They’ve tied
their colors to this mast, and if we get good GDP prints without
improvement in the  unemployment rate  they won’t be raising
rates.”  The squeeze on  living standards  may also limit any
improvement in the bank’s forecasts.  Consumer prices  are rising
four times as fast as wages and further pressure is set to come
after Centrica Plc, SSE Plc and RWE Npower Plc announced energy
price increases of about 10 percent starting next month.  “They may well revise up their growth forecasts slightly
but not massively so; they aren’t going to go the whole hog and
corroborate where the market is at the moment,” said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura in  London . “Either way, it seems
highly likely that it won’t take as long as they’d initially
expected for unemployment to fall to 7 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  