-- BofA Civil Probes, Deutsche Bank, BNY Mellon: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/bofa-civil-probes-deutsche-bank-bny-mellon-compliance.html
Bank of America Corp. , sued by U.S.
attorneys in August over an $850 million mortgage bond, faces
three more  Justice Department  civil probes over mortgage-backed
securities, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
situation.  U.S. attorneys offices in Georgia and California are
examining potential violations tied to Countrywide Financial
Corp., the subprime lender Bank of America bought in 2008, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the inquiries
aren’t public. U.S. attorneys in New Jersey are looking into
deals involving Merrill Lynch & Co., purchased by the firm in
2009, the people said.  If claims are brought, Bank of America would join  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  in dealing with government demands that it resolve
liabilities inherited after buying weakened rivals at the
government’s urging during the credit crisis. JPMorgan, the
biggest  U.S. bank , reached a tentative $13 billion agreement
last week to end civil claims over mortgage-bond sales.  Bank of America is being scrutinized for violations of the
Financial Institution Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of
1989, or FIRREA, an outgrowth of the savings-and-loan crisis,
according to the people. The Justice Department cited that
statute in its August lawsuit against the firm, which is the
nation’s second-largest lender after JPMorgan.  The law allows the government to sue an individual or group
for fraud that affects a federally insured financial
institution. It carries a 10-year statute of limitations.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Bank of America, declined to
comment on the pending inquiries. Spokesmen for the three U.S.
attorneys offices and the Justice Department declined to comment
or didn’t immediately respond to telephone calls and e-mails.  The lender wrote in an Aug. 1 regulatory filing that it’s
cooperating with state and federal probes into how home loans
were bought, bundled and then sold to investors.  The Justice Department’s August case is U.S. v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 13-cv-00446, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  North Carolina  (Charlotte).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Health-Care False Claims Cases Reap $18.3 Billion, Report Shows  Federal and state governments recovered $18.3 billion
between 2008 and 2012 from lawsuits and criminal cases claiming
health-care companies overbilled, according to an advocacy group
that encourages whistle-blowers.  Taxpayers Against Fraud, a Washington-based group, released
a study showing total health-care recoveries, excluding whistle-blower payments, rose to $5.8 billion last year from $1.5
billion in 2008. Those totals include criminal fines and state
false claims recoveries, two figures not normally tallied.  The health-care recoveries involve dozens of companies,
including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest drugmaker;
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the biggest U.K. drugmaker;  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,
the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker by sales; and  McKesson Corp. (MCK) ,
the largest U.S. pharmaceutical distributor. Many of the
settlements involve corporate integrity agreements pledging
compliance with the law.  Most cases were filed under the federal  False Claims Act ,
which lets citizens sue on behalf of the government and share in
any recovery. Twenty-nine states have similar laws. Most of the
recoveries by the U.S. between 1987 and 2012 were in health-care
cases, where the government recovered $24.1 billion, according
to Justice Department statistics.  Whistle-blowing is increasing in other sectors, including
finance and taxation.  EU Creates Expert Group to Study How to Tax Digital Companies  European Union experts will study how to tax “the digital
economy” and recommend next steps for making sure technology
companies pay their fair share, the European Commission said.  A high-level expert group will be assembled to identify
problems and recommend solutions. The Brussels-based commission
then will make proposals on how to implement the
recommendations.  EU leaders meeting in Brussels this week will seek to
coordinate views on efforts to tackle tax avoidance and tax base
erosion. According to draft conclusions for the Oct. 24-25
summit, the EU is considering action on issues specific to the
digital economy, like different tax rates for physical and
electronic products.  The commission said the expert panel will be comprised of
up to seven members, who will be “internationally renowned
experts” on taxes and on the technology and online sales
sectors. The group “will be chaired by a person of political
profile with relevant background,” the EU said.  Compliance Action  Fed Terminates Enforcement Action Against BNY Mellon Collateral  The  Federal Reserve  terminated an enforcement action
against  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  initiated last year after
the world’s largest custody bank misstated collateral pledged to
a government lending program.  The action, which included a $6 million fine, was
terminated effective Oct. 16, the central bank said in a
statement issued yesterday in Washington.  Some collateral the bank pledged to the Federal  Reserve
Bank  of Boston in 2008 was ineligible for the Asset-Backed
Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, a
program set up to help ease the credit squeeze during the
financial crisis, the Fed said in an April 2012 statement. As a
result, BNY Mellon received more in loans than it should have,
the Fed said.  The bank agreed to submit a plan to the Fed to improve its
procedures and employee training, the Fed said last year.  Deutsche Bank Starts Electronic Trading System for U.S. Options  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is introducing an electronic platform for
investors to trade options on single stocks, equity indexes and
exchange-traded funds across U.S. derivatives exchanges.  The system will give clients access to automated trading
across all 12 American options venues, including exchanges
operated by  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) ,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  and Bats Global Markets Inc., according to a statement from
Germany’s biggest bank. The system will be part of Deutsche
Bank’s  Autobahn platform  that includes tools for transactions in
stocks, bonds, commodities and foreign exchange.  Deutsche Bank’s expansion into electronic options trading
shows the bank is seeking to tap into growing demand for options
at a time when U.S. equity volume declines for a fourth straight
year. Options volume in the U.S. has surged fivefold in the last
decade.  Four UBS Employees Are Suspects in German Tax Evasion Probe  Prosecutors in Mannheim, Germany, said four  UBS AG (UBSN) 
employees are now suspects in a probe of whether the bank helped
clients evade taxes by sending money to Switzerland.  The probe has been pending since 2012 and investigators are
now targeting four employees, according to Mannheim prosecutors’
spokesman Peter Lintz, who commented by phone.  Prosecutors raided employees’ homes Oct. 8 and UBS
Frankfurt offices from Oct. 8 to Oct. 17. More raids took place
earlier this year, Lintz said.  The probe also targets a dozen clients. Some have turned
themselves in to get leniency, Lintz said.  UBS is fully cooperating with the authorities, the company
said in a statement. Internal investigations regarding the
probe’s allegations haven’t revealed any evidence of misconduct
at UBS’s German unit, it said in the statement. The company
doesn’t support clients in activities that could circumvent tax
obligations, UBS said.  Interviews/Speeches/Hearings  White Urges CEOs and Boards to Bolster SEC’s Compliance Efforts  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is calling on
corporate executives and boards to strengthen internal
compliance programs as funding constraints limit the agency’s
reach, SEC Chairman Mary Jo White said.  White made the remarks yesterday in a speech at a  National
Society of Compliance Professionals  conference in Washington.  SEC officials are meeting with chief executive officers,
senior business managers, heads of compliance, and chairmen of
audit and risk committees to assess whether the “tone at the
top” of companies discourages wrongdoing, White said in
prepared remarks. Agency officials evaluate whether compliance
personnel have the standing, authority and resources to do their
jobs.  White’s remarks come about a month after the SEC leveled a
$200 million penalty against JPMorgan & Chase Co. to resolve
claims the New York-based bank had inadequate internal controls
related to the London Whale trading that led to $6.2 billion in
losses last year. The penalty was the biggest the agency has
imposed related to internal controls.  The SEC issued guidance to compliance officials last month
to allay concerns that they could be subject to enforcement
action for giving legal advice on how to deal with misconduct
internally at their companies. Inspectors who conduct routine
examinations of investment advisers are working more closely
with the SEC enforcement unit, White said.  “We do not want you to be concerned that by engaging, you
will somehow be arbitrarily construed to be a supervisor, and
expose yourselves to potential supervisory liability,” she
said.  Consob Chief Vegas Says Tobin Tax Discourages Investments  The domestic tax on currency trades that cross borders,
known as the  Tobin Tax , discourages investments, Italian market
regulator Consob’s Chief Giuseppe Vegas said.  He made the remarks in front of the Chamber of Deputies’
finance committee.  Vegas said research conducted abroad shows the Tobin Tax is
harmful for investments if similar laws are not applied at the
same time in other countries.  He also commented on the Italian banking system, saying it
was hurt by the debt crisis. There’s a need to remove obstacles
that stop companies from obtaining access to  capital markets , he
said.  International investors are returning to peripheral
markets, Vegas said. Italian banks’ close links to companies can
hurt efficient credit allocation and foreign investments,
according to Vegas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  