-- Boston Scientific Will Cut 1,100-1,500 Jobs Through 2015
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-24T20:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/boston-scientific-will-cut-1-100-to-1-500-jobs-by-2015.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , the second-biggest maker of heart-rhythm aids, plans to eliminate as many
as 1,500 more positions as the medical-device industry struggles
with shrinking markets and development costs.  The job cuts, slated to take place through 2015, should
reduce operating expenses before taxes by $150 million to $200
million, Natick, Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific said in a
statement today. The move is part of the company’s plan to boost
operating income margins to 25 percent from 19 percent now,
Chief Executive Officer Mike Mahoney said.  Boston Scientific’s cutbacks build on a 2011 program, which
was expanded in January. The move is in line with efforts by
competitors including industry leader  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  in response
to years of weakened demand and pressure to lower prices for
some of their biggest products.  “It’s indicative of an industry in transition,” Boston
Scientific Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey Capello on a
conference call. “There is so much change going on, and
organizations have to adapt.”  The cuts in the device industry mirror those occurring
among drugmakers including Merck & Co. and Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station , said earlier
this month it would fire 8,500 workers, bringing its total job
cuts to about 16,000, while Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva this
month announced plans to trim about 5,000 positions.  Fighting Back  Pharmaceutical companies are responding to the expiration
of patents on many of their largest drugs, while device makers
deal with falling demand amid questions about their products’
safety and overuse, and pressure from government buyers and
hospitals.  Boston Scientific said third-quarter  sales  grew 4 percent,
excluding the effect of foreign currency exchange rates and
divested units, with revenue from defibrillators rising in the
U.S. for the first time since the second quarter of 2011. It
forecasts growth of 2 percent to 4 percent in the final quarter
of the year, and more if it closes on the acquisition of C.R.
Bard Inc.’s electrophysiology unit.  “Prior to the second quarter, Boston Scientific hadn’t
grown the company in 16 quarters,” Mahoney said in a telephone
interview. “We’re still early in our turnaround, but we are
pleased,” he said. “We believe we grew faster than our
competitors in most of the markets that we serve.”  Buying Spree  The company has been on a  buying  spree, acquiring new
technology for clearing blocked arteries, guiding doctors during
heart procedures and treating hypertension.  “Boston Scientific continues to successfully execute on
its turnaround story by not only delivering its second
consecutive quarter of organic sales growth for the first time
since mid-2009, but also driving positive leverage in gross
margins,” said Danielle Antalffy, an analyst at Leerink Swann &
Co. in  New York .  Boston Scientific had an estimated 24,000 employees at the
end of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Medtronic,
based in Minneapolis, in 2011 announced plans to cut as many as
2,000 jobs.  Earnings excluding one-time items for 2013 will be 69 to 71
cents a share, Boston Scientific said, raising by 2 cents the
bottom end of its previous forecast. The savings from the
restructuring, which will involve closing some manufacturing
plants and shrinking unit operations, will be invested in areas
such as research efforts for new products, Capello said.  New CFO  Capello plans on stepping down as CFO at the end of the
year, to be replaced by Daniel Brennan, the current corporate
controller, Boston Scientific also said today. Capello said he
is looking for broader management experience and is leaving the
company in a good position with “a lot of momentum.”  Boston Scientific fell 6.1 percent to $11.54 at 4:01 p.m.
New York time. The shares have doubled since the start of the
year.  Capello’s resignation is probably being seen as a
psychological negative for the stock since he steered the
company’s turnaround for the past several years, said  Glenn Novarro , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in New York, in a
note to clients.  The device-maker’s third-quarter loss shrank to $5 million,
or less than a penny a share, from $664 million, or 48 cents, a
year earlier when it took at $809 million goodwill charge for
its cardiac rhythm management unit.  Investors have embraced Boston Scientific since Mike Mahoney took charge of the company’s turnaround effort as chief
executive officer almost one year ago, more than doubling the
share price during his tenure.  The company will take pretax charges of $175 million to
$225 million to implement the program, including a $30 million
charge in the fourth quarter of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  