-- BP Buys Second Oseberg Cargo; Ekofisk Crude Shipments Deferred
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-10-23T16:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/bp-buys-second-oseberg-cargo-ekofisk-crude-shipments-deferred.html
BP Plc bought its second  North Sea 
Oseberg crude cargo this week at a smaller premium than the
previous trade. Trafigura Beheer BV failed to sell Forties at a
lower price than its offer yesterday. No bids or offers were
made for Russian Urals blend for a third day.  Two North Sea Ekofisk cargoes were deferred with one
delayed to November from October, according to three people with
knowledge of loading program, asking not to be identified
because information is confidential.  North Sea  Trafigura failed to sell Forties for loading Nov. 1 to Nov.
3 at 50 cents a barrel less than Dated Brent, compared with its
offer of a discount of 35 cents yesterday, a Bloomberg survey of
traders and brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window showed.  The company was also unable to find a buyer for a Nov. 15
to Nov. 17 lot of the blend at 75 cents more than Dated Brent,
according to the survey.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  didn’t manage to sell Forties for
Nov. 5 to Nov. 7 at 25 cents less than Dated Brent, or a premium
of 54 cents for Nov. 14 to Nov. 16, the survey showed.  Statoil ASA (STL)  sought to sell the grade without success for
Nov. 6 to Nov. 8 at minus 30 cents, according to the survey.  Statoil sold Oseberg for Nov. 3 to Nov. 5 to BP at 25 cents
a barrel more than Dated Brent, the survey showed. This compares
with a premium of $1.15 for a cargo sold yesterday for Nov. 9 to
Nov. 11 loading.  Brent for December settlement traded at $108.45 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $109.70 from the previous session. The January
contract was at $108.04, a discount of 41 cents to December.  Ekofisk cargo C11441 will be exported on Nov. 6 to Nov. 8,
compared with the original Oct. 28 to Oct. 30 plan, according to
the traders.  Lot C11455 will load on Nov. 20 to Nov. 22, three days
later than planned, they said. All cargoes are 600,000 barrels
each. October Ekofisk exports will drop to 8.4 million barrels
from 9 million, while November loadings will increase to 9
million barrels from 8.4 million because of the delays.  PetroChina Co.,  China ’s biggest oil producer, and Ineos
Group Holdings SA will decide whether to restart their
Grangemouth refinery after Ineos today announced the closure of
the site’s petrochemical plant.  Resuming operations at  Scotland ’s only oil refinery, idled
since last week because of a labor dispute, hinges on the Unite
union providing an unconditional no-strike guarantee, Swiss-based Ineos said in an e-mailed statement.  The Grangemouth site supplies power and steam to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
neighboring Kinneil processing plant, which handles crude from
the Forties Pipeline System, gathered from more than 80 offshore
fields. FPS continues to operate normally and will be able to
get alternative utilities if needed, Stephanie Millar, a BP
spokeswoman in Aberdeen, said by phone today.  Urals/Mediterranean  Glencore Xstrata Plc yesterday bought 600,000 barrels of
Azeri Light for Nov. 3 to Nov. 7 loading from Socar Trading SA
at $2.00 a barrel more than Dated Brent.  Russia’s full month loading program for Urals is scheduled
to be released later this week.  West Africa  Indian Oil Corp. was scheduled to award its second tender
for December shipment crude today. The result is not known yet.
Taiwan CPC Corp. will award its tender for December-loading
cargoes tomorrow.  Nigerian loading programs are forecast to be released
tomorrow, according to two traders involved in the region’s oil
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  