-- Bradken Becomes Aussie Bargain in Mining Lull: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-10-23T23:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/bradken-becomes-aussie-bargain-in-mining-lull-real-m-a.html
There has never been a better
opportunity for private-equity firms betting on a mining rebound
in  Australia  to acquire suppliers of excavator parts and drills
from  Bradken Ltd. (BKN)  to  Boart Longyear Ltd. (BLY)   After the peak of a decade-long commodity boom in
Australia, the world’s biggest  iron ore  and coal exporter,
mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group
are cutting spending. That’s squeezing suppliers such as
Bradken, reducing its market value to $1 billion and creating
affordable targets before exploration rebounds, said  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  Australia’s mineral and energy export earnings are
forecast to grow an average 11 percent in the next five years.  “The only time you can reasonably pick these things up is
at times like these,” Matthew Nicholas, a Sydney-based analyst
at CIMB, said in a phone interview. “What we’re seeing right
now is purely cyclical. I would be very surprised if people
weren’t looking.”  A buyout firm could fatten  profit margins  at Newcastle,
Australia-based Bradken by directing production to its low-cost
Chinese foundry, said BBY Ltd. Boart’s 1,035 drill rigs, most of
them lying idle, may draw bargain-hunting suitors,  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN)  said. Private-equity firms would have a chance to profit by
improving operations as both companies’  returns on invested
capital  have never been lower, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Horseracing Winnings  Formed  in 1922 with the horseracing winnings of two
steelworkers, Bradken made tank hulls during World War II.
Previously owned by Australia’s Champ Private Equity, the
company counts General Electric Co. and dump-truck maker
Caterpillar Inc. as clients, according to its annual  report .  Earnings for the year ended in June fell 33 percent to
A$66.9 million ($64 million), Bradken’s smallest profit since
2009. At its Chinese plant in Xuzhou, production of rail cars to
haul iron ore and coal almost halved as demand slowed.  Bradken’s Xuzhou foundry, which makes pieces of track for
diggers, is using only 25 percent of its capacity, BBY analyst
Moira Daw said in an Oct. 11 report. Even after cutting back on
exploration, mining companies will need Bradken’s components to
increase output at existing mines, according to Daw.  As Bradken focuses on supplying spare parts and repairs,
net income will surge 34 percent in the year ending June 2014,
according to analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re now seeing more maintenance opportunities emerge
and you want to be leveraged towards companies that are exposed
to that,” Jonathan Snape, an analyst at Bell Potter Securities
Ltd. in  Melbourne , said in a phone interview.  Growing Exports  Bradken Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Brian Hodges didn’t respond to a message seeking comment on potential
bids.  The Australian Financial Review  said  Oct. 4 that Wichita,
Kansas-based Koch Industries Inc. may have expressed interest in
Bradken. Bradken said Oct. 11 it wasn’t in talks with any party
about a takeover.  In the five years ending June 2018, Australia’s mineral and
energy exports earnings will grow an average 11 percent each
year to A$294 billion, the country’s Bureau of Resources and
Energy Economics said in a  report  released Oct. 2.  “As volumes pick up, they will be a beneficiary,” Sydney-based Daw said by phone, referring to Bradken. Sales growth will
resume at Bradken in 2015, Daw said in her report.  Until then, annual expenditure by the world’s 20 biggest
mining companies by market value will drop by about a third to
$66 billion in 2015 from 2012, according to forecasts compiled
by Bloomberg last month.  ‘Bargain Hunt’  The current distress among mining-services companies means
Boart and Bradken are obvious targets, Ross MacMillan, an
analyst at Morningstar in Sydney, said in a phone interview.  “It’s certainly the sort of time you’re likely to see
private equity come and bargain hunt,” he said. “Some of these
businesses have built up really good assets.”  Perth, Australia-based  Emeco Holdings Ltd. (EHL) , which rents out
Caterpillar dump trucks, has already brooked an approach. The
A$192 million company said last month that talks with private-equity firms ended in May after they made initial proposals.  Boart, which counts Melbourne-based BHP as a customer,
traces its roots to 1890, when Edmund J. Longyear began drilling
at an iron-ore deposit in  Minnesota .  Exploration Slowdown  The exploration slowdown has left more than half of Boart’s
drilling rigs unused, the Salt Lake City-based company, which
trades in Sydney, said this month. The company will post a loss
of $231 million this year after cutting jobs and writing down
the value of equipment, according to analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Boart, owned by investors including buyout firm Bain
Capital LLC before a 2007  public offering , has  tumbled  75
percent in the past year, reducing its value to A$196 million.  A new private-equity owner could sell Boart’s drill-making
business to repay debt, said MacMillan at Morningstar. That
would leave a drilling-services unit that might be sold or
listed once exploration rebounds, he said.  “Sometimes you just need to take companies out of the
public space,” said Daw at BBY. She estimated Boart’s
manufacturing unit might fetch $350 million (A$363 million), 85
percent more than the company’s entire market value.  A representative for Boart in Sydney declined to comment on
potential takeover offers.  Boart’s return on invested capital, a measure of how well
it uses its money to generate profit, was 7.4 percent in 2012, a
record low and down from 22 percent in 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg  show . Bradken’s return was 5.6 percent in the year
ended June, also a new low. The figure was 18 percent in 2007.  ‘Difficult Game’  “Picking the bottom is a very difficult game,” said
Nicholas as CIMB. “You may not be at the bottom but you’re
certainly a lot closer than we were a year ago.”  As of September, Boart had about $540 million of  net debt ,
more than twice its market value, and the company said this
month that demand for its drills hasn’t stopped falling.
Bradken, which said it had net bank debt of A$425 million at the
end of June, said Oct. 22 that mining companies continue to
crimp investment.  Under these conditions, Bradken and Boart may be unable to
fend off suitors, said MacMillan at Morningstar.  “They’re going to be the companies that are picked off,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  