-- Brazil Riots Threaten World Cup as Nation Prepares for Games
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-10-23T22:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/brazil-world-cup-disruption-seen-outcome-of-rio-violent-protests.html
The red carpet had been rolled out,
the photographers were primed. Then came the tear gas.  The movie premiere in downtown Rio de Janeiro this month
turned into another scene of confrontation between police and
protesters in the Brazilian city that will host next year’s
soccer World Cup final. This time, it was dozens of striking
teachers who sought sanctuary in a movie theater.  “It was just like a war,” Cavi Borges, director of the
documentary “City of God: 10 Years Later,” said of his
canceled screening. “Every day there’s something like that.”  The story is familiar in a country where nationwide
protests against political corruption, failing health and
education systems as well as excessive public spending on sports
erupted in June and show little sign of abating.  They are putting the spotlight on security before the
arrival of the world’s biggest sporting events, the 2014 World
Cup and the 2016 Olympic Games.  The World Cup will inject 112.8 billion reais ($52 billion)
into the Brazilian economy by 2014, according to FIFA, citing a
report by accountant Ernst & Young.  Brazil  is spending about 30
billion reais on projects related to the tournament. A similar
amount in private and public spending is going toward the Rio
Olympics that will be held two years later.  Percussion Grenades  The haze of tear gas and the sound of percussion grenades
have remained commonplace as protesters are joined by masked
anarchists known as the Black Bloc.  Authorities in Sao Paulo, Brazil’s largest city, said  Oct.
16 they were tracking a criminal gang threatening to target the
World Cup. The  U.S. Consulate  in Rio alerted American citizens
on Oct. 11 to the possibility of continued protests, instructing
them to avoid areas where large gatherings may occur. Less than
a week later, some of the agency’s windows were smashed after
being pelted with stones during another night of protests.  “Police don’t know who is being good and who is being bad
and start going willy-nilly with deployment of gas, flash-bang
devices, pepper weapons, and then everyone becomes a victim,”
said Eduardo Jany, a security consultant who has worked with
forces across Brazil. “There needs to be a pretty dramatic
change in terms of doctrine, equipping and preparing.”  While no nation can match the five World Cups won by
Brazil’s team, the 3.3 million-square mile (8.5 million-square
kilometer) country has hosted the event only once before, in
1950.  FIFA , which organizes the tournament, has trademarked the
slogan for this one as “All in One Rhythm.”  Less Samba  Yet the pulse of the country has become less about dance
and more about protest since June when Brazil hosted the
Confederations Cup, a warm-up competition for the World Cup to
test stadiums, transport and security.  On the night of Oct. 15 when teams such as current champion
Spain, England and  Chile  won games they needed to qualify for
the 32-team tournament next summer, bare-chested youths threw
rocks and fireworks at police officers in downtown Rio following
largely peaceful protests by about 10,000 teachers and their
supporters. Police in riot gear responded with rounds of tear
gas that hung over the center of the city.  During the protest, a youth dressed in black with his face
covered climbed a wall of Rio’s municipal chamber, with hundreds
of onlookers cheering as he sprayed-painted “Get Out FIFA” in
Portuguese.  Slowing Economy  Economists predict that the country will grow at a slower
pace than the Latin American average of 2.6 percent this year
and 3.2 percent next, even as inflation of about 6 percent
pushes up the housing and other costs for residents.  Every World Cup has its unique issue. In  Germany , the focus
in 2006 was on the controlling rival European fans. Four years
later, host South Africa faced questions about whether its
security forces were up to the job of protecting such a high-profile event from crime.  Brazil’s tourism agency Embratur today unveiled a $10
million advertising campaign to entice visitors to the country
for the tournament. The organization’s head, Flavio Dino, says
the protests won’t put tourists off, and he’s more concerned
about price increases for hotels and aviation.  “The concerns are real,” Dino said.  “We are currently
negotiating with hotels, FIFA and the airlines to fix fair
prices for fares.”  Rio’s Public Safety Secretariat, which has control of
security in the state, is improving training for officers and
adding new equipment, said Roberto Alzir, deputy secretary for
major events in the organization.  Increasing Spending  The state’s investment in security rose to 4.8 billion
reais this year from 2 billion reais in 2008, according to the
secretariat. That compares with the 1.3 billion rand ($133
million) that South Africa said it had budgeted ahead of the
2010 World Cup as it assigned about 44,000 officers.  Fifty-five military police officers have been injured since
protests began, and use of rubber bullets was suspended on Sept.
3, the Brazilian force’s press department said in an e-mail.  Yesterday, Interpol, the international police body, said it
will work with the Olympic organizers to improve safety for the
2016 Games in Rio, including tracking stolen and lost travel
documents, targeting illegal betting and hunting for
internationally wanted suspects. The agreement calls for the
global security group to assist the International Olympic
Committee in the hunt for doping and corruption.  Rio’s violent deaths dropped 38.2 percent between 2006 and
2011, while street robberies fell to their lowest level since
2006, according to the city.  “There’s never been such satisfactory conditions of
professionalism, command and respect in recent history,” Alzir
said in an interview. The World Cup brings “more visibility,
more reporters, and more foreign visitors. It’s a better
environment for certain groups to propagate their causes, which
will demand a greater effort of planning.”  Positive Movement  Jany, director of law enforcement advisory services for
American security firm Mutualink Inc., said that Rio is moving
to align its police tactics with best practices, though it won’t
happen in time for the World Cup.  About $3.5 billion in public spending is going toward built
to exact specifications demanded by FIFA, the Switzerland-based
body that governs soccer.  That, and a further $10 billion being spent on
infrastructure work related to the event has stoked tensions in
a country where schools ranked below Mexico, Russia and Mongolia
in the  World Economic Forum’s 2013 Human Capital Index . The
country relaxed immigration rules to allow more doctors in -- as
many as 4,000 from Communist Cuba -- to combat what the
government says is a shortage of 168,000 physicians.  Inflation (BZPIIPCY) 
has remained above 5 percent in all but two months over the past
three years, crimping purchasing power.  Rare Demonstrations  Until June, large-scale public demonstrations had been rare
in South America’s most-populous country. As protests raged, a
nationwide poll by Datafolha found 26 percent of people opposed
Brazil hosting the World Cup, up from 10 percent in a 2008
survey.  At the opening game of the Confederations Cup, fans jeered
FIFA leader Sepp Blatter and Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff.
There was unrest in all six cities that hosted tournament games,
and tear gas wafted into Rio’s Maracana stadium during Brazil’s
victory over Spain in the final. At least six deaths were
connected to June’s protests.  “Thousands were in the streets and you saw posters saying
teachers are worth more than  Neymar ,” said Wiria Alcantara, a
member of the board of the teachers’ union, referring to the
Brazil player who in May joined Barcelona for $75 million.
“Civil society was clamoring for quality education.”  Later Screening  “City of God: 10 Years Later,”  a documentary  about the
fate of the actors who starred in director Fernando Meirelles’s
hit movie about organized crime set in one of Rio’s toughest
slums, finally screened on Oct. 12 after the tear gas prompted
its postponement. Director Borges invited teachers onto the
stage to unfurl their banners.  Signs are that protesters will continue to target sports
events. Outside Rio’s legislature, one banner reads: “We’re not
going to have a World Cup or Olympics.”  About 50 people on Oct. 7 invaded the pitch as  Jerome Valcke , the top FIFA official responsible for the World Cup,
toured a stadium in Cuiaba, western Brazil. Valcke watched the
banner paraded around the arena that read: “FIFA, Go Home.”  “What do you want us to do? What do you want me to say
about it? It is happening,” Valcke said, raising his arms in
frustration at a press conference. “Will it happen at the World
Cup? I hope not, but potentially it could.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  