-- Brazil Plans $1.5 Billion Bond Sale to Fund Buyback Overseas
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-10-23T19:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/brazil-said-to-plan-sale-of-benchmark-2025-bonds-amid-buybacks.html
Brazil  plans to sell $1.5 billion of
dollar bonds due in 2025, creating a new benchmark security in
international markets, and buy back notes maturing in as little
as four years.  The debt will yield 1.8 percentage points more than
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, according to a person familiar
with the matter who asked not to be identified because terms
aren’t set. Proceeds will be used to repurchase as much as $12.6
billion of securities maturing from 2017 to 2030.  Banco Bradesco
SA (BBDC4) , Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc are managing the
sale, which may take place as soon as today.  Brazil joins emerging-market issuers from  Mexico ’s Comision
Federal de Electricidad to  Russia ’s OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel in
selling dollar debt after U.S. lawmakers agreed last week on a
deal to end a 16-day government shutdown and extend the nation’s
borrowing authority until next year. Brazilian construction firm
OAS SA and iron-ore processor Samarco Mineracao SA issued a
total of $1.1 billion of notes since the accord after a three-week drought in offerings. Sao Paulo-based meatpacker JBS SA
sold $1 billion of seven-year securities today at 7.75 percent
today.  “From the sovereign’s perspective, they’re trying to clean
up a lot of issues in which they’ve done partial buybacks
before,” David Bessey, a money manager at Prudential Financial
Inc. in  Newark , New Jersey, said in a telephone interview.
“There are issues out there that because they’re relatively
less liquid, they trade cheaply. They’ll try to take those out
and at the same time establish a new benchmark.”  Growth, Inflation  Brazilian borrowing costs  have surged  this year amid
declining growth forecasts, quickening inflation and speculation
the U.S. will pare back stimulus efforts that have boosted
demand for emerging-market assets. Standard & Poor’s lowered the
outlook on the country’s BBB credit grade to negative in June
amid concern sluggish expansion and growing government spending
could lead to rising debt levels.  Brazil’s dollar bonds pay an average 216 basis points, or
2.16 percentage points, more than Treasuries, compared with 140
basis points at the end of 2012, according to data from JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Yields on the country’s $2.15 billion of 2.625
percent 2023 bonds slipped one basis point to 3.89 percent at
3:35 p.m. in New York.  Latin America’s largest economy will expand 2.5 percent
this year, according to the median estimate of about 100
economists surveyed by the central bank Oct. 18. Growth slipped
to 0.9 percent in 2012 from 2.7 percent in 2011, capping the
slowest two years of expansion since 1999, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Interest Rates  Quickening inflation has prompted policy makers to raise
interest rates by 2.25 percentage points this year to 9.5
percent. Consumer-price increases have exceeded the government’s
4.5 percent target for three years.  Brazilian government bonds were caught up in a selloff of
emerging-market assets that began in May when U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said he may scale back the
country’s unprecedented bond buying program. A budget dispute
that weighed on fourth-quarter growth will prompt Fed policy
makers to wait until March before starting to trim stimulus, a
Bloomberg survey showed last week.  The sovereign last sold dollar debt in May, issuing $800
million more of the 2023 bonds, Bloomberg data show. The tender
offer for outstanding dollar bonds ends at 4 p.m. New York time
today, according to a statement from the Treasury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  