-- Brazil Opens World Cup Tourism Drive Amid Concern Over Prices
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-23T14:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/brazil-opens-world-cup-tourism-drive-amid-concern-over-prices.html
Brazil ’s state-run tourist agency
today started a $10 million campaign to entice visitors to  South
America ’s biggest nation for next year’s  World Cup  amid concerns
high prices may keep fans away.  Flavio Dino, president of tourist board Embratur, said
fears over excessive pricing in the hotel and airline sector
“are real” and talks are currently under way to ensure rates
for the monthlong soccer championship are within “objective and
reasonable parameters.”  Brazil’s government last week set up a commission, which
includes officials from consumer protection and competition
bodies, to target abusive pricing during the World Cup, which
runs from June 12 to July 13. Embratur published a report in
August that showed hotels in the 12 host cities raising prices
as much as fivefold, while Brazilian media reported a 50-minute
flight between Rio de Janeiro and  Sao Paulo  during the
tournament costs as much as $1,000, more than some flights from
Rio to  New York .  “It is not up to the government to set prices but we have
legal mechanisms like the Brazilian competition law and consumer
protection law that can be used to hinder prices abuses,” Dino
said on a conference call with reporters yesterday.  The World Cup program will see games played across the 3.3
million-square mile (8.5 million-square kilometer) country from
 Porto Alegre  in the south to Manaus, the northern capital of the
Amazonas state. The logistics required to ferry an estimated
600,000 visiting fans and 3 million domestic travelers between
venues have led to discussions about changing the flight grid
and opening domestic routes up to foreign airlines, Dino said.  More Flights  “ We have the view that it is important to ensure more
flights,” Dino said. “We are re-planning our air network. We
may open the market to companies that just deal
internationally.”  A final decision will be made following the Dec. 6 draw
that determines where teams will play. Brazil’s current flight
network often requires travelers to make multiple changes
between cities, leading to lengthy trips. Dino said more direct
flights between World Cup venues will be available for the
tournament.  “We have the view that it’s important to ensure an
expansion in the supply of flights,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  