-- Brazil Sells $3.2 Billion of Bonds to Finance Overseas Buybacks
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-10-23T23:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/brazil-sells-3-2-billion-of-bonds-to-finance-overseas-buybacks.html
Brazil  sold $3.2 billion of dollar
bonds due in 2025, creating a new benchmark security in
international markets, as it buys back notes maturing in as few
as four years.  The debt yields 1.8 percentage points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
company sold $1.5 billion of the bonds for cash that will be
used to repurchase outstanding debt maturing from 2017 to 2030.
The sovereign also exchanged $1.7 billion of the bonds directly
with holders of existing securities.  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Deutsche
Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc managed the sale.  Brazil joins emerging-market issuers from Mexico’s Comision
Federal de Electricidad to Russia’s OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel in
selling dollar debt after U.S. lawmakers agreed last week on a
deal to end a 16-day government shutdown and extend the nation’s
borrowing authority. Brazilian construction firm OAS SA, iron-ore processor Samarco Mineracao SA and meatpacker JBS SA have
issued $2.1 billion of notes over the past week, ending a three-week drought in corporate offerings from the country.  “From the sovereign’s perspective, they’re trying to clean
up a lot of issues in which they’ve done partial buybacks
before,” David Bessey, a  money manager  at Prudential Financial
Inc. in  Newark ,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview.
“There are issues out there that because they’re relatively
less liquid, they trade cheaply. They’ll try to take those out
and at the same time establish a new benchmark.”  Surging Costs  Brazilian borrowing costs  have surged  this year amid
declining growth forecasts, quickening inflation and speculation
the U.S. will pare back stimulus efforts that have boosted
demand for emerging-market assets.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the
outlook on the country’s BBB credit grade to negative in June
amid concern sluggish expansion and growing  government spending 
could lead to rising debt levels.  Brazil’s dollar bonds pay an average 220 basis points, or
2.2 percentage points, more than Treasuries, compared with 140
basis points at the end of 2012, according to data from JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Latin America’s largest economy will expand 2.5 percent
this year, according to the median estimate of about 100
economists surveyed by the central bank Oct. 18. Growth slipped
to 0.9 percent in 2012 from 2.7 percent in 2011, capping the
slowest two years of expansion since 1999, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Quickening inflation has prompted policy makers to raise
 interest rates  by 2.25 percentage points this year to 9.5
percent. Consumer-price increases have exceeded the government’s
4.5 percent target for three years.  The sovereign last sold dollar debt in May, issuing $800
million of 2023 bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  