-- Bristol-Myers’s Profit Tops Estimates on Sales Growth
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-23T20:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/bristol-myers-s-profit-tops-estimates-on-sales-growth.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  beat
analysts’ third-quarter earnings and sales estimates as demand
for the company’s cancer and arthritis drugs grew.  Earnings excluding certain items of 46 cents a share beat
the 44-cent average of 16  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales increased 9 percent to $4.07 billion, the New
York-based drugmaker said in a statement. That result topped by
1.6 percent the average analyst projection of $4 billion.  Bristol-Myers’s sales are returning to growth after patent
expirations shrank revenue in the past five quarters, led by the
loss of marketing exclusivity for the anti-stroke pill Plavix.
Now new products, including the company’s cancer and hepatitis C
franchises, are emerging and may boost sales further.  “It’s their tough year this year, but it’s all about the
pipeline,” Judson Clark, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co.,
said in a telephone interview.  The company’s biggest pipeline prospect is nivolumab, which
uses the body’s own immune system to fight tumors and is in
late-stage trials for  lung cancer . If approved, nivolumab could
generate sales of $10.9 billion by 2023, Alex Arfaei, an analyst
with BMO Capital Markets Corp., said in a note to clients.  Bristol-Myers has been putting resources behind the
development of nivolumab and other new cancer drugs. The
medicines take the brakes off the immune system or unmask tumors
from the body’s disease-fighting mechanisms, allowing tumors to
fall under attack.  Net Income  Yervoy, another immune system-based drug already on the
market, generated $238 million, an increase of 33 percent from a
year ago. Sales of Sprycel, a leukemia treatment, rose 20
percent to $316 million. Orencia, a rheumatoid arthritis
treatment that was approved in a new formulation in 2011, saw
sales grow 22 percent to $375 million.  Net income was $692 million, or 42 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $711 million, or 43 cents, last year when the
company took a $1.83 billion charge for a failed hepatitis C
drug. Bristol-Myers reaffirmed its adjusted earnings  forecast 
for the year of $1.70 to $1.78 a share.  Bristol-Myers fell 1.6 percent to $48.96 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  trading. Investors have rewarded Bristol-Myers, whose stock
has  gained 47 percent  in the last 12 months, compared with a 22
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Pharmaceuticals Index.
The company has the highest price-to-earnings ratio of any major
U.S. drugmaker over the last 12 months.  Denial Stage  Sales of Eliquis, the blood thinner approved last year and
sold with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  were $41 million. Bristol-Myers has said
that Eliquis sales will improve as the company gets more access
to reimbursement. Clark, the Edward Jones analyst, disagrees
that the drug will take off suddenly after a disappointing
start.  “We’re now in the denial stage of grief on Eliquis,”
Clark said. “I struggle to remember slow ramps that all of a
sudden take off. Estimates keep coming down and pushing out and
they still keep coming in a little light. We’re getting to the
point where Eliquis may be a solid drug, it may not be the
resounding success everyone thought.”  Onglyza, a diabetes drug that competes with Merck & Co.’s
Januvia, had $211 million in sales, up 19 percent from a year
before. Bydureon, an injectable diabetes drug, generated $87
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  