-- Broadcom Declines on Revenue Forecast and Announced Job Cuts
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-10-23T20:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/broadcom-drops-as-sales-forecast-falls-short-job-cuts-planned.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  fell after the
company forecast lower fourth-quarter revenue than analysts
estimated and said it’s cutting as many as 1,150 jobs as demand
slows for chips that connect mobile phones to the Internet.  The shares slid 2.9 percent to $26.36 at the close in New
York. Sales will be about $1.98 billion, plus or minus 3
percentage points, the  Irvine , California-based company said
yesterday in a statement. That indicates revenue of $1.92
billion to $2.03 billion, while analysts on  average  predicted
$2.13 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Broadcom dominates the market for chips that provide
short-distance wireless connections in devices such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad, its struggle to roll out new cellular
technologies has hurt its ability to grab more orders in
smartphones. The lack of a chip that supports LTE, or long-term
evolution, may tempt customers to switch business to rivals,
said Alex Gauna, an analyst at JMP Securities in San Francisco.  “Right now they’re losing market share, but it’s not a
cliff,” Gauna said. He has the equivalent of a buy  rating  on
the stock. “What’s very clear now is that what the market wants
is a road map to LTE.”  Broadcom  shares  have dropped 21 percent this year, compared
with a 28 percent gain in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  ‘Ferocious’ Pricing  The company is eliminating employees to pare expenses, with
a third of the reductions coming among workers gained with its
acquisition of a Renesas Electronics Corp. business unit.
Broadcom had a staff of 11,300 at the end of 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Some of Broadcom’s 3G-chip customers are cutting inventory,
and the company is facing “ferocious” price competition for
that product, Chief Executive Officer Scott McGregor said on a
conference call. Broadcom also needs to field LTE modems to help
it regain some connectivity business because some phone makers,
particularly those building cheaper handsets for markets such as
 China , prefer to buy both chips from the same provider, he said.  “Long-term, I believe this business is pretty vibrant,”
said McGregor, who was asked whether Broadcom might consider
giving up its efforts in cellular modems. “Near-term, we’ve got
some headwinds.”  Third-quarter  net  income rose 44 percent to $316 million,
or 55 cents a share, from $220 million, or 38 cents, a year
earlier, Broadcom said. Sales were little changed at $2.15
billion. Excluding certain items, profit was 76 cents. On that
basis, analysts had predicted profit of 68 cents and sales of
$2.13 billion.  Baseband Chips  McGregor is moving Broadcom into the market for baseband
chips used to connect phones to cellular networks, a business
dominated by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  Earlier this month, Broadcom said it
bought LTE-related capabilities from Japanese chipmaker Renesas,
a move that some analysts took as an admission that the
company’s in-house efforts to develop that technology have
fallen behind schedule.  Apple and Samsung Electronics Co. are Broadcom’s two
largest customers, together providing more than 30 percent of
its revenue, according to a Bloomberg supply-chain analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  