-- Buffett’s NetJets Buys Used Jets to Add Plane-Share Customers
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-10-23T14:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/buffett-s-netjets-buys-used-jets-to-add-plane-share-customers.html
Warren Buffett ’s NetJets Inc. is
buying used jets from customers who want to sell their own plane
and join the aircraft-management company’s fractional-ownership
plan.  The Aircraft Transition Service was created in August after
inquiries from potential clients, said Adam Johnson, global
senior vice president of sales for Columbus, Ohio-based NetJets.  “We have almost 10 big prospects that we’re working with
right now, so we’re pretty excited about it,” he said in an
interview yesterday at the  National Business Aviation
Association  conference in Las Vegas.  The unit of Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is wooing
aircraft owners by offering an alternative in what Johnson
called a “still tough” market for used private jets. Average
prices for such planes have fallen in 20 of the past 32 months
and are down 43 percent from the peak in November 2008,
according to an Oct. 14 JPMorgan Chase & Co. report.  NetJets has made a used-jet transaction under the new
program, said Elizabeth Wise, a company spokeswoman. She said
she didn’t know the number of used jets bought.  NetJets can use its size and contacts in the industry to
help sell used planes, easing the decision to leave behind
details such as maintenance, safety, flight plans and permits
that come with direct jet ownership, Johnson said.  The company has a fleet of about 700 aircraft, he said. It
in 2010 began a 10-year effort to renew its fleet with $17.6
billion of new-plane orders.  ‘Handle Everything’  “If you own your own airplane, you’re in the business of
aviation and there’s a lot of work behind that,” Johnson said.
“With our program we handle everything.”  Under NetJets’ fractional-ownership plan, customers buy as
little as a 1/16 share in an aircraft.  NetJets competes in the fractional-ownership business with
companies such as Directional Aviation Capital, an investment
fund that agreed to buy  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s Flexjet unit in
September. Directional is poised for another acquisition that
would boost its fleet to about 200 aircraft, second only to
NetJets, Kenn Ricci, a principal in the firm, said in an
interview this month.  NetJets’ used-jet purchases are just a tool to help sell
more fractional-ownership shares, and it isn’t getting into the
wider business of buying and selling such planes, Johnson said.  “There’s a huge capacity of used aircraft still out
there,” he said. “That’s going to take several years to flush
through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  