-- Caesars Licensing Report Cites Hotel Deal, Heavy Bettor
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-24T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/caesars-licensing-report-cites-handling-of-heavy-bettor.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  failed
to fully vet a participant in one of its hotel projects or
restrain a gambler who lost millions of dollars, the
 Massachusetts Gaming Commission  said in a report yesterday.  Caesars’ compliance committee, responsible for making sure
the company obeys gaming regulations, wasn’t given a full report
on an investor in Gansevoort Hotel Group who was allegedly
linked to organized crime, according to the  report . Caesars
licensed the Gansevoort name for a boutique hotel in Las Vegas.
The report also cited the Las Vegas-based company’s handling of
Terrance Watanabe, who lost money at its casinos in 2006 and
2007.  Caesars, the largest operator of U.S. casinos, dropped out
of a proposed $1 billion resort in East Boston Oct. 18, after
regulators recommended its application for a state gaming
license be rejected, according to Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Gary Loveman. The company ended its agreement with
Gansevoort, he said, though it didn’t sway regulators.  “We strongly disagree with the staff recommendation and
were prepared to thoroughly address each of the concerns raised
by the report,” Caesars said yesterday in response to the
report. “We withdrew our application at the request of and in
deference to our partners in the project.”  Massachusetts investigators received information from the
Federal Bureau of Investigation that a Gansevoort investor “is
in fact known to them and has been linked to various members of
Eurasian organized crime,” according to the report.  ‘Rumor, Innuendo’  Gansevoort agreed to end its role in Las Vegas to minimize
any controversy for Caesars, Nancy Friedman, a spokeswoman for
the hotel, said in an e-mailed statement on Oct. 19.  “We expected a serious government agency to act on the
basis of substantiated fact, not rumor or innuendo previously
printed in gossip columns,” Friedman said. “No new facts have
arisen since we passed the internal gaming compliance process of
Caesars prior to the execution of our agreements.”  A representative of the FBI in Las Vegas didn’t return an
e-mail seeking comment late yesterday on the investor in
Gansevoort Hotel Group.  Caesars’ compliance committee wasn’t given copies of
reports the company commissioned on the investor, according to
the Massachusetts report. Committee members told state
investigators they approved the business relationship with
Gansevoort in part because the hotel company was to have no role
in Caesars’ gambling operations.  Gambler Supervision  Caesars’ outside counsel advised the company that gaming
regulators in  Nevada  and New Jersey wouldn’t have a problem,
according to the report.  Watanabe claimed in a 2009 lawsuit in Clark County, Nevada,
he was encouraged to gamble while intoxicated. Caesars later
revised its policies and the case was settled, according to the
regulator’s report.  The lawsuit couldn’t be independently confirmed in court
records.  “The Terrance Watanabe incident is a classic example of
how casino operators cater to their high rollers and are
sometimes tempted to overlook unacceptable behavior by high
rollers so that they can maintain their patronage and high level
of play,” Massachusetts officials said in the report.  Attempts to reach Watanabe weren’t successful.  Caesars made changes to its policies, including having its
compliance committee report to the company’s board, rather than
to its CEO, according to the report.  Debt Concerns  The report also raised concerns about the company’s $23.7
billion in debt and the former employment of its online gaming
chief executive in two businesses that forfeited gambling
proceeds to the federal government in connection with non-prosecution agreements over their Internet betting activities.  Caesars  rose  2 percent to $17.97 yesterday in New York. The
stock is up 160 percent this year. Caesars $3.3 billion of 10
percent notes maturing in December 2018 were unchanged at 46.75
cents on the dollar, their lowest since the debt was issued in
December 2009, according to according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  