-- Cameron Announces Probe Into Competition Among Energy Suppliers
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-10-23T12:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/cameron-announces-probe-into-competition-among-energy-suppliers.html
Prime Minister David Cameron
announced a probe into profit and competition among U.K. energy
suppliers as both his government and the opposition bid to show
they have plans to deal with inflation-busting price increases.  “We will be having a proper competition test carried out
over the next year to get to the bottom of whether this market
can be made more competitive,” Cameron told lawmakers in
Parliament in  London  today. “I want more companies, I want
better regulation, I want better deals for consumers.” He said
there’s also a “need to roll back” green levies that suppliers
have said have contributed to higher costs.  Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, told reporters
in London that the energy regulator, Ofgem, will work alongside
the Office of Fair Trading and the new Competition and Markets
Authority to put in place an annual review of competition in the
industry. Further details will be set out in a statement on
energy to Parliament next week, with the review focusing on
prices, profits and barriers to new entrants in the energy
market, Gray said.  Three of the “Big Six” companies that dominate Britain’s
energy market have announced gas and electricity price increases
of about 10 percent over the past two weeks, almost four times
the  rate of inflation . One of Cameron’s Conservative
predecessors as prime minister, John Major, called on the
government yesterday to impose a windfall tax on the profits of
the energy companies if it needs to spend more money this winter
helping the elderly and needy with higher fuel costs.  ‘Con Man’  Opposition leader Ed Miliband said last month his Labour
Party would freeze energy prices if it wins the next general
election in 2015. In clashes in the House of Commons, Cameron
accused Miliband of being a “con man” over the proposals.
Speaker John Bercow rebuked the premier for his use of the
words.  A Labour spokesman who asked not to be identified in line
with party practice told reporters that Miliband is prepared to
work on a cross-party basis to bring energy prices down, while
also saying the premier’s announcement smacked of panic.  Cameron’s remarks on reducing green levies threaten to open
up a new battle with his coalition partners, the Liberal
Democrats, who oppose eliminating such taxes. A spokesman for
Cameron who declined to be named in line with official practice
told reporters the two parties have been discussing energy
policy for several weeks.  Cameron’s Conservatives argue that if there is no policy
change by 2020, green levies may rise to 194 pounds ($313) a
year from the current 112 pounds -- or 14 percent of the typical
household bill. Labour said that of the 112 pounds, 67 pounds of
levies had been introduced under the current government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  