-- Cameron Takes U.K. Businesses to Brussels in Bid to Cut Red Tape
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-10-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/cameron-takes-u-k-businesses-to-brussels-in-bid-to-cut-red-tape.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
taking British business leaders to Brussels to meet some of his
European Union counterparts as companies called for the bloc’s
regulations to be simplified.  Cameron organised a meeting at the EU summit in Brussels,
which starts today, for businesses to explain their proposals
for cutting red tape to leaders including German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel . A letter sent to leaders before the meeting and
signed by 80 businesses across Europe called for regulation to
be relaxed as current rules create “excessive and unnecessary
burdens” preventing job creation and  growth .  “One of the greatest obstacles is problematic, poorly
understood and burdensome European rules that all too often
encumber business,” the group said in the letter. “It’s vital
therefore that any EU regulation necessary for the single market
is pro-growth and pro-innovation, enabling not hampering
businesses to create jobs and pave the way toward economic
recovery.”  The call to reduce business regulation is part of Cameron’s
attempt to renegotiate Britain’s relationship with the EU before
his pledged referendum in 2017 on whether to stay in the union.  It follows a U.K. government-commissioned report last week
put together by six business leaders including Marks & Spencer
Group Plc Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  that included
recommendations with the potential to “save EU businesses
billions of euros,” according to the letter.  “The red tape they’re currently throttled with we’re
dealing with at every level,” Cameron told lawmakers in London
yesterday. He said that included this week’s EU summit “where
I’ve organized a meeting for our businesses to explain their
proposals for cutting red tape to fellow European leaders from
 Finland , from  Italy , from  Germany  and elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  