-- Canada Stocks Erase Gains as Commodities Offset Rates
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-10-23T21:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/canada-stocks-fluctuate-as-commodities-fall-on-china-rate.html
Canadian  stocks  fell, erasing
earlier gains after a six-day rally, as a slump in commodity
shares overshadowed a Bank of  Canada  decision to remove its bias
toward tightening monetary policy.  BlackPearl Resources Inc. and Suncor Energy Inc., the
nation’s largest oil producer, fell more than 2.2 percent as
crude dropped to its lowest in almost four months.  Teck
Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  lost 1 percent as copper retreated after surging
 interest rates  eroded the outlook for demand in China. Canadian
National Railway Co. and Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. rallied
to all-time highs after posting better-than-estimated earnings.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  fell 4.74 points,
or less than 0.1 percent, to 13,243.32 at 4 p.m. in Toronto,
erasing an earlier advance of 0.5 percent. The benchmark
Canadian equity gauge rallied 2.8 percent in the previous six
days, reaching a two-year high.  “The attention is shifting to some concerns on the actual
global economy, so that’s definitely weighing on  oil prices ,”
Youssef Zohny, portfolio manager at Stenner Investment Partners
of Richardson GMP Ltd., said by phone from  Vancouver . Richardson
GMP manages about C$16 billion ($15.4 billion). “Resources and
commodities still make up almost half the index, so any weakness
in the commodity space should feed its way into the TSX index.”  Stocks rose earlier after  Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz dropped language about the need for future interest rate
increases that has been in place for more than a year, citing
greater slack in the economy.  Interest Rates  Policy makers maintained the benchmark rate on overnight
loans between commercial banks at 1 percent for the 25th
consecutive meeting today, as forecast by all 23 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Inflation will remain below the 2 percent
target until the end of 2015, two quarters longer than forecast
in July, with the risks of further weakness taking on
“increasing importance,” the bank said.  Suncor lost 2.3 percent to C$36.64 and BlackPearl Resources
slipped 3.5 percent to C$1.93. West Texas Intermediate crude
slumped to its lowest level since June 28 as supplies rose more
than expected in the U.S., the biggest oil-consuming country.  Centerra Gold Inc., the operator of the Kumtor mine in
Kyrgyzstan, plunged 23 percent to C$4.10 after reports that the
central Asian nation’s parliament rejected a proposed agreement
to give the government a 50 percent stake in the mine.  Teck Resources retreated 1 percent to C$29.42 as copper
fell the most in 12 weeks.  China Banks  China ’s benchmark money-market rate jumped the most since
July as the central bank refrained from adding funds to markets.
The nation’s largest banks tripled the amount of bad loans
written off in the first half, ahead of a potential wave of
defaults. China is the world’s largest consumer of copper and
Canada’s second-largest trading partner.  “Rising interest rates certainly will have an impact on
commodity demand and on Canada. It’s indicative of an uneven
recovery,” said Anish Chopra,  fund manager  with TD Asset
Management Inc. in Toronto. The firm manages about C$216
billion.  Canadian Pacific Railway jumped 10 percent, the most since
July 2009, to C$148.53 and Canadian National Railway surged 4.4
percent to C$114.59. Industrials stocks rallied 3.2 percent as a
group. Six of 10 industries advanced as trading volume was 20
percent higher compared with the 30-day average.  Rail Ratios  Canadian Pacific  posted an operating ratio of 65.9 percent
in the third quarter, the lowest in company history, while
adjusted earnings of C$1.88 topped analysts’ estimates for
C$1.71. Operating ratio is a measure of management efficiency
with lower numbers preferred.  Canadian National Railway said it will split its stock and
plans for a C$1.4 billion share buyback.  Surge Energy Inc. added 2.5 percent to C$6.89 for its
highest close since November 2012, after the oil and gas
explorer boosted its 2013 exit production to 14,200 barrels of
oil equivalent per day, compared with 12,000 previously. The
company raised its 2014 production forecasts as well.  Surge yesterday reported two acquisitions in Saskatchewan
and Manitoba for a combined C$282 million. The Calgary-based
company also raised its dividend 19 percent to 50 Canadian cents
a share annually.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Aubrey Pringle in  New York  at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  