-- Canadian Dollar Drops Most in Four Months on BOC Rate-Bias Shift
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-10-23T21:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/canadian-dollar-extends-loss-after-central-bank-drops-rate-bias.html
The Canadian dollar lost the most
since June after the Bank of  Canada  dropped language about the
need for future interest-rate increases that has been in place
for more than a year, citing greater slack in the economy.  The currency fell against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers as Governor Stephen Poloz maintained the benchmark
rate on overnight loans between commercial banks at 1 percent
for the 25th consecutive meeting, as forecast by all 23
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Inflation (CACPI)  will remain
less than the 2 percent target until the end of 2015, two
quarters longer than forecast in July, with the risks of further
weakness taking on “increasing importance,” the bank said.  “We’ll be lucky to see dollar/CAD stick to current levels
in a three to six month time frame,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG, by phone from  London .
“Unless data begins to register blowout numbers, like 3 percent
inflation for three straight months, it’s really hard to see
Bank of Canada changing their tack anytime soon.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.9 percent to
C$1.0382 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It dropped to as
low as C$1.0397, or 1.1 percent, the biggest drop since June 20.
One loonie buys 96.32 U.S. cents.  The currency traded weaker than its 50-, 100-, and 200-day
moving averages for the first time since Oct. 16.  “Those risks are balanced as we sit here,” Poloz said
when asked if Canadian interest rate rises or cuts were equally
likely. “Policy is dependent on the data flow and how it
impacts our outlook for inflation.”  Bonds Rally  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  rose, with
yields falling five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
2.43 percent, touching the lowest since July 23. The 1.5 percent
security maturing in June 2023 added 40 cents to C$92.06.  Poloz’s predecessor  Mark Carney  inserted the so-called
tightening bias last year to curb mounting household debts,
which he called the greatest danger to the Canadian economy.  “Poloz decided to roll the dice a little bit,” said  David Watt , chief economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc,
by phone from Toronto. “I thought they’d continue to leave in
place that the next move would eventually be a rate hike, but
this time they’ve said, ’look, we acknowledge the risks in the
household sector, but inflation is too low and our outlook is
not panning out the way we anticipated.”  The bank’s economic growth forecast for this year was cut
to 1.6 percent from 1.8 percent. The outlook for 2014 was
lowered to 2.3 percent from 2.7 percent and the 2015 projection
trimmed to 2.6 percent from 2.7 percent.  Policy Update  “Finally, the  Bank of Canada  is catching up with reality,
Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said by phone from  New York . ‘‘The new growth
forecasts brings them in line with what the  International
Monetary Fund  had in October. A correction in the Canadian
dollar was needed, and this will help get us there.’’  Futures of crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 0.7
percent to $97.14 per barrel, reaching the lowest level since
July 1. The  discount  Canadian oil producers face compared to
prices for the U.S. benchmark was $31.75, the most in two weeks.  The Canadian dollar has fallen 3.5 percent this year
against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar is
down 6.8 percent, and the  U.S. dollar  has added 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  