-- Cancer Radiation Rates Grow When Urologists Reap Profit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/cancer-radiation-rates-grow-when-urologists-reap-profit.html
Urologists that buy their own
equipment to provide expensive radiation treatment are much more
probable to use it to treat prostate cancer even when its
benefit for patients is unclear, research shows.  Prostate cancer is the  most common  tumor diagnosed in the
U.S., where an estimated 238,590 men were told they had the
disease this year. While only about 12 percent, or 29,270 men,
will die from it this year, all will have to decide how, and
whether, they want to treat the cancer.  A study published today in the  New England Journal of
Medicine  suggests that profits urologists make from referring
patients to their own radiation facilities play an outsized role
in the treatment decisions. One third of men whose doctors own
radiation equipment get the therapy at a cost of about $35,000
per treatment course. The same doctors prescribed the therapy
for just 13 percent of their patients before they had their own
equipment and could profit directly.  “The results are striking,” said Jean Mitchell, the
author of the report and a professor of  public policy  at
 Georgetown University  in  Washington , D.C. “It does appear that
what’s driving this is financial incentives linked to
ownership,” she said. “Their behavior changes dramatically.”  Prostate cancer treatments include radiation, hormone
therapy and surgery. The men treated with radiation in the study
had low risk disease: newly diagnosed prostate cancer that
hadn’t spread in the body. The 10-year survival rate for all
prostate cancer is 98 percent. Simple monitoring is also an
appropriate approach for men with non-metastatic disease.  Claims Data  Mitchell didn’t have access to patient-level data, so she
couldn’t analyze the characteristics of each man to determine if
treatment was appropriate.  Instead, she compared the use of the technology, called
 intensity-modulated radiation therapy , among urologists before
and after they integrated the $2 million machines into their
practices. She also analyzed its use among doctors who didn’t
own the technology and urologists at 11 National Comprehensive
Cancer Network centers, the country’s gold standard of care.  Using claims data from the U.S. government’s Medicare
insurance program for the elderly, Mitchell found that
urologists who didn’t own the equipment prescribed IMRT for 15.6
percent of their patients in 2010, compared with 14.3 percent
five years earlier. Its use among the NCCN doctors stayed
constant at about 8 percent, while it soared to 44 percent among
a matched-group of doctors who started to refer patients to
their own radiation treatment facilities.  Self-Referral  “It’s crazy the way the system is set up,” Mitchell said
in a telephone interview. “The patients are going to do what
their physician tells them to do. The patient becomes almost
like an ATM machine, with the doctor extracting as much revenue
as they can.”  Physicians in general aren’t allowed to refer their
patients for treatment in facilities that they also own, because
of the financial conflict of interest. However, radiation, as
well as in-office ancillary services, such as doing blood work
and x-rays, are exempted under U.S. law. The exception was
created for patient convenience. It’s unclear why radiation,
which is a treatment and not an ancillary service, was exempted,
Mitchell said.  The situation may actually harm some patients. The analysis
found that doctors who owned the IMRT therapy were treating men
ages 80 and older just as aggressively as younger men with early
stage prostate cancer. Since the cancer is generally slow-growing, and radiation can carry immediate side effects,
including erection problems and urinary symptoms, the older
patients may experience only the harms and no benefits.  “The findings raise concerns regarding the appropriate use
of IMRT, especially among older Medicare beneficiaries,”
Mitchell wrote. “Permitting urologists to self-refer for IMRT
may contribute to increased use of this expensive therapy.”  The study bolsters similar findings with other forms of
self-referral. In fact, some urologists have incorporated
pathology labs into their practices, boosting the number of
biopsies they perform, Mitchell said. Research has found similar
results in other areas, including advanced imaging and surgery
at physician-owned specialty hospitals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  