-- Caterpillar Cuts Forecast After Sales Fall
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-10-23T20:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/caterpillar-cuts-2013-forecasts-as-mining-equipment-orders-drop.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the biggest maker
of construction and mining equipment, cut its 2013 sales and
profit forecast and said revenue will be little changed next
year after a slump in orders from commodity producers.  Earnings will fall to about $5.50 a share on sales of $55
billion this year, the Peoria, Illinois-based company said today
in a statement. In July, it forecast per-share profit of about
$6.50 on sales of $56 billion to $58 billion.  Revenue in 2014 will be in a range of 5 percent lower to 5
percent higher than this year because of “very low” mining-machinery orders and uncertainties over global economic growth,
it said. The shares fell 6.1 percent, the most in two years.  Caterpillar said demand from the mining industry has been
difficult to forecast this year after customers decided to focus
on existing projects instead of new mines. BHP Billion Ltd. and
Rio Tinto Group are among mining companies that have cut
billions of dollars of capital expenditure this year.
Caterpillar said it fired more than 13,000 workers in the past
year as it adjusted output.  “It has been a painful year and has required wide ranging
and substantial actions across the company,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said in the statement, “There
are encouraging signs, but there is also a good deal of
uncertainty worldwide as we look ahead to 2014.”  Caterpillar fell to $83.76 at the close in New York, the
biggest decline since September 2011.  Inventory Decline  “The implied fourth-quarter guidance is certainly weaker
than expected and the flat outlook for next year was expected
but now it’s on a lower base, which is not exactly
encouraging,” Larry De Maria, a New York-based analyst for
William Blair & Co. who has a buy rating on the shares, said in
a telephone interview today. “The stock ran up into the report
but now it’s going to settle back down on concerns about the
outlook.”  Third-quarter  net income  was also lower than expected,
dropping to $1.45 a share from $2.54 a year earlier. That missed
the $1.67 average of 20  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
in the period declined to $13.4 billion from $16.4 billion, less
than the $14.5 billion average of 12 estimates.  The company’s inventory continued to decline in the third
quarter, mainly in mining equipment, and was about $500 million
lower than in the preceding quarter.  Mining Acquisitions  Caterpillar has focused on the mining industry since
Oberhelman became chairman and CEO in 2010. The company bought
Bucyrus International Inc. in 2011 and ERA Mining Machinery Ltd.
in  China  last year to expand its mining-product range.  Analysts on average expect capital spending plans for major
mining companies to fall 16 percent in 2013 and as much as 12
percent in the next two years, Bloomberg Industries analyst
Karen Ubelhart said in a report on Oct. 15.  Miners “need to see commodity pricing and the supply and
demand environment firm up for a sustained period before they
contemplate a major expansion,” Matt Arnold, a St. Louis-based
analyst for Edward Jones & Co. who recommends holding
Caterpillar shares, said in an Oct. 18 interview.  While mining orders are down, construction-machinery demand
is improving. Next year, Caterpillar’s construction industries
unit’s sales will rise while revenue in the power-systems
business will be little changed, the company said today.  The company reported yesterday for the 10th consecutive
month that rolling global three-month retail machine sales fell,
led by declines in the Asia-Pacific region.  Resource industries and power systems each accounted for 32
percent of Caterpillar’s  equipment sales  last year while
construction made up 29 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  