-- Centerra Plunges After Report Kyrgyz Mine Deal Rejected
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-10-23T20:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/centerra-plunges-after-report-kyrgyz-mine-deal-rejected.html
Centerra Gold Inc. (CG) , the operator of
the Kumtor mine in Kyrgyzstan, plunged the most in 15 months
after reports that the central Asian nation’s parliament
rejected a proposed agreement to give the government a 50
percent stake in the mine.  Centerra  fell  23 percent to C$4.10 at the close in Toronto,
the biggest drop since June 28, 2012. The Toronto-based company
has declined 56 percent this year.  Centerra said today in a statement it’s aware of news
reports that the Kyrgyz parliament passed a decree rejecting the
non-binding pact reached in September. Parliament set a deadline
of Dec. 23 for concluding a new deal, the company said.  “Reports indicate that Parliament has instructed the
government to continue negotiations with Centerra with a view to
increasing the Kyrgyz Republic shareholding in a joint venture
project to 67 percent,” Centerra said today. If a mutually
acceptable solution can’t be found, the government is “to
initiate the denouncement of the current project agreements
governing the Kumtor project.”  In September, Centerra and the government agreed to discuss
a deal that would involve state-controlled Kyrgyzaltyn JSC
exchanging its 33 percent stake in the company for the mine
stake. Centerra would remain the operator and manager of the
mine under the proposed agreement.  Ownership Issues  Centerra, which also has operations in Mongolia, has been
in negotiations with the Kyrgyz government to address concerns
raised in a report by a state commission regarding taxes and
ownership issues around the project. Kumtor is Centerra’s
biggest producer.  Centerra said today it will continue talks with the
government, which it believes still supports the September
agreement. Any deal must be fair to all of the company’s
shareholders, it said.  Centerra and then-majority shareholder Cameco Corp. agreed
in 2009 to give the Kyrgyz government a bigger share in Centerra
as part of a deal to end legal disputes threatening Kumtor. The
agreement resolved back-tax obligations, set a new  tax rate  and
settled a clash over the size of the project’s exploration and
development concessions, Centerra said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  