-- Chelsea Would Have to Pay $57 Million for Costa: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-10-23T10:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/chelsea-would-have-to-pay-57-million-for-costa-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Costa’s $57 Million Price Tag  Chelsea would have to pay at least 35 million pounds ($57
million) for Atletico Madrid striker Diego Costa, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Blues coach Jose Mourinho is looking to boost his attacking
options in the January transfer window after missing out on
signing Manchester United’s Wayne Rooney during the offseason,
the newspaper said. Costa is La Liga’s top scorer this season
and netted twice in Atletico’s 3-0 Champions League win at
Austria Vienna yesterday.  Hernandez Not for Sale  Manchester United coach David Moyes says striker Javier Hernandez is not for sale, even after his lack of starts this
season, the Daily Mail reported.  Tottenham is among clubs interested in signing the 25-year-old Mexican, who has started only two games this campaign, the
newspaper said. Moyes said Hernandez is staying put and “will
play a lot of games before the end of the season.”  Sneijder Dismisses Chelsea Link  Dutch midfielder Wesley Sneijder has dismissed talk of a
reunion with Jose Mourinho, the Mail reported.  The 29-year-old played under the Blues coach at Inter Milan
and has been advised by the Netherlands’ coach Louis van Gaal to
move to  Stamford  Bridge from Galatasaray to cement his place in
the national team, the newspaper said.  Anderlecht Striker Tracked  Manchester United has joined Liverpool, Arsenal, Juventus,
Barcelona and Schalke in tracking Anderlecht’s Matias Suarez,
the  Daily Star reported.   United scouts will attend the Belgian side’s Champions
League match against Paris Saint-Germain today to assess the
Argentine, the newspaper added, citing Belgian reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  