-- Baidu Can’t Guarantee Returns on Online Fund Products, CSRC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-23T18:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/china-says-baidu-can-t-guarantee-returns-on-online-fund-products.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  isn’t allowed to offer
guaranteed returns on fund products sold on the Internet,
 China ’s securities watchdog said, as the country’s largest
search engine joins competitors in expanding into finance.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission said it will
investigate media reports, which it didn’t further identify,
that said Baidu promised an 8 percent return on investment
products, according to a statement posted to the commission’s
official microblog yesterday. That probe will be carried out
using information provided by the company, it said.  Baidu, which this week announced plans for an investment
platform, joins rivals Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700)  in entering financial services after authorities
said they wanted more private capital to invest in the industry.
Former Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in April 2012 the “monopoly” of
big state-owned banks need to be broken, and his successor Li Keqiang has called for cutting the government’s economic role.  China’s five-biggest banks are all state-owned. Shang Fulin, head of China’s banking regulator, said in June that the
nation will allow fully private banks to be established.  Baidu is subject to the same rules as other companies
offering such services, the CSRC said yesterday. Kaiser Kuo, a
spokesman for Baidu, said by phone yesterday that he couldn’t
confirm whether the company will offer a guaranteed rate of
return. The search engine plans to issue more details about the
products on its investment platform on Oct. 28, the company said
on Oct. 22.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  