-- China Money Rate Jumps Most Since July on PBOC, Tax Flows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-23T08:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/china-money-rate-jumps-most-since-july-on-pboc-tax-flows.html
China’s benchmark money-market rate
jumped the most since July as the central bank refrained from
adding funds to markets and corporate tax payments drained cash.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, surged 47 basis points, or
0.47 percentage point, to 4.05 percent as of 4:21 p.m. in
 Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That was the biggest advance
since July 29. The  overnight repo  rate jumped 72 basis points,
the most since June 20, to 3.80 percent.  The People’s Bank of China has suspended selling reverse-repurchase contracts since Oct. 17, leading to a net withdrawal
of 44.5 billion  yuan  ($7.3 billion) from the financial system
last week. The authority asked commercial banks to submit orders
today for 28-day repurchase contracts, 91-day bills, and 14-day
reverse repos planned for tomorrow, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  “We have entered a period of corporate tax payments and
the central bank has been conducting net liquidity
withdrawals,” said Pin Ru Tan, an interest-rate strategist at
HSBC Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “The liquidity
situation is likely to tighten further, eventually triggering
the re-issuance of reverse repos.”  The PBOC may lean toward tightening should there be an
acceleration in consumer-price gains, Song Guoqing, a central
bank academic adviser, said over the weekend. Inflation was 3.1
percent in September, the fastest pace since February.  Rate Swaps  The cost of one-year interest rate swaps, the fixed payment
to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose for a fifth
day, the longest streak since August. The rate climbed as much
as three basis points to 4.07 percent, the highest since Sept.
24, before paring the advance to 4.06 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  With the economy on course to meet growth targets and
inflation quickening, the central bank may start tightening
policy, said Li Yiming, a Beijing-based analyst at Citic
Securities Co.,  China ’s largest brokerage.  The world’s second-largest economy expanded 7.8 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, and  foreign-exchange
reserves  climbed 4.7 percent, the most since 2007, to a record
$3.66 trillion in the same period.  The yield on the 4.08 percent bonds due August 2023 was
unchanged at 4.15 percent, according to data from the Interbank
Funding Center. The Ministry of Finance sold 28 billion yuan 10-year bonds today at 4.14 percent, according to two statements
posted on the website of China Central Depository & Clearing Co.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  