-- China Police Detain Reporter After Stories on Zoomlion Heavy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-23T08:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/china-police-detain-reporter-after-accusations-against-zoomlion.html
Chinese police detained a reporter
who wrote stories questioning the finances of  Zoomlion Heavy
Industry Science and Technology Co. , prompting his newspaper to
publish a front-page appeal for his release.  Chen Yongzhou was held on Oct. 18, Guangzhou-based
 Xinkuaibao , which translates to New Express, said in the report
published with the headline “Please Release Him.” Police in
the southern city of Changsha, where  Zoomlion (1157)  is based, said on
the department’s microblog that a Xinkuaibao reporter surnamed
Chen was detained after accusations he damaged the commercial
reputation of a company that wasn’t identified.  The detention follows the arrest of Xinkuaibao reporter Liu
Hu as  China ’s government seeks to expand a crackdown on the flow
of what it calls online rumors and false news. Zoomlion shares
slumped 5.9  percent  in Hong Kong, the most since June 20, as the
report renewed attention to questions over its sales.  There needs to be evidence of a deliberate attack as well
as damage to the reputation for someone to be convicted of
damaging a company’s reputation, said Xu Jinglong, a partner at
Beijing-based  Zhong Lun Law Firm .  Press Freedom  “Police should be cautious when it takes action across
different jurisdictions,” said Xu. “It is important to protect
the freedom of the press.”  One of the 15 stories Chen wrote about Zoomlion, published
on May 27, accused the company of improperly accounting for
sales, forcing Zoomlion to halt trading of its shares in  Hong
Kong  and Shenzhen. The company has denied it falsified sales.  Zoomlion had filed a complaint against Chen with local
police last week, said a media official for the construction-equipment maker who asked not to be identified because of the
company’s rules.  The company’s stock closed at HK$6.82 in Hong Kong. The
Shenzhen-traded shares fell 2.9 percent to 5.61 yuan.  Zoomlion was also forced to halt its shares in January
after Ming Pao Daily published a story questioning its sales.
The Hong Kong-based newspaper said it received an unsigned
letter with the accusations, which Zoomlion denied and called
“false, groundless and misleading.”  Zoomlion posted a 48 percent drop in profit to 2.92 billion
 yuan  ($480 million) in the six months ended June as China’s
slowing economic growth damped demand at the nation’s second-largest construction equipment maker.  Liu, the other Xinkuaibao reporter, was held on Aug. 24 and
the Beijing People’s Procuratorate approved his arrest on Sept.
30, his lawyer said on Oct. 10. He was accused of fabricating
rumors after he made online accusations of wrongdoing against a
former senior official in Chongqing city, according to the
official Xinhua News Agency.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  