-- China Wheat Areas Seen Getting Dry Winter, Needing Spring Rains
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-10-23T15:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/china-wheat-areas-seen-getting-dry-winter-needing-spring-rains.html
Wheat-growing areas on the North
 China  Plain may be drier than normal this winter, leaving crops
dependent on rainfall in the spring, AccuWeather Inc. said.  Temperatures in central and eastern China may be mild
during December, January and February, with some brief cold
snaps occurring in northeastern areas, according to a seasonal
outlook report for  Asia  from the  State College , Pennsylvania-based forecaster. The main Chinese wheat-growing  areas  probably
won’t see temperatures cold enough to damage crops that are
dormant during winter months, said Dale Mohler, a senior
meteorologist at AccuWeather.  “A dry winter alone wouldn’t be enough to cause serious
problems as long as they get spring rains,” Mohler, who focuses
on commodity forecasting, said in a telephone interview. “The
crop could be in a little more stress going into the spring, so
rains would have to start on time.”  China, the world’s top  wheat  consumer, committed to import
3.9 million metric tons of U.S. wheat this marketing year as of
Sept. 26, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. That
compares with about 408,000 tons in the same timeframe last
year. Spot prices for some bread-quality wheat rallied to
records this year in China after excess rain eroded the quality
of the last harvest in May and June.  The  Philippines ,  Vietnam , southeast China and Taiwan may
see tropical storms and typhoons through December amid warmer-than-normal waters in the Philippine and South China seas,
according to the AccuWeather report. The coffee harvest in
Vietnam, the world’s biggest producer of the robusta variety,
may experience delays if heavy rain occurs, Mohler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  