-- Christie’s No. 2 Becomes Focus as Boss Eyes White House
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/christie-s-no-2-becomes-focus-as-boss-eyes-white-house.html
Seven in 10 New Jersey residents have
never heard of Lieutenant Governor Kim Guadagno, who would be
the state’s chief executive if Republican  Chris Christie  wins a
second term and then leaves amid a 2016 presidential bid.  Since taking office alongside Christie in 2010, Guadagno, a
former sheriff, has overseen the state’s economic development,
appearing at ribbon cuttings, courting businesses and flanking
Christie at news briefings. Yet a Monmouth University poll this
month showed that most voters didn’t recognize her name.  Guadagno, 54, is the state’s first lieutenant governor, a
post created in 2005 to improve the system for replacing a chief
executive in midterm. She would take the helm if Christie
resigned from a second four-year stint to become president in
2017, and sooner if he chose to quit for a White House run.  “I had no clue about her,” said Maryann Donovan, 74, of
Middletown, a registered Republican from Guadagno’s home county
who didn’t realize she was on the ballot next month. “I would
never not vote for him because of it. But it’s important they
really do more to make people aware of her.”  Guadagno was elected with Christie in 2009 -- winning 1.17
million votes -- and follows him on the Nov. 5 Republican
ticket. While Milly Silva is the running mate of Democratic
challenger, state Senator Barbara Buono, even fewer voters, one
in 10, have an opinion of Silva, an Hispanic leader of a labor
union, according to the Oct. 2 Monmouth poll.  Christie’s Blowout  Christie, 51, was the first Republican since 1997 elected
to the top office in the Democratic-leaning state, and is the
only U.S. governor seeking re-election this year. He led Buono,
59 percent to 35 percent, among likely voters in an Oct. 15 poll
by Monmouth, a school in  West Long Branch .  The governor has ridden high voter-approval numbers since
winning praise for his handling of  Hurricane Sandy  a year ago.
More than 50 Democratic elected officials in the state have
endorsed him. A landslide win in the Democratic stronghold would
show he could capture votes beyond his party as a national
candidate. Still, he has been noncommittal about such a run.  “I don’t think anybody in America or in the state of New
Jersey expects anybody three years away to tell them what
they’re going to do,” Christie said in an Oct. 8 debate with
Buono, when asked if he’s running for president. “Life’s too
long. I won’t make those decisions until I have to.”  A win next month would give him the governor’s job through
January 2018. If elected president in 2016, he would be enter
the White House in January 2017. The rigors of a national
campaign and federal campaign-finance laws may force him to step
down in Trenton even earlier.  Musical Governors  Spurred by resignations and scandals that saw 10 people
serve as governor or acting governor between 2001 and 2005, New
Jersey voters in 2005 approved a constitutional amendment
creating the post of lieutenant governor. Previously, when the
state’s chief executive left office, the Senate president served
as acting governor, followed by a succession line from the
Assembly speaker to attorney general.  Under the previous arrangement, the person temporarily at
the helm could introduce legislation, shepherd it to passage and
sign it into law. Senate President Stephen Sweeney, a West
Deptford Democrat who was acting chief executive in Christie and
Guadagno’s absence as well as under Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine , said he initially resisted creating the new post and
only voted for it as a way to increase diversity in leadership.  ‘Backup Quarterback’  “It’s like the backup quarterback: you have to be good
enough for when you get called into the game,” Sweeney said.  When Governor Christine Todd Whitman left office in 2001 to
head the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, then-Senate
President Donald DiFrancesco served the final year of her term.
When Governor James McGreevey resigned in 2004 amid a sex
scandal, then-Senate President Richard Codey took over for 14
months. Codey did the job again when Corzine, Christie’s
predecessor, was hospitalized for 18 days after a car crash.  Guadagno, who was born in Waterloo,  Iowa , is a former
federal prosecutor who was the first woman elected Monmouth
County sheriff, in 2007. As the state’s initial lieutenant
governor, Christie gave her dual roles of  economic-development 
chief and secretary of state. In the latter capacity, she’s New
Jersey’s chief election official. She also oversees promotion of
a $38 billion  tourism industry  and administers arts and history
programs. She’s paid $141,000 a year.  While Christie has a reputation for being outspoken, his
lieutenant rarely talks publicly when the two appear together.
Though official visits to businesses cram her schedule, Guadagno
doesn’t usually respond to questions from reporters.  Phone Number  During speeches to executives, she has often given out her
mobile-phone number as a sign of her accessibility. A reporter’s
call to the number drew a response from an aide. The press
representatives Guadagno shares with Christie said she wasn’t
available for an interview.  In an Oct. 11 debate with Silva at Kean University in
Union, the opponents sparred over Christie’s record, including
his resistance to a Democratic effort to boost the state minimum
wage and his education policies. The debate focused little on
the winner’s status as next in line to the top office.  The second-in-command’s status surfaced during an Oct. 15
debate between Christie and Buono. The governor dismissed a
suggestion that Guadagno doesn’t maintain a high enough profile
to enable her to step into the top job easily, blaming the media
for not giving her enough attention.  “The fact is that she’s one of the most available,
accessible and publicly successful political figures we’ve had
in this state,” he said. “Kim Guadagno has been a leader in
making sure the business community does well here and that we
create jobs for the people of New Jersey. I’m proud of her.”  Chew Gum  Buono faulted Christie for saying in their first debate
that he can “walk and chew gum at the same time” and may not
need to leave office to conduct a White House run.  “What part of that is running New Jersey: Is it walking or
chewing gum?” she said.  Voters have little interest in the undercard, even amid
heightened speculation that Christie won’t serve out his full
term, said  Patrick Murray , the Monmouth poll’s director. Voters
haven’t drawn a connection between the current election and the
possibility that they may also be selecting a second governor if
Christie moves on, Murray said.  “Unless the person is totally unqualified or a drag on the
gubernatorial candidate, most voters will just cross that bridge
when they get to it,” Murray said.  Steve Nolin, 51, a West Long Branch butcher and self-described Christie backer who has followed Guadagno, said
neither lieutenant governor candidate would sway him Nov. 5.  “I’m voting for the person I feel is the best for
governor,” Nolin said.  Next Governor  Guadagno deserves credit for stanching the flow of  New
Jersey  companies to neighboring states, after being enticed to
relocate, said Michael Egenton, senior vice president for
government affairs at the New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce.
The lieutenant governor personally reached out to business
leaders as part of that effort, he said.  “It’s not really surprising her name recognition hasn’t
extended beyond our members and people who follow” state
politics, Egenton said. “But she’s been quite stellar in her
role.”  Guadagno hasn’t done enough to become a known figure, said
Silva, her challenger.  “She could become the next governor and it’s important
people get to know her,” Silva said by telephone. “Certainly
with all the speculation as to what Governor Christie’s
intentions are for 2016, it’s important to understand what’s
going to happen in New Jersey.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  