-- Citigroup Said Close to Deal for Lease Extenson in NYC
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-23T23:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/citigroup-said-close-to-deal-for-lease-extenson-in-nyc.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  is close to an
agreement to consolidate its New York operations in a Tribeca
office complex majority-owned by  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) , three
people with knowledge of the talks said.  The third-biggest U.S. bank had narrowed its choices down
to the yet-to-be-built 2 World Trade Center or 388 and 390
Greenwich St., two buildings it sold to SL Green in 2007 and
leased back, said two of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. Citigroup executives
decided last week they would continue negotiating with only SL
Green, the people said.  As part of its decision, Citigroup may vacate 111 Wall St.,
a 25-story tower near the East River that was damaged by
 Hurricane Sandy , one of the people said. The bank leases the
building, according to New York City property records. Citigroup
also may move some employees to the Tribeca complex from 399
Park Ave., its headquarters, and 601 Lexington Ave., the
skyscraper formerly known as Citigroup Center, the person said.  Other financial giants have reduced their presence in the
city, an  office market  they’ve long dominated. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. last week agreed to sell 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, once the
headquarters of Chase Manhattan Bank, and Bank of America Corp.
has moved out of most of the  downtown offices  that were once
Merrill Lynch & Co.’s headquarters. UBS AG is moving out of most
of the space it rents at 299 Park Ave.  Heidi Gillette, an SL Green spokeswoman, declined to
comment on its discussions with the bank. Shannon Bell, a
Citigroup spokeswoman, and Dara McQuillan, a spokesman for
Silverstein Properties Inc., which holds the lease on the 2
World Trade Center site, also said they wouldn’t comment.  Cost Efficiency  Citigroup executives determined that increasing its
presence at 388 and 390 Greenwich was its most cost-efficient
option, said one of the people with knowledge of the talks.  Wall Street’s biggest banks, including JPMorgan and
Citigroup, are trying to cut costs to counter weaker revenue and
mounting legal expenses. JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by
assets, reported its first quarterly loss under Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon earlier this month after taking a $7.2
billion charge to cover the cost of litigation and regulatory
probes.  Citigroup CEO  Michael Corbat  is eliminating jobs, closing
branches and scaling back in some countries to counter weaker
revenue from bond trading and a drop in mortgage refinancings.  “While many of the factors which influence our revenues
are not within our full control, we certainly can control our
costs,” Corbat said in a statement when the bank reported
earnings on Oct. 15. “I am pleased with our expense discipline
and improved efficiency year-to-date.”  Until 2020  Citigroup’s current lease on its offices at 388 and 390
Greenwich runs until 2020, said one of people with knowledge of
the talks. The buildings house its trading operations. SL Green
co-owns the complex with Ivanhoe Cambridge, the real estate unit
of Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec .  The bank sold 388 and 390 Greenwich to SL Green and its
partner for $1.58 billion in December 2007, according to data
from Real Capital Analytics Inc., a commercial-property research
firm. Citigroup had acquired the property -- a 40-story tower
and a connected 10-story building -- when it merged with insurer
Travelers Group in 1998. The buildings had been the Travelers
headquarters.  Citigroup’s discussions with SL Green were reported earlier
today by the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  