-- McKesson Said Near Deal for Haniel’s Stake in Celesio
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-23T11:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/mckesson-said-near-deal-for-haniel-s-stake-in-celesio.html
McKesson Corp. (MCK)  is near an agreement
to buy a majority stake in German drug wholesaler  Celesio AG (CLS1)  to
bundle its purchasing and gain global influence, said two people
with knowledge of the discussions.  Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH, the family-owned company that owns
the 50.01 percent stake, and McKesson are trying to reach
agreement in time to announce it with McKesson’s quarterly
earnings tomorrow, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. San Francisco-based
McKesson then would be required under German law to make an
offer to buy the remaining Celesio shares, the people said.  The talks may take longer as the sides negotiate final
details, the people said. McKesson, the largest U.S.
pharmaceutical distributor, plans to announce earnings before
the U.S. stock market opens tomorrow. Celesio, based in
Stuttgart, has a market value of about 3.5 billion euros ($4.8
billion).  Since  Walgreen Co. (WAG) ’s 2012 deal to buy 45 percent of
Alliance Boots, the owner of the largest U.K. pharmacy chain,
drug distributors have been examining their positions in Europe
and looking at ways to cut costs. Celesio has 132 wholesale
branches that supply 65,000 pharmacies and hospitals with
pharmaceuticals. The company operates in 14 countries, mostly in
Europe.  Rainer Berghausen, a spokesman for Celesio, declined to
comment on whether Haniel was nearing a sale of its stake. No
one answered the phone at Haniel’s office in Duisburg,  Germany .
A message left with McKesson outside of normal business hours
wasn’t immediately returned.  Celesio’s shares rose 1 percent to 20.67 euros at 12:55
p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has climbed 58 percent this year
amid speculation the company could be sold.  Haniel also has stakes in companies including  Metro AG (MEO)  and
 Takkt AG. (TTK)  The company hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  this year to
advise on the sale of a full or partial stake in Celesio or a
partnership with another company, two people familiar with the
matter said.  For Related News and Information:
Haniel Said to Hire JPMorgan to Explore Celesio Stake Sale  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net  