-- Columbia Jocks Get Jazzy Stairs in Holl’s Sports Center
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-10-23T16:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/columbia-jocks-get-jazzy-stairs-in-holl-s-sports-center.html
Steven Holl’s Campbell Sports Center
at  New York ’s  Columbia University  flamboyantly bumps and grinds
around the busy corner of Broadway and 218th Street, showing off
its shiny metal stairs that ascend like lightning bolts.  More than just a place to pump iron, this $30 million
architectural chameleon is a poetic barometer of its dissonant
circumstances. It’s well worth a trip to  Manhattan ’s northern
tip as the city celebrates architecture this month with
Archtober.  A perennial candidate for the Pritzker Prize, Holl can be
among the most lyrical of architects. In  Seattle , a tiny  chapel 
is beloved. His  addition  to the Nelson Atkins Museum in  Kansas
City  is one of the best U.S. buildings of the past decade. Two
office projects in  China  are standouts. He’s working on the
first major addition to  Washington ’s  Kennedy Center  and
designing a performing-arts complex that will create a new
Princeton University  campus entrance .  At Columbia, Holl and his senior partner, Chris McVoy,
deftly play off the clattering hulk of a nearby elevated transit
line. The gyrating stairs bring a pulsing energy to upper
Broadway, an area of shuttered auto-repair shops huddling in the
shadows of the grim train line.  The architects catch the sun with the sports center’s
exterior stairs, clad in reflective metal cut in jazzy patterns.
Broad planes of glass open nighttime fitness workouts to the
street and passing trains.  Office Wing  Along residential 218th Street, an office wing juts from
the fourth floor on thin columns and diagonal braces. It angles
away from the street, and its form evokes -- surprise -- muscles
and sinews.  It also shapes an inviting visual portal through greenery
to the action on the soccer field and beyond to the handsome
towers of the Broadway Bridge crossing the river.  That’s a gift to the Inwood neighborhood, which Columbia
has walled off from the river with high fences enclosing
indifferently designed facilities.  Holl’s buildings aren’t usually so aggressively angular,
but his poetic side -- a rare quality in an architect -- emerges
where the building faces the sports fields. It opens in soft
facets, “like a hand,” as McVoy told me.  Take a tour if you can get one. The interior stairs and
circular hallways move athletes, coaches and teachers along a
spiraling pathway rich with incident, even though the finishes
are functional gray-painted drywall and ground-concrete floors.  Casual Chat  The underlying agenda is to encourage casual conversations
among the people that use the building. Coaches’ offices
overlook the two-story-high gym for strength and conditioning,
where windows frame the blurred passage of the subway trains
just outside. Narrow corridors at the core of the building splay
open to places where people can share views of the soccer field
and discuss the action.  You can feel the piston-like compressed energy in the
tubular diagonal braces McVoy and Holl have put on display.
Athletes’ study needs get pride of place at the top of the
building, which feels like an aerie with numerous carefully
framed views in all directions.  It’s too bad the site entrance at Campbell continues to be
fenced, though Columbia has removed barbed wire, planted street
trees, and will soon open a picturesque bit of river shoreline
at the neighboring Inwood Park, designed by the landscape
architect  James Corner Field  Operations. The project includes a
storm drain transformed into a tiny marshy estuary,  It offers stunning views of the dramatic meeting of the
Harlem and Hudson rivers between the rock escarpments that
divide Manhattan from the Bronx.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on dining, Jeremy
Gerard on theater and Daniel Akst on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 