-- Contractor Earnings Rise Amid U.S. Budget Cuts, Shutdown
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-10-23T20:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/contractor-earnings-rise-amid-u-s-budget-cuts-shutdown.html
The biggest U.S. defense
contractors, led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Northrop (NOC)  Grumman
Corp., have endured  federal budget  cuts and a partial government
shutdown with little harm so far to their profits.  Lockheed and Northrop were among the leading federal
suppliers reporting third-quarter earnings that beat analysts’
estimates even as sales declined. The top five U.S. contractors’
shares have soared this year, with Northrop climbing 56 percent.
Its shares rose 4 percent to $105.56 -- the biggest advance
since September 2010 -- after the company raised its full-year
profit forecast today.  The companies had been preparing for an era of declining
 defense spending  with the end of the  Iraq war  and the continuing
withdrawal of U.S. troops from  Afghanistan . They have continued
to reduce costs, make their operations more efficient and, in
some cases, cut their workforces.  “When everything’s going up, there hasn’t been an
incentive for the defense industry to work as a regular
business,” said Brian Ruttenbur, an analyst with CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Now that things are
flattening out and going down, there’s an incentive for them to
become more efficient.”  No. 1 contractor Lockheed, which furloughed 2,400 employees
during the 16-day government shutdown this month, said yesterday
that it cut 600 workers last week from its Mission Systems and
Training unit. The segment’s sales fell 8.8 percent to $1.7
billion in the third quarter from a year earlier, the company
said yesterday.  ‘Managing Very Well’  “These companies have essentially been able to cut costs,
streamline” and “frankly, downsize in some cases, but they are
managing very well,” Marion Blakey, president and chief
executive officer of the Aerospace Industries Association, said
on Bloomberg Television yesterday.  “There’s a limit, though” if cuts continue, she said.  The Arlington, Virginia-based trade group has begun a new
lobbying campaign to persuade Congress to come up with an
alternative to the across-the-board budget reductions known as
sequestration. Unless the law is changed, $50 billion is to be
cut from Pentagon programs during the year that began Oct. 1.
Current spending legislation funds the government only until
January.  “Considering the budget environment, we would expect lower
sales in 2014,” Wes Bush, chairman and chief executive officer
of  Falls Church , Virginia-based Northrop, said during a
conference call with analysts.  Northrop’s Forecast  Northrop, the fifth-largest federal contractor, today
raised its full-year sales forecast by less than 1 percent to
$24.4 billion. The company said  net income  in the third quarter
climbed 8.3 percent to $497 million, or $2.14 a share, from $459
million, or $1.82 a share, a year earlier. That beat the $1.82-a-share average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Revenue declined 2.6 percent to $6.11 billion.  Lockheed yesterday projected full-year earnings per share
of $9.40 to $9.70, an increase from the $9.20 to $9.50 estimated
in July. The company said its profit from continuing operations
climbed to $842 million, or $2.57 a share, from $727 million, or
$2.21 a share, a year earlier, even as sales declined 4.4
percent to $11.35 billion.  Boeing, General Dynamics  Boeing Co. (BA) , the No. 2 U.S. federal contractor, also beat
analysts’ profit estimates in earnings reported today as
airlines bought more of the Chicago-based company’s fuel-efficient commercial planes. Its shares rose 5.3 percent to
close at $129.02 in in  New York , the biggest advance since
August 2011.  Investors didn’t reward all the government’s contractors.  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , the third-largest federal supplier,
fell 2.2 percent to close at $86.23. The Falls Church, Virginia-based company had raised its full-year profit forecast slightly,
to $6.90 to $7 a share from $6.85 to $6.95 a share.  The company also reported a backlog of $47.9 billion at the
end of the third quarter, down from $49.4 billion in the
previous quarter, and cited slower payments from the Pentagon
and other customers.  Even with those concerns, General Dynamics reported third-quarter net income of $651 million, or $1.84 a share, up from
$600 million, or $1.70 a share, a year earlier. That compared
with the $1.68-a-share estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Gulfstream Jets  Higher sales of General Dynamics’ Gulfstream business jets
have helped offset some of the declines in military revenue. The
company delivered 99 of the planes during the first nine months
of 2013, compared with 88 during the same period in 2012.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the No. 6 federal contractor,
was an outlier among the biggest defense companies, reducing its
full-year sales forecast yesterday. The company, based in
Hartford, Connecticut, blamed Pentagon spending cuts for the
decline.  So far, the Pentagon has managed to protect some of the
bigger weapons systems, such as Lockheed’s F-35 jet, from
sequestration cuts.  EMC Corp. (EMC) , the world’s largest maker of storage computers,
declined the most since May 2012 yesterday after the company
said third-quarter sales fell $250 million short of its
forecasts. David Goulden, president and chief executive officer
of the Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based company, attributed the
shortfall in part to “a decline in U.S. federal government
spending.”  Just as the biggest contractors didn’t immediately profit
from the military buildup following the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, the top defense companies won’t feel the
impact of a decline in  government spending  until their long-term
contracts expire, analyst Ruttenbur said.  “The long lead-time products, they’re taking a while on
the downside to see it,” he said. “They took a while on the
upside to see it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  