-- Copper Falls Most in 12 Weeks on Signs China Use May Ebb
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-10-23T17:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/copper-slumps-from-one-month-high-as-chinese-interest-rates-rise.html
Copper futures fell the most in 12
weeks after surging interest rates eroded the outlook for demand
in  China , the world’s biggest user of industrial metals.  The benchmark money-market rate jumped the most since July
as China’s central bank refrained from adding funds to markets.
Copper also slumped after the nation’s banks tripled the amount
of bad loans written off in the first half and data yesterday
showed employers in the U.S. hired fewer workers last month than
estimated by economists.  “Any bearish news out of China signals that a slowdown may
be coming,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at
Archer Financial Services Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “Any type of slowdown is going to be bad for
metals.”  Copper futures for December delivery slid 2 percent to
settle at $3.2675 a pound at 1:18 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest drop for a most-active contract since July 30.
Yesterday, the price reached $3.355, the highest since Sept. 20.  “Reversals in copper today seem greater in magnitude,
perhaps because it has been used in China as collateral for
short-term loans in anticipation of a credit crunch around year-end, as occurred last year around the same time,” Michael Turek, a senior director at Newedge Group SA in  New York , said
in an e-mail. The metal “took the shocking blow of overnight
Chinese money-market rate spikes right on the chin,” he said.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 2.2 percent to $7,171 a metric ton ($3.25 a pound).
Aluminum, tin, lead and zinc slid.  Nickel for delivery in three months dropped 2 percent to
$14,560 a ton. Yesterday, the price climbed to the highest since
mid-August amid concern that ore exports will be halted next
year from  Indonesia , the top producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in Washington at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  