-- Credit Risk Resisting War Tops Emerging Nations: Israel Markets
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-10-24T10:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/credit-risk-resisting-war-tops-emerging-nations-israel-markets.html
Israeli credit risk is improving
while sentiment in the largest  emerging markets  deteriorates,
highlighting the nation’s resistance to regional upheaval and
Federal Reserve policy shifts.  Israel’s credit default swaps have fallen 23 basis points,
or 0.23 percentage point, this year to 113 today, while
contracts for  Turkey , Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and China all
increased as prospects for reduced stimulus triggered an outflow
from developing markets. Turkey’s swaps have climbed 53 basis
points this year to 180.  The start of natural gas production this year has boosted
sentiment toward the nation as it spurs gains in the shekel and
strengthens government finances. Investors have also looked past
the worsening security environment among Israel’s neighbors.
Since May, the civil war in  Syria  has intensified, with the use
of chemical weapons threatening to internationalize the
conflict. Political turmoil has also deepened in  Egypt , where
the army’s takeover in July led to escalating violence.  “The periodic geopolitical crises in the region don’t have
significant influence on either Israeli markets or the
government’s ability to manage the economy,” said Ori Greenfeld, chief economist at Clal Finance Investment Management
Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .  Israel ’s main  stock index  has added 15 percent in dollar
terms this year, while the MSCI Emerging Markets  benchmark 
dropped 2 percent.  ‘Prosperous and Diverse’  The shekel has been the biggest gainer among 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg this year, rising 5.7 percent
against the dollar. Its strength has been driven by the start of
gas output off Israel’s Mediterranean coast, which is poised to
turn the country into an energy exporter.  Finance Minister Yair Lapid said today he will work with
designated Bank of Israel Governor Karnit Flug to weaken the
shekel.  Israel’s economy is “prosperous and diverse,” and the gas
output will strengthen its external finances,  Standard & Poor’s 
said last month, affirming its A+ debt rating, the fifth-highest
grade. The International Monetary Fund forecasts growth of 3.8
percent this year and 3.3 percent in 2014.  Credit default swaps in  Estonia  and the  Czech Republic ,
which Standard & Poor’s rates AA-, one level higher than Israel,
had climbed six and nine basis points respectively by yesterday
since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s May 22 comments on
stimulus. Israel’s swaps fell five basis points in the period.  Energy-importing countries such as India and Turkey have
been among the worst-hit in the emerging-market decline prompted
by Bernanke’s comments.  Gas Finds  Credit-default swaps for the  State Bank of India (SBIN) , a proxy
for the sovereign, have climbed by almost two thirds since May
22 to 285 basis points, while the rupee slid about 10 percent.
In Turkey, swaps jumped by about 50 percent and the currency
dropped about 6 percent, while the contracts also increased for
Brazil, Russia and China. Rising credit-default swap prices
signal a deterioration in investor sentiment.  Israel’s credit risk has been shielded from the global
concerns over a Fed reversal “because investors believe the
shekel will keep appreciating due to the new natural gas finds,
Israel’s strong current-account surplus, and the about $80
billion in foreign currency reserves held by the  Bank of
Israel ,” said Ofer Klein, head of economics and research at
Harel Insurance & Financial Services.  Political Risks  Israel had a current-account surplus of $1.79 billion in
the second quarter. Income from gas production may add as much
as $3 billion this year, and for every $1 billion increase the
shekel gains about 1 percent, according to the Bank of Israel.  The IMF predicts an Israeli surplus of 3 percent of GDP
next year, compared with deficits of 3.8 percent in India and
7.2 percent in Turkey  Regional political risks did push Israeli credit-default
swaps higher in August and early September, narrowing the gap
with other emerging markets. They reached a 2013 high of 147
basis points on Sept. 5, as the U.S. weighed military action
against Syria’s government.  Since Sept. 9, when President  Barack Obama  welcomed a
Russian proposal for averting the use of force, the swaps have
dropped 37 basis points as of yesterday.  The prospect of Israeli strikes against  Iran , aimed at
stopping the country’s nuclear program, has also receded as the
U.S. and allies step up talks with the Islamic republic after
its new president, Hassan Rouhani, said he’s ready for a deal.  That’s a risk that may return, said Elliot Hentov, the
primary analyst for S&P’s Israel report, in a phone interview.
“If this diplomatic initiative fails, the proponents for
military action will become stronger, and 12 months from now we
could be seeing a very different picture.”  For now, “Israel is like an island in the ocean with all
sorts of storms raging around it,” Hentov said. “Most of its
adversaries are busy with other priorities, thus deflecting much
of its risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  