-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise From Six-Year Low; Safeway Risk Climbs
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-23T21:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/credit-swaps-in-u-s-increase-safeway-risk-climbs-correct-.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
climbed from a six-year low as U.S. house prices rose less than
economists estimated. The cost to protect the debt of  Safeway
Inc. (SWY)  increased.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 1.8
basis points to 72 basis points at 5:05 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index ended
yesterday at the lowest level since November 2007 in data that
adjust for the effects of the market’s shift to a new version of
the index in September.  The measure increased after the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  reported house prices climbed 0.3 percent in August from
July, missing the 0.8 percent average estimate of 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. A softening of the homes market would
constrain economic growth, making it harder for companies to
repay their debts.  “We are bouncing off the recent tights in the index, so
one would expect a bit of backup here,” Michael Kraft, a senior
money manager at Vanderbilt Avenue Asset Management in New York,
wrote in an e-mail.  The swaps index typically climbs as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Safeway Risk  Credit risk for Safeway reached an eight-month high amid
speculation that the grocer is reviewing buyout options from
multiple firms with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The Pleasanton,
California-based company said Oct. 10 that it would discontinue
operating its 72 Dominick’s stores in  Chicago .  Five-year swaps tied to the debt of Safeway increased 59
basis points to 257 basis points at 4:30 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw Hill
Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s the highest level for the
swaps since Feb. 21.  Gaming and Leisure Properties Inc. , an entertainment
company planning to spin off from  Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN) ,
sold $2.05 billion in senior notes today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  High Yield  The offering includes $550 million of 4.375 percent, five-year bonds that yield 307 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, $1 billion of 4.875 percent, seven-year
notes that yield 297 basis points more than benchmarks and $500
million of 5.375 percent, 10-year debentures at a 286 basis-point spread, Bloomberg data show.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 6.4 basis points to 346.8 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries was little changed at 125.3 basis
points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade,
or junk-rated, debt rose 10 basis points to 663.5.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  