-- MCX Panel to Run Top India Commodity Bourse as Probe Widens
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-10-23T11:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/mcx-panel-to-run-india-s-top-commodity-exchange-as-probe-widens.html
The  Multi Commodity Exchange of
India Ltd.  formed a panel to run the nation’s biggest platform
for commodities as authorities widened a probe into trading
practices at a related spot bourse.  Pravir Vohra and G. Ananth Raman have been appointed as
independent directors to the board, Multi Commodity, also known
as MCX, said in an exchange filing today. Parveen Kumar Singhal,
a deputy managing director, will act as the chief executive
until a managing director is named, it said.  MCX’s Chief Executive Officer Shreekant Javalgekar, its
chairman, and three directors quit over the past month after the
commodities regulator tightened rules for selecting directors on
futures exchanges. Investors have been calling for the
resignation of MCX founder and Vice Chairman Jignesh Shah as
authorities widened an investigation into the failure of a spot-trading platform backed by him.  “Jignesh Shah is just buying time,” Kishor Ostwal,
managing director at  CNI Research Ltd. (CNIR) , said in an interview.
“There is a strong possibility that MCX may change hands and
the current promoters may lose control.”  Shares (MCX)  of MCX, which controls about 90 percent of the
nation’s $2.8 trillion commodities futures market, have dropped
26 percent since July 31 when the National Spot Exchange Ltd.
suspended trading in most commodities.  Financial Technologies 
( India ) Ltd., which owns 26 percent of MCX, has plunged 70
percent in the period. The NSEL broke rules by permitting the
sale of goods traders didn’t keep in its warehouses, according
to the regulator.  Police Probe  Shah’s business began floundering as the payment crisis and
trading irregularities at the now defunct NSEL came to light.
Shah this month quit the board of the MCX-Stock Exchange Ltd.,
India’s newest equity bourse backed by him, after the Mumbai
police began investigating the NSEL.  “The entire episode has been good for the commodity market
as it will mean stronger regulation and better structure in the
longer term,” said  Kishore Narne , head of commodity and
currency at Motilal Oswal Commodity Broker Ltd. “It may take
some time to happen and there may be some pain for the market
over the next six months.”  The Economic Offences Wing of the Mumbai police has
arrested NSEL’s former Chief Executive Officer Anjani Sinha and
two other senior officials after an investors’ group complained
the executives diverted funds and failed to settle about 56
billion rupees ($907 million) in dues to investors.  More Arrests  The bourse has failed to meet most of the payments target
set under the supervision of the regulator.  The police yesterday arrested Nilesh Patel, the managing
director of NK Proteins Ltd., the top defaulter on the NSEL,
according to Rajvardhan, additional commissioner of police at
the economic offences wing. Three calls made to the Ahmedabad-based NK Proteins today weren’t answered.  NSEL and  Financial Technologies (FTECH)  Group will co-operate with
the authorities in the probe, the exchange said in a statement
on Sept. 30. The regulator has sought responses from Financial
Technologies, Jignesh Shah, Javalgekar and Joseph Massey, who
quit as the managing director of the MCX-SX on Oct. 9, on their
eligibility to operate MCX, the  Press Trust of India  reported
Oct. 16. Financial Technologies and the executives have sought a
one-month extension to a deadline of Oct. 18 to reply to the
notice, the agency reported.  Venkat Chary, MCX’s chairman, and five other directors
resigned from the board on Aug. 30 to comply with regulator’s
guidelines for board members. The regulator has since nominated
four independent directors to the MCX board.  The selection of a new chief executive for MCX will need to
be approved by the regulator, Ramesh Abhishek, chairman of the
Forward Markets Commission, said in a text message yesterday.  MCX closed little changed at 474.35 rupees in Mumbai today.
Financial Technologies advanced 2.3 percent to 164 rupees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  