-- Delaware Judges Can’t Do Secret Arbitrations, Court Rules
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-10-23T17:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/delaware-judges-can-t-do-secret-arbitrations-court-rules.html
Delaware’s Chancery Court, the
country’s leading venue for securities litigation, can’t be used
for secret arbitration proceedings in business disputes, a federal 
appeals court ruled.  The arbitration program set up by the state, which allowed
publicly funded judges to make decisions behind closed doors on
business cases, violates the public’s constitutional right to
access to the courts, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia
said today in a 2-1 decision.  “Logic weighs in favor of granting access to Delaware’s
government-sponsored arbitration proceedings,” the appeals
court said. “It would ensure accountability and allow the
public to maintain faith in the Delaware judicial system.”  The decision voids a program Delaware established in 2009
with the objective of bringing more work to its judges in cases
where more than $1 million is at stake. Delaware is the
corporate home to more than half of the publicly traded
companies in the U.S. and 63 percent of Fortune 500 companies,
state officials say.  Delaware Chancery Court’s Chief Judge Leo Strine “is not
commenting,” Ramona Monsen, a member of the court’s staff, said
after the decision was made public.  Conventional Trials  More than a year ago, U.S. District Judge Mary A. McLaughlin in Philadelphia ruled that Delaware’s secret
arbitration proceedings were similar enough to conventional
civil trials that the secret proceedings violated the public’s
right of public access to the courts under the First Amendment
of the U.S. Constitution.  The Delaware Coalition for Open Government, a citizen
watchdog group, challenged the use of “state-empowered judges”
to hear evidence and hand down decisions in secret. Media
outlets including the  New York Times (NYT) ,  Associated Press  and
 Bloomberg News  filed court papers supporting the challenge.  Lawyers for Delaware’s judges countered that arbitrations
weren’t comparable to civil trials and allowed lower-cost and
faster adjudication of disputes.  While the appeals court disagreed with McLaughlin that the
hearings are tantamount to civil trials, it ruled open access is
required because both “the place and process” of the
proceeding has historically been available to the press and
public.  ‘Democratic Society’  “The right of access to government-sponsored arbitrations
is deeply rooted in the way the judiciary functions in a
democratic society,” Circuit Judge Dolores Sloviter wrote for
the majority.  Circuit Judge Jane Roth, a Delaware resident, dissented,
saying, “historically, arbitration has been private and
confidential,” and resolution of complex business disputes
involving sensitive data “needs to be confidential” to prevent
access by competitors.  The non-jury Delaware Chancery Court, founded in 1792, is
known for providing fast-track trials on complex business
disputes heard  by sophisticated judges. It traces its history
to decision-making by the British kings’ chancellors.  Under the program, arbitrations aren’t included on public
court dockets and remain confidential unless they’re the subject
of an appeal.  Chancery officials charge a $12,000 arbitration filing fee
and an additional $6,000 charge for each day a judge works on
the matter, according to court filings.  First Challenge  The state’s arbitration push went unnoticed until  Skyworks
Solutions Inc. (SWKS) , a semiconductor maker, filed to arbitrate a
dispute in Delaware in 2011 over a $260 million acquisition of
rival Advanced Analogic Technologies Inc. The requests became
public through the companies’ filings with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, prompting the Delaware coalition to
challenge the program.  Business groups, including the Nasdaq Stock Market and  New
York  Stock Exchange, urged the court to maintain the closed
arbitration process, saying companies should be allowed to
resolve their disputes in private as long as all sides agree.  The case is Delaware Coalition for Open Government Inc. v.
Strine, 12-3859, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia). The lower court case is  Delaware  Coalition for
Open Government Inc. v. Strine, 11-cv-01015, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia at
   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  