-- Detroit Unions, Retirees Face Battle to Kill Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-10-23T13:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/detroit-unions-retirees-face-battle-to-kill-bankruptcy.html
Detroit ’s unions and retired workers
face longer odds of ending the record-setting bankruptcy than
the city does of winning continued court protection in a trial
that started today, lawyers not involved in the case say.  At a trial that may last into next week, opponents will
attack the decision by a state-appointed emergency manager to
put Detroit into bankruptcy, where creditors can’t try to seize
assets or file suits that disrupt city reorganization efforts.  Creditors have lost four of five court battles mounted
since 2008 to strip municipalities of bankruptcy protection.
Detroit also can present a lot of evidence to justify the
filing, bankruptcy attorney Lee Bogdanoff said yesterday in an
interview.  “Detroit is bankrupt in every sense of the word, including
legally,” said Bogdanoff, who is representing Jefferson County,
 Alabama , in its bankruptcy case. “The Detroit tragedy is
precisely what Chapter 9 is designed to address, in a single
federal forum.”  The city must show that it is insolvent, is entitled under
state law to file for bankruptcy, that it tried to negotiate
with creditors or was unable to do so, and that it intends to
file a plan to adjust its debts.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes also faces another
consideration that isn’t among the tests laid out in the
 bankruptcy code , said Larry Dubin, a professor at the University
of Detroit Mercy School of Law.  Litigation Flood  “If the bankruptcy was called off, it seems like there
would be a ton of litigation that would be filed against the
city,” Dubin said.  Once Detroit lays out its evidence, the burden will shift
to the unions and retirees to show why the city is wrong,
bankruptcy attorney James E. Spiotto, a partner with Chapman &
Cutler LLP, said in an interview.  Two key attacks on the bankruptcy filing involve
constitutional challenges that will either fail to convince the
judge or can be put off until later in the case, Spiotto said.  “We think we should win,” said Sharon Levine, a partner
at the law firm Lowenstein Sandler PC who is representing one of
Detroit’s biggest unions, the American Federation of State
County and Municipal Employees.  “We understand that the judge is concerned about Detroit’s
financial situation,” she said. “The pensioners here,
particularly in  Michigan , have a real constitutional right not
to have their pensions diminished. Those rights are protected by
the federal and state constitutions.”  Appeal Possible  Should the unions and retirees lose, “all options are
open,” including an appeal, Levine said.  In July the city filed the biggest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy with about $18 billion in debt, saying it didn’t have
the money to pay its bondholders, retirees and employees all it
owes them and still provide basic services to citizens.  Unions, retirees and the city’s pension system claim
Michigan’s constitution prevents Detroit from reducing worker
pensions. They make the same argument about the law authorizing
emergency manager Kevyn Orr to file the bankruptcy.  Rhodes challenged the assertion that the state constitution
bars any cuts to municipal retiree payments, in or out of
bankruptcy.  Union and retiree lawyers have said that even proposing the
cuts makes a Michigan city ineligible for  bankruptcy protection .
When an attorney for the city’s pension system,  Robert Gordon ,
argued that pension payments get priority over other kinds of
debt, including bonds, the judge interrupted him.  Code Violation  “That violates the bankruptcy code,” Rhodes said. Similar
debts must be treated the same under federal law, he said.  If the city wins, any appeal would first go to the U.S.
District Court in Detroit, where a judge would review the record
of the trial and other evidence. The bankruptcy case would
continue, unless opponents could convince a judge they have a
good chance of winning the appeal and they face an imminent
threat.  Appealing all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court would be
difficult, said  R. Dale Ginter , a bankruptcy lawyer at Downey
Brand LLP in  Sacramento ,  California .  Rhodes has insisted that all testimony and other evidence
be presented in the five days he has scheduled for the
eligibility trial. He said he preferred live testimony to
written excerpts of witness statements.  That shows that the judge is being careful to build a
record that will be difficult to defeat on appeal, Ginter said.  Governor’s Testimony  Governor  Rick Snyder , who testified under oath in a
videotaped deposition earlier this month, may be called as a
witness by the United Auto Workers union, which represents some
city workers. Snyder’s spokeswoman, Sara Wurfel, said the
governor is willing to appear in court and testify if necessary.  Bankruptcy critics may allege that Detroit isn’t truly
insolvent by challenging the claim that the city’s pension
systems are underfunded by $3.5 billion.  Because the city’s finances are so clearly in crisis, that
argument will be hard to win, said Ginter, who represented
retired workers in the bankruptcy case of Vallejo, California.  “If you throw the city out of bankruptcy, what does it
do?” Ginter said. “Who’s going to get paid? There simply is
not enough money.”  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  