-- Detroit Averted ‘Payless Payday,’ Analyst Tells Court
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   S t e v e n   R a p h a e l
-- 2013-10-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/detroit-averted-payless-payday-analyst-tells-court.html
Detroit  faced a “payless payday”
before it filed its $18 billion bankruptcy, a financial analyst
told the judge conducting a trial to determine whether the city
should be stripped of court protection from creditors.  To avoid running out of money for basic services, the city
moved cash around, canceled payments to its pension funds and
defaulted on debt in the months before it filed for bankruptcy,
Gaurav Malhotra, a partner at Ernst & Young LLP, testified
yesterday in Detroit.  These actions were designed “to ensure that the city did
not have a payless payday,” Malhotra told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Steven Rhodes. Without a change, the city would build up a
$3.9 billion deficit over 10 years, mainly because of the cost
of providing pension and health-care benefits to retirees, he
said.  Malhotra was the first of five witnesses the city said it
will present at the trial. Lawyers for retired and current city
workers have attacked the decision by a state-appointed
emergency manager to put Detroit into bankruptcy, where
creditors can’t try to seize assets or file suits that disrupt
reorganization efforts.  In opening statements yesterday, lawyers for the retirees
and city workers said Detroit hasn’t met the standard set out in
Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  to remain under court
protection.  Legal Requirements  The law says the city must show that it’s insolvent, that
it’s entitled under state law to file for bankruptcy, that it
tried to negotiate with creditors or was unable to do so, and
that it intends to file a plan to adjust its debts.  The emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, was never serious about
trying to fix the city’s finances outside of bankruptcy, said
Jennifer K. Green, an attorney for a city pension system
fighting the Chapter 9 case.  Last year, state officials conspired with  Jones Day , the
 law firm  that Orr hired to file the bankruptcy, to create a new
emergency manager law and use it to file for bankruptcy, giving
Detroit leverage over unions and retirees, she said.  “It really was a foregone conclusion,” Green said.  Detroit has a “mountain of evidence” showing it’s
entitled to federal  bankruptcy protection ,  Bruce Bennett  of
Jones Day, a lawyer for the city, said at the beginning of the
trial, which is scheduled to continue through Oct. 29. Detroit
is “failing to provide basic services,” he said.  Not Negotiations  Orr told unions that the talks the city was holding with
them were not negotiations, said Sharon Levine of Lowenstein
Sandler PC, who is representing one of Detroit’s biggest unions,
the American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees.  Bennett said Orr was trying to avoid having the talks come
into conflict with  labor laws . For bankruptcy purposes, the
city’s meetings with creditors were a good-faith effort to
negotiate with creditors, Bennett said.  That distinction was lost on the audience of union
officials, who believed it meant the city was not open to their
opinions, Levine said. Detroit was simply presenting its plan,
not trying to solicit a counter-proposal, she said.  “It was basically a classroom-type instruction, period,”
Levine said.  The questioning of Malhotra in the confines of the federal
courtroom yesterday afternoon contrasted with the noisy
atmosphere outside the courthouse earlier in the day, where more
than 100 protesters marched and carried signs.  ‘Hands Off’  The city should keep its “hands off pensions and restore
health care,” said Detroit resident Walter Knall, 70, a retired
analytical chemist for the city. Knall was part of a group
calling itself the Moratorium NOW! coalition. All were wearing
white T-shirts over their cold-weather garb with the words
“Hands Off My Pension.”  In July, the city filed the biggest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy, listing about $18 billion in debt and saying it
didn’t have the money to pay its bondholders, retirees and
employees everything it owes them while still providing basic
services to citizens.  Unions, retirees and the city’s pension system claim
 Michigan ’s constitution prevents Detroit from cutting pensions.  Governor  Rick Snyder , who testified under oath in a
videotaped deposition this month, is prepared to testify in
court Oct. 28, said Matthew Schneider, a lawyer with the state.
Snyder, a Republican, is being called as a witness by the  United
Auto Workers , which represents some city workers and is trying
to show that the bankruptcy filing wasn’t in good faith.  Answered Questions  Bennett said yesterday that the city did negotiate in good
faith, answering questions it was asked by creditors in talks in
June and July and trying unsuccessfully to persuade unions to
present a counter-proposal.  Holding talks with all bondholders was impractical because
of their number, and cutting bond debt outside of bankruptcy
would have required the consent of all of them, he said.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  