-- Ecuador Judge Testifies to Taking Bribes in Chevron Suit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-10-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/ecuador-judge-testifies-to-taking-bribes-in-chevron-suit.html
A former Ecuadorean judge who
presided over a pollution case against  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  testified
that he and a colleague who issued a $19 billion judgment
against the company in the environmental lawsuit were bribed.  The judge, Alberto Guerra, took the stand yesterday in
 Manhattan  federal court during the trial in a racketeering suit
in which Chevron alleged that the verdict in Ecuador was
procured through fraud.  Guerra has said in a declaration filed with the court that
he was paid thousands of dollars by lawyers for the plaintiffs
to steer the case in their favor. Another former Ecuadorean
judge who issued the $19 billion ruling, Nicolas Zambrano, was
promised $500,000 from the proceeds, Guerra said in the November
filing. Guerra said he also routinely ghost wrote judgments for
Zambrano and was paid for those services.  “It could not seem as though all of the orders were being
issued for the benefit of the plaintiffs,” he said through an
interpreter in court yesterday, explaining why some of the
rulings he was involved with favored Chevron. “The idea was to
not have it look suspicious.”  Guerra said in court that he was given the bribes sometimes
in the form of deposits in his bank account and other times in
envelopes filled with $20 and $50 bills.  Zambrano has denied that he was bribed by the plaintiffs
and that Guerra or the plaintiffs were involved in writing his
decisions. He may testify later on behalf of lawyers for the
Ecuadorean plaintiffs, who sued over pollution in the Amazon
rainforest, the attorneys said.  20-Year Battle  Chevron, the second-largest U.S.-based energy firm, claims
that lawyers for the plaintiffs, led by Manhattan attorney
Steven Donziger, engaged in a scheme to extort money from the
company during a 20-year legal battle over pollution in an
Ecuador oil concession.  The company is seeking an order from U.S. District Judge
 Lewis Kaplan  barring lawyers for the Ecuadoreans from trying to
enforce the 2011 pollution judgment in countries where Chevron
has assets.  Central to the “scheme to defraud and extort Chevron is
the fact that Ecuador’s judiciary has developed systemic
weaknesses and corruption,” the  San Ramon , California-based
company said in a complaint filed in February 2011. “The
conspirators are aware of this fact, and have sought to exploit
it.”  The company alleges Donziger and his associates “lobbied”
judges by meeting with them outside of court and intimidated
them by inciting protests. Donziger claims his tactics were
lawful and that Chevron engaged in similar activities.  Guerra’s $326,000  Donziger claims that Chevron has agreed to pay Guerra at
least $326,000 through 2015 for cooperation and favorable
testimony. Guerra said in his November declaration that the
company paid him for computer equipment and for gathering
evidence useful to the case and not for the testimony.  In the environmental case, Donziger and other lawyers for
indigenous people in  Ecuador ’s Lago Agrio region sought damages
for Texaco Inc.’s alleged dumping of toxic drilling wastes from
1964 until about 1992 that polluted about 1,500 square miles
(3,885 square kilometers). The lawsuit continued against Chevron
when it acquired Texaco in 2001.  Petroecuador, Texaco  Chevron contends that state-owned Petroecuador, a former
Texaco joint-venture partner, is responsible for most of the
pollution. Texaco paid $40 million to clean up its share and was
released from liability under agreements with Ecuador in 1995
and 1998, Chevron said. An international arbitration tribunal
affirmed the accords’ validity in September.  Randy Mastro, a lawyer for Chevron, told the judge in
opening arguments in the nonjury trial on Oct. 15 that Donziger
could get as much as $1.2 billion if the judgment is collected
in full.  During the openings, Richard Friedman, a lawyer for
Donziger, denied his client had engaged in any bribery or other
wrongdoing and instead compared him to civil rights leaders.  “Like Thurgood Marshall, like  Ralph Nader , like a host of
human rights lawyers before him, Mr. Donziger understood you
need legal and social change,” Friedman told the judge.  The racketeering case is Chevron Corp. v. Donziger, 11-cv-00691, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). The appeals court case is In Re Naranjo, 13-00772,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  