-- Hedge Funds Revealing Puerto Rico Too Cheap to Fail: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/hedge-funds-revealing-puerto-rico-too-cheap-to-fail-muni-credit.html
Hedge funds  such as Maglan Capital
LP and MeehanCombs LP are helping fuel a rally in  Puerto Rico 
debt, signaling that investors who have the most appetite for
risk expect the worst may be over for the commonwealth’s bonds.  As yields on obligations of the struggling U.S. territory
soared to records in recent weeks, David Tawil, 38, co-founder
of New York-based Maglan Capital, has been buying. The purchases
mark the first foray into municipal debt for the fund, which
typically focuses on distressed U.S. companies. The moves add
demand to the $3.7 trillion municipal market at a time of record
withdrawals by individuals.  A four-month slide in Puerto Rico securities, along with
Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla’s steps to turn around a
shrinking economy and end budget gaps, have lured hedge funds
and buyers of distressed munis, Tawil said. The former
bankruptcy lawyer bought after taking a pass on debt of two
bankrupt localities,  Detroit  and  Alabama ’s Jefferson County.  “Over the next two years, the government should be able to
make progress in their plans,” said Tawil. His $60 million fund
has earned 31 percent this year through Aug. 31, according to
the firm. That’s more than triple the gains of Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc.’s distressed-debt  index .  “They will do a lot of fundamental changes; they will be
seen as a reforming story, so that debt should trade up
substantially,” Tawil said.  Tax Getaway  The outlook for Puerto Rico’s finances and its debt has
significance beyond the shores of the Caribbean island. More
than three-quarters of U.S. muni mutual funds hold its
securities, which are tax-exempt in all U.S. states, according
to Morningstar Inc.  Tawil and MeehanCombs were among more than 2,000
participants in an Oct. 15 webcast in which Puerto Rico
officials updated investors on the island’s finances in a bid to
stabilize the $70 billion market for its debt. That load has
doubled since 2004, according to the Government Development
Bank, or GDB, which handles the island’s capital-market
transactions and sponsored the call.  Puerto Rico bonds have rebounded since the call. Their 2.1
percent gain Oct. 17 was the biggest since 2008,  Standard &
Poor’s  data show. The debt has still lost  16.8 percent  in 2013,
the worst performance since at least 1999, on concern that a
contracting economy would tax its ability to repay the bonds.  Value View  The past week’s gains pushed yields on some debt to a two-month low.  Tax-exempt general obligations maturing in July 2041 traded
yesterday with an average yield of 7.86 percent, the lowest
since Aug. 27, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 3.53
percentage-point spread above benchmark munis was also the least
since August. Yields exceeded 9 percent last month, the highest
since their March 2012 issue. That’s a taxable equivalent of
about 15 percent for top earners.  Hedge-fund buying is “a good thing,” said Daniel Solender, who manages $16.5 billion as director of munis at Lord
Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “It would mean that
they see value, that they see something positive out of it.”  Greenwich, Connecticut-based MeehanCombs, which manages
$130 million, has been buying Puerto Rico since August, said Eli Combs, its president.  Listening In  “While there are clearly some economic challenges, we
don’t think they’re going to have to restructure anytime soon,”
Combs said in an interview.  Its Puerto Rico holdings include general obligations and
sales-tax debt, he said.  Other participants in last week’s webcast included New
York-based Arrowgrass  Capital Partners  (US) LP, whose parent
company manages $3.5 billion of alternative investments; and
MatlinPatterson Global Advisers LLC, a New York alternative-asset manager.  Nick Lord, spokesman for Arrowgrass, declined to comment.
MatlinPatterson representatives didn’t immediately respond to a
message left with an operator.  Marathon Asset Management LP, with $10 billion of assets,
has also been buying Puerto Rico debt,  Bruce Richards , the
company’s chief executive officer, said Oct. 7 during a Wall
Street Journal-sponsored conference.  The managers’ interest coincides with a stampede out of
muni mutual funds by individuals, who hold about 70 percent of
the local-debt market. Investors have yanked $55 billion in the
past 21 weeks, the most ever, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Gains Attract  Some of the mutual funds that suffered the most as Puerto
Rico bonds slid the past four months are seeing rebounds, and
the recovery may lure back others, Matt Fabian, managing
director of Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm Municipal
Market Advisors, said in an Oct. 21 report.  The net asset value of the  Oppenheimer Rochester National
Municipals (ORNAX)  fund, which has almost 8 percent of its $5.5 billion
in Puerto Rico, rose last week for the first time since
September, to  $6.67 per share , data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The value fell to $6.50 per share last month, the lowest since
April 2011.  The downside to hedge funds’ adding Puerto Rico is that
those investors may not hold the debt for as long as traditional
muni buyers, said Richard Larkin, director of credit analysis
for Fairfield, Connecticut-based Herbert J. Sims Co.  “They’re providing liquidity to people who are scared to
death,” Larkin said.  Handoff Plan  Tawil of Maglan said his fund keeps investments for an
average of two years. He has been buying Puerto Rico debt backed
by sales-tax revenue, water and sewer bonds, and securities of
the highway authority.  “I plan to hand this baton off at some point to somebody
else,” Tawil said. “But right now I’m taking the baton at a
pretty precarious point for the commonwealth.”  An index that measures Puerto Rico’s economy fell 5.4
percent in August from a year earlier, the steepest plunge since
2010, according to GDB data.  Garcia Padilla, 42, who took office in January, wants to
end recurring deficits by the fiscal year beginning July 1,
2015. His budget for this year uses $750 million of deficit
financing, the lowest amount since at least 2009, according to
the GDB.  Governor’s Steps  The governor, a member of the Popular Democratic Party, has
boosted the  retirement age  and increased public-worker
contributions to help sustain a pension system with a funding
level lower than any U.S. state.  “This administration has implemented a number of very
significant actions since January to strengthen Puerto Rico’s
fiscal situation,” interim GDB President Jose Pagan said in an
e-mailed statement. “We will maintain an ongoing dialog with
the investment community to ensure a clear understanding of our
plan, our progress and our improving prospects.”  Commonwealth officials expect to issue as much as $1.2
billion of sales-tax debt by Dec. 31 to balance budgets. If
borrowing costs are too high, the commonwealth has enough funds
to hold off through June 30, GDB officials said during the
webcast.  Elsewhere in the market, localities nationwide are selling
about $8.1 billion in long-term debt this week, the most since
July. They’re issuing with yields near a one-week low.  The  interest rate  on AAA 10-year munis is  2.8 percent ,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with  2.51 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 112 percent, compared with an average of 94 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  