-- Teenage Golfer Lydia Ko Turns Professional Via Social Media
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-23T03:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/teenage-golfer-lydia-ko-turns-professional-via-social-media.html
Lydia Ko, the world’s top-ranked
woman amateur golfer, said she’s turned professional and plans
to play for cash for the first time at next month’s season-ending LPGA Tour event in  Florida .  Ko, a 16-year-old New Zealander who became the youngest
winner of an LPGA title last year, made the announcement today
via a YouTube video posted on her  Twitter account  in which she
features in a skit with All Blacks rugby player Israel Dagg.  “She was reluctant to hold a traditional press
conference,” New Zealand Golf Chief Executive Officer Dean
Murphy said in a statement. “She has also been very busy
studying for exams and wanted to make this announcement in a
different way.”  As an amateur, the South Korean-born Ko won four
professional titles, including back-to-back victories at the
LPGA’s Canadian Women’s Open, the first of which made her the
youngest winner of an LPGA event. She was 15 when she won that
first title. Her ineligibility to accept prize money because of
her amateur status kept her from earning about $660,000 in
winnings from those tournaments.  Ko’s runner-up finish at last month’s Evian Championship,
the fifth women’s golf major of the year, would have earned the
Auckland high school student another $298,000 had she been pro.  During the YouTube clip, Dagg asks Ko if she’s ready to
shed her amateur status as they finish off a round of golf.  “Well if you can beat me, you can definitely handle the
pressure of going pro. It must be time now?” says Dagg, a Rugby
World Cup winner with New Zealand in 2011.  “Okay, I’ll do it,” Ko, the No. 4 player in the Women’s
World Golf Rankings, replies. “Right now, right this second.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  