-- Lehman Sues Giants Stadium Over Termination of Swap Deals
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-10-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/lehman-sues-giants-stadium-over-termination-of-swap-deals.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sued a
company created by the New York Giants football team over claims
it’s owed $100 million for early termination of interest-rate
swap transactions when Lehman filed for bankruptcy.  Lehman, in a complaint filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Manhattan, said  Giants Stadium  LLC undertook a
“contorted plan” to avoid its obligation to pay tens of
millions of dollars when it terminated the swaps in 2008.  The swaps were part of the financing for the New
Meadowlands Stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey , Lehman said.  Giants Stadium, an entity created by the owners of the
National Football League team for their portion of the project,
sought the swaps to hedge against interest rate risk from
auction-rate securities used to finance the stadium, Lehman
said. Lehman was the broker-dealer for those securities,
according to Lehman.  In the period leading up to Lehman’s Chapter 11 filing in
September 2008, the auction-rate market collapsed and Lehman
bought the bonds for its own account rather than auction them
periodically, according to the filing. Under the applicable
interest rate calculation, the swaps were about $60 million in
Lehman’s favor at the time Giants Stadium terminated them,
Lehman said.  Pat Hanlon, a Giants spokesman, declined to comment on the
lawsuit.  The Giants have filed claims in  bankruptcy court  against
Lehman over the terminated swaps for as much as $585 million
each, according to the complaint.  The case is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v. Giants Stadium
LLC, 13-01554, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at +1-   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 