-- Heineken Cuts Profit Outlook as Central European Sales Slide
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-10-23T11:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/heineken-cuts-annual-profit-forecast-as-european-sales-slide.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-biggest brewer, cut its outlook for full-year profit after
third-quarter sales missed estimates amid weak consumption by
beer drinkers in central and eastern Europe, raising concern
about demand across the industry.  Net profit will show a low single-digit percentage decline,
Amsterdam-based Heineken  said today , having previously forecast
a result “broadly in line” with 2012. The shares fell as much
as 5.7 percent, the  steepest drop  since April 24.  The forecast cut represents a further blow for the brewer,
which lowered its expectations for sales growth in April. Third-quarter volume was lower than expected, the company said,
weighed down by weak economies in countries such as Romania and
 Greece . Heineken also cited “delayed” improvements in its main
developing markets, which include  Nigeria  and Mexico.  “Today’s miss is certainly disappointing,” said Jonathan Fyfe, an analyst at Mirabaud in London. “The broad-based nature
of the miss also reads negatively for the rest of the sector.”  Heineken was down 5.2 percent at 50.05 euros at 12:34 p.m.
in Amsterdam trading. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV fell 1.2 percent
in Brussels, while  Carlsberg A/S (CARLB)  slid 2.7 percent in Copenhagen.  Heineken’s so-called consolidated organic beer volume fell
3 percent in the third quarter, missing the median estimate of
nine  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg for a 2 percent decline.  Volume in central and eastern Europe fell 8 percent, hurt
by bad weather and crackdowns on beer advertising in  Russia .
 SABMiller Plc (SAB)  last week also reported difficult business
conditions in Russia, where Carlsberg is the biggest brewer.
Carlsberg is due to report third-quarter results Nov. 13.  Emerging Markets  “We didn’t expect such a negative development” in the
region, Rene Hooft Graafland, chief financial officer of
Heineken, said today on a call with analysts.  Consumer-goods companies including Unilever, Nestle SA and
Diageo Plc have reported slowdowns in  emerging markets  from
China to Brazil, previously seen as a foil to waning demand in
more developed markets such as Europe and the U.S.  “We were expecting a better development in key developing
markets like Mexico and Nigeria,” Hooft Graafland said. “Given
the strong fundamentals we were thinking they’d start picking up
in the second half of the year and we don’t see that yet. The
pickup will come, I’m convinced, but not yet.”  Organic beer volume in Africa and the  Middle East  fell 2
percent, with non-beer volume dropping more than 10 percent.
Social unrest in  Egypt  and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo hurt
sales, as well as economic pressures in Nigeria, the continent’s
second-biggest beer market.  ‘Under Pressure’  “I knew they were under pressure in Egypt and that Africa
wasn’t performing as they hoped, but I’m surprised they
downgraded their guidance,” said  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein in London. Africa is a traditionally
profitable region for the company.  Western European volume rose 2 percent as better weather
and new products spurred consumer demand in markets including
the U.K. and Netherlands. Volume in the Americas slid 2 percent,
weighed down by a slight decline in Mexico, where Heineken owns
 Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB (FMX) , or Femsa.  Heineken last year agreed to buy its joint venture partner
Fraser & Neave Ltd.’s 40 percent stake in Asia Pacific Breweries
for about S$5.6 billion ($4.5 billion). APB is not yet
consolidated into organic growth figures, though Heineken said
it continues to perform “on a very strong note.”  Cost Cuts  Heineken said it will “intensify” cost-cutting across
Europe to try and offset its projected profit decline. The cuts
will cost 70 million euros in the second half, which will
generate benefits from 2014 onwards.  The brewer said currency shifts will cut adjusted net
profit by about 40 million euros this year compared with a
previous estimate of 25 million euros. It cited the euro’s
strength against sterling, the  Mexican peso , Nigerian naira,
Russian ruble and Brazilian real.  Heineken’s net profit forecast excludes some items, the
impact of currency swings and merger activity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  