-- Emanuel Proposes Making Chicago Most Costly for U.S. Smokers
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-10-23T16:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/emanuel-proposes-making-chicago-most-costly-for-u-s-smokers-1-.html
Chicago  Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  proposed
making the nation’s third-most-populous U.S. city the priciest
in which to light up, boosting the cigarette tax by 75 cents a
pack in hopes of narrowing a $339 million budget gap.  Emanuel, 53, offered the increase today as part of his $8.7
billion budget for 2014, a plan that leans on higher fines and
fees instead of raising property and income levies.  The mayor said the city’s ability to avoid dramatic
increases in real estate taxes hinges on state lawmakers
approving legislation to reduce Chicago’s unfunded pension
liability.  “Should Springfield fail to pass pension reform for
Chicago, we will be right back here in Council early next year
to start work on the city’s 2015 budget -- a budget that will
either double city property taxes or eliminate the vital
services that people rely on,” Emanuel said in his budget
speech.  The 50 percent increase on cigarette taxes, to $7.42 per
pack, would move Chicago ahead of  New York  as the nation’s most
heavily taxed smoking venue. A pack of Marlboro at a south Loop
convenience store costs $11.95, including taxes. If Emanuel’s
proposal is approved, the price would jump to $12.70.  “The cigarette tax has the benefit of leading to a
healthier Chicago,” Alderman Joe Moore said in an interview.
“A jurisdiction that increases taxes on cigarettes results in a
healthier populace -- less people smoking, less people who need
health care, so it’s a win-win for everybody.”  Financial Ruin  The new revenue also could save Chicago from financial
ruin. While U.S. cities are showing strengthened finances and
are projecting their first collective revenue increase since
2006, according to the Washington-based  National League of
Cities , Chicago is threatened with pension deficits.  Tax increases of more than $500 million could come in 2015
unless the  Illinois  General Assembly approves changes in city’s
underfunded pension systems. State lawmakers are in session this
week in Springfield, the capital.  Chicago and surrounding Cook County have the largest
pension burdens among the 50 most indebted U.S. local
governments, according to Moody’s Investors Service. Pension
liabilities represent 678 percent of Chicago’s revenue,
according to a Moody’s study released Sept. 26.  Rating Cut  Moody’s cut Chicago’s bond rating three levels to A3,
seventh-highest, in July and dropped Cook County a step to A1,
fifth-best, in August, citing pension liabilities in both cases.
The findings mirror those in the New York-based company’s June
study of state pensions. That report showed that Illinois, its
lowest-rated U.S. state, with an A3 grade, had the highest ratio
of retiree obligations to revenue, at 241 percent.  “I don’t know of a state that has ever put a city at risk
like it is now with pensions,” said Michael Pagano, dean of the
College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs at the  University
of Illinois  at Chicago. Emanuel is confined by circumstances, he
said.  “I think he’s in a box and the box is only made worse by
what he inherited,” Pagano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  