-- Emerging Stocks Slump on China as Gazprom to Vale Tumble
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-10-23T20:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/emerging-stocks-halt-six-day-gain-on-chinese-money-market-rates.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated
from a five-month high amid concern  China ’s economic growth will
falter after the nation’s money-market rates climbed. OAO
Gazprom and Vale SA drove a slump in commodity producers.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index declined 1.1 percent to
1,033.47, snapping a rally that took the gauge to a five-month
high. The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.3 percent, while
Gazprom drove  Russia ’s Micex Index to the biggest slide in two
months.  Brazil ’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  retreated from the highest since March
as iron-ore producer Vale sank. The rand fell as  South Africa 
projected government debt would surge.  Stocks in emerging markets joined a decline in commodities
as crude oil tumbled to a three-month low, while copper and gold
slumped. China’s benchmark money-market rate jumped the most
since July as the central bank refrained from adding funds to
markets and corporate tax payments drained cash. The People’s
Bank of China may lean toward tightening should there be an
acceleration in consumer-price gains, Song Guoqing, a central
bank academic adviser, said over the weekend.  “People do interpret that as a sign that the Chinese
government is trying to reign in borrowing, and borrowing is
seen as a key engine of their economy,”  Peter Jankovskis , who
helps oversee $3.5 billion as co-chief investment officer of
Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook Investments LLC, said by phone.
“That could certainly be pressuring commodity prices, and
that’s being reflected in other equity markets as well.”  All 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell as
commodity companies dropped at least 1 percent. The benchmark
gauge for developing nations has fallen 2.1 percent this year to
trade at 10.7 times projected  earnings , compared with the
 valuation  of 14.3 for the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund sank 2.3 percent to $42.64. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
advanced 12 percent to 21.58.  The Ibovespa dropped 1.8 percent as iron-ore producer  Vale
SA (VALE5) , whose main  export market  is China, snapped a two-day gain.
Pulp producer  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3)  retreated after posting
quarterly earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates. Brazil
plans to sell dollar bonds due in 2025, creating a new benchmark
security in international markets, and buy back notes maturing
in as little as four years.  Russia’s Micex Index dropped the most since Aug. 15 as
natural-gas export monopoly Gazprom, which has the heaviest
weighting on the gauge, sank 2.3 percent. Benchmark indexes in
 Turkey ,  Poland  and the  Czech Republic  fell at least 0.8 percent.  South Africa  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index fell from a record in
Johannesburg after the National Treasury said gross debt will
balloon to 48 percent of gross domestic product in the year
through March 2017 from an estimated 43 percent last year.  China’s stocks  fell, with the benchmark index for smaller
companies capping the biggest two-day loss in 18 months. Leshi
Internet Information & Technology (Beijing) Co., the operator of
online-video portal LeTV.com, plunged by the 10 percent daily
limit for a second day.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) , the
listed unit of China’s largest power group, slumped 5.8 percent
after third-quarter earnings missed estimates.  India ’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  dropped to a one-week low as
quarterly results disappointed investors.  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , the
nation’s third-largest software exporter, fell from a 13-year
high as Morgan Stanley said the company’s sales growth trailed
that of its peers. Cairn India Ltd, which runs India’s biggest
onshore oilfield, slid the most in two months after its profit
missed forecasts.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 312 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  