-- Temperatures in Chicago May Drop as November Begins
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-10-23T13:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/temperatures-in-chicago-may-drop-as-november-begins.html
Below-normal temperatures may
persist in Chicago and around the Great Lakes area into November
while the weather will be more seasonal across most of the U.S.,
said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC.  Readings are expected to be at least 3 degrees Fahrenheit
(1.7 Celsius) lower than usual from Illinois to Ontario and
Quebec, including Chicago, Toronto and Montreal, from Nov. 2 to
Nov. 6, Rogers said.  A split in the jet stream “weakens cool-air availability
and trends much of the nation closer to normal temperatures
overall, but the Pacific pattern is too mixed to generate a big
sustained warm pattern yet either,” Rogers said in his forecast
from Bethesda, Maryland.  Below-normal temperatures, especially in Eastern and
Midwestern cities, tend to increase energy consumption as more
people turn up thermostats to heat homes and businesses.
November marks the start of the cooling season, when most
natural gas is burned in the U.S.  Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas
demand, according to the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm. About 49 percent of all
homes use the fuel for heating.  A cold snap is chilling much of the eastern U.S., where
temperatures are expected to be 5 to 8 degrees below normal
through the end of the week, Rogers said.  Freeze watches and warnings were in place from Kansas to
Massachusetts overnight, according to the  National Weather
Service . The low temperature in  Boston , where  Major League
Baseball ’s World Series begins tonight, is expected to be 39
degrees with a 40 percent chance of rain.  The  Boston Red Sox  are meeting the  St. Louis Cardinals  in
the best-of-seven match.  The normal average temperature in New York for Nov. 1 is
about 53 degrees, according to  MDA . In Boston, it’s 48; in  St.
Louis , 54; Dallas, 63; Chicago, 47; and in Burbank, California,
it’s 64.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  