-- Men’s Wearhouse Said to Mull Bid for Allen Edmonds
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/men-s-wearhouse-said-to-mull-bid-for-allen-edmonds.html
Men’s Wearhouse Inc., the suit
retailer that rejected a $2.3 billion offer from  Jos. A. Bank
Clothiers Inc. (JOSB) , may bid for Allen Edmonds Corp., a closely held
shoemaker, according to a person familiar with the matter.  An acquisition of Allen Edmonds won’t deter Jos. A. Bank’s
pursuit of Men’s Wearhouse, said another person familiar with
Jos. A. Bank’s thinking, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private. Jos. A. Bank, based in Hampstead,
 Maryland , considers Allen Edmonds a good fit for itself and for
Men’s Wearhouse, the person said.  Men’s Wearhouse has been in turmoil since directors removed
founder and Executive Chairman George Zimmer in June after they
disagreed on strategy. The Houston-based retailer cut its profit
forecast last month and turned down Jos. A. Bank’s unsolicited
$48-a-share offer disclosed Oct. 9.  Jos. A. Bank Chairman Robert Wildrick said on Oct. 16 he
wouldn’t rule out making a hostile bid for Men’s Wearhouse. His
offer reflects a 36 percent premium over the retailer’s closing
price the day before the offer. Wildrick said he wouldn’t make a
new, higher bid without looking at the company’s books and would
prefer a friendly offer.  Men’s Wearhouse closed at $46.54 yesterday, below Jos. A.
Bank’s offer. The retailer said in an Oct. 9 statement that Jos.
A. Bank’s offer undervalues the company and “is not in the best
interests of Men’s Wearhouse or its shareholders.”  It adopted a so-called poison pill after the bid that
effectively limits any stockholder from acquiring more than 10
percent of the shares.  Stronger Retailer  Combining the companies would create a stronger retailer,
as each has strengths that can help the other grow, Wildrick
said last week. The two companies have total annual sales of
about $3.5 billion.  Allen Edmonds, based in  Port Washington ,  Wisconsin , is
owned by Goldner Hawn Johnson & Morrison. An acquisition of the
company by Men’s Wearhouse would follow the retailer’s agreement
to purchase JA Holding Inc., owner of the Joseph Abboud clothing
brand, for $97.5 million. That deal, announced in July, is
expected to close in the third quarter. The acquisition is part
of Men’s Wearhouse’s plan for exclusive brands to make up 65 to
70 percent of the business in the long term.  Ken Dennard, a spokesman for Men’s Wearhouse, didn’t
respond to a voicemail left on his mobile phone seeking comment.
Chief Financial Officer Jon Kimmins didn’t return calls seeking
comment. Molly Morse, a spokeswoman for Jos. A. Bank who works 
for Kekst & Co., declined to comment. Mike Grossman, a spokesman 
for Allen Edmonds who works for SCC Grossman Public Relations,
didn’t return a call and e-mail seeking comment.  The Wall Street Journal earlier reported Men’s Wearhouse’s
interest in Allen Edmonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  