-- Energy & Minerals Group Is Said to Plan $2.5 Billion Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-10-23T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/energy-minerals-group-is-said-to-plan-2-5-billion-fund.html
Energy & Minerals Group, the
investment firm that was spun out from NGP Energy Capital
Management LLC, plans to seek $2.5 billion for its next private-equity fund, two people familiar with the matter said.  The firm, which has offices in Houston and  Dallas ,
completed raising predecessor Energy & Minerals Group Fund II LP
at $2.2 billion in December 2012. That pool, the first to be
marketed without NGP, started fundraising in early 2011 with a
$2.5 billion target.  Private-equity firms are competing to raise multibillion-dollar funds to take advantage of the expansion of the energy
industry. Warburg Pincus LLC plans to gather its first fund
dedicated to global energy investments, two people familiar with
the matter said this month. First Reserve Corp. has amassed
close to $2 billion toward a $5 billion cap for its latest
energy fund. Washington-based  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  is seeking about
$1.5 billion for an energy fund that will make investments
outside the U.S.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  will act as placement agent for the
new EMG fund, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public. John Raymond, chief
executive officer of EMG, didn’t respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  American Energy  EMG makes equity investments of $150 million to $400
million in companies, according to its website. The firm invests
across the global natural-resources industry, including in
upstream and midstream companies. Midstream energy companies
gather, process, transport and store fuel. Upstream companies
focus on the exploration and production of oil and gas.  Earlier this month, EMG helped lead an investment in an
affiliate of Aubrey McClendon’s American Energy Partners LP.
McClendon, the former  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  chief executive
officer and chairman, gathered $1.7 billion from EMG and other
private-equity firms to acquire and develop a leasehold position
in  Ohio ’s Utica Shale.  McClendon, who built Chesapeake into the second-largest
U.S. natural gas producer, was ousted from the company in April
after questions were raised about his personal borrowing from
some of the company’s biggest financiers and activist investors.  EMG is led byRaymond, who was previously head of the
midstream investment group at NGP. Irving, Texas-based NGP
Energy Capital Management, partly owned by Carlyle Group LP,
manages $13 billion in funds focused on natural resources.  While part of NGP, the team gathered $1.4 billion in 2007
for NGP Midstream & Resources LP, its initial fund. That vehicle
makes investments in the midstream energy, mining and minerals
sectors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Rossa at 
 jrossa@bloomberg.net  