-- Germany Summons U.S. Ambassador to Explain Merkel Phone Tapping
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-10-24T10:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/merkel-calls-obama-to-complain-over-phone-tapping-intelligence.html
Germany summoned the U.S. ambassador
to the Foreign Ministry over reports Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
mobile phone was monitored by U.S. spy agencies as European
Union leaders prepared to discuss tighter data protection.  Ambassador  John B. Emerson  was called in for talks with
Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  in Berlin this afternoon, a
ministry spokeswoman said, speaking under customary condition of
anonymity.  France  summoned the U.S. ambassador in Paris on Oct.
21 in connection with a U.S. eavesdropping report.  Merkel, who won re-election on Sept. 22 for a third term
leading  Europe ’s biggest economy, is the latest world leader to
express outrage over allegations of U.S. eavesdropping. As the
chancellor prepared to head to Brussels for a two-day meeting of
EU leaders, members of her coalition called for the matter to be
put on the summit agenda.  “This creates a breach of trust between Europe and the
U.S.,” Shada Islam, director of policy at the Friends of Europe
policy-advisory group in Brussels, said in a phone interview.
“It erodes the sense of shared values and the idea that if
things really go wrong, the Europeans can always rely on the
Americans and vice-versa.”  Merkel spoke with Obama yesterday and “made it clear that
she unequivocally condemns such practices if the evidence should
prove true, and sees it as completely unacceptable,” her chief
spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This would be a serious breach of trust. Such practices must
be stopped immediately,” Seibert said, citing the chancellor.  NSA Spying  French President  Francois Hollande  and President  Dilma Rousseff  of  Brazil  are among leaders who have sought
clarification from the U.S. over allegations of spying by the
National Security Agency.  “The Americans are and will remain our best friends -- but
that’s not acceptable at all,” German Defense Minister Thomas de Maiziere said in an ARD television interview today. “I’ve
assumed for years that my phone was being bugged. But I didn’t
expect it from the Americans.”  De Maiziere, who is one of Merkel’s closest advisers,
underlined that the government doesn’t want the affair to cause
long-term harm to U.S.-German ties. “The relations between our
countries are generally stable and important, also for our
future. It will stay that way,” he said.  Ties between the U.S. and Germany have been deep since the
 Cold War . About 43,000 U.S. troops are stationed in Germany,
according to  U.S. European Command .  ‘Not Monitoring’  In  Washington , White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told
reporters yesterday that “the president assured the chancellor
that the  United States  is not monitoring and will not monitor
the communications of the chancellor.”  Jan Techau, Carnegie Europe’s Brussels office director,
said while “everybody spies on everybody,” tapping Merkel’s
phone was “getting very uncomfortably close to the center.”  “This is not a trust-builder but I don’t think that the
working relationship with America will be much affected,”
Techau said in a phone interview, adding that he also didn’t
think the affair would harm EU-U.S. talks aimed at a free trade
agreement. “Germany really wants this deal,” he said.  EU-U.S. Trade  Wolfgang Bosbach , a senior lawmaker for Merkel’s Christian
Democratic bloc, said in an interview that although “friends
don’t spy on friends,” it remained crucial to push ahead with
talks aimed at the EU-U.S. free trade pact. He said that the
bugging matter should be put on the EU summit agenda.  German news magazine  Der Spiegel  first reported that U.S.
intelligence may have been monitoring Merkel’s private mobile
phone for years. German authorities investigated and gathered
enough information to confront the U.S. with findings suggesting
that Merkel’s phone had been monitored, Spiegel said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  Merkel’s government held “high-level” talks in Berlin
yesterday with White House and U.S. State Department officials
to clarify the facts and these discussions will continue,
Seibert said.  “The U.S. would be wise to distinguish between its allies
and those about which it has more concrete security concerns,”
Daniel Hamilton, head of the Center for Transatlantic Studies in
Washington, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “On the
other hand, it is naive for the Germans to believe that only the
U.S. does this.”  French Outcry  Obama has already sought to reassure Hollande this week
about the countries’ relations after a report in Le Monde
newspaper that the NSA eavesdropped on millions of phone calls
inside France. The two leaders spoke by phone on Oct. 21 to
discuss U.S. intelligence gathering amid an outcry in France
stirred by the report that U.S. authorities had intercepted and
recorded 70.3 million bits of telecommunications data from Dec.
10, 2012, to Jan. 8, 2013.  Also this week,  Mexico ’s government condemned the alleged
hacking of the e-mail account of then-President  Felipe Calderon 
in 2010, saying such actions are unacceptable and violate
international law. Brazil’s Rousseff called off a state visit to
Washington after allegations of U.S. spying sparked outrage in
 Latin America ’s biggest economy.  In Germany, the development emerges at a sensitive time for
Merkel, coming on the day that she convened negotiations with
her main Social Democratic Party rivals on forming a coalition
following her Sept. 22 election victory. The SPD said during the
campaign that free-trade talks with the U.S. should be put on
hold until the Obama administration clarified the extent of U.S.
monitoring in Germany by the NSA.  Ronald Pofalla, Merkel’s chief of staff, said Aug. 12 that
the U.S. and  Germany  had agreed not to spy on each other
following the scandal over electronic surveillance. Accusations
that the U.S. had practiced “total surveillance” on German
citizens is “off the table,” Pofalla said then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  