-- EU Parliament Seeks Power Over Euro Area’s ESM Firewall Fund
-- B y   I a n   W i s h a r t
-- 2013-10-23T17:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/eu-parliament-seeks-power-over-euro-area-s-esm-firewall-fund.html
The European Parliament appealed for
the right to act as a check on the euro area’s firewall fund,
saying rescues of governments and banks need more democratic
accountability.  The European Union assembly requested the expanded role
over the 500 billion-euro ($689 billion) European Stability
Mechanism, the region’s main tool for stemming a debt crisis
that forced five nations to seek emergency aid since early 2010.
The 28-nation legislature asked the European Commission, the
EU’s executive arm, to propose legal changes that would give
lawmakers a formal channel for overseeing ESM activities.  The ESM should have “comprehensive European Parliament
democratic accountability,” the 766-seat assembly said in a
non-binding resolution today in Strasbourg,  France .  The call is part of a goal by the EU Parliament, the bloc’s
only directly elected institution, to gain greater oversight of
decision-making in the 17-nation euro zone as it centralizes
economic and financial powers to defend the single currency.  In September, the Parliament reached an agreement with the
European Central Bank on access by lawmakers to the minutes of
the ECB’s bank-oversight board, clearing an obstacle to the next
step in Europe’s planned banking union.  If given a formal role in the oversight of the ESM, the
European Parliament would have an equal say with national
governments over changes made to the working of the fund. The
ESM’s chief, Klaus Regling of  Germany , would also become more
accountable to the Parliament.  The ESM, set up to bail out stricken euro-area governments,
will next year gain power to directly recapitalize banks. Michel
Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, has said it could
one day be empowered to decide on the shutdown of failing banks,
if treaties were amended to turn the ESM into an EU institution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Wishart in Brussels at 
 iwishart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  