-- EU Parliament Urges Freeze of Terror-Finance Pact With U.S.
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-10-23T15:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/eu-parliament-urges-freeze-of-terror-finance-pact-with-u-s-1-.html
The European Parliament demanded a
halt to bank-data transfers to U.S. counter-terrorism
investigators because of possible violations of privacy, the
latest international outcry over alleged American spying.  The assembly urged the European Commission to suspend a
trans-Atlantic  agreement  on data provision because of concerns
that U.S. authorities had unauthorized access to the financial
information covered by the deal. Under the program, the European
Union lets the U.S. Treasury Department view records from the
 Swift  money-transfer system.  “The U.S. appears to be in clear breach of that agreement
following recent revelations about the extent of spying on
friendly allies and innocent civilians,” said Sophie in ’t
Veld, a Dutch member who helped steer the call for suspension
through the 28-nation EU Parliament today in Strasbourg,  France .
The appeal is not binding on the commission, the EU’s executive
arm, which responded by pledging to pursue consultations with
the U.S.  Trans-Atlantic cooperation to fight terrorism has become
embroiled in the diplomatic fallout over reports of snooping by
the U.S. National Security Agency based on documents disclosed
by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden. He has been granted
asylum by Russia while facing espionage charges in the U.S.  Spying Allegations  Two days ago, the French government expressed outrage at a
report in Le Monde that the NSA eavesdropped on millions of
phone calls inside France and demanded that the U.S. cease the
spying. The Foreign Ministry in Paris summoned the U.S.
ambassador after the newspaper said the U.S. had intercepted and
recorded 70.3 million bits of “telecommunications data” from
Dec. 10, 2012, to Jan. 8, 2013.  Three days ago, the Mexican government condemned the NSA’s
alleged hacking in 2010 of the e-mail account of then-President
 Felipe Calderon , saying such actions are unacceptable and
violate international law. The Mexican Foreign Ministry was
responding to a report by  Der Spiegel  in  Germany .  Such news reports have also stirred U.S. tensions with
countries including Germany and  Brazil . Allegations of NSA
spying against Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  prompted her
last month to call off a state visit to  Washington .  “It is increasingly evident that the NSA data-tracking
programs go far beyond the fight against terrorism,” said in ’t
Veld, who belongs to the EU Parliament’s pro-business Liberal
group.  U.S. Assurances  The commission said it has “no indications” from
consultations already begun with the U.S. that the bank-data
transfer pact, known as the TFTP agreement, has been violated.
During this process, the American side “has provided detailed
explanations and assurances,” said the Brussels-based
commission in a statement.  The commission said it would keep the trans-Atlantic accord
in place while conducting further checks with American officials
on the accuracy of “allegations of access to financial-messaging data in the EU contrary to the TFTP agreement.”  “We are still waiting for additional written assurances
that the commission has requested from the U.S.,” EU Home
Affairs Commissioner Cecilia Malmstroem said. “We will follow
up our request for written assurance with the U.S. without delay
and keep the European Parliament fully informed.”  Privacy Protection  Privacy has traditionally been a sensitive matter in the EU
Parliament. In February 2010, ignoring the appeals of European
governments and the U.S. administration, the assembly rejected a
version of the data-transfer accord after saying it lacked
adequate protection of personal information. Five months later,
the Parliament endorsed a revised agreement after winning extra
provisions to protect privacy.  The EU-wide accord is the U.S. government’s preferred tool
for collecting European data under the Terrorist Finance
Tracking Program created after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks,
avoiding country-by-country requests and making the transfers
less politically controversial.  Swift, with headquarters in  Belgium , relays money-transfer
orders among more than 10,000 banks and other financial
institutions in over 200 countries and territories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  