-- European Bank Stocks Fall as ECB Details Health Check
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-10-23T08:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/european-bank-stocks-fall-as-ecb-details-health-check.html
European banking stocks slid as the
European Central Bank unveiled details of its plan for checks on
the financial health of the euro area’s biggest lenders.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
fell as much as 2 percent, the biggest intraday drop this month.
Banks in Europe’s periphery led the decline, with  Bankinter SA (BKT) 
of Spain losing as much as 4.1 percent and  National Bank of
Greece SA (ETE)  sliding as much as 5.3 percent.  European officials have entrusted the ECB with overseeing
the region’s financial system to prevent a repeat of turmoil
that set off the euro area’s worst recession since World War II.
The central bank said today that it will apply a stricter
definition of capital in the final part of its assessment of
bank balance sheets as it assumes the regulatory role.  “Some investors just find the situation too hot and are
getting out of banking stocks in peripheral European countries,
like Spain and Portugal,” Stefan Bongardt, a European banking
analyst with Independent Research GmbH in  Frankfurt , said today
in a phone interview. “The problem with Spanish banks is that
they haven’t made as much progress as some of their peers on
stricter capital ratios. Many people have also been skeptical
about how they’re valuing their real estate portfolios.”  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s largest lender, and
 Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  of Sweden also declined. Nordea
reported third-quarter profit that fell short of analysts’s
estimates today, while Handelsbanken’s 14 percent profit growth
in the period trailed the 19 percent advance announced by
Stockholm-based competitor  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  