-- EuroChem Positive on Potash Amid Uralkali-Belarus Dispute
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-10-23T14:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/eurochem-positive-on-potash-amid-uralkali-belarus-dispute.html
OAO EuroChem, the Russian fertilizer
maker controlled by billionaire Andrey Melnichenko, said its
planned potash mines remain viable even as the collapse of OAO
Uralkali’s partnership with Belarus sends prices lower.  “Uralkali’s trading-venture feud won’t hurt the economics
of our potash projects,” Andrey Ilyin, EuroChem’s chief
financial officer, said in an interview in Moscow yesterday. The
company intends to go from having zero potash output to 8
million metric tons a year within a decade, about 60 percent of
the current capacity at Uralkali, the world’s biggest producer.  Uralkali plunged the $20 billion global market for the soil
nutrient into turmoil at the end of July by ending a marketing
venture that accounted for 40 percent of worldwide potash
exports. The Russian company said Belarus was selling cargoes
outside of their agreement and said it would increase production
to pursue market share, sending shares of rival fertilizer
producers tumbling.  The price of potash for immediate delivery in  China , the
biggest consumer, has dropped to $325 a ton in September from
$345 in July, according to Uralkali. That decline won’t deter
EuroChem from developing its two projects in the Volgograd and
Perm regions, Ilyin said.  “Both can withstand a global potash price of $300 a ton,
and even below $250 a ton,” he said. “We still plan to
commission both potash plants in 2017.” The company is working
to arrange $750 million of financing for its Usolskiy project in
the Perm region, and plans to complete this in December or
January, Ilyin said.  Potash Entry  EuroChem plans to start selling potash on the global market
only in 2019, once the Moscow-based company’s production has
expanded, Ilyin said. About 2 million tons of the initial potash
output will be processed into complex fertilizers and other
potassium-containing products at EuroChem’s plants, he said.  Uralkali and Belarus are likely to reconcile and revive
their trading partnership, Ilyin said. “There is a small number
of potash players globally, and gravitation will continue to
pull them together,” he said. “It is possible therefore that
at some stage Uralkali and Belaruskali will re-join their
marketing effort, as it seems to be of mutual benefit.”  Asked if EuroChem would be interested in buying a stake in
Uralkali, Ilyin said that while his company doesn’t rule out any
deals, mergers and acquisitions by the closely held fertilizer
producer are at least about four years away.  “Any merger would only be possible after EuroChem unlocks
its market value by successfully starting its own potash
production, which is currently planned for 2017,” Ilyin said.  Louisiana Plant  Belarus President Aleksandr Lukashenko has said that a
change in Uralkali ownership is a prerequisite for a resumption
of its potash marketing partnership with Belarus.  Aside from planning its entry to potash production,
EuroChem also plans to build a $1.5 billion ammonia and urea
plant in Louisiana, it said in July. The company may seek U.S.
partners for the project, which is made more attractive by
falling American raw-material costs, Ilyin said.  The U.S. “is the world’s largest agricultural market in
terms of fertilizer consumption with currently low gas prices of
about $100 per 1,000 cubic meters (35,315 cubic feet), which is
below the prices in  Russia ,” he said.  EuroChem has a similar project planned for Russia, its
proposed $1 billion ammonia plant at Kingisepp, in the Leningrad
region. EuroChem has developed a shortfall of the fertilizer
feedstock since acquiring an Antwerp production plant from  BASF
SE (BAS)  last year for 830 million euros ($1.1 billion), Ilyin said.  Needs Gas  While EuroChem requires more gas for its projects than it
can supply, the company isn’t seeking self-sufficiency in this
raw material given relatively low prices, Ilyin said. “Our gas
subsidiary covers over 20 percent of our needs.  ‘‘Today, we do not believe that domestic gas prices will
rise above $150 per 1,000 cubic meters, given growing
competition among producers and the new international realities,
such as the shale-gas revolution in the U.S,’’ he said. The
company is looking at ideas for cooperation with oil and gas
producers, both in Russia and in ‘‘more exotic markets’’ such as
 Iraq , he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  