-- Evercore Profit Beats Estimates as Advisory Revenue Climbs
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-10-23T22:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/evercore-profit-beats-estimates-as-advisory-revenue-increases.html
Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , the
investment bank founded by former Deputy U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Roger Altman , raised its dividend and expanded stock buybacks
after third-quarter profit more than doubled.  Net income advanced to $14 million, or 36 cents a share,
from $5.3 million, or 17 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based firm said today in a statement. Earnings excluding certain
items were 53 cents a share, surpassing the 43-cent  average
estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The worldwide pace of deals measured in dollars increased
in the second and third quarters from the first three months of
the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and Chief
Executive Officer Ralph Schlosstein said Evercore is gaining
market share. Greenhill & Co., the independent advisory firm
that reported third-quarter results last week, said revenue
could increase this year from 2012 as that New York-based
company boosts its share of fees.  “Our productivity per partner has gone up fairly
consistently over the last three years in what has been
essentially a flattish environment,” Schlosstein, 62, said on a
conference call after results were announced. “Getting market
share improvement from productivity enhancement is an
encouraging thing.”  Evercore raised its quarterly dividend 14 percent to 25
cents a share and increased the amount of shares it could
repurchase to as much as $250 million, according to the
statement.  Banking Revenue  Adjusted net revenue from  investment banking , which
includes fees from advising clients, climbed 26 percent to
$161.3 million in the third quarter from a year earlier, and 30
percent to $472 million in the first nine months.  During the quarter, Evercore’s investment-banking unit
earned advisory fees from 136 clients, compared with 147 a year
earlier, according to the statement. The firm said it collected
fees of $1 million or more from 31 clients, versus 30 in the
third quarter last year.  Evercore set aside $324.2 million for compensation costs in
the first nine months, or 59 percent of adjusted net revenue,
compared with $258.6 million, or 61 percent, in the same period
last year.  The company said it took a $2.7 million impairment charge
in the period after a decline in the fair value of its 68
percent stake in Evercore Pan Asset Management, according to the
statement.  Evercore fell 0.4 percent to close at $49.57 in  New York .
The shares climbed 64 percent this year, outpacing the 24
percent  advance  of the 116-company Standard & Poor’s SmallCap
Financials Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  