-- Ex-Bristol-Myers Executive Gets Year for Insider Trading
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-10-23T21:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/ex-bristol-myers-executive-gets-year-for-insider-trading.html
Robert Ramnarine, a former  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  executive, was sentenced to a year and a day in
prison for insider trading, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said.  Ramnarine, 46, also was fined $10,000 today in federal
court in Trenton, New Jersey, where he pleaded guilty on June
10, according to a statement by Fishman. In pleading guilty, he
admitted trading on inside information while helping the New
York-based drugmaker evaluate whether to buy targeted companies.  “Ramnarine, while in possession of the inside information,
purchased and sold securities based on such information and
thereby received illegal profits of more than $311,361,”
according to the securities fraud charge.  The former drug-firm executive admitted he illegally bought
stock options before Bristol-Myers bought Amylin Pharmaceuticals
and ZymoGenetics Inc., and participated in a confidential
auction to buy Pharmasset Inc. He forfeited $324,777 to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which includes interest on
his profit. The SEC sued him at the time of his arrest in August
2012.  Ramnarine, who lives in East Brunswick, New Jersey, faced
from 30 to 37 months in prison under advisory guidelines,
according to Rebekah Carmichael, a spokeswoman for Fishman.
Prosecutors agreed to a lower sentence because of his health,
according to Carmichael. He was sentenced by U.S. District Judge
Anne Thompson.  “Mr. Ramnarine is gratified that the court imposed a
sentence significantly below that recommended by the sentencing
guidelines,” said his attorney, Douglas R. Jensen, in an e-mail. “He has fully disgorged the profits from the trading at
issue, and accepts the court’s judgment.”  Work History  Ramnarine worked in several positions from 1997 to August
2012, including director of pensions and savings investments,
executive director of pensions and savings investments and
assistant treasurer for capital markets, according to Fishman.  Through those positions, he learned inside information
about potential acquisition targets.  Ramnarine admitted that he made $55,784 in illicit profit
on options he bought before Bristol-Myers announced on June 29,
2012, that it would buy Amylin for $7 billion.  Bristol-Myers also engaged in discussions from Oct. 13 to
Nov. 17 of 2011 about potentially acquiring Pharmasset, which
was developing oral drugs for hepatitis C, or HCV. The 82-employee company had a net loss of $91.2 million for the year
ended Sept. 30 and no products on the market.  ‘Limited Auction’  Pharmasset took offers in a “limited auction process”
through its investment banking firm, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
LLC, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation complaint.  Bristol-Myers withdrew on Nov. 17. On the next day, a
Friday, Pharmasset closed at $72.67, with trading volume of 1.03
million shares.  The companies announced the following Monday that Gilead,
the world’s largest maker of HIV medicines, would buy Pharmasset
for $11 billion, or $137 a share in cash, a premium of 89
percent. Volume rose to 7.1 million shares.  Ramnarine made $225,026 in illicit profit on the deal,
buying some of his options on his work-issued BlackBerry,
according to the arrest complaint.  The SEC was so suspicious of the circumstances surrounding
Gilead’s announcement that it opened an insider-trading
investigation that day, agency officials said at the time of his
arrest.  Bristol-Myers also agreed in 2010 to pay $885 million for
ZymoGenetics, according to the FBI complaint. Ramnarine, who
bought ZymoGenetics options, performed due diligence on the
deal. He made a profit of $30,551 on the transaction, according
to the FBI.  Net Searches  From his office in Princeton, New Jersey, Ramnarine
conducted Internet searches to determine whether he could be
detected by authorities, according to the SEC civil complaint.
One search was on the term “can stock option be traced to
purchase inside trading,” according to the SEC.  A defendant who gets a year and a day in prison is eligible
for early release with good-time credit.  The case is U.S. v. Ramnarine, 13-cr-00387, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  