-- Ex-Madoff Aide Said to Have Written His Own Bonus Checks
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-23T20:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/ex-madoff-aide-said-to-have-written-his-own-bonus-checks.html
(Corrects spelling of consultant’s name in second
paragraph.)  A former employee of  Bernard Madoff 
on trial for allegedly aiding the con man’s $17 billion fraud
said he wrote corporate checks to himself for tens of thousands
of dollars as a secret “bonus” from his boss, a jury was told.  Daniel Bonventre, who oversaw Madoff’s broker-dealer and
proprietary trading units, told investigators after Madoff’s
arrest on Dec. 11, 2008, that Madoff permitted him to write such
“vendor” checks to himself to hide his total annual
compensation from other employees, Meaghan Schmidt, a consultant
who helped unravel the fraud after its discovery, told jurors
today in Manhattan federal court.  Starting in 1998, Bonventre signed similar checks to
himself about once a year, ranging from about $45,000 to
$60,000, said Schmidt, a director at the consulting firm
AlixPartners LLP, whose employees took over Madoff’s offices in
Midtown  Manhattan  to secure documents and ascertain where the
business stood. One of the last such payments was a $50,000
check written the previous month, Schmidt said.  Bonventre said Madoff approved the payments “because his
salary was already so high he didn’t want his bonus to be
scrutinized by other employees,” Schmidt said under questioning
from U.S. prosecutors.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Schwartz said in court
today that Bonventre’s annual salary was more than $1 million
and his last annual bonus was about $200,000, citing payroll
records that were displayed for the jury.  ‘Extra $50,000?’  “He wanted to hide an extra $50,000?” the prosecutor
asked Schmidt, prompting an objection from defense lawyers.  Bonventre and four other former Madoff employees are
accused of conspiring for decades to hide Madoff’s fraud by
creating millions of fake documents to trick customers and
regulators.  Also on trial are computer programmers George Perez and
Jerome O’Hara, Joann Crupi, who managed large accounts, and
Annette Bongiorno, who worked for Madoff for 40 years, including
as his personal secretary. Bongiorno helped run the company’s
investment advisory business.  Bonventre’s lawyers argue he had no reason to believe the
check-writing practice was wrong because Madoff had approved it.
They also argue Bonventre didn’t know about the fraud at
Madoff’s securities company and was duped by his boss. He has
pleaded not guilty in the case.  Schmidt told the jury she found discrepancies in the
company’s list of employees and its payroll documents, which
revealed people who received paychecks and didn’t do work for
the company. One such person was Bonventure’s son, who was away
at college at the time, she said.  ‘Little Resistance’  “I wasn’t able to understand his role,” Schmidt said in
her testimony. Schmidt said she “was met with little
resistance” when she told the elder Bonventre she was taking
his son off the payroll.  AlixPartners had been hired by a court-appointed receiver
through the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, she said.
At the time, Bonventre hadn’t been accused of any crime.  Schmidt was the fourth witness to testify in the first
criminal trial stemming from the world’s biggest Ponzi scheme,
which deprived investors of $17 billion in principal and
billions more in fake profit. U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain said the trial may last as long as five months.  Madoff, 75, admitted to federal agents in December 2008
that his company was a sham. He pleaded guilty to 11 counts and
was sentenced to 150 years in prison, though he claimed all
along that he worked alone and refused to implicate anyone else.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in Manhattan at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  