-- Texas A&M Plans Israel Campus as Perry Guides Move Abroad
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-23T22:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/texas-a-m-reaches-agreement-to-plan-israel-campus-perry-says.html
Texas A&M University signed an
agreement with Israel to plan a campus for the state-supported
school in the Mideast nation, guided by Governor  Rick Perry , who
said he wants it to help bring peace to the region.  The campus will “build upon the work of the Nazareth
Academic Institute,” under an agreement signed by Perry and
Shai Piron, Israel’s education minister, A&M said. They
announced the move at Israeli President Shimon Peres’s home.  “We want to see the Nazareth branch move the peace process
forward,” Perry said today on a conference call with reporters.
Enabling students and faculty of different faiths “to study
together on the same campus, that’s the real exciting thing
about what Texas A&M is putting together.”  Perry will step down as governor in 2015 and is considering
a run for president in 2016, following his failed effort to win
the Republican nomination last year. Helping foster a university
in  Israel  could bolster his foreign-policy credentials while
appealing to evangelical Christian voters who are strong
supporters of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government.  The governor, a Texas A&M graduate, said he has visited
Israel four times since 1992, developing friendships with
leaders including Netanyahu, whom he met with this week to
promote Texas as a place to do business.  Multiethnic Plan  “Foreign policy credentials are important for someone
thinking about running for president,” said David Crockett, who
teaches politics at Trinity University in San Antonio. “That
can be a weakness for governors like Perry.”  Texas A&M’s branch in the city of Nazareth in northern
Israel will bring together Arabs and Jews both as faculty and as
students, the College Station-based school said in a  statement .
It said the site will be called the Peace Campus.  “We want to see the Nazareth branch as a means to
preserving peace and building understanding between cultures,”
Perry said in the school’s statement.  “This is an offshoot of this long-term courting of each
other,” Perry said during the conference call. He credited
university officials with leading the project.  The governor later said he hadn’t discussed the prospects
of new peace talks between Palestinian and Israeli leaders.  Hagee’s Role  Pastor John Hagee, whose services at Cornerstone Church in
San Antonio are broadcast nationally, said A&M Chancellor John Sharp asked him last year to facilitate talks with Israeli
officials, Hagee said in a video posted on his Facebook Inc. web
page. No one responded immediately today to a call to Hagee’s
office for comment.  Hagee, an evangelical Christian, has close ties to both
Perry and key Israeli leaders, Crockett said.  The pastor started Christians United for Israel, a
nonprofit ministry that advocates for U.S. support of the
nation. The group has more that 1 million members, according to
its website.  The Nazareth campus will offer A&M students new
opportunities to study abroad and boost its appeal to Jewish
students, said Rabbi Matt Rosenberg, executive director of the
 Texas  A&M Hillel, a Jewish student center. About 1 or 2 percent
of the 50,000-plus students on the College Station campus are
Jewish, a number likely to increase now, he said.  “We haven’t even had a semester-abroad program in Israel
because of State Department warnings,” said Rosenberg, who came
to Texas A&M in July after completing his rabbinical studies.
“Now this will be like going to Galveston for some of our
students.” The school has a campus in the coastal city.  Knesset Action  The A&M plan would mark the first international branch
campus in Israel, where such facilities are now banned, said
Justin Lane, a senior researcher at the Cross-Border Education
Research Team at the State University of  New York  in  Albany .
U.S. schools including Yeshiva and Touro universities offer
courses for part-time study in Israel, he said.  Israel’s Knesset, or parliament, must approve changes to
enable the campus, Perry said.  The Nazareth institute has 112 students studying chemistry
and communications and is the first academic college started by
Israel’s Arab Palestinian community, according to its website.
Israel hasn’t provided any funds to the school despite repeated
requests, Haaretz, an Israeli newspaper, said today.  Funding for the A&M campus will come from donations because
Texas law forbids investing public money internationally. No
opening date has been set.  Texas A&M operates 11 universities in the state with more
than 125,000 students. It also has a campus in Qatar, on the
Persian Gulf. The school’s College Station complex has more than
50,000 students and is among the 10 largest in the U.S., though
it sits 45 miles (72 kilometers) from an interstate highway.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  