-- Factory Deaths in Bangladesh Fail to Spur Inspections
-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-10-23T21:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/factory-deaths-in-bangladesh-fail-to-spur-inspections.html
Six months ago, when 1,127
Bangladeshi workers were killed in the collapse of a high-rise
warren of garment factories, international outcry led to pledges
by western retailers and the government to set up a large-scale
inspection regime and a new wage system.  Today, not a single Bangladeshi garment factory has been
inspected under any of the three programs that sprang from those
promises, according to officials at the programs. Nor has danger
ceased in the $19 billion industry: Two weeks ago, a fire ripped
through a factory in a Dhaka suburb that provided material for
plants supplying clothing to companies including  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  Nine workers died.  The slow implementation comes against a backdrop of worker
unrest that has stalled production in factories and led to
massive street demonstrations over safety conditions and wages,
which are set at $39 a month before overtime. One, on Oct. 15,
was quelled by the Industrial Police, a rubber-bullet-firing
riot force set up two years ago to bring protesting garment
workers under control.  “There is no time to lose any more,” said Gerben Sjoerd
de Jong, the Dutch ambassador, on Oct. 22. “The inspections
need to begin now.” He was announcing a $24.2 million program
funded by the Dutch and British governments and the
International Labor Organization to support the Bangladeshi
government inspections.  An inspections system led by European retailers including
 Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  called the Accord on Fire and Building
Safety in  Bangladesh  will see its first international staff
people arrive next week. The Alliance for Bangladesh Worker
Safety, a group of mostly North American retailers, says the
list of the factories its signatories use is a work in progress
and no inspections staff is in place in the country.  No List  The Bangladeshi government, which will inspect the
remaining plants under the Tripartite National Action Plan
hasn’t finalized the list of plants that fall under its purview
or beefed up staffing to enable the inspections.  And so far, the three groups have yet to agree upon what a
universally acceptable inspection will look like, a delay that
 De Jong  said was holding up the process and endangering the
lives of workers. Until then, retailers are conducting their own
independent reviews.  An hour-and-a-half drive from Dhaka, in a suburb called
Gazipur, the fire-scarred building that burned on Oct. 8 shows
the costs of poor working conditions.  Shouting Fire  Emdad Hossain, director of the Aswad Composite Mills Ltd.
factory, was in his second-floor office at 5:33 p.m. when he
heard somebody scream out “fire.” Flames were leaping from
floor to floor.  Hossain and his men began deploying the plant’s fire-fighting equipment while waiting for fire trucks that had to
navigate a traffic-clogged highway and a narrow, potholed road
to get to the four story-building. By the time the blaze was
controlled, nine men had either burned to death or died from
smoke inhalation, according to the police. Television footage
showed flames shooting out of the roof.  “It was completely unbelievable,” said Hossain in an
interview two days afterward, straining from a back injury
sustained when he was knocked to the ground while trying to
fight the fire. “We never imagined it would spread so fast.”  On Oct. 13, the Department of Inspections of Factories and
Establishments filed criminal charges against the factory’s
owners, Palmal Group. The department alleged the company had
been warned that it didn’t have adequate fire extinguishers,
didn’t fully report its electrical machinery, had expanded the
facility without proper approvals and that its walkways were too
narrow, according to a statement.  No Notice  Nafis Sikder, a director at Dhaka-based Palmal, denied the
allegations in an Oct. 22 phone interview. He said the company
had never received any notice of the violations from the
department.  Palmal had supplied clothing to retailers such as H&M, Wal-Mart subsidiary Asda and Primark Stores Ltd., a U.K.-based unit
of  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , according to statements from
the companies.  As the joint inspection process gets underway, the European
retailers-led  Accord  group will have a safety inspector in Dhaka
starting Nov. 1, said Andy York, a member of the Accord’s
steering committee, in an Oct. 20 interview.  Brad Loewen, an ex-fireman and safety inspector from
Winnipeg,  Canada , will move to Dhaka to work with an  executive
director , Rob Wayss, from the ILO. Both men are to operate under
an annual budget of about $10 million for inspections and safety
training, York said. The Accord also provides for additional
funds from participating brands to help pay for repairs at
factories after violations are found.  Data Collection  H&M spokeswoman Elin Hallerby said data collection about
the factories has been completed and key appointments filled.
H&M also will continue its own audits in Bangladesh, she said.  The immediate goal is to agree upon a common inspection
standard, so that each of Bangladesh’s 5,000 or so factories are
reviewed only once, said York at the Radisson Hotel in Dhaka.
The group doesn’t yet have an office.  That requires coordination with the local garment lobbying
group, the  Bangladesh Garment Manufacturer’s and Exporter’s
Association . The  Washington , D.C.-based International Labor
Rights Forum, in a December 2010 report, listed the BGMEA as a
top offender in failing to enforce labor-rights violations.  BGMEA President Atiqul Islam said in a phone interview
yesterday that his organization supports the creation of worker
committees, training of workers and monitoring for illnesses.
Rules passed by the government to make it easier to unionize
were supported by the association.  Company Audits  Many companies are continuing their regular audits of
suppliers and will compare them to the final standards, York
said. In one case, the challenges became clear.  An independent inspection carried out in June by  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ,
Debenhams Plc, Primark and Hong Kong-based  Li & Fung Ltd. (494)  found
that a sewing unit for a factory called Liberty Fashion Wears
Ltd. was close to collapse. The retailers said in an Oct. 2
statement that “it would be dangerous to allow workers to
return to work” in the factory.  The building was shut down and workers idled while the
buyers negotiated with the factory owner, Mozammel Huq, over how
to bring the factory up to acceptable standards.  Huq disagreed with the findings, and arranged for an
alternate inspection by the BGMEA and the  Bangladesh University
of Engineering and Technology . Both the BGMEA and BUET reports
said the factory was safe, Huq said in an interview.  The way the reviews were done “is completely unethical,”
he said. “For more than 10 years they have bought from this
factory, and suddenly they have decided it is unsafe?”  Eid Bonus  The retailers provided $400,000 to pay the idled workers
their wages and a bonus for the Muslim holiday of Eid, according
to a person with knowledge of the negotiations. On Oct. 15, the
day before Eid, hundreds of workers protested outside the
factory, demanding a resolution to the situation.  “I have been borrowing money from family for months to pay
for food and medicine, and now it’s Eid, and I can’t even buy my
son a new shirt for the holidays,” said Rahima Begum, a 28-year-old woman who carried an ID card from her job at the
company. She asked a reporter for $5 so she could pay off some
of her loans. “All the buyers have their money, and the owner
has his money and his big cars, and we are left with nothing.”  Minimum Wage  The minimum wages she’s getting of $45 a month are less
than her normal take-home earnings since she normally put in at
least three hours of overtime each day and worked weekends when
she could.  The Alliance, whose founders include Wal-Mart and  Gap Inc., (GPS) 
two of the biggest buyers sourcing in Bangladesh, hasn’t begun
its own independent inspections, said Rosanna Maita, a
spokeswoman for the Alliance.  Of the 620 factories identified by brands in the Alliance,
more 300 have been audited by the brands themselves under
standards that could be considered equivalent to Alliance
levels, said Jeffrey Krilla, president of the program. He
declined to make public the results of those audits, saying they
would eventually be posted and updated on the Alliance website.  The Alliance expects to have inspected all of the factories
on its lists within the year, he said. In addition, Alliance
brands will contribute to a capital improvement fund so that
factory owners can get low-cost loans for repairs and
modifications, and share responsibilities for paying workers for
any work lost during repairs.  ‘High Standards’  “The good news is that the companies in the Alliance have
very high standards,” said Krilla in a phone interview from
Washington. “One of the big challenges for factory owners was
having to meet so many different standards, and what we are
hearing from inspectors is that the owners welcome unified
standards, and that they are interested in being inspected.”  Earlier this year, Wal-Mart pledged more rigorous
inspections of the 279 factories it sources from in Bangladesh
and said it would begin making those results public in June. The
company pledged to complete and publicly report all the reviews
by mid-November. As of yesterday, Wal-Mart hadn’t released any
results. Spokesman  Kevin Gardner  said in an e-mail that the
company was “planning to post the final results of these
inspections soon.”  While the Accord covers about 1,600 factories and the
Alliance an additional 620, Bangladesh has in all about 5,000
garment plants, according to a database maintained by the BGMEA.  The ones that fall outside the Accord and the Alliance will
be inspected by a group of Bangladeshi government agencies under
the agreement with the ILO and supplemented by the $24.2 million
in funding over a 3 1/2-year period.  One Line  Bangladesh’s chief inspector of factories, Mushiur Rehman,
was unavailable for comment, his personal assistant said. His
office, on the eighth floor of a building shared with other
government ministries, is a cramped room, with no computer, a
single functioning phone line and a filing cabinet overflowing
with documents.  His colleagues work in a different building, in old Dhaka,
where a half-hour of rain this week made the building difficult
to access and workers snoozed after the lunch hour. The deputy
chief inspector of factories turned off a stereo playing Bengali
pop when a reporter visited on Oct. 22, and declined to comment
or to spell out his name. The department has fewer than 50
safety inspectors for some 8,000 factories, according to a
presentation in Bangladesh’s parliament earlier this year.  Rajuk, which is what the Dhaka Development Authority is
called locally, has asked for funding to expand its total number
of inspection engineers to about 240, said Chief Engineer
Emdadul Islam.  In the days after the Rana Plaza collapse, Rajuk had
started its own survey of buildings, seeking to get a headstart
on the process by collecting engineering plans and digitizing
them. The process was finally abandoned after a lack of
resources, including broken-down cars, exhausted engineers and
reluctant factory owners bogged it down, said Islam.  “It’s a very difficult task,” he said, sitting on the
couch in his offices, juggling two phones that rang nonstop.
“We don’t have enough engineers, we don’t have enough
resources.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  