-- Fed Delay Spurs Bond Sales From Bulgarian Energy to Gazprombank
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-10-23T16:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/fed-delay-spurs-bond-sales-from-bulgarian-energy-to-gazprombank.html
Bulgarian Energy Holding will meet
investors next week for a possible debut sale of bonds in euros
as emerging-market issuers from  OAO Gazprombank (GZPR)  to  Brazil  seize
on bets the  Federal Reserve  will delay tapering stimulus.  State-run Bulgarian Energy hired Citigroup Inc. and
Raiffeisen Bank International AG for meetings in  Europe  from
Oct. 28, a person familiar with the plan said today, asking not
to be identified because the details are private. The company
which controls assets in power, natural gas and coal mining,
plans to sell securities after Poland and  Romania  raised
benchmark-sized debt and as Brazil markets 2025 dollar bonds.  Emerging-market issuers are stepping up debt sales amid
bets the Fed will delay trimming its $85 billion of monthly
asset purchases. Tapering will start in March after the U.S.
government shutdown this month slowed fourth-quarter growth,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Gazprombank, part owned by
state-run OAO Gazprom, is selling 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion)
of five-year bonds, a person familiar with the sale said today.  “Sovereign names will take this window of opportunity to
issue now,” Regis Chatellier, senior emerging-market sovereign
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , said by e-mail. “I
wouldn’t be surprised if Hungary and Ukraine come to the
market.”  Ukraine is monitoring international markets for a potential
debt sale, First Deputy Prime Minister Serhiy Arbuzov said Oct.
17 in an interview in Brussels. Hungary is evaluating if
conditions may improve further for a foreign-currency debt sale
this year, Laszlo Andras Borbely, deputy chief executive officer
of the debt agency, told reporters in Budapest Oct. 21.  Narrower Spreads  The average yield on  emerging-market sovereign bonds 
tumbled 77 basis points, or 0.77 percentage point, to 4.8
percent at 4 p.m. in London since a 2013 high on Sept. 5, the
 Bloomberg USD Emerging Market Sovereign Bond Index (BEMS)  shows.  Qatar National Bank SAQ is selling $1.5 billion of three-and five-year debt today, while  Russia ’s Vneshprombank hired
banks to arrange investor meetings from Oct. 29 for potential
debut dollar bonds, people familiar with the plans said. Latvia,
Pakistan and Honduras also announced plans to sell bonds.  Increasing demand from investors enabled issuers to narrow
spreads. Gazprombank priced five-year bonds at 280 basis points
over the benchmark midswap rate compared with initial guidance
in the low-300 basis-point area, the person said.  Industrial
Bank of Korea ’s 500 million-euro sale priced at a spread of 85
basis points over mid swaps, narrower than initial guidance of
around 95 basis points, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who asked not to be identified.  “The recovery in investor sentiment is largely U.S.
driven,”  Richard Segal , the head of international credit
strategy at Jefferies Group Inc. in London, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  