-- Fed Stimulus Still Makes Sense for Economy, Goldman’s Cohn Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-23T17:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/fed-stimulus-still-makes-sense-for-economy-goldman-s-cohn-says.html
The Federal Reserve may not taper
its stimulus efforts soon as the U.S. economy has failed to pick
up and inflation remains low, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. President
Gary D. Cohn said.  “If you look at where we are economically, versus where we
were a year ago, we’re virtually in the exact same place,”
Cohn, 53, said today in a Bloomberg Television interview with
 Stephanie Ruhle . “So if quantitative easing made sense a year
ago, it probably still makes sense today.”  The Fed decided in September not to taper its $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases designed to help stimulate the U.S.
economy. The decision’s announcement sent the yield on 10-year
Treasury bonds down the most in almost a year. Federal Reserve
Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans said Oct. 21 that this
month’s government shutdown amid congressional budget
disagreement will probably further delay tapering.  The decline in the U.S. jobless rate to 7.2 percent in
September occurred as people gave up looking for work, not by
creation of “real jobs,” Cohn said. Janet Yellen, President
 Barack Obama ’s nominee to be the next Fed chairman, understands
the competing objectives the central bank faces, Cohn said.  “They’re in a position where they know they can’t
quantitatively ease forever, they know they’re building a bigger
and bigger balance sheet, but their No. 1 objective is to try
and grow the U.S. economy,” Cohn said. “I do believe
eventually they will taper. Eventually can be a very long
time.”  Emerging Markets  Goldman Sachs shouldn’t repeat its error of pulling back in
emerging markets while they’re weak this year, Cohn said.
Economic growth in nations such as Brazil and  China  has slowed
from post-crisis highs, leading to a 2 percent drop in the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index so far this year, a span that included a
9.1 percent tumble during the second quarter.  “If the industry has made a mistake, or we at Goldman have
made a mistake in emerging markets, it’s that we’ve tended to
contract our business at the bottom of the cycle,” Cohn said.
“You need to invest at the bottom of the cycle to be ready for
the top.”  Goldman Sachs said this week that J. Michael Evans, a vice
chairman who led emerging-markets businesses, is retiring after
more than 20 years at the New York-based firm.  “Someone coordinating what we’re doing in the various
growth markets around the world is important, and we will
ultimately fill that seat,” Cohn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  