-- FedEx Sees Shipment Peak on Cyber Monday as E-Commerce Grows
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-10-23T16:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/fedex-sees-shipments-peaking-on-cyber-monday-as-e-commerce-grows.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  projects its busiest
shipping day this holiday season will be Cyber Monday, Dec. 2,
with online retailers driving an 11 percent increase from 2012
to produce the company’s highest volume in history.  FedEx, operator of the biggest cargo airline, forecasts
more than 22 million shipments will move through its global
network on Cyber Monday, according to a statement today. The
Dec. 2 date is the earliest peak day since at least 2007, the
company said. For the past six years, the busiest day has fallen
in the middle of December.  “What we’re clearly seeing is the effect of e-commerce,”
Raj Subramaniam, executive vice president of marketing and
communications, said in a telephone interview. Cyber Monday was
the second-busiest day last year, Subramaniam said.  For the past two years, Cyber Monday has generated the most
sales of any day in the week after Thanksgiving, according to
 ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  The day’s volume totaled $1.5 billion last year, a
15 percent increase from 2011.  More consumers have turned to online venues for holiday
shopping, boosting an e-commerce growth rate that’s outstripping
brick-and-mortar retail. In the second quarter of 2013, e-commerce spending increased 18.4 percent from a year earlier,
while total retail sales rose just 4.7 percent in that period,
according to the U.S. Department of Commerce.  Shopping Earlier  FedEx’s predicted peak volume includes pickups on Cyber
Monday as well as orders that are entered over the Thanksgiving
holiday and are processed that day, Carla Boyd, spokeswoman for
the Memphis, Tennessee-based company, said in an e-mail.  Besides the growth in e-commerce, FedEx’s peak shipment
date also reflects an earlier start to the  holiday shopping
season , said Simeon Siegel, a New York-based analyst at Nomura
Securities. Over the last few years, competition has driven some
stores to open their doors on Thanksgiving, not waiting for
Black Friday, Siegel said in a telephone interview.  “People are shopping earlier because they’re seeing deals
earlier, because retailers are promoting earlier,” Siegel said.  FedEx estimates more than 85 million shipments for the
entire week, Dec. 1-7. That would be a 13 percent increase from
last year’s busiest week, according to the statement.  More Seasonal Workers  The company plans to hire more seasonal workers than last
year, when it added 20,000, to handle the additional volume,
spokeswoman Parul Bajaj said in an e-mail on Oct. 10.  The
 National Retail Federation   forecasts  holiday sales will increase
3.9 percent this year to $602.1 billion, even with economic
uncertainty and customers taking a “conservative approach” to
spending.  FedEx beat profit estimates in its most recent quarter
after moving lower-priority packages to cheaper transportation
methods, such as ocean shipping.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest package-delivery firm, hasn’t issued a holiday forecast yet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Chen in  New York  at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  