-- Ferrari-Driving Pop Star Taps Venezuela’s Chavez Legacy
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-10-23T20:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/ferrari-driving-pop-star-seeks-venezuela-vote-for-chavez-legacy.html
Reggaeton star El Potro enters the
stage. Tonight, the singer who married two Miss Venezuelas won’t
perform his number-one hit “Bla Bla Bla.” He stands beside
President  Nicolas Maduro  and asks for votes to further the late
Hugo Chavez’s revolution as the local mayor.  Antonio ‘El Potro’ Alvarez, 34, is one of three celebrities
running in the December local elections as part of Venezuela’s
United Socialist Party, or PSUV. Magglio Ordonez, a multi-millionaire six-time Major League Baseball All-Star, is
campaigning in Puerto la Cruz, the nation’s fifth biggest city.
Winston Vallenilla, host of primetime reality show ‘Battle of
the Sexes,’ is seeking the top job in Caracas’ borough Baruta.  The Dec. 8 elections for 337 mayoral positions will be a
plebiscite on Maduro’s first eight months in office amid the
fastest inflation in the world and shortages of everything from
water to toilet paper. The choice of celebrities is a
“desperate attempt” by Chavez’s heirs to woo voters as their
popularity plunges, said Hugo Perez Hernaiz, sociology professor
at Central University of  Venezuela  in Caracas.  “The revolution has called me,” El Potro, which is
Spanish for the colt, said in an Oct. 9 interview, while meeting
voters in the Caracas borough of Sucre, where he is trying to be
elected. “Socialism is inclusion and what I achieved in sports,
music and as a businessman gives me an opportunity to advance
this inclusion.”  Yellow Ferrari  The video clip that put El Potro top of Billboard Tropical
Songs in 2011 featured bikini-clad models, helicopters, a yacht
and champagne. In it, he speeds down a runaway in a yellow
Ferrari. His remix of the song “Bend Down” is currently number
one on Venezuela’s radio charts. Reggaeton is a blend of Latin
American rhythms with  Jamaica ’s reggae.  Maduro won the presidential election to succeed Chavez in
April by the smallest margin in 45 years. Since the 50-year-old
former bus driver came to power, annual inflation has doubled to
49.4 percent, central bank data shows. The bolivar has lost 49
percent of its value against the dollar on the black market,
according to dolartoday.com, a website that tracks the value at
the Colombian border.  Underinvestment in infrastructure means water and power
cuts affect at least one Caracas borough each day. At the same
time, consumers are forced to search the city for goods such as
medicine, beef and powdered milk as a shortage of dollars crimp
imports in a country that imports 70 percent of the goods it
consumes.  “The economy isn’t doing well and voters will make this
count in the coming elections,” said Ronald Balza, economics
professor at Andres Bello Catholic University in Caracas.  ‘Risky Strategy’  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 2027 bond rose 3.02
percentage points since Maduro’s election to reach 12.18 percent
today as the new administration failed to implement policies to
slow inflation, reduce the dollar shortage and boost investment.
The country has the highest borrowing costs in the world, with
investors demanding extra yield of 10.41 percentage points over
Treasuries.  The government is trying to tap into the youth and pop
culture to win ideologically uncommitted voters, said Nicmer
Evans, a member of the government’s party and director of
political consultancy Visor 360 Consultores.  “Trying to attract new voters at the expense of core
voters is a very risky strategy,” Evans said by phone from
Caracas last month. “Socialism and reggaeton are simply not
complimentary.”  A PSUV spokeswoman didn’t respond to questions about their
choice of celebrity candidates. Spokesmen for the Information
Ministry and Maduro’s office declined to comment on election
campaigning and the economic situation.  Negative Perception  The negative perception of the situation in the country
rose to 66.5 percent, up from 38 percent in December when Chavez
asked voters to support Maduro should he be unable to finish his
term, according to a Datanalisis poll that interviewed 1,300
people from Aug. 20 to 29. The poll has a margin of error of 2.7
percent.  Faced with waning support, the ruling PSUV abandoned the
primaries system used in the last local elections. Maduro and
his advisers picked the mayor candidates themselves, often
bypassing the choices of local party activists.  Vallenilla, a 40-year-old former Mister Venezuela contender
who posed in Calvin Klein underwear for a publicized photo
shoot, is another candidate trying to reconcile luxury with
Chavez’s revolution to reduce poverty and promote equality.  “I got a Hummer, I got a Mercedes, cars I bought through
hard work a decade ago and which I own with pride,” he said in
a Globovision television channel interview Oct. 14. “I don’t
think being rich is bad.”  Pot Banging  Vallenilla’s rally in Baruta on Oct. 16 lasted 10 minutes
amid pot banging from opposition supporters in the surrounding
apartment blocks. He drove away on a locally-made black KMV
Kawasaki.  Chavez, who sold sweets after school to supplement his
family’s income, said in 2009 “a rich man is not a human being,
he’s an animal.” He died of cancer March 5 after 14 years in
power.  Ordonez, the 39-year-old baseball player, earned an
estimated $133 million in his 15 seasons at  Chicago White Sox 
and  Detroit Tigers , according to baseball-reference.com. He
moved to Puerto la Cruz on retiring in 2011 where he helps his
family construction business. He is running against Marcos
Figueroa, an opposition lawmaker who hosted the local radio talk
show “People on air” until 2009.  Vallenilla and El Potro “came with humility and honesty to
work for the fatherland’s interests,” Maduro said Oct. 15 at an
event with the two celebrities.  With campaigning not scheduled to officially begin until
Nov. 16 they have not held large rallies, appearing instead by
Maduro’s side at televised events.  ‘Underestimating Venezuelans’  Since becoming a candidate, El Potro has traded Givenchy
sunglasses, gold chain and leather jacket for the type of red
shirt used by Chavez.  “El Potro doesn’t know much about politics,” Marisol
Guevara, a 49-year-old street seller of cleaning goods, said at
an event with the pop star in Sucre on Oct. 9. “I came to see a
famous person live but I’m not convinced by him,” the single
mother of four said.  El Potro is running against incumbent mayor Carlos Ocariz,
a 42-year-old civil engineer. Vallenilla is competing against
David Uzcategui, 38, a town hall councilor in Baruta since 2000.  The opposition is offering experience and professionalism
instead of image, opposition leader Henrique Capriles said in an
interview last month.  “The government is seriously underestimating Venezuelans’
capacity to judge politicians by actions rather than image,’
said Capriles, who lost the presidential election in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  