-- Fewer Than Half of U.S. Bankers Expect Bigger Bonus: Survey
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-23T17:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/fewer-than-half-of-u-s-bankers-expect-bigger-bonus-survey-says.html
Fewer than half of Wall Street
employees expect a bigger bonus this year than in 2012,
according to an eFinancialCareers.com survey, as the biggest
investment banks cut the amount they allocate for pay.  About 42 percent of the 1,427 people who responded to the
online survey in the U.S. said they think their year-end bonus
will rise, while 30 percent expected the same amount, the job-search website operator said in a statement today. Ten percent
said they expect a decline, while 18 percent were unsure.  U.S. respondents were less optimistic than those abroad,
where at least half in each region expected a larger payout.
Sixty-one percent who work in the Middle East and 50 percent in
Singapore anticipated a bigger bonus.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and the investment-bank divisions
of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  all reduced
compensation costs for the first nine months of the year by at
least 3 percent compared with 2012, even as revenue climbed at
each of the three companies.  Wall Street’s bonuses will probably depend on firms’
performances in the fourth quarter, Goldman Sachs President Gary D. Cohn said today in a Bloomberg Television interview with
 Stephanie Ruhle . While Cohn said he’s “cautiously optimistic”
about his firm’s fourth quarter,  New York  State Comptroller
 Thomas DiNapoli  said in a report yesterday that the budget
turmoil in Washington may hurt the period’s profits.  Quarterly Correlation  “To the extent that firms have decent fourth quarters, I
think bonuses will be somewhat in line with last year,” said
Cohn, 53. “I know at Goldman Sachs, if we don’t have a good
fourth quarter, bonuses will be down, because the one thing we
have done and have committed to our shareholders is that our
bonus payments will be directly correlated to our revenue.”  Half of those responding globally said the only way to get
a larger bonus is to move to another firm, according to
eFinancialCareers, a unit of New York-based  Dice Holdings Inc. (DHX) 
The survey was conducted in September and received responses
from front-office and support staff.  The survey was offered in Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia,
Germany, the U.K., the U.S. and the Middle East, with 4,642
global respondents.  In Singapore, finance professionals expected their basic
salaries to increase in 2014, with half of the respondents
indicating this increase would come in the next six months, the
survey showed. Within this group, 76 percent anticipate pay will
climb as much as 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  