-- Spanish Bond Yield Falls to 3-Week Low as Nation Exits Recession
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-10-23T15:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/german-bond-yield-falls-to-two-week-low-before-confidence-data.html
Spain’s  government bonds  rose,
pushing 10-year yields to the lowest level in three weeks, after
a central-bank report estimated the nation emerged from
recession in the third quarter.  The extra yield that investors get for holding Spain’s
securities instead of similar-maturity German  bunds  shrank
toward the narrowest in more than two years as signs the economy
is improving bolstered the allure of its assets. German  30-year
bonds (GDBR30)  halted a four-day advance after the nation sold 1.7
billion euros ($2.34 billion) of the securities.  “The fact that Spain is no longer in a recession means the
government will have more revenue so it will be easier for them
to reduce the deficit,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior
rates strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “This is one of
the factors in favor of the Spanish spread narrowing.”  Spain’s 10-year yield fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 4.13 percent at 4:37 p.m.  London  time, the
lowest since Oct. 2. The 4.4 percent bond maturing in October
2023 rose 0.535, or 5.35 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to
102.15.  The spread over 10-year bunds shrank three basis points to
2.37 percentage points after contracting to 2.30 percentage
points on Oct. 2, the narrowest since June 2011.  Spanish GDP  Spanish  gross domestic product  expanded 0.1 percent from
the second quarter, when it shrank 0.1 percent, the Madrid-based
Bank of  Spain  estimated in its monthly bulletin. The preliminary
data matched the median estimate of 37 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Germany ’s 10-year yield dropped three basis points to 1.76,
the lowest since Sept. 30. Thirty-year yields were little
changed at 2.66 percent.  The Federal Finance Agency allotted the securities due in
July 2044 at an average yield of 2.64 percent, compared with
2.47 percent at a previous auction on July 31. The bid-to-cover
ratio climbed to 2.64 times from 2.47 times.  Volatility on French bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Belgium and Germany,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  Italy’s 10-year yield climbed two basis points to 4.12
percent after declining to 4.09 percent, the lowest level since
June 5. The securities yielded 2.34 percentage points more than
bunds, compared with 2.57 percentage points two weeks ago.  Stress Tests  The  European Central Bank  said today the definition of
capital it uses to  stress test  banks will be stricter than the
one in an imminent review of their assets.  While the ECB confirmed it will require lenders to have a
capital ratio of 8 percent, what qualifies as capital will
change over the course of the three-part assessment, it said in
an e-mailed statement. The capital definition applicable on Jan.
1, 2014 will be used for the asset-quality review and the
definition in force “at the end of the horizon” of the stress
test will be used in that evaluation, it said.  For government bonds “the good news is that sovereign
exposure will still be treated with zero-risk weights, i.e. not
fall under the denominator for the 8 percent, as expected,”
 Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-rate strategy at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt , wrote in a note to clients. “A few reservations
remain, however.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said officials won’t hesitate to
fail banks in its stress test next year as the central bank sets
out to prove its vigilance in its role of banking supervisor.  Fed Purchases  Euro-area government bonds rose yesterday after a U.S.
report showed American employers added fewer workers than
economists forecast, boosting speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will delay plans to trim its bond-purchase program known as
quantitative easing.  “Peripheral spreads continue to narrow as the liquidity
outlook remains constructive on the back of the ever more
distant prospect of QE tapering in the U.S.,” said  Richard McGuire , senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in London, referring to the euro area’s lower-rated countries.  Spanish bonds returned 10 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italy’s
gained 6.5 percent, while Germany’s lost 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  