-- German Stocks Fall to End Three-Day Gain as Banks Slide
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-10-23T07:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/german-stocks-fall-to-end-three-day-gain-as-banks-slide.html
German stocks  fell from a record,
snapping a three-day winning streak, as bank shares declined and
investors weighed quarterly sales and earnings reports.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  dropped 1.3 percent after the  European
Central Bank  said the definition of capital it uses in future
stress tests will be stricter.  Allianz SE (ALV)  retreated 1 percent
after RBC Capital Markets cut its rating and price target on
Europe’s biggest insurer. Aixtron SE fell 1.6 percent after peer
Cree Inc. forecast quarterly earnings below analysts’ estimates.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 0.4 percent to 8,909.07 at 9:47 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The gauge advanced to a record yesterday as investors
speculated that worse-than-forecast U.S. payrolls data could
delay a reduction in Federal Reserve bond purchases. The broader
HDAX Index also declined 0.4 percent today.  Data from the European Commission in Brussels at 4 p.m. may
show  consumer confidence  in the euro area climbed to the highest
since July 2011. An index of household confidence improved to
minus 14.5 this month from minus 14.9 in September, according to
the median forecast of 28 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  The European Central Bank said the definition of capital it
uses to stress test banks will be stricter than the one in an
imminent review of their assets, as it confirmed that lenders
will be required to have a capital ratio of 8 percent.  The capital definition applicable on January 1, 2014 will
be used for the asset-quality review, while the definition valid
“at the end of the horizon” of the  stress test  will be used in
that evaluation, the Frankfurt-based central bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  The ECB will commence its study in November and conclude
the three-part exercise in October 2014 before assuming
supervisory powers over the region’s banks. The European Union
is scheduled to fully implement global capital rules by 2019.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  