-- German Insurers Face Losses From Low Rates, Moody's Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-10-23T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/german-insurers-face-losses-from-low-rates-moody-s-says.html
German life insurers, which have
traditionally sold contracts with guaranteed returns, may face
losses if interest rates stay at current levels, Moody’s
Investors Service said.  “The industry will have to book around 6 billion euros
($8.3 billion) of additional interest rate reserves at year-end
2013, after 5 billion euros in 2012,” Moody’s analysts
including Benjamin Serra said in a report today. “The interest
rate reserve that German life insurers have recorded since 2011
accelerates recognition of losses in company accounts.”  German life insurers are seeking ways to scrap costs tied
to the statutory minimum returns on life-insurance products that
have eroded earnings as interest rates remain near record lows.
German life-insurance products typically have lifetimes of a
decade or more and guarantee customers a minimum return of 1.75
percent. That compares with a 1.785 percent yield of 10-year
German government bonds, up from a record low of 1.17 percent
reached last year.  The interest rate reserve, dubbed Zinszusatzreserve, was
introduced for  Germany  life insurers in 2011 and requires the
industry to bolster policies with high guarantees.  “If interest rates remained at their current level for the
next decade, the incremental reserve requirement would grow to
between 40 billion euros and 90 billion euros by the end of
2023, requiring the industry to use much of its current level of
unrealized asset gains to preserve regulatory solvency,”
Moody’s said. Not all German insurers face the same level of
risk, it added.  Capital Gains  Insurers plan to offset the negative accounting impact of
the interest rate reserve requirement mostly by realizing
capital gains, Moody’s said. It estimates unrealized capital
gains for the German life industry amounted to 80 billion euros
after the increase in rates in the first nine months of 2013, an
amount that “tends to decrease as investments mature.”  German life insurers rated by Moody’s, including units of
 Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Axa SA (CS) , Munich Re,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  and
 Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , “all present better than average
characteristics” to help them cushion the impact, Moody’s said.  The Finance Ministry in Berlin cut the statutory minimum
interest rate for new policies to 1.75 percent effective in 2012
from 2.25 percent to help the industry.  Average Guarantees  Still, high guarantees offered to policyholders in the past
result “in one of the highest levels of average guarantee on
the in-force business in Europe” at 3.3 percent currently,
Moody’s said.  Allianz, based in Munich, and Ergo Versicherungsgruppe AG,
the primary insurance unit of reinsurer Munich Re, in July
introduced new life insurance products to cope with the
challenge. Both control about a fifth of the German life-insurance market, Europe’s third largest after the U.K. and
 France , with about 87 billion euros of premiums.  Other life insurers in Germany, including Ergo’s subsidiary
Victoria Leben and  Delta Lloyd NV (DL) ’s German life-insurance unit,
have stopped selling new business. Herbert Haas, chief executive
officer of  Talanx AG (TLX) , told newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeitung in an
interview on Oct. 1 that Germany’s third-biggest insurer is
evaluating closing its HDI Leben life-insurance unit for new
business among other options.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich  at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  