-- Ghana’s Narh Says Central Bank to Tighten Monetary Policy
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h   a n d   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-10-23T09:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/ghana-s-narh-says-central-bank-to-tighten-monetary-policy.html
Ghana’s central bank plans to
tighten monetary policy after  inflation (GHCPALLY)  in West  Africa ’s second-largest economy quickened to the fastest pace this year, First
Deputy Governor Millison Narh said.  “We will tighten monetary policy to check inflation,”
Narh told reporters in the capital, Accra, yesterday. “We’re
still in a tightening mode so far as monetary policy is
concerned,”  The central bank held the benchmark interest rate at 16
percent in September to support the cedi and an economy limited
by falling gold prices. The bank has raised borrowing costs 350
basis points, or 3.5 percentage points, to curb price increases
since the end of 2011.  Inflation quickened to 11.9 percent in September from 11.5
percent in August, the highest this year, as the government
removed subsidies for fuel and the cedi weakened to a record
against the dollar boosting the prices of imports higher.  Ghana 
imports most of the fuel it consumes. The cedi has dropped 13
percent against the dollar this year, the worst performing
currency in Africa during that period.  The currency was unchanged at 2.19 per dollar at 9:12 a.m.
in Accra.  Price increases will slow to within the bank’s target of 9
percent plus or minus 2 percentage points in the first half of
next year, Bank of Ghana Governor Kofi Wampah said.  The central bank will not review its inflation target and
the ratings downgrade by Fitch Ratings last week of Ghana’s
sovereign debt “won’t change direction of monetary policy,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net ;
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  