-- Ghost of Berlusconi Haunts Alitalia as Letta Crafts Rescue Plan
-- B y   D a n   L i e f g r e e n   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-10-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/ghost-of-berlusconi-haunts-alitalia-as-letta-crafts-rescue-plan.html
At a Rome campaign rally before
 Italy ’s national elections in 2008,  Silvio Berlusconi  told
cheering supporters that a group of national entrepreneurs was
willing to save  Alitalia  SpA “for the love of their country.”  The infatuation has since vanished alongside Berlusconi’s
political clout and the billions spent on a failed revival of
the national carrier. Now Prime Minister Enrico Letta is again
harnessing corporate Italy to pitch in, arguing that Alitalia,
which hasn’t reported a profit in a decade, is a “strategic”
asset for the euro-region’s third-largest economy.  Letta brokered a 500 million-euro ($688 million) rescue for
Alitalia this month that involves the country’s postal service
and two largest banks. The move resembles Berlusconi’s own foray
in 2008, when the former prime minister convinced more than 20
Italian investors to buy the airline for about 1 billion euros
including debt, only to see the turnaround falter as competition
and mounting losses pummeled Alitalia.  The latest bailout “was motivated by political reasons to
do a short-term rescue that will only help Alitalia survive a
few months before the issue rises again,” said Ugo Arrigo, a
professor of public finance at Milan’s Bicocca University.  Scooter, Steel  Led by Roberto Colaninno in 2008, the owner of the Vespa
scooter maker Piaggio & C. SpA, the group dubbed by Berlusconi
as the “courageous patriots” included the Benettons and the
Riva family, owner of  Europe ’s biggest steel plant.  The government-engineered deal planted the seeds of today’s
losses because it denied the carrier a deeper overhaul. Alitalia
was granted antitrust exemption for three years for routes
including its then lucrative Milan-Rome link, which is under
attack from high-speed train services.  It also led to politically motivated decisions that hurt
the company, such as scaling back Milan -- the nation’s business
capital -- as a hub in favor of Rome’s Fiumicino airport, said
 John Strickland , a director at aviation advisory JLS Consulting.  “That is completely counterintuitive to a commercial
decision,” said London-based Strickland. “They opened the door
to make their problems worse.”  The 2008 Alitalia bailout cost at least 4 billion euros,
Arrigo estimates. The figure includes losses, state-subsidized
lay-off programs, lower  tax revenue  for the government and a
rebuffed takeover offer by Air France-KLM Group in 2008 valued
at the time at 747 million euros plus the assumption of debt.  Bad Shape  Alitalia’s resources have been depleted by mounting losses
and competition from low-cost carriers including  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ) 
Losses at the Rome-based carrier swelled to 294 million euros in
the first half as revenue fell 4 percent to 1.62 billion euros.
A sales slump deepened over the last month as concerns over the
airline’s future deterred travelers.  If Alitalia had been restructured adequately five years
ago, “the company would be in a much better place than it is
today,” said Strickland.  Keeping together the band of patriots has proven harder for
Letta than for Berlusconi. The Ligresti and Riva families have
been plagued by legal woes, with some members of the Ligresti
family, which once controlled the nation’s No. 2 insurer,
charged with false accounting and market manipulation.  The Riva family, Alitalia’s second-biggest shareholder
after  Air France-KLM (AF) , is accused of causing an environmental
disaster at the company’s Ilva steelworks plant in the southern
town of Taranto. Their original 10.6 percent stake has been
sequestered as part of the investigation.  Political Death  Berlusconi himself faces possible expulsion from the Senate
in the coming weeks after his definitive conviction in August
for  tax fraud  tied to evasion by his television company  Mediaset
SpA. (MS)  Letta this month defeated an attempt by Berlusconi to bring
down his six-month coalition government.  Alitalia is not the only example of state intervention. The
government decided this month to keep Ansaldo Energia,
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s power-plant construction unit, in Italian
hands by using a state lender to acquire control. That follows a
bill proposed by a senator in Letta’s  Democratic Party  to change
Italy’s takeover law after  Spain ’s Telefonica boosted its stake
in the country’s biggest phone company,  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , last
month.  While Letta has the backing of national corporations,
getting Alitalia’s biggest shareholder in line has been harder.
Air France-KLM has resisted contributing to a capital increase
as it saw the value of its 25 percent stake plummet.  Few Choices  “The only choice at the moment would be a full takeover by
Air France because Alitalia doesn’t have the necessary resources
to invest in long-haul flights, which may grant profits in the
future,” said Bicocca University’s Arrigo.  Alitalia’s latest valuation means Air France has lost 96
percent of its investment in the Italian carrier since it paid
323 million euros for its stake in 2009, beating out a rival bid
from  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , after the airline was put into
bankruptcy and reorganized in 2008.  The latest bailout has also irked foreign rivals, which
British Airways parent  International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA (IAG)  calling the package a subsidy it plans to contest.  The plan to have the Italian postal service take a stake in
Alitalia “is blatant state aid,” said IAG Chief Executive
Officer  Willie Walsh .  “Unprofitable airlines with no prospect of becoming
profitable continue to drag down airlines that are trying to do
the right thing,” Walsh said. “We have seen the Italian
solution to the Italian problem the last time around and this
appears to be another Italian solution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Liefgreen in Milan at 
 dliefgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  