-- Gilead’s Hepatitis C Pill Works Better, FDA Report Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-23T20:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/gilead-s-hepatitis-c-pill-works-better-fda-report-says.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s experimental
hepatitis C drug that lessens side effects and reduces length of
treatment time is safe and effective against the disease, U.S.
regulators said.  The medicine, sofosbuvir, has “a favorable benefit-risk
assessment,” Food and Drug Administration staff said today in a
review ahead of an Oct. 25 meeting of advisers to discuss the
therapy. The FDA also will host an advisory panel tomorrow for
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Medivir AB (MVIRB) ’s hepatitis C drug simeprevir.  Gilead, J&J, Medivir,  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  and Bristol Myers Squibb
Co. are among companies working on new hepatitis C drugs that
alleviate the burden of current treatments that include
interferon injections, which can cause flu-like symptoms. The
total market for hepatitis C drugs may reach more than $100
billion over a decade, according to Bloomberg Industries.  For some patients, sofosbuvir “provides the first all-oral, interferon-free treatment, as well as a shorter treatment
duration and improved safety profile compared to the current
standard of care interferon-based regimen,” FDA staff wrote in
the  report .  Sofosbuvir is estimated to generate $2 billion in sales
next year, according to the average of eight analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gilead rose 1.4 percent to $69.01 at the close in  New York .
The company’s shares have gained 88 percent this year.  Decision Date  The FDA didn’t find any heart risks associated with
sofosbuvir after Bristol-Myers and Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc.
discontinued development of drugs in the same class last year
based on cardiovascular safety concerns.  Gilead is seeking FDA approval of once-daily sofosbuvir
combined for the majority of patients with pegylated interferon
and another pill call ribavirin, both of which make up the
backbone of current treatment for the virus as part of a regimen
that can last as long as 48 weeks. Sofosbuvir can cut the
treatment time to 12 weeks. J&J’s simeprevir gets therapy down
to 24 weeks.  The FDA is scheduled to decide whether to approve
sofosbuvir by Dec. 8, and simeprevir by Nov. 27.  For the majority of current patients interferon and
ribavirin are combined with Merck & Co.’s Victrelis and  Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s Incivek. Victrelis, Incivek and J&J’s
simeprevir are protease inhibitors that battle genotype 1
hepatitis C, the most common form of the disease. Sofosbuvir is
the first in a new class of drugs called nucleotide polymerase
inhibitors and is effective across all six hepatitis C
genotypes.  Patient Population  About 4 million Americans have the disease, which can cause
liver cirrhosis, according to the  National Institutes of Health .
The disease can be passed through infected blood or body fluids,
most commonly through needle-sharing by drug users. About 70
percent of U.S. hepatitis C patients carry the genotype 1
infection.  Gilead studied an all-oral combination of sofosbuvir and
ribavirin for genotype 2 and genotype 3 patients and a
combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin for patients
with the other genotypes, including 1, who haven’t been treated
before.  Sofosbuvir combined with pegylated interferon and ribavirin
for 12 weeks cured 90 percent of patients with genotypes 1,4,5
and 6 who hadn’t been treated before, Gilead said. FDA staff
found data on patients with genotypes 5 and 6 to be insufficient
to determine dosing because Gilead only studied 7 patients total
with those types of hepatitis C.  New Data  “This is a two- or three-stage program,” John McHutchison, senior vice president of liver disease therapeutics
at Gilead, said in an interview. “This is the first approval.”  Gilead is researching an all-oral combination of sofosbuvir
and another Gilead drug ledipasvir the company hopes will hit
the market about a year after sofosbuvir itself.  “Sofosbuvir seems to be the future of many of these highly
effective all oral regimens,” McHutchison said.  FDA workers recommended yesterday potential simeprevir
users be screened for a genetic mutation called Q80K
polymorphism that renders the drug ineffective. No such
suggestion was made regarding sofosbuvir.  Data from a mid-stage study on a combination of simeprevir
and  sofosbuvir with or without ribavirin are expected to be
released in early November at the  American Association  for the
Study of Liver Diseases’ annual conference in Washington, D.C.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  