-- Glaxo’s China Sales Plunge 61% After Corruption Probe
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-10-23T16:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/glaxo-s-china-sales-plunge-61-after-corruption-probe.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s third-quarter
sales of pharmaceuticals and vaccines in China fell 61 percent
after an anti-corruption probe began there in July, and the
drugmaker gave no outlook on how long the downturn would last.  Revenue from consumer health-care products in China fell 29
percent, the London-based company said today in a  statement .
Total sales rose 1 percent to 6.51 billion pounds ($10.5
billion), missing analysts’ average estimate of 6.64 billion
pounds. U.S. sales also fell short of analysts’ predictions.  Glaxo’s woes in China are benefiting rival drugmakers. A
“dramatic decline” in Glaxo’s Seretide lung drug and Flixonase
nasal spray in the country led to a rapid acceleration in sales
of  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Symbicort inhaler, Barclays Plc analysts
said last week. Seretide sales in China fell 56 percent in the
quarter, and revenue from hepatitis B drugs Zeffix and Hepsera
dropped 73 percent and 76 percent, respectively.  “We very clearly recognize there is a profound need to
earn the trust of the Chinese people again, and we will take
every action to do so,” Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty 
said in a media conference call today. “It is still too early
for us to quantify the longer-term impact of the investigation
on our performance in China.”  Bribery Allegations  Allegations by China’s government that Glaxo bribed
hospitals, doctors and officials prompted Witty to dispatch his
head of  emerging markets  to China to oversee the company’s
response.  Glaxo shares fell 1.9 percent, the biggest decline in six
weeks, to 1,570.50 pence at the close of trading in  London .
Before today, the shares had  returned  24 percent this year,
compared with a 21 percent return in the Bloomberg  Europe 
Pharmaceutical Index. The stock has risen as Glaxo has won
approval to sell four new medicines this year.  China accounts for slightly less than 3.5 percent of
Glaxo’s global pharmaceutical revenue and is less profitable
than its Western businesses, though the world’s most populous
nation presents significant growth opportunities, the Barclays
analysts said.  “China is a critically important country of the future,”
Witty said on the call.  Rivals’ Revenue  The sales drop in China was more severe in July and August
than in September, Witty told analysts on a separate call.  Novartis AG (NOVN) , Europe’s biggest drugmaker by sales, said this
week that sales in China rose 18 percent in the quarter, while
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  today said sales there increased 11 percent.  Following the China allegations, Glaxo may alter its
incentive compensation program for sales representatives to
match changes it made in the U.S., Witty said. Glaxo made the
changes just before agreeing to pay $3 billion to resolve U.S.
criminal and civil probes into whether it marketed drugs for
unapproved uses and other matters.  “Our customers are telling us it was the right call,”
Witty said. “I’ve got no doubt we will look to export some of
the lessons learned from that to other parts of the world.”  While the majority of the drop in sales in China stemmed
from the investigation, which drove sales to competitors with
similar products, part of the decline also came from an expected
slowdown in the vaccines business, Witty said.  Long Shadow  “China continues to cast a pall over the company’s
emerging markets operations and could have long-standing effects
in the country,”  Timothy Anderson , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  New York , wrote in a report.  While it’s too early to make judgments on possible fines
from the Chinese government, the company has sufficient legal
provisions given the information gathered so far, Witty said.  Third-quarter earnings excluding some items were 28.9 pence
a share. That compared with the average estimate of 27.2 pence
from 17 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The results benefited
from adjustments to the company’s retirement plan and lower
spending on research and development.  The company maintained its forecast for the year as growth
in other regions offset declining sales in China. In April, the
company said it seeks to boost sales 1 percent this year and
earnings per share by 3 percent to 4 percent.  Drugmakers including Novartis,  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  raised their full-year forecasts this quarter.  Roche
Holding AG  and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. have maintained their
2013 forecasts.  Drug Approvals  Glaxo and partner  Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s lung drug Anoro last
month won the backing of a U.S. advisory panel, which augurs
regulatory approval by December. A nod for Anoro by the  Food and
Drug Administration  would be Glaxo’s fifth this year. It’s
unlikely any other major drugmaker globally will come close,
according to Sam Fazeli, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries in
London.  Breo and Anoro are of particular interest to investors as
follow-up drugs to Seretide, which had about $8 billion in sales
last year and may face generic competition following the
expiration of the inhaler device’s patent in 2016. Seretide is
marketed as Advair in the U.S. and had 1.2 billion pounds in
sales in the third quarter, down 1 percent from a year earlier.  Glaxo is the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker. The second-biggest,
AstraZeneca, reports third-quarter results Oct. 31.  For Related News and Information:
Glaxo’s Record Approvals Boost Morale as  China  Probe Drags  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  