-- Gold Leaves on Australian Trees Seen Curbing Costs for Miners
-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-10-23T04:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/gold-leaves-on-australian-trees-seen-curbing-costs-for-miners.html
Miners looking for gold in  Australia 
may be able to cut exploration costs after the discovery of
bullion particles on leaves and branches of trees in Western
Australia that may indicate deposits, scientists say.  Eucalyptus trees in the state’s Kalgoorlie region, about
595 kilometers (370 miles) east of Perth, have been found to
draw up water containing gold particles that are one-fifth the
diameter of a human hair, the Commonwealth Scientific and
Industrial Research Organisation said in a  statement . The gold
is likely to be toxic to the plant and is moved to the leaves
and branches where it can be released or shed to the ground.  Gold miners are seeking to cut costs after bullion plunged
into a  bear market  this year and heads for its first annual loss
since 2000.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s biggest gold
producer, said in August it may sell, close or curb output at 12
mines from Peru to  Papua New Guinea .  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,
Australia’s largest producer, wrote down the value of its mines
and other assets by A$6.2 billion ($6 billion) the same month.  “By sampling and analyzing vegetation for traces of
minerals, we may get an idea of what’s happening below the
surface without the need to drill,” CSIRO geochemist Mel
Lintern said. “Eucalyptus trees are so common that this
technique could be widely applied across Australia. It could
also be used to find other metals such as zinc and copper.”  The leaves may be used in combination with other tools as a
more cost effective exploration technique, the agency said.  Australia is the world’s largest gold producer after  China .
Bullion for immediate delivery traded little changed at
$1,339.81 an ounce, down 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  