-- Goldman Raises $226 Million by Selling Shares in TCS IPO
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-10-23T16:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/goldman-raises-226-million-by-selling-shares-in-tcs-ipo.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  raised $226
million selling stock in  TCS Group Holding Plc (TCS) ’s initial public
offering yesterday, cashing out almost two-thirds of its stake
in the Russian consumer lender.  The investment bank, through its ELQ Investors II unit,
sold 12.9 million of its 21 million shares, reducing its stake
from 12 percent to 4.5 percent. A spokesman for the New York-based company declined to comment.  Goldman Sachs is vying to compete with Russia’s leading
foreign investment banks such as Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup
Inc. by using the more than $1 billion it invested in private
equity since 2007 as leverage to win deals and woo the Kremlin
for roles in asset sales. Goldman Sachs bought stakes in Russian
companies on condition that it gets equity and debt mandates
later, a person familiar with the deals said in 2011.  “There’s nothing sinister here,” Jason Hurwitz, senior
banking analyst at Alfa Bank, said today in a phone interview.
“It is not the first time Goldman Sachs has shown greater
foresight than other investment banks.”  TCS priced the IPO at $17.50 a global depositary receipt,
valuing the firm at $3.2 billion. The GDRs  fell  0.8 percent to
$18.15 today in  London .  Goldman Sachs and other investment banks managing the sale
may benefit from selling as much as $163 million in additional
shares, TCS said in a statement.  Branchless Bank  TCS, founded as Tinkoff Credit Systems in 2007 by serial
entrepreneur Oleg Tinkov, has issued more than 2 million cards
in Russia and now ranks fifth in lending, according to the
company. The branchless bank is modeled on McLean, Virginia-based  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , which pioneered the
distribution of credit cards through direct mail, which Tinkov
said he learned about firsthand while living in San Francisco.  Tinkov has created and sold businesses including a retail
electronics chain, frozen-food producer brewery and restaurants.  Goldman Sachs acquired its initial 10 percent holding in
Tinkoff in October 2007, according to a prospectus. In 2008,
Swedish fund Vostok Nafta Investment Ltd. became a shareholder,
and Baring Vostok,  Russia ’s most successful private equity firm,
and Ukraine’s Horizon Capital bought stakes last year.  The IPO, the largest by a Russian company in 11 months,
values the lender at 4 to 5 times book value, according to
Natalia Berezina, banking analyst at UralSib Financial Corp. OAO
Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, trades at about 1.3 times
 book value , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Heightened Risks’  Russia’s consumer-finance banks face an increase in bad
loans in the unsecured retail-lending market and TCS is among
those with “heightened risks,” Moody’s Investors Service said
in a Sept. 12 report. Russian bank lending to households rose 34
percent as of Aug. 1 from a year earlier, while unsecured loans
surged 39 percent, according to central bank data. That’s higher
than the regulator deems “comfortable.”  The bank is “an unique story, but in my opinion in current
conditions of overheated consumer lending, Central Bank
regulations, rising asset-quality problems and general cost of
equity for Russia and Russian banks, it’s still too high a price
for Tinkoff,” Berezina, who values TCS at $1.6 billion, said in
e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 