-- Goldman Hires Citigroup’s Smith as Asia Electronic Trading Head
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2013-10-23T04:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/goldman-hires-citigroup-s-smith-as-asia-electronic-trading-head.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said it
hired Ian M. Smith from  Citigroup (C)  Inc. as head of electronic
trading for the Asia-Pacific region as the U.S. firm seeks to
expand its system globally.  Smith, most recently head of execution trading for the
region at Citigroup, will be a managing director, said Connie
Ling, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs. The
hiring follows the departure of Shuya Kekke, former co-head of
electronic trading, from Goldman Sachs earlier this year.  Smith becomes the fifth senior electronic trading
specialist the Wall Street firm has recruited in the region in
the past two years, spanning from  Japan  to  Australia , Ling said.
New York-based Goldman Sachs spent a year developing an
electronic trading system for corporate bonds called GSessions
that started operating in 2012.  “We have been building out our electronic trading platform
in Asia, tripling the number of clients on the algorithmic
customization platform and adding access to three new markets in
the past year,” Canute Dalmasse, Asia-Pacific head of execution
services, wrote in an e-mail today.  Smith will be based in Hong Kong, Ling said. Before
Citigroup, he worked at Credit Suisse Group AG and led the
development of the Swiss bank’s algorithmic trading strategies
and related product development, she said.  James Griffiths, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on Smith’s departure.  Citigroup and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among securities
firms that bought execution-management systems starting in the
mid-2000s to give clients including mutual funds access to
exchanges and algorithms, or trading strategies that allow them
to process larger orders in small pieces over a preset period.  JPMorgan has added six people to its Asia electronic
trading team in the past three months, including Kekke.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  