-- Goldman’s Cohn Says He Doesn’t Know Why FICC Unit Underperformed
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-23T16:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/goldman-s-cohn-says-he-doesn-t-know-why-ficc-unit-underperformed.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  President
 Gary Cohn  said while he doesn’t know what drove his firm’s
underperformance in fixed-income trading in the third quarter,
he’s vowing to fix it.  “We don’t know precisely why we had a tough quarter, but
the results are in, and I can tell you we had a tough quarter in
fixed-income,” Cohn said today in a Bloomberg Television
interview with  Stephanie Ruhle . “We’re very committed, we’re
going to redouble or triple our efforts in fixed-income. We
believe ourselves to be a very powerful, very dominant, top-tier
fixed-income shop.”  Goldman Sachs reported last week that fixed-income,
currency and commodities, or FICC, trading revenue dropped 47
percent to $1.29 billion, the lowest since the financial crisis.
The firm’s share of revenue among the five largest Wall Street
banks is 17 percent so far this year, down from 22 percent in
2010.  The  Federal Reserve ’s decision not to taper its stimulus
efforts didn’t cause a big change for the firm’s business, Cohn,
53, said. Chief Financial Officer Harvey Schwartz said last week
that clients were cautious leading up to the decision.  “For Goldman, it meant business as usual,” Cohn said.
“Not tapering is the world that we’ve been in for the last
year.”  Efforts to improve in fixed-income will include hiring, he
said.  “We’re looking for seasoned traders, we’re replenishing
our trading supply,” Cohn said. “We’re looking for seasoned
salespeople, salespeople who have real client relationships and
can come in and help us manage our client relationships.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  