-- Gordhan Says ANC Doesn’t Need Populist Budget to Win Vote
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-10-23T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/gordhan-says-anc-doesn-t-need-populist-budget-to-win-vote.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said the ruling African National Congress is
assured of about 60 percent support in next year’s election and
he doesn’t need to take populist measures in his budget to win
votes for the party.  “We don’t have to engage in that kind of conduct in order
to attract votes,” he said in an interview in Cape Town
yesterday. “Over the years we have had programs in the place
which appealed to different constituencies.”  Gordhan presented his mid-term budget in Parliament
yesterday that pledged to cut perks for government ministers,
provincial premiers and mayors, including on transport, housing
and entertainment. The comments were met with cheers by
lawmakers and welcomed by labor unions and opposition parties,
who have criticized government leaders for excessive spending.  The ANC has won every election since the first multiracial
one in 1994 with more than 60 percent of the vote. The ANC is
facing challenges next year from a raft of new parties,
including a breakaway faction led by former youth leader  Julius Malema .  The mid-term budget is a “pre-election one,” because it
aims to curb wasteful spending and makes no mention of higher
taxes, AJ Jansen van Nieuwenhuizen, a tax partner at Grant
Thornton in Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed statement. “This
is a very politically targeted budget with initiatives announced
that will resonate with the larger voting public.”  Gordhan, 64, was elected in December to the ANC’s national
executive council, the top decision-making body of the ruling
party.  Welfare Grants  The ANC appeals to a range of voters because of its
spending on welfare grants for the poor, affirmative action
policies that have helped fuel a growing black middle class and
favorable taxes for businesses, Gordhan said.  “For the large number of people in the lower income ranks
and the poverty ranks, we’ve had the social grants that have
made a huge difference in their lives and people appreciate the
fact that it is supporting them,” he said. “The investments we
made in education, housing, health, are all part of that 57% of
social wage that we commit to South Africans as part of both
making people comfortable now, but overcoming the legacies as
well.”  Gordhan said he will introduce a bill in Parliament
tomorrow to subsidize wages for new entrants to the labor
market, a program that’s been opposed by the ANC’s labor ally,
the Congress of South African Trade Unions. The federation
called the proposed law an “attack on the security of
 employment  of workers” in an e-mailed statement on Oct. 16.  “Within the government and the ANC broadly we have a set
of policies which is consistent with what the ANC is, which is a
broad church,” Gordhan said. “At this point in time we will do
what we have to do to make sure that the economy grows and we
run a good, tight fiscal ship.”  National and provincial elections in South Africa are set
to take place by July next year. Gordhan said it’s too early to
say whether he will remain in his post after the vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  