-- Greenspan Says Stocks Are ‘Relatively Low’ and Headed Upward
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-10-23T17:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/greenspan-says-stocks-are-relatively-low-and-headed-upward-1-.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said the  stock market  has room to rise from record
levels.  “In a sense, we are actually at relatively low stock
prices,” Greenspan, who guided the central bank for more than
18 years, said in an interview with Sara Eisen on Bloomberg
Television today. “So-called equity premiums are still at a
very high level, and that means that the momentum of the market
is still ultimately up.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 23.03 percent this
year through yesterday, pulling within a percentage point of its
23.5 percent surge in 2009, amid speculation the Fed will delay
cuts to its monthly bond purchases until the labor market
improves. The benchmark index rose 0.6 percent yesterday to a
record, before falling to 1,746.01 at 1:21 p.m. in  New York 
today.  Greenspan said the stock market is “just barely above
2007” and the average annual increase in stock prices
“throughout the postwar period” is 7 percent, which leaves
room for a rise.  “Price-earnings ratios are not hugely up,” he said. The
market has “gone up a huge amount, but it’s not bubbly,”
according to Greenspan.  ‘Great Moderation’  Greenspan, 87, served at the Fed during an era dubbed the
“Great Moderation” for its economic stability. In a December
1996 speech, after seven straight quarters of gains in the  S&P
500 , Greenspan posed a question about how the Fed can know
“when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset
values.”  In the final years of Greenspan’s term, which lasted from
1987 to 2006, a massive housing bubble developed as  home prices 
more than doubled between 2000 and 2006, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller home price  index .  Greenspan said today’s housing market doesn’t show the same
conditions as it exhibited leading up to the housing crash, and
is lending stability to the  U.S. economy .  “The level of construction has come up quite
substantially, but it’s still only a third of where we were at
the previous top,” Greenspan said. “While housing has been a
major contributor to what stability we have in the economy, it
has not moved considerably.”  New Homes  Purchases of new U.S. homes rose in August, capping the
weakest two months this year, showing the fallout from  mortgage
rates  at a two-year high is cooling the real-estate rebound.
Sales increased 7.9 percent to a 421,000 annualized pace
following a 390,000 rate in the prior month that was less than
previously estimated, Commerce Department data showed Sept. 25.  Greenspan also praised Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , whom
President  Barack Obama  has nominated as the next head of the
central bank, both in the Bloomberg interview and in an earlier
interview on CNBC.  “She’s a very bright lady,” Greenspan said of Yellen on
CNBC. “I think she will surprise everybody, I mean in a
positive way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  