-- PSG, Bayern Munich Stay Perfect With 5-0 Champions League Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-23T22:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/ibrahimovic-leads-psg-past-anderlecht-5-0-in-champions-league.html
Paris Saint-Germain and Bayern
Munich both won 5-0 to maintain their perfect starts in soccer’s
Champions League, while Real Madrid kept its 100 percent record
by beating Juventus 2-1.  Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored four goals as PSG routed
Anderlecht in Brussels last night for its third straight victory,
while  Franck Ribery  scored twice in defending champion Bayern’s
home win over Viktoria Plzen.  “We delivered a good performance but Plzen didn’t really
make it all that difficult for us,” Bayern’s Arjen Robben said
on the website of tournament organizer UEFA. “We know that we
will still face tougher games in the future.”  Real Madrid also has the maximum nine points after
 Cristiano Ronaldo  scored twice against 10-man Juventus to move
to a competition-leading seven goals.  Manchester United, Bayer Leverkusen, Galatasaray and
Manchester City also won as the group stage of Europe’s elite
club competition reached the halfway point. The top two teams in
each pool advance to the round of 16.  Ibrahimovic scored three goals over 19 first-half minutes
in Belgium to put PSG 3-0 up. After Edinson Cavani scored early
in the second half, Ibrahimovic became the ninth player with
four goals in a Champions League match in the 62nd minute.  “I feel good,” Ibrahimovic said on UEFA’s website. “This
year, we are stronger, we have stronger players. We could win
the competition, but remember that the further you go, the
harder it is.”  The victory gives PSG a five-point lead in Group C over
Benfica and Olympiacos, who drew 1-1 in Portugal.  Bayern’s Rout  David Alaba,  Bastian Schweinsteiger  and Mario Goetze also
scored in Bayern Munich’s home rout of Viktoria Plzen. The
German champion has scored 11 goals and allowed just one in
three games.  Manchester City beat CSKA Moscow 2-1 in Russia to move into
second place in Group D, three points behind Bayern.  Zoran Tosic gave CSKA the lead in the 32nd minute and
 Sergio Aguero  tied the score two minutes later. Aguero then put
City in front just before halftime with his eighth goal in the
past six matches. City goalkeeper  Joe Hart  preserved the victory
in second-half stoppage time by saving Keisuke Honda’s close-range shot with his leg.  In Spain, Ronaldo continued his scoring run as Real Madrid
overcame Juventus in Group B. The Portuguese forward opened the
scoring in the fourth minute before  Fernando Llorente  drew
Juventus even.  57 Goals  Ronaldo put Real back in front with a 29th-minute penalty
kick after Giorgio Chiellini took down  Sergio Ramos  as the two
battled for a free kick. It was Ronaldo’s 57th goal in the
competition, third-most behind Raul Gonzalez’s 71 and  Lionel Messi ’s 63.  Juventus went down to 10 men three minutes into the second
half when Chiellini was shown a red card for a foul on Ronaldo,
though Real couldn’t add to its lead.  Galatasaray moved into second place in the group after its
3-1 home win over Copenhagen. Felipe Melo,  Wesley Sneijder  and
 Didier Drogba  scored from the Turkish club.  Manchester United stayed atop Group A by beating Real
Sociedad 1-0 at Old Trafford. The score came in the second
minute after  Wayne Rooney  hit the post and Inigo Martinez
knocked the rebound into the net for an own goal.  “We played some great football and should have won the
game by more,” Rooney told Sky Sports. “We created a lot of
chances. On another day we’d have won more comfortably.”  Bayer Leverkusen is a point behind United after routing
Shakhtar Donetsk 4-0 in Germany as Stefan Kiessling scored twice.  The next round of Champions League matches will be played
Nov. 5 and 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 