-- ICICI Securities Forms Advisory Partnership With GCA Savvian
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-10-23T08:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/icici-securities-forms-advisory-partnership-with-gca-savvian.html
ICICI Securities Ltd., the
investment-banking arm of India’s biggest private lender, formed
a partnership with  Japan ’s GCA Savvian Group Corp. to advise on
cross-border mergers between the two countries.  ICICI Securities’ capital markets business will also help
Tokyo-based GCA Savvian’s clients with rights issues, open
offers and delistings in India, the two companies said in a
press release. GCA Savvian earlier had a partnership with
Mumbai-based  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB)  that ended last year.  The alliance comes after the volume of mergers and
acquisitions involving Indian companies slid to $25.5 billion
this year, the lowest since 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The value of Indian acquisitions by Japanese
companies has fallen to $359 million so far in 2013, down from a
record $7.52 billion for all of 2008.  Deal activity has decreased since Daiichi Sankyo Co.’s 2008
acquisition of Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. for $4.6 billion. The
Indian drugmaker agreed in May to pay $500 million to resolve
fraud allegations, and Daiichi said it will pursue “legal
remedies” against Ranbaxy’s former owners for allegedly hiding
details of U.S. investigations into the company. The former
owners have denied the allegations.  Japanese companies in industries from cars to electronics
have been expanding in  India , as demand at home slows because of
an aging population. Toshiba Corp. agreed in September to buy
Vijai Electricals Ltd.’s transmission and distribution business
for $200 million. Last year, Sony Corp. spent $271 million to
increase its stake in Indian television network operator Multi
Screen Media Pvt.  Financial firms from Japan have also been active. Kotak
Mahindra Capital Co. formed a strategic alliance in December
2012 with Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. and SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. Nippon Life Insurance Co., Japan’s biggest life
insurer, spent $288 million last year for a minority stake in
Reliance Capital Ltd.’s asset-management unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  