-- Liebrandt Restrains Himself With $18 Burger: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/liebrandt-restrains-himself-with-18-burger-ryan-sutton.html
At  Corton , late of TriBeCa, chemist-slash-chef Paul Liebrandt used to wrap raw fish in cotton candy,
puff up beef tendon like fried pork rinds and turn potatoes into
ice cream. A dinner date could easily hit $800 for its two-Michelin-starred cuisine.  Now he runs The Elm, a less prepossessing Brooklyn spot
where trendy meats cooked sous-vide co-exist with $18 burgers.
The chef simply grills a blend of dry-aged short rib, brisket
and chuck, and serves it on a bun with spicy pickles and tomato
confit. Fries come with.  The hefty patty is medium rare and boasts a stronger dry-aged musk than pricier beef around town. Drink a $9 Allagash
White brew and there you have it: A beer-budget dinner from a
Champagne-quality chef. The Elm is Liebrandt for everyone,
 Jackson Pollock  taking a turn at the Spin-Art wheel.  Don’t worry, food snobs. Located just below street level at
 The King & Grove  hotel in Williamsburg, The Elm also sends out
tom yum froth, tomato dust and apricot gel (at least two of
which taste good).  So for Liebrandt,  The Elm  is a concession to restraint.
Unlike Corton, where dinner began with a procession of
increasingly challenging amuses, meals at the Elm begin with a
yuzu and black-olive financier delivered via service tray.  Natural Light  The sunken living-room space is bustling, open and alive
with natural light. A canopy of greenery hangs by one wall,
nicely contrasting with the worm’s-eye view of the streetscape.  Service is attentive without being nosy. In the open
kitchen, you can watch the Zimbabwe-born chef turning each plate
into a small work of art before releasing it to the servers.  Pillowy early autumn beets ($18) would be fine alone, but
Liebrandt checks the sugary root with tomato aioli, dried shrimp
and bacon. It’s delicious.  The kitchen mixes a farmers’ market load of produce into
the $48 garden casserole, tossing in carrots (glazed and shaved
raw), roasted purple Peruvian potatoes, pickled ramps, yuzu-compressed Asian pear, anise hyssop, golden frill mustard -- and
more. They were perfectly cooked; I devoured them with as much
gusto as I might a lamb chop.  Raw Strip  No steak here, only a tartare of  New York  strip stung with
chili and horseradish. At $15, it’s a bargain for a Brooklyn
neighborhood where restaurants command Manhattan prices (nearby
Aska charges $79-$125 for dinner), and hotels charge Central
Park South rates (getting a room upstairs here will start at
around $450 a night this weekend).  Liebrandt will revert to his more expensive ways in
November when he plans on turning the kitchen counter into
tasting-menu territory. For now, I’m happy with $18 foie gras,
paired with peanuts and topped with Concord grape gelee -- PB&J
for grownups. With a $20 glass of Rene Geoffroy Champagne (or an
$11 Vinho Verde), there’s your party for one.  Avoid the short rib, a spongy sous-vide preparation that
will make you wish for a proper braise. And skip the $52 chicken
Kiev for two, a flavorless bore.  The chef redeems himself with fish. He cures oily kanpachi
into a chewy but succulent ham. Fried hake filets ($22), the
bland chicken fingers of the piscine world, are made exotic with
curry mayo. Memorable pasta is cooked in clam stock and the
bivalves spiked with sopressata sausage.  Pork Belly  And for a final surf and turf, Liebrandt brings on pork
belly, pairing it with tomato-stuffed squid for a $50 feast that
easily feeds three.  Finish with a fruit tart and savor the fact that Liebrandt
is back, very near the top of his game.  Rating: ***  The Bloomberg Questions:  Price: Most dishes $25 or under.  Sound Level: About 70 or so; never quite noisy.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: Very good cheese course for just $12.  Special Feature: For a cocktail, try the “East End”, a
blend of gin, maple and sriracha ($14).  Back on my own dime? Absolutely.  The Elm is at 160 N 12th Street. Information: +1-718-218-1088;  http://theelmnyc.com .  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on music and
 Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 