-- Lilly Beats Analyst Estimates on Diabetes Drug Sales
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-23T20:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/lilly-beats-analyst-estimates-on-rising-diabetes-drug-sales.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , which may introduce
five  new drugs  next year, reported third-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates on cost cuts and higher sales of
diabetes products.  Earnings excluding one-time items were $1.11 a share,
Indianapolis-based Lilly said today in a statement. Analysts
expected $1.04 a share, the average of 17 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 6 percent to $5.77 billion, compared with
the $5.75 billion analysts projected.  Lilly’s  stock has underperformed  the rest of the industry,
falling 3.1 percent in the last 12 months. Brand-name
pharmaceutical sales are finally starting to grow again after
years of patent expirations shrank revenues as blockbusters
including Lilly’s schizophrenia drug Zyprexa, faced cheaper
copycat versions.  “The near-term outlook for Lilly from a pure financial
perspective is improving because the impact from the late 2011
loss of patent protection on schizophrenia drug Zyprexa
annualized by year-end 2012, allowing the company to return to
growth at least in 2013,” said  Timothy Anderson , an analyst
with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York , in a note to
clients today.  Net income fell 9 percent to $1.2 billion, or $1.11 a
share, from $1.33 billion, or $1.18, a year earlier, the company
said. Lilly rose less than 1 percent to $50.31 at 4 p.m. in New
York trading.  New Drugs  Derica Rice, Lilly’s chief financial officer, said
shareholders will reward the company over the long-term even as
the company lagged its peers for now when it brings new drugs to
market next year.  “It will be when we get those drugs across the finish
line,” Rice said in a telephone interview today. “The data
looks promising, but they still have to go through the
regulatory process.”  The  drug industry  has been cutting costs and slimming down
to help boost margins and compensate for those patent
expirations. Lilly, in July, said it planned to freeze wages for
most workers. The company reported operating costs fell 2
percent to $3.03 billion from a year earlier.  Earlier this month, the company announced it was buying
back $5 billion in shares, and has promised to meet sales goals
of $20 billion for next year, compared with $22.6 billion in
2012.  The company increased the lower end of its forecast for
next year, narrowing the range to $4.10 to $4.15 per share, from
$4.05 to $4.15 per share.  New Medicines  Lilly has four new diabetes drugs scheduled to go on sale
in 2014 and 2015, assuming they’re all approved by U.S.
regulators, said  Tony Butler , an analyst with Barclays Plc. The
company’s been positioning itself as the only one that can offer
drugs for every type of diabetes therapy, and using that to
appeal to insurers and doctors.  Jami Rubin , an analyst with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said
she is less optimistic about the diabetes franchise, in part
because upcoming drugs from Merck & Co., Pfizer Inc. and Johnson
& Johnson will increase competition.  “There’s no doubt that the payer environment has become
more challenging,” said Rice. “The key to navigating those
waters is clinical differentiation. While we will have
competitors in all of the spaces, we will be the only pharma
company that will play in all of the segments.”  The company also has experimental medicines for  Alzheimer’s
disease , a neurodegenerative brain disorder, and cancer.
Solanezumab, the Alzheimer’s drug, if approved would be the
first medicine to treat the causes of the disease rather than
just the symptoms. The treatment is in late-stage testing.  Cancer Therapy  Ramucirumab, an experimental treatment for gastric cancer,
was given a priority review designation by U.S. drug regulators,
which could let it reach the market faster. The drug is in
final-stage testing.  A breast cancer study also released last
month didn’t meet its goal of progression-free survival.  Cymbalta, the drugmaker’s biggest product, sold $1.38
billion, an 11 percent increase. It loses patent protection in
December. Alimta, a lung cancer treatment, generated $690.5
million, an increase of 7 percent.  Sales of Lilly’s two  insulins  rose; Humalog increased 7
percent to $616 million, and Humilin gained 8 percent to $307
million.  The company said sales were cut 2 percent by unfavorable
foreign exchange rates. More than  half of Lilly’s 2012 revenue 
came from outside the U.S., and the company said it expected
sales overseas to grow, particularly in  China .  China Sales  China growth has been hurt, though, by government probes of
drugmakers there. GlaxoSmithKline Plc, the London-based
drugmaker, said today that sales in China fell 61 percent in the
quarter. Lilly’s Chinese sales grew 11 percent, lower than the
20 percent-plus rates the industry had reported in years past.  “There’s no doubt that the market growth in China did slow
in the first half of 2013,” Rice said, noting that it’s still
growing faster than the U.S. and  Europe . “There’s no doubt that
the compliance discussions have had a negative impact.”  Glaxo faces allegations it traded in sexual favors and had
spurious travel and meeting expenses amounting to 3 billion
 yuan . Lilly said in August it was investigating allegations that
its employees paid bribes and kickbacks to Chinese doctors.
Paris-based Sanofi faces an investigation over similar
allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  