-- Impala Says Zimbabwe Unit Talks With New Government Constructive
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-10-23T14:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/impala-says-zimbabwe-unit-talks-with-new-government-constructive.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  said
its Zimbabwean unit held “constructive” talks with the
country’s new government over mining operations, including the
requirement to sell majority stakes to black citizens.  “What we’re observing is a much more considered and
measured attitude emanating from discussions with the
authorities,” said Khotso Mokhele, chairman of Johannesburg-based Impala, which owns an 87 percent stake in  Zimplats
Holdings Ltd. (ZIM)  “We welcome the constructive tone and believe it
bodes well for finding win-win solutions and continued
investment in that country.”  The Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front party
won a two-thirds parliamentary majority in July elections after
sharing power with the rival Movement for Democratic Change from
2009. The previous government said in April it won’t pay for the
controlling stakes companies are obliged to hand over to the
state and local citizens after it agreed a financed deal with
Zimplats, the country’s biggest platinum producer, in January.  It was too early to speak about an outcome on the so-called
indigenization deal, Mokhele said today in an interview after
Impala’s annual general meeting in Johannesburg.  “As to where we move from here I cannot say for sure, but
it is likely that we will have to revisit certain areas.”  Zimplats also raised issues over electricity supply, mining
royalties and foreign-exchange regulations with the government,
 Johan Theron , spokesman for Impala, said by phone.  The interests of shareholders and executives of the
company, the biggest platinum producer after  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , remained aligned even as Chief Executive Officer
Terence Goodlace opted not to be paid incentive bonuses, Mokhele
said.  Goodlace was paid 7.5 million rand ($767,248) in salary and
benefits during the previous fiscal year and won’t receive an
increase in 2014.  “Some of us believe it is honorable,” said Mokhele. “We
have this gap between chief executives and ordinary workers, and
companies are clever at hiding that gap by packaging a whole
chunk of benefits for chief executives through incentive
schemes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  