-- Import Prices in U.S. Increased in September as Fuel Costs Rose
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-10-23T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/import-prices-in-u-s-increased-in-september-as-fuel-costs-rose.html
The  cost of goods  imported into the
U.S. increased in September for a second month, reflecting
higher fuel charges.  The import-price index climbed 0.2 percent for a second
month, according to Labor Department figures released today in
 Washington . The gain matched the median  estimate  in a Bloomberg
survey of 45 economists. Over the past 12 months, the cost of
goods from abroad dropped 1 percent, the biggest year-to-year
decrease since May.  Companies may have a hard time passing increased costs of
imported goods on to their customers as domestic demand
struggles to accelerate. With inflation under control, the
 Federal Reserve  has more room to hold off on scaling back $85
billion a month in debt purchases, known as quantitative easing.  Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey of economists ranged from
a 0.2 percent decline to a gain of 0.9 percent.  The value of imported  automobiles  was unchanged in
September from the prior month, leading to a 1.2 percent decline
over the past year that was the biggest in records going back to
1981. Prices for  consumer goods  excluding autos dropped 0.1
percent in September.  The cost of imported petroleum climbed 0.8 percent last
month, while natural gas prices dropped 6.9 percent. Total fuel
imports cost 0.6 percent more.  Excluding fuels, import prices advanced 0.1 percent last
month, the first increase since February. They dropped 1.2
percent over the past 12 months.  The price of U.S. exports rose 0.3 percent last month, the
biggest advance since February.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Producer prices are due Oct.
29 and the consumer-price index the next day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 Vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  