-- India Blocks Talks to Cut Greenhouse Gases Using Ozone Treaty
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-10-23T11:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/india-blocks-talks-to-cut-greenhouse-gases-using-ozone-treaty.html
India is blocking an international
plan to reduce the polluting gases used in air conditioners and
refrigerators, saying negotiators are trying to use the wrong
treaty to bring about changes.  International envoys have sought to bypass log-jammed
United Nations climate-treaty talks by handing responsibility
for reducing hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs, to the Montreal
Protocol. That’s an instrument designed to protect the  ozone
layer  rather than the climate.  India’s envoys tried to strike proposed amendments to the
protocol from the agenda of a week-long meeting in Bangkok,
according to  David Doniger , a policy director at the New York-based Natural Resources Defense Council. After failing to do so,
they’ve blocked formal talks on two planned amendments, allowing
only informal discussions on how to manage the gases, he said.  HFCs are as much as 11,700 times more potent in warming the
atmosphere than carbon dioxide. Nations including the U.S. have
proposed to amend the Montreal accord to include HFC reduction,
sidestepping the UN climate-treaty talks. A quicker phase-out of
the gases under the Montreal deal would give India less time to
find economic alternatives, vital for air conditioners in hot
countries.  “Despite Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s commitment, with
other world leaders, to use the Montreal Protocol to phase down
HFC production, India’s negotiators in Bangkok are the strongest
obstacle to moving forward with HFC curbs,” Doniger said today
in an e-mail. The meeting runs through Oct. 25.  Arumugam Duraisamy, director of the ozone group at India’s
Ministry of Environment and Forests, didn’t reply to an e-mail
seeking comment and his mobile phone was switched off.  Honeywell, DuPont  While HFCs don’t deplete ozone, they’re substitutes for the
chloroflorocarbons, or CFCs, that the Montreal Protocol has been
successful in curtailing. They’re made by companies including
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and  DuPont Co. (DD)  in a $4 billion
global refrigerant industry.  At present, HFCs are regulated by the UN Framework
Convention on  Climate Change  and the  Kyoto Protocol . G-20
members, including India, signed a  declaration  in  St. Petersburg 
on Sept. 6 supporting use of the Montreal Protocol to curb the
gases. U.S. President  Barack Obama  and India’s Singh issued a
 statement  later that month agreeing to discuss using the treaty.  “Why are India’s negotiators out of line with the
commitments of their prime minister?,” Doniger said.  The G-20 stance and the alignment of Obama and Singh raised
the prospect India was ending its opposition to using the
Montreal accord. Instead, it’s maintaining the position it has
had for the past five years, Chandra Bhushan, deputy director-general of the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment,
said today by phone. “It’s not going to accept amendments.”  The Montreal Protocol, touted as the most successful
environmental treaty, was rolled out in 1987 to eliminate the
use of CFCs, once a mainstay of air conditioners, refrigerants
and aerosols. Ratified by all nations, it has cut CFCs and other
regulated chemicals by  98 percent , replacing them with HFCs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  