-- India Seals China Border Pact as Singh Hails Li Handshake
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-10-24T04:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/india-seals-border-pact-with-china-as-singh-hails-li-handshake.html
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and
Indian counterpart Manmohan Singh signed an agreement to resolve
border disputes that have hampered ties between the world’s two
most populous nations for the past five decades.  Under the agreement,  India  and China will avoid making
threats to use force against each other and refrain from seeking
“unilateral superiority” along their 3,500-kilometer (2,175-mile) border. Both sides agreed to exchange information on
military exercises and show “maximum restraint” in the event
border forces come into contact.  “When India and China shake hands, the world takes
notice,” Singh said at a joint briefing with Li yesterday
during a three-day trip to Beijing. “My visit to China has put
our relations on a path of stable and fast growth.”  The pact signals a warming in ties as India seeks to reduce
its trade deficit with China, which has contributed to a 13
percent drop in the rupee against the dollar over the past year.
A military standoff in April marked the most serious incident in
a quarter century between the nuclear-armed neighbors on the
Himalayan border where India and  China  fought a brief war in
1962.  ‘Significant’ Agreement  “The agreement is quite significant and will help assuage
the criticism from hardliners,” said C. Uday Bhaskar, a New
Delhi-based analyst at the National Maritime Foundation, a
research group that specializes in security affairs. “This will
be more effective in managing the dispute than the previous ones
but I don’t think this will be a fool proof agreement because
both sides have their positions.”  The border agreement is evidence that relations between
China and India are becoming “mature and rational,” Chinese
foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters in
Beijing yesterday. It will build on previous “good experiences
and practices,” she said.  India and China should avoid a strategic rivalry and focus
on working together to boost living standards, Singh said in a
speech today at the Communist Party’s main training school in
Beijing that was broadcast on Indian television stations.  “We both know that the benefits of cooperation far
outweigh any presumed gains from containment,” Singh said.
“What is at stake is the future of India and China; indeed,
what may be at stake is the future of our region and our
world.”  Modi Attacks  The latest agreement between the two countries subsumes the
previous four deals, the last of which was signed in January
2012. Singh, facing elections next year, has faced attacks from
top challenger Narendra Modi, who told an audience last week
that the government had been timid in dealing with China on
border disputes.  In April, India alleged that Chinese troops had crossed
into Indian-held territory, triggering a three-week escalation
in tensions that ended with an agreement negotiated by army
commanders. China denied any wrongdoing.  Li also agreed to take steps to narrow an “unsustainable”
trade balance between the two countries, according to Singh, who
is making his second trip to China for bilateral talks since he
took power in 2004. The leaders agreed to move forward on plans
to establish a Chinese industrial park in India.  India  has grown more reliant on China over the past
decade, with two-way trade growing to $66 billion last year to
account for about 8.3 percent of the South Asian nation’s total
commerce, up from about 4.9 percent a decade ago. India’s trade
deficit with China increased to $39 billion last year, the
biggest gap with any of its trading partners, government
statistics show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  