-- India to Add $2.3 Billion to State Banks for Bad Loans
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-10-24T03:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/india-to-infuse-2-3-billion-in-state-run-banks-on-soured-loans.html
State Bank of India  and  Central Bank
of India (CBOI)  are among 20 government-run banks that will receive a
140 billion-rupee ($2.3 billion) capital infusion to guard
against soured loans in a slowing economy.  The recapitalization of state-controlled banks will enable
them to raise money through share sales, Rajiv Takru, the
Finance Ministry’s banking secretary, told reporters in New
Delhi yesterday. State Bank will get 20 billion rupees, he said.
The government, which had set aside funds for the infusion in
the budget proposed in February, delayed the plans in July amid
a slump in shares as borrowing costs surged.  The injection is part of a ministry goal to help banks
boost credit and meet tighter capital-reserve requirements. Bad
debt as a percentage of Indian bank lending rose to a six-year
high in June, with government-run banks holding a higher share
of non-performing loans, central bank data show.  “The infusion will help as the pain in terms of
profitability and bad loans is going to last for another couple
of quarters,” Jisha Nair, a Mumbai-based banking analyst at BOB
Capital Markets Ltd., said by phone yesterday. “The banks will
be better positioned to tap equity markets for additional funds
now.”  The government usually infuses capital into lenders by
buying their shares. Rules requiring government stakes of at
least 51 percent have curtailed state banks’ ability to sell
shares, making them undercapitalized relative to privately owned
lenders.  Economic Slowdown  Capital adequacy ratios at the state-run banks based on so-called Basel II rules stood at an average 12.4 percent as of
March 31, lower than the 13.8 percent average for all the
country’s lenders, Reserve  Bank of India (BOI)  data show. While
financial institutions started reporting ratios under the more
stringent Basel III requirements in June, the RBI is yet to
publish an industry average based on the new standard.  China ’s biggest banks tripled the amount of bad loans
written off in the first half, cleaning up their books ahead of
what may be a fresh wave of defaults. China has eased rules for
writing off debt to small businesses since 2010 and policy
makers are pushing the lenders to increase risk buffers
following an unprecedented credit boom that began in 2009.  IDBI Bank  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  and  Central Bank of India  will get 18
billion rupees each, while  Indian Overseas Bank (IOB)  will get an
investment of 12 billion rupees from the government, an e-mailed
statement from the Finance Ministry showed.  Bank of India  will
get 10 billion rupees, while  Bank of Maharashtra (BOMH)  will receive 8
billion rupees.  State Bank of  India  may raise additional capital of 17
billion rupees by selling shares to large investors, Takru, the
banking secretary, said. The bank’s board may approve the share
sale plans on Oct. 30, he said.  India’s  economy , Asia’s third largest, will expand 5
percent to 5.5 percent in the fiscal year ending March, the
Finance Ministry said in its quarterly review released on Oct.
8. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted on Sept. 3 growth of 4
percent, which would be the weakest pace in more than 10 years.  Bad loans at Indian lenders climbed to 3.9 percent of total
lending as of June 30 from 2.4 percent in March 2011, according
to an Aug. 22  report  from the RBI. State-run banks account for
three quarters of the country’s lending.  The S&P BSE Bankex Index rose 0.6 percent yesterday.  State
Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s largest, gained 2.5 percent to
1,716.55 rupees. Central Bank climbed 1.3 percent and IDBI Bank
jumped 4.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  