-- Indonesia Home Prices Rise as Demand Bucks Higher Rates
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-10-23T07:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/indonesia-home-prices-rise-as-demand-bucks-higher-rates-economy.html
Indonesia ’s most aggressive monetary
tightening since 2005 is set to slow economic growth without
denting soaring property demand in the world’s fourth-most
populous nation.  A young population, elevated  inflation  and property-price
gains that outpace interest rates are spurring real-estate sales
from Jakarta to Manado.  Home prices  in the third quarter
probably rose 14.6 percent from a year earlier, according to a
Bank Indonesia survey, while the Indonesian Real Estate
Association predicts housing sales will climb more than 50
percent this year.  “Indonesia has a huge population, that’s a potential
market for us,” said Setyo Maharso, chairman of the Indonesian
real estate association, which predicts 2013 property sales will
rise to 400,000 units from 260,000 last year. “For our buyers,
as long as they have the ability to pay monthly installments,
sales will keep increasing till the year end.”  With foreigners restricted from owning property in
Southeast  Asia ’s biggest economy, Indonesia is confronting a
surge in local demand rather than the capital inflows that
spurred record home prices in neighboring  Singapore  and Hong
Kong. After the central bank imposed stricter loan-to-value
ratios for mortgages, persistent price gains may prompt the
government to raise some real-estate taxes, PT Bank Danamon
Indonesia said.  “By giving a luxury tax, especially for high-end
properties, it would help to curb home-price increases,” said
 Anton Gunawan , chief economist at Bank Danamon who was a
candidate for the No. 2 job at the central bank this year.
“Returns from property remain high as there’s an expectation
that home prices are still rising.”  Beating Inflation  Inflation eased to 8.4 percent in September after reaching
a four-year high of 8.8 percent in August. Bank Indonesia
forecasts inflation of 9 percent to 9.8 percent at the end of
the year and has already raised its  benchmark interest rate  by
1.5 percentage points since early June to 7.25 percent.  “Even though the BI rate has been raised,  mortgage rates 
won’t rise as high as surging property prices in certain
areas,” said Anton Sitorus, head of research at the Indonesian
unit of  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  He expects mortgage rates to
climb to an average of less than 11 percent, and estimates home
prices will jump 20 percent to 30 percent a year in certain
areas across Indonesia.  That compares with a return of 5.25 percent for a two-year
term deposit at  PT Bank Mandiri (BMRI) , the country’s largest lender by
assets, and a 7.3 percent yield for Indonesia’s 10-year
government bonds.  Domestic Resilience  Indonesia’s property stocks rose today, with the Jakarta
Construction, Property, Real Estate Index climbing as much as
2.8 percent, more than twice the biggest intraday gain in the
benchmark Jakarta Composite Index.  PT Ciputra Development (CTRA)  and  PT
Summarecon Agung (SMRA)  advanced by at least 9 percent for their
biggest rally in five weeks.  The property price gains reflect the resilience of domestic
demand at a time when foreign investors have been selling the
rupiah on risks posed by the current-account deficit. The rupiah
has fallen more than 14 percent this year, the second-worst
performer out of 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Bank Indonesia  cut its 2013 economic growth forecast last
month to between 5.5 percent and 5.9 percent, from as much as
6.2 percent earlier.  Growing Affluence  The central bank  estimates  residential property prices in
the third quarter rose the fastest in Manado, a tourist
destination for nearby coral reefs on Sulawesi island, with
gains of 34 percent. Prices may have jumped 25 percent in
Surabaya, the country’s second-largest city, and 15 percent in
the capital Jakarta and surrounding satellite cities such as
Tangerang and Bekasi, according to Bank Indonesia data.  Property demand is being driven by a growing middle class
and increasing affluence. The country’s emerging middle and
middle-to-high end consumers may reach 184.5 million by 2020
from 115.8 million in 2012, according to forecasts by the  Boston
Consulting Group  Inc. in a March report.  “Rising purchasing power and positive urban demographic
trends are driving continued property demand,” said Michelle
Chia, a Kuala Lumpur-based economist at CIMB Investment Bank
Bhd. “I don’t think Indonesia is in danger of a property
bubble, with demand still outstripping supply, relative to say
 Hong Kong , Singapore or  Malaysia .”  Loan Curbs  Bank Indonesia has already taken action to try to stem the
potential for property bubbles. The central bank cut the maximum
loan-to-value ratio for a home buyer’s second house to 60
percent, and for third and subsequent houses to 50 percent from
70 percent previously, effective on Sept. 30. It began requiring
lenders to demand minimum down-payments for housing and vehicle
loans in June last year.  Singapore’s government has increased efforts to tame
property prices that had surged to a record, adopting measures
including a cap on debt at 60 percent of a borrower’s income,
higher stamp duties on home purchases, and higher real-estate
taxes.  Singapore Allure  These measures may be reducing the allure of buying
property in Singapore, a favored destination for Indonesia’s
rich to invest or keep their wealth. Indonesians purchased 442
private homes in Singapore in the eight months through August,
about half the total for all of last year and a third of the
level for 2011, according to data from Singapore’s Urban
Redevelopment Authority.  Indonesians have fallen behind the Chinese as the biggest
non-permanent resident buyers of residential property in
Singapore in 2013, after being in top spot last year, the
authority’s data shows. In Indonesia, foreigners are officially
only allowed to lease properties.  The number of Indonesians classed as elite by the Boston
Consulting Group, based on their level of household spending, is
estimated to grow to 6.9 million by 2020, up from 2.5 million in
2012. The country’s population is also among Asia’s most
youthful, with more than  26 percent  of its people aged less than
15 years, according to U.S. Census Bureau.  Prestige Living  The growing demand for prestige city living and the
relatively low interest rate environment means the condominium
market should see positive growth, Jones Lang LaSalle said in a
report in August. Sales are projected to strengthen, led by
projects attached to international luxury hotels as more people
perceive residential properties as an attractive investment
offering good rental income, the company said.  Singapore’s  Keppel Land Ltd. (KPLD)  has a condominium development
in northern Jakarta with a swimming pool and tennis courts,
which is 99 percent sold as of  September , according to its
website.  The central bank’s measures may take some of the steam out
of high end condominium prices, slowing gains to about 12 to 15
percent next year, from 20 to 40 percent in the last two years,
said Artadinata Djangkar, a director of  PT Ciputra Property (CTRP) ,
which is developing luxury apartments, offices and a mall in a
complex in central Jakarta.  “Rising  interest rates , the implementation of the new
loan-to-value rule and the weakening rupiah will bring
Indonesia’s property market back to normal growth next year,”
said Djangkar.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  Australia ’s consumer
prices gained more than economists forecast last quarter, data
released today showed. In Europe, the  Bank of England  will
release minutes of the monetary policy committee’s October
meeting, while a report on mortgage applications is due in the
U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  