-- ING Groep Raises $974 Million Selling U.S. Unit Shares
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-24T12:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/ing-groep-raises-974-million-selling-u-s-unit-shares.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the largest Dutch
financial-services company, raised about $974 million selling a
second tranche of stock in its U.S. insurance business following
an initial public offering.  ING sold 33 million shares in New York-based  ING U.S. Inc. (VOYA) 
for $29.50 apiece, lowering its stake to about 59 percent,
according to a statement yesterday. The offering was more than
50 percent above the IPO price in May.  ING U.S., which will be renamed Voya Financial, has
outpaced the S&P 500 Life & Health Insurance Index’s  45 percent 
rally this year. Amsterdam-based ING has been retreating from
insurance and investment management to satisfy European Union-ordered conditions of its 2008 bailout.  “ING is taking the necessary steps to become a clean
bank,” said JanWillem Knoll, an Amsterdam-based analyst at ABN
Amro Group NV who rates the shares a buy.  The U.S. insurer traded at $30.05 in early trading at 7:49
a.m. in New York. Shares of the Dutch company  rose  1 percent to
9.37 euros in Amsterdam, extending their gain this year to 33
percent.  The U.S. life insurer closed at $29.61 yesterday and $31.23
on Oct. 18, the last trading day before the Dutch company
announced the size of the offering. ING’s  stake  was about 71
percent following the IPO, which priced the stock at $19.50.  Interest Rates  “All the stocks are getting a lift in anticipation of
 interest rates  going up,” Vincent Lui, an analyst with
Morningstar Inc., said in an interview before the pricing was
announced. Insurers post investment income on bond portfolios
when interest rates are higher.  Knoll said the sale discount of about 5.5 percent to last
week’s ING U.S. closing stock price was in line with investors’
expectations. ING’s banking unit trades at about 0.9 times
estimated 2014 book value, Knoll said, compared to 1.2 times for
a group of competitors.  “Progress in the insurance unit’s divestment program will
help close the gap between its valuation compared to banking
peers,” he said.  ING agreed with European regulators to divest at least 25
percent of the U.S. unit by the end of 2013, more than half by
the end of 2014 and the rest by the end of 2016. It has until
the end of 2018 to complete the sale of its global insurance
operations.  Debt Reduction  The net proceeds of the share sale will be used to cut
debt, which was 4.4 billion euros ($6.1 billion) at the end of
the second quarter, ING said.  Eliminating leverage will give ING “more flexibility” in
the disposal of its European insurance unit and help allow for
alternatives to an IPO, including a spinoff to shareholders, Jan Hommen, who stepped down as chief executive officer this month,
said in August.  ING U.S. is led by CEO Rodney Martin, a former manager at
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , and offers  life insurance ,
savings products and annuities. The company had about 13 million
customers and 7,000 employees as of June 30, according to a
regulatory filing. Rivals include MetLife Inc. and Prudential
Financial Inc., the largest U.S. life insurers.  ING said on Oct. 21 that it expected to sell 30 million
shares of the U.S. unit. The transaction will probably cut ING’s
shareholders’ equity, a measure of assets minus liabilities, by
about 500 million euros, the company said yesterday.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  led the latest share sale, according
to a statement from ING U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marci Jacobs in  New York  at 
 mjacobs63@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  