-- LinkedIn Says Half of Users to Come Via Mobile Next Year
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2013-10-23T20:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/linkedin-says-half-of-users-to-come-via-mobile-devices-next-year.html
LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the professional-networking site with more than 238 million members, expects half
its users to access the service from mobile devices next year,
up from 38 percent today.  To increase the mobile-user base, the company updated the
design of its applications and added a feature that integrates
LinkedIn with Apple’s mobile e-mail program, the company said at
a press conference today.  Internet companies that derive revenue from advertising are
boosting investments in mobile amid a shift among consumers to
smartphones.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have shown this year
that even with lower advertising rates on phones and tablets,
companies can bolster revenue because of the increased
popularity of wireless applications and services.  Members who use  LinkedIn ’s mobile site and apps are more
than twice as active as those who only visit from personal
computers, the Mountain View, California-based company said
today in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Most users in  Turkey ,  Singapore  and the United Arab
Emirates already access the service via mobile, the filing said.  At LinkedIn, mobile viewing accounted for more than half of
revenue from an ad product called sponsored updates, where
companies can post status messages to users, the filing said.  After resisting the SEC’s demands on disclosures about its
mobile and non-U.S. businesses, LinkedIn will start releasing
more of that information, according to correspondence made
public yesterday. LinkedIn said it had been seeking to
“refine” its methodology on reporting mobile unique visitors
as a percentage of total unique visitors.  LinkedIn said in August that 33 percent of visitors
accessed the service from mobile apps in the second quarter, an
increase from 21 percent during the same period last year.  Shares in LinkedIn fell 1.7 percent to close at $240.83 in
New York. The stock has more than doubled this year and climbed
more than fivefold since a 2011 initial public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in San Francisco at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  