-- LinkedIn to Disclose Details on Mobile, Non-U.S. Business
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-10-23T15:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/linkedin-to-disclose-details-on-mobile-non-u-s-business.html
LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  will start to
disclose new details about its mobile and non-U.S. businesses as
soon as next week after the Securities and Exchange Commission
told the professional network the information was “material”
to investors.  LinkedIn, after resisting the SEC’s demands in June, agreed
by August to give investors some data related to key areas of
prospective growth, according to correspondence between the
company and the agency made public yesterday.  There may be tools in place to disclose membership by
region in its regulatory filing of third-quarter results due
Oct. 29,  Mountain View , California-based LinkedIn told the SEC
on Aug. 29. Also “in response to the staff’s comment” about
the materiality of the data, the company said it expects to be
able to report revenue by product in and outside the U.S. in its
earnings filing for the  quarter  ending March 31, 2014.  LinkedIn told the SEC it’s also seeking to “refine” its
methodology enough by the March 31 quarter to be able to report
mobile unique visitors as a percentage of total unique visitors.  The company currently doesn’t have a reliable way of
tracking such users, as there are no industry standards and
“mobile engagement across the Internet remains in its
infancy,” according to the August letter.  ‘Mobile Day’  Coincidentally, Silicon Valley-based LinkedIn today is
holding a “mobile day” to promote its growth among such users.
Management presentation slides were uploaded into an  SEC filing .  The exchange of letters between LinkedIn and the SEC shows
how companies in the nascent business of online networks are
still learning how to count mobile users and explain to
investors why revenue may be lower from mobile or overseas
members.  In the same way, the SEC pushed  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to disclose
key data before its initial public offering. As Facebook did
then, LinkedIn currently is having difficulty monetizing mobile
users, according to its letters to the SEC, which arose from the
regulator’s review of its annual report filed in February. It
also acknowledged that making “material” money from new
foreign members is a goal that’s a few years away from being
achieved.  The regulator typically pushes for more future disclosure
while reviewing company filings.  Desktop Visitors  LinkedIn currently derives ad revenue “almost
exclusively” from desktop visitors to its site, not mobile
visitors, the company told the SEC in response to the
regulator’s comment in June that it needed to disclose mobile
metrics. Acknowledging a 10 percent fall in such revenue from
the fourth quarter to the first quarter, however, LinkedIn said
it couldn’t say for sure whether a rise in mobile users was
responsible for the decline, as most mobile users also access
the site from desktop computers.  Mobile users were valued currently because, “We believe
increased engagement through mobile creates additional content
and data, as well as deeper member interaction with LinkedIn,”
it said. While the company is experimenting with sponsored
updates on mobile devices, it doesn’t yet know if they’ll help
revenue materially, it said.  Pushing for disclosure of metrics on foreign users in June,
the SEC noted that India and  Brazil , LinkedIn’s second- and-fourth-largest member markets totaling 15 percent of all users,
brought in less than 5 percent of revenue. The U.S., with 36
percent of members, contributed 64 percent of revenue. The SEC
asked the company to explain why.  Engaged Members  LinkedIn said its strategy for making money is “built upon
member growth and engagement,” not immediate revenue. It
doesn’t even invest in trying to make money overseas until it
has enough engaged members, it said.  “As a result, we typically experience a multi-year lag
between when we first begin growing our member base through a
local language offering and when we begin investing in
monetization efforts,” it said.  Hani Durzy, a LinkedIn spokesman, declined to comment on
the company’s communications with the SEC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  