-- IPhone Moscow Comeback Boosts VimpelCom: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-10-23T02:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/iphone-moscow-comeback-boosts-vimpelcom-russia-overnight.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  and OAO Mobile
TeleSystems rallied in New York after agreeing to sell iPhones,
ending a dispute with Apple Inc.  American depositary receipts of MTS, as Mobile TeleSystems
is known, climbed to the highest level since 2008, while
VimpelCom jumped to a two-year high yesterday, leading gains on
the Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index. The measure for the most-traded Russian companies in New York rose 0.7 percent to 105.45.
RTS stock  futures  slipped in U.S. hours.  VimpelCom and MTS said yesterday that they will sell
Apple’s latest iPhone models in  Russia  this week. MTS stopped
selling iPhones in its shops at the end of 2012. VimpelCom’s
Russian unit failed to agree to favorable terms after a previous
distribution contract with  Apple (AAPL)  expired, Vedomosti newspaper
reported in July, citing people it didn’t identify. Russia’s
mobile sales climbed 9 percent last year as data revenue surged
33 percent, according to AC&M Consulting.  “This is really promising,” Anna Milostnova, an analyst
at UFS Investment Co., said by phone from Moscow yesterday. She
has a buy recommendation on VimpelCom and hold on MTS. “Selling
iPhones will help to attract new customers and increase
revenue.”  Apple’s latest iPhones, the 5s and 5c, will be available in
Russia on Oct. 25, the Cupertino, California-based company said
earlier this month. Apple sold a record 9 million iPhones in the
weekend debut of the two new models in September.  iPhone Price  MTS, the biggest wireless carrier in Russia, last year
criticized Apple for not cutting the device’s $1,000-plus price
in the country and being too strict about how it was sold. Apple
would get a larger share of the Russian market by reducing the
iPhone’s price or helping subsidize it, Michael Hecker, MTS’s
vice president for strategy and corporate development, said in
July 2012 in  New York .  Apple’s press service did not immediately return an e-mailed request for comment on iPhone sales in Russia. MTS will
buy new iPhones from Apple’s newly selected distributors Merlion
and diHouse, MTS’s spokesman Dmitry Solodovnikov said by phone
in Moscow yesterday. VimpelCom will have a direct contract to
sell iPhones in its retail outlets, spokeswoman Anna Aybasheva
said by phone in Moscow yesterday.  VimpelCom decided to sell the iPhone because it remains one
of the “most popular” smartphones in Russia, Artem Minaev,
head of media relations at VimpelCom in Russia, said by e-mail
from Moscow yesterday.  ‘Huge Army’  “Apple has a huge army of fans in Russia,” Evgeny Golosnoy, analyst at IFC Metropol in Moscow, said by phone from
Moscow yesterday. “High prices have been restricting its
products from spreading further throughout the country as most
customers in the regions prefer cheaper smartphones.”  MTS climbed 1.3 percent to $23.92, the highest level since
September 2008. VimpelCom rallied 4.6 percent to $13.78 in New
York yesterday as trading volume exceeded an average daily level
for the past three months by six times.  VimpelCom, Russia’s third-largest mobile carrier, also
advanced after the announcement that it will join the Nasdaq-100
Index on Oct. 29, according to a statement from the Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc.  The “inclusion will give it a boost and the iPhone news
also helps it gain,”  Luis Saenz , head of equity sales and
trading at BCS Financial Group, said by phone from  London .
“VimpelCom has been an overlooked orphan in the market and that
is changing now. Many more eyes will be on the stock now.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, increased 0.5
percent to $30.10, the highest level since Feb. 19. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the index
futures, rose 1.2 percent to 20.83. RTS stock-index futures
decreased 0.2 percent to 151,650.  United Co. Rusal (486) , a Moscow-based aluminum producer,
advanced 3.8 percent to HK$2.47 in Hong Kong trading as of
10:32 a.m. local time, poised for the highest close since Aug.
23. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  