-- Third Point Sees Abe Reforms Driving Japan Equity Purchases
-- B y   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-10-23T07:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/third-point-sees-abe-reforms-driving-japanese-equity-purchases.html
Billionaire  Daniel Loeb ’s Third
Point LLC, which built a stake in  Sony Corp. (6758) , said economic
reforms under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will create more stock
buying opportunities in  Japan .  Abe is using fiscal and monetary stimulus to end 15 years
of deflation, a move that has helped boost the nation’s equity
market to a five-year high. The so-called third arrow of his
strategy involves structural reform to regulations, tax and
other policies to boost investment and competitiveness.  “We believe Premier Abe has the best chance in over a
generation to enact the reforms to push Japan forward,”
according to the hedge fund’s quarterly investor letter dated
yesterday. “If he acts on these initiatives, we will be eager
buyers of additional Japanese stocks beyond our significant
investment in Sony and current holdings in other Japanese
companies.”  The government program has seen the yen weaken, boosting
the value of export earnings for Japanese manufacturers
including Toyota Motor Corp., Sony,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  The nation’s benchmark Topix index has surged 42
percent this year and reached its  highest level  since 2008.  Third Point built a 6.9 percent stake in Tokyo-based Sony
and in a May 14 letter asked the Japanese electronics maker to
sell a portion of its entertainment business and disclose more
financial details from the unit. Loeb told the Nikkei newspaper
last week the company decided to do the “very things” he asked
even without a spinoff listing of its entertainment unit.  Sony shares, which have almost doubled this year, lost 2
percent to close at 1,896 yen in Tokyo trading. The Topix index
has added 39 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  