-- IRS Delays Start of 2014 U.S. Tax Filing Citing Shutdown
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-10-23T20:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/irs-delays-start-of-2014-u-s-tax-filing-citing-shutdown.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service 
delayed the start of the tax-filing season for one to two weeks,
citing the recent 16-day federal government shutdown.  The IRS, which had planned to open filing Jan. 21, 2014,
will now begin accepting returns for tax year 2013 no earlier
than Jan. 28. The agency will make a final decision on the date
in December. The delay won’t alter the April 15 deadline for
taxpayers to file their returns or seek extensions.  “Readying our systems to handle the tax season is an
intricate, detailed process, and we must take the time to get it
right,” Danny Werfel, the acting IRS commissioner, said in a
statement yesterday.  The change will have the biggest effects for taxpayers who
file as soon as possible to obtain their refunds and  tax-preparation companies including  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the nation’s
largest preparer.  At the start of the filing season, the IRS largely sends
refunds. This year, the IRS issued  $135 billion  in refunds from
Jan. 30 to March 1. That’s more than was paid from March 2 to
May 10, when the agency received 50 percent more returns.  In the first month, refunds averaged $2,944, compared with
$2,651 for the entire filing season through May 10.  “While H&R Block is well prepared to adjust to the IRS
announcement of a delay in the opening of the 2014 tax season,
we are frustrated for our clients who are among the estimated 18
million taxpayers who typically file a return in January,”  Gene King , an H&R Block spokesman, said in a statement.  H&R Block, based in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , prepared about
16 percent of U.S. individual tax returns in 2013, according to
a  company securities filing .  Another Delay  This is the second year in a row that the IRS has postponed
the filing season. Returns for 2012 were accepted starting on
Jan. 30 after Congress delayed setting some tax policies.  In a letter to Werfel today, House Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp  questioned the agency’s decisions to announce
a delay so early and deem some technology employees working on
the health-care law’s sign-up exempt from furloughs during the
shutdown.  “It appears the IRS chose to ignore its responsibility to
be prepared to process nearly 150 million returns and to delay
the tax refunds of potentially millions of Americans,” Camp, a
 Michigan  Republican, wrote.  IRS Furloughs  The IRS furloughed more than 90 percent of its employees
during the shutdown, which began Oct. 1 when Congress was unable
to pass a spending bill and ended after midnight Oct. 17.  The IRS said in yesterday’s statement that it’s
experiencing “heavy demand” on its toll-free telephone lines
and that it was working through 400,000 pieces of correspondence
that came in while offices were closed.  “This backlog of work hurts victims of  identity theft ,
taxpayers trying to be compliant but awaiting responses,
businesses that rely on the IRS for a host of services and, now,
taxpayers who will have to wait longer for their refunds,”
 Colleen Kelley , president of the National Treasury Employees
Union, said in a statement. The union represents IRS workers.  Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the top Democrat
on the Ways and Means Committee, said in a statement that the
delay “adds insult to injury” for taxpayers.  “This is yet another unfortunate effect of a shutdown that
Republicans should have never caused,” Levin said in a
statement.  Extraordinary Measures  Delaying refunds could have an additional consequence in
2014. The U.S.  debt limit  is suspended through Feb. 7, and
changes in the government’s projected spending after that date
will affect the timing of how long the Treasury Department’s
extraordinary measures to prevent a default will last.  Because the government may issue more refunds after Feb. 7
than previously anticipated, a potential lapse in borrowing
authority could come a few days sooner than projected, said
Loren Adler, research director at the Committee for a
Responsible  Federal Budget  in  Washington .  The delayed start of tax-filing season probably will create
a backlog of potential returns for the start date, rather than
delaying all returns equally.  “Those are folks who are trying to do this as soon as
their books are in order,” Adler said.  The Bipartisan Policy Center projects that the U.S. will
run out of borrowing authority between the end of February and
mid-March 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  