-- Stocks Rise With Gold as Dollar Falls on Earnings, Fed
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-10-24T20:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/japanese-futures-drop-amid-stronger-yen-as-crude-rebounds.html
U.S. stocks climbed toward another
record and gold advanced while the dollar weakened as corporate
earnings topped estimates and signs of slower economic growth
fueled bets the  Federal Reserve  will maintain stimulus.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose  0.3 percent to
1,752.07 at 4 p.m. in  New York , bringing it three points away
from an all-time high. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.4
percent, while Chinese stocks fell as the benchmark money-market
rate jumped the most since June. Gold climbed 1.2 percent while
oil reversed an earlier loss. Treasury 10-year note yields
traded near a three-month low. The dollar touched a two-year low
against the euro.  The  U.S. trade deficit  was little changed in August as
imports and exports stalled, data showed today. U.S. factory
output expanded in October at a slower pace than forecast, while
another report showed euro-area services and manufacturing grew
less than estimated. Chinese manufacturing strengthened this
month more than anticipated. Microsoft Corp. and Amazon.com Inc.
gained after the market close as they released quarterly
earnings.  “Earnings will improve,”  David James , director of
research at Alpha, Ohio-based James Investment Research Inc.,
said in a phone interview. His firm oversees more than $4.5
billion. “We want to look at the quality of these earnings as
far as looking at revenues and making sure there is actual
growth and not just manufactured growth.”  About 47 companies in the  S&P 500  were scheduled to  post
results  today, the busiest day of the third-quarter reporting
season. Of the 212 companies that have released earnings so far,
76 percent exceeded analysts’ predictions for profit, while 53
percent beat sales estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Earnings Season  Earnings for members of the gauge probably increased 2.5
percent in the third quarter as sales climbed 2.2 percent,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Homebuilders rallied 3.3 percent as a group today as
PulteGroup Inc.’s profit surged. Ford Motor Co. gained 1.4
percent after earnings beat projections. McKesson Corp. jumped
4.9 percent after boosting its annual forecast and agreeing to
buy  Germany ’s Celesio AG for about 3.9 billion euros ($5.4
billion).  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  sank 13 percent as the maker of
security software forecast sales and profit that fell short of
analysts’ estimates.  Airlines Climb  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index climbed 2.7 percent, for
the highest level since 2007. Southwest Airlines Co. added 3.7
percent after earnings and operating revenue met forecasts.
United Continental Holdings Inc. increased 1.1 percent after the
world’s largest airline promised unspecified “numerous
actions” to boost revenue and efficiency as third-quarter
profit trailed analysts’ estimates.  Microsoft added 5 percent as of 4:28 p.m. in New York as it
reported first-quarter sales and profit the exceeded
projections. Amazon.com rose 4.6 percent in extended trading
after third-quarter revenue beat estimates as consumers flocked
to the online retailer.  Better-than-expected earnings and monetary stimulus from
the Fed have driven the  S&P 500 (SPX)  up 23 percent this year. The 16-day partial government shutdown weighed on fourth-quarter growth
and will prompt Fed policy makers to wait until March before
starting to scale back the $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases, a Bloomberg survey showed last week.  The S&P 500 rallied to a record on Oct. 22 after payrolls
in the U.S. climbed by less than forecast in September, adding
to speculation the Fed will delay curtailing its monetary
stimulus. Policy makers are scheduled to meet Oct. 29-30, when
they will evaluate the strength of the recovery with a less
complete set of figures than usual due to the suspension of
reports and collection of data during the government closure.  Economic Data  The Commerce Department today reported the trade deficit in
the U.S. was little changed. More Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week as  California 
continued to work through a backlog. The Markit Economics
preliminary index of U.S. manufacturing decreased to 51.1 in
October from a final reading of 52.8 at the end of the previous
month, the London-based group said today.  A preliminary gauge of Chinese manufacturing strengthened
to 50.9, compared with a projected 50.4 reading, according to
data from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics and a Bloomberg
survey.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose for the 10th time in 11
days. Daimler AG, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, and ABB Ltd.,
the world’s largest maker of power transformers, climbed more
than 3.3 percent after profit beat projections. Celesio jumped
5.4 percent after McKesson agreed to buy the German drug
wholesaler.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  lost 2.8 percent after the second-biggest Swiss bank posted profit that missed analysts’
estimates. Husqvarna AB tumbled 13 percent in  Stockholm , its
steepest drop ever, as the biggest maker of powered garden tools
reported profit that trailed projections.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for a second day,
losing 0.3 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.9
percent and the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies listed in  Hong Kong  slid 1.3 percent. The seven-day
repurchase rate, a gauge of funding availability in the banking
system, surged 65 basis points to 4.67 percent. The won weakened
from a two-year high versus the dollar.  The yield on 10-year Treasury notes added one basis point
to 2.52 percent. It touched 2.47 percent yesterday, the lowest
since July 22.  Italy’s 10-year yield climbed four basis points to 4.15
percent as a report showed  consumer confidence  fell for the
first time in five months.  Euro, Krone  The euro gained 0.2 percent to $1.3803 after climbing to as
high as $1.3825, the strongest level since November 2011. The
17-nation currency rose 0.1 percent versus the yen. The dollar
dropped 0.1 percent to 97.26 yen.  Norway’s krone advanced against all of its 16 major peers,
rising 0.3 percent to 8.1340 per euro after the central bank
left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged and said the currency
had depreciated since its last meeting.  The shekel declined 0.1 percent to 3.5234 per dollar after
Finance Minister Yair Lapid said the currency is “too strong”
and that he’ll work with designated Bank of Israel Governor
Karnit Flug to weaken it.  Gold futures rose to $1,350.30 an ounce, a three-week high,
on speculation that the Fed will maintain the pace of monetary
stimulus to boost economic growth. The precious metal dropped 20
percent this year through yesterday, heading for the first
annual decline since 2000.  West Texas Intermediate crude rose 0.3 percent to $97.11 a
barrel, climbing from a four-month low. Futures earlier fell as
much as 0.9 percent a day after Energy Information
Administration data showed that U.S. crude output increased to
the highest level in 24 years. Stockpiles climbed 6.8 percent to
379.8 million barrels in the five weeks ended Oct. 18, according
to the EIA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  