-- Japan Exchange Full-Year Profit Forecast Misses Estimates
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-10-23T04:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/japan-bourse-posts-16-6-billion-yen-profit-as-stocks-jump.html
Japan Exchange Group Inc. (8697) , the main
bourse operator in the world’s second-largest equity market,
didn’t boost its full-year profit forecast as analysts had
expected. The shares fell.  The company expects to earn 22 billion yen ($225 million)
in the year ending March 31, Japan Exchange reiterated today.
Analysts had expected the bourse to raise its projection to 29.1
billion yen, according to the average of seven estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income was 16.6 billion yen in the
six months through Sept. 30, beating the company’s own forecast
of 15 billion yen. Shares sunk 3.3 percent as of 1:06 p.m. in
Tokyo, reversing an earlier advance of as much as 3.3 percent.
The Topix index erased gains to fall 0.8 percent.  “While earnings were above the company’s forecasts, its
guidance was below the market consensus and that’s being taken
negatively,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , the Tokyo-based chief fund
manager at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which oversees about
600 billion yen. “Also, shares have been strong this past week,
so investors may be feeling like all the good news is already
out.”  Japan Exchange has almost tripled since it was formed
through the merger of the Tokyo and Osaka bourses in January.
The value of stocks traded declined last quarter from the first
three months of the fiscal year, the exchange said today.  Revenue in the first half was 61.7 billion yen, beating the
bourse’s projection of 58 billion yen.  Full-Year Forecasts  Japan Exchange lifted its revenue forecast to 105 billion
yen for the year ending March 31 from 101.5 billion yen and
increased its operating-profit outlook by 5.5 percent to 38.5
billion yen. Both increases were less than analysts had
estimated. The company didn’t provide year-earlier comparisons
because of the merger.  The Topix index is the world’s best-performing developed
equity gauge this year and gained 62 percent in the four
quarters through September, the steepest rally since the period
ended March 1973.  While stock trading value declined from the first fiscal
quarter, Japan Exchange maintained a daily average of 2 trillion
yen, it said. Exchange-traded-fund trading values were near
record levels, increasing 6 times on the year, it said.  The total value of shares changing hands on the first
section of the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange was 351.5 trillion yen in
the first half of this fiscal year, the most since 2007, the
bourse said in a  statement  on Oct. 1. Investors traded a record
200 million derivatives contracts in the period, according to
the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  