-- Japan Casinos Not Limited to Cities in Lawmakers’ Proposal
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a ,   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-10-24T04:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/japan-lawmakers-outline-proposed-legislation-for-casino-resorts.html
Japanese lawmakers began to flesh
out a plan to legalize casinos, with an outline of proposed
legislation allowing gambling resorts to be developed not only
in big cities but also in regional areas.  The document includes a proposal that inspectors be
appointed to monitor casinos for illegal activities, according
to a copy obtained by  Bloomberg News  from a person who attended
a panel meeting where the proposal was presented.  While betting on horse, boat and bicycle races is allowed
in  Asia ’s second-largest economy, casinos are currently banned
and a lawmakers’ group is planning to submit a separate bill to
parliament as soon as this year to legalize them. Tokyo’s
selection to host the 2020 Olympics boosts confidence the
government will open up the market and international companies
including  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  has plans to build resorts in the
country.  “There are great hopes as regards casinos from the point
of view of building up tourism,” Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga told reporters in Tokyo today. “At the same time
the whole government must consider whether this is possible from
the standpoint of crime prevention and maintaining order.”  Licenses Required  Casino operators and the makers and sellers of casino
equipment should all be required to obtain permits to operate,
according to the document presented to the meeting attended by a
cross-party group of pro-casino lawmakers.  Japan  should limit
the number of casinos initially before it considers gradually
increasing the number, according to the document. It didn’t say
where casinos should be built.  The proposals will form the basis of legislation to be
submitted to parliament after the bill legalizing casinos.  Wynn Resorts and  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  executives have
said their companies would invest several billion dollars in the
North Asian nation.  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  Caesars
Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  are also seeking expansion opportunities in
what is projected to be the world’s second-biggest gaming
market.  Potential Sites  Tokyo and Osaka are potential sites that Wynn, MGM and Las
Vegas Sands have said they are interested in developing. The
companies either plan to or are open minded about having local
partners to develop projects.  Among the potential local partners are trading companies
such as Mitsui & Co., Mitsubishi Corp. and Itochu Corp., and
gaming machine makers  Sega Sammy Holdings Inc. (6460)  and  Konami Corp. (9766) 
Sega Sammy shares climbed as much as 3.9 percent to 2,727 yen in
Tokyo before trading at 2,638 yen at 1:41 p.m. local time.
Konami rose as much as 1.2 percent before trading 0.1 percent
higher at 2,332 yen.  Japan has long been touted as an attractive gaming market
with a large and relatively rich population base. It also enjoys
global appeal as a tourist destination. The country would
generate $10 billion in casino revenue a year should it open up
the market, Union Gaming Group LLC estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  