-- Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat Wins Re-Election in Tight Contest
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-10-23T08:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/jerusalem-mayor-nir-barkat-wins-re-election-in-tight-contest.html
Jerusalem  Mayor Nir Barkat won re-election to a second five-year term running the Israeli capital
yesterday, beating Likud-Beitenu challenger Moshe Lion in a
contest that ended tighter than expected.  Barkat, 54, a technology millionaire running as an
independent, won 51.1 percent of the vote while Lion took 45.3
percent, according to results posted early today on the Israeli
Interior Ministry website.  Surveys last month had Barkat enjoying a 30 percentage-point lead, though one last week showed Lion narrowing the gap
to 6 percentage points.  “This contest was not easy at all,” Barkat said early
today in a victory speech broadcast on Israel Radio. “It was
one of the most difficult, most complex races that you, I or
anyone ever saw.”  The political conflict between  Israel  and the Palestinians
over Jerusalem was not a significant factor in the contest, as
both candidates opposed any relinquishing of Israeli sovereignty
over the city, whose eastern half is claimed by the Palestinians
as the capital of a future state. Most of Jerusalem’s Arab
residents, who comprise about a third of the city’s 780,000
residents, traditionally do not vote in municipal elections to
protest the Israeli annexation of those areas conquered from
Jordan in the 1967 war.  Barkat first won the mayoralty in 2008 arguing that
previous mayors had catered too much to the ultra-Orthodox, who
also make up about a third of the city. In this campaign he said
his more balanced approach had improved the city’s economic
prospects and cultural life.  Political Setback  Lion is a religiously observant accountant and former
government official who moved to Jerusalem from suburban  Tel
Aviv  just weeks before the election. His defeat also dealt a
political setback to two of his strongest supporters: Yisrael
Beitenu party chief and former Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman, and Aryeh Deri, chairman of the ultra-Orthodox Shas
party, which draws its support from Jews of Middle Eastern and
North African descent.  Lion was not backed by Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ,
whose bureau he ran during the Israeli leader’s first term in
the 1990s and whose Likud party ran a joint slate with Yisrael
Beitenu in the January national election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  