-- JPMorgan in Talks on $5.75 Billion MBS Investor Claim, WSJ Says
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-10-23T03:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/jpmorgan-in-talks-on-5-75-billion-mbs-investor-claim-wsj-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , poised to
resolve U.S. probes into sales of mortgage-backed securities,
also is in settlement talks with the bonds’ buyers who are
seeking at least $5.75 billion, the Wall Street Journal wrote.  A group of investors including asset managers  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK)  and Neuberger Berman Group LLC has been negotiating with
the bank during the past year to recoup losses incurred when
underlying loans soured, according to the newspaper, which cited
unidentified people familiar with the talks. While JPMorgan is
nearing a roughly $6 billion settlement, an agreement isn’t
imminent and the amount may change, the Financial Times wrote in
an earlier report yesterday.  Discussions with investors are separate from JPMorgan’s
tentative $13 billion deal reached with the U.S. Department of
Justice last week to resolve state and federal civil claims over
the packaging of mortgages into bonds. Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon , 57, is pushing to end legal woes that forced the
lender to book a $7.2 billion charge in the third quarter,
leading to the firm’s first loss under his command.  JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank , accounted for a potential
payment to the investor group when taking the third-quarter
charge, the Journal wrote, citing an unidentified person close
to the firm. Mark Kornblau, a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined
to comment.  Kathy Patrick , a lawyer with Gibbs & Bruns LLP who
has represented the investor group, didn’t respond to messages
seeking comment.  BofA’s Settlement  Banks are facing investor demands to buy back loans made
before the housing crisis, alleging the debts didn’t adhere to
stated underwriting standards. Mortgages packaged into
securities later defaulted, causing billions of dollars in
losses for investors holding the instruments.  Bank of America Corp. , the second-largest U.S. lender,
reached an $8.5 billion accord with 22 institutional investors
in Countrywide mortgage-backed securities. That settlement,
which was originally reached in 2011 and is still awaiting
judicial approval, would resolve claims that Countrywide is
contractually obliged to compensate investors for underlying
mortgages that went into default.  JPMorgan’s deal with the  Justice Department  would include
about $3 billion for states and federal regulators, much of
which may be passed on to investors who bought faulty mortgage-backed securities, according to two people briefed on the
matter.  The pact would resolve claims that the bank, Bear Stearns
Cos. and Washington Mutual Inc. misleadingly packaged and sold
mortgage-backed securities, the people said. JPMorgan acquired
both lenders at the government’s urging as the pair teetered on
collapse amid 2008’s credit crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  