-- JPMorgan’s Eminence Seen Fading in Default Swaps: Credit Markets
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-10-23T10:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/jpmorgan-s-eminence-seen-fading-in-default-swaps-credit-markets.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s advantage
over its Wall Street peers is fading in the eyes of credit-derivatives traders as fines and regulator probes hobble profits
while firms from Citigroup Inc. to Morgan Stanley rebound.  Credit-default swaps traders are demanding 16 basis points
less to protect against losses on JPMorgan bonds than the
average cost to insure debt of the bank’s five-biggest U.S.
rivals, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The gap, a
measure of the bank’s credit strength relative to its
competitors, has narrowed from an average 80 basis points since
2008 and 152 in April 2012, the month before JPMorgan disclosed
a trading loss that reached $6.2 billion.  With regulatory fines and penalties that are poised to
approach $15 billion, the playing field is leveling between the
only Wall Street bank to stay profitable through the financial
crisis and rivals that the credit seizure pushed to the edge of
failure. Swaps tied to Citigroup, which last month removed the
final vestiges of its government bailout, narrowed to within 6
basis points of JPMorgan’s for the first time since 2007.  ‘JPMorgan’s Turn’  “It’s JPMorgan’s turn to have its own types of concerns,
albeit ones that are much less severe from a credit perspective
than the others” and in an improved economy, said Pri De Silva,
a bank analyst at debt-research firm CreditSights Inc. in New
York. For lenders such as Citigroup, Bank of America and Morgan
Stanley, “the balance sheets are in much better shape now
compared with credit-crisis days,” he said.  The New York-based lender has tentatively agreed to pay a
record $13 billion to end civil claims over its sales of
mortgage bonds. The anticipated deal, which won’t absolve the
bank of potential criminal liability, comes amid mounting
lawsuits and regulatory probes and prompted JPMorgan to take a
$7.2 billion charge in the third quarter. That led to the bank’s
 first loss  under Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon.  Credit swaps protecting buyers against a default by
JPMorgan for five years have dropped 15 basis points this year
to 76 basis points, Bloomberg prices show. That compares with a
44.1 basis-point decline for Citigroup, Morgan Stanley, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Wells Fargo & Co.,
which average 92.5.  Citigroup Swaps  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan in New York,
didn’t respond to an e-mail message.  Contracts tied to Citigroup, which since the end of 2007
has almost doubled a measure of its financial strength known as
the tier-1 capital ratio, have declined 48.5 to 83.7 since
December. Swaps on Morgan Stanley, which last week reported
earnings that beat analyst estimates, plunged 73.2 to 114.2.  “JPMorgan has always been viewed as having the fortress-type balance sheet, while the other banks have been viewed as
having weaker balance sheets,” said Charles Peabody, a senior
analyst at New York-based Portales Partners LLC. “Recently,
that perception has narrowed dramatically.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Shellpoint Partners LLC,
canceled a planned sale of U.S. home-loan securities without
government backing, saying it would instead sell the loans
without packaging them into bonds. Deutsche Bank AG is preparing
to market at least $300 million of bonds linked to rental-home
payments. Fomento de Construcciones & Contratas SA is in talks
with creditor banks to convert part of the Spanish
infrastructure company’s loans into payment-in-kind debt.  Financial Conditions  A measure of the health of U.S. financial conditions that
declines as the environment weakens fell from a record high. The
 Bloomberg U.S. Financial Conditions Index (BFCIUS) , which combines
everything from money-market rates to yields on government and
corporate bonds to volatility in equities, decreased 0.07 to
1.51.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell to the lowest level in almost six years. The Markit
CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a credit-swaps
benchmark used to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 2.5 basis points to 69.9 basis
points, Bloomberg prices show.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 2 to 86 at 11:34 a.m. in London.
In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40
investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  dropped 2.7 to 133.  Verizon Bonds  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of  Verizon Communications Inc. (C)  were the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers
yesterday, accounting for 3.1 percent of the volume of dealer
trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The New York-based telephone carrier raised $49 billion on Sept.
11 in the largest corporate bond issue ever.  Shellpoint, the lender backed by mortgage-bond pioneer
Lewis Ranieri, last week reduced the size of its potential home-loan securities deal, originally planned for September, to
include $250.8 million of jumbo mortgages, down from $308.6
million, according to Kroll Bond Rating Agency reports. It’s now
pulling the transaction, which would have been its second,
because it can be paid more selling the whole loans, the New
York-based firm said yesterday in a statement.  Deutsche Bank  The securities from Deutsche Bank will include a portion
with an investment-grade ranking from at least one ratings firm,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction who
asked not to be identified because terms aren’t public. The
rental homes are owned by Blackstone Group LP.  FCC’s higher-yielding PIKs, which allow borrowers to roll
up interest so that it’s paid when the debt comes due, will
total about 1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion), according to two
people with knowledge of the matter. The Barcelona-based company
is currently seeking to refinance about 5 billion euros of
loans, they said. A spokesman for FCC in  Madrid  declined to
comment on the negotiations.  Leveraged Loans  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
rose 0.03 cent to 97.68 cents on the dollar. The measure, which
tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged
loans, has returned 3.65 percent this year.  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk bonds are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
S&P.  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened 5 basis points
to 332 basis points, or 3.32 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index . The measure has averaged 312.8
this year.  The spread between JPMorgan swaps and those linked to the
other five major Wall Street banks has averaged 84 basis points
since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. five years
ago. That’s about five times wider than the current gap, with
swaps on San Francisco-based Wells Fargo’s debt the only
contracts that cost less than those tied to JPMorgan.  Derivatives markets are signaling the creditworthiness of
America’s banking industry has improved even with the six
biggest U.S. banks, led by JPMorgan and Bank of America, piling
up more than $100 billion in legal costs since the financial
crisis, a figure that exceeds all of the dividends paid to
shareholders in the past five years.  Resolving Probes  JPMorgan is the target of investigations in the U.S. and
abroad, including probes of its hiring practices in Asia. The
bank has tapped $8 billion of $28 billion in reserves set aside
since 2010 to cover its legal costs.  Over the past two months, JPMorgan resolved U.S. and U.K.
investigations into its record 2012 trading loss linked to
positions built by Bruno Iksil, who came to be known as the
 London  Whale because of the size of the bets. It also settled
unrelated claims it unfairly charged customers for credit-monitoring products.  Citigroup and Bank of America have each increased their
tier-1 risk-based capital ratios, a measure of their cushions
against losses, to more than 12 percent to exceed the 11.7
percent gauge at JPMorgan, Bloomberg data show. Citigroup has
boosted its ratio to 13.6 at the end of September from 7.12 in
December 2007.  ‘Beaten Down’  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte , North Carolina,
increased its ratio to 12.33 from 6.87 during the same period.
Credit swaps on the lender have dropped 41.3 basis points to
91.2 this year.  “JPMorgan is getting beaten down and Citi and Bank of
America are getting stronger,” said Marc Pinto, the head of
corporate bond strategy at Susquehanna International Group LLP.  Contracts linked to Morgan Stanley, which is relying more
on wealth-management revenue and reducing the capital allocated
to fixed-income trading, now cost less than those insuring
against a default by Goldman Sachs for the first time since
2007. Contracts on New York-based Goldman have dropped 34 basis
points this year to 115.1, Bloomberg prices show.  After banks bolstered their balance sheets, bond buyers
have been demanding less to own their debt relative to
Treasuries than they are for debentures of industrial companies.  Relative yields for bank debt average 138 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, 8 basis points less than the
average spread for industrials including Caterpillar Inc. and 3M
Co., Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Until last
month, lenders were paying more in relative yields than
corporate borrowers as investor confidence deteriorated during
the financial crisis.  Bonds of JPMorgan yielded an extra 109 basis points more
than Treasuries on Oct. 21, according to the banking index,
which tracks $972 billion of total lender debt.  “The regulatory overhang continues to be a headwind” for
JPMorgan, David Schawel, a money manager at Square 1 Bank in
Durham, North Carolina, said in an e-mail. “The rest of the
banking industry, while still facing challenges,” he said,
“continues to build capital levels. It makes sense that
everyone else is getting tighter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  