-- Juliette Moran, Early Woman in Leadership at GAF, Dies at 96
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-10-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/juliette-moran-early-woman-in-leadership-at-gaf-dies-at-96.html
Juliette Moran, a chemist whose 39-year career with GAF Corp. took her to levels of corporate
leadership reached by few women of her generation, has died. She
was 96.  Her death, at her Manhattan home on Oct. 20, was by
intentional starvation and dehydration, the culmination of a
carefully thought-out plan to manage the end of her life,
according to her niece, Nancy Granlund.  “She basically stopped eating and drinking because her
body was worn out and she decided enough was enough,” Granlund
said yesterday in an interview. “She was a project manager, and
her death was another project.”  Like many other women of her time, Moran found opportunity
in the U.S. workplace when men were overseas fighting in World
War II. She joined GAF in 1943, when it was General Aniline &
Film Corp., a New York-based chemical maker. Today, the  company 
is based in Wayne,  New Jersey , and makes roofing products.  “I would never have been hired as a chemist if there had
been a man in sight,” she recalled, according to a 1978 article
in Fortune magazine.  Far less typical was Moran’s rise from chemist to
administrator to senior manager under Jesse Werner, GAF’s
longtime chairman. She was one of two executive vice presidents
of the company in the 1970s and, in 1974, joined the board of
directors. In 1980, at age 63, she was named to the newly
created position of vice chairman.  Gender ‘Unimportant’  “My being a woman has been basically unimportant in any
job I have held,” she said, according to a 1971  profile  by
Copley News Service. She said her gender had kept her only from
gaining admission to an industry association, which later
relented and let her in, and two private men-only clubs.  “This kind of thing is merely a matter of ignorance and
lack of thought,” she said. “If people simply would look at
people as individual human beings, we would have a lot less of
this kind of nonsense.”  In 1979, Moran was among five female members of boards of
major corporations who were honored by  Catalyst , the New York-based national nonprofit group founded in 1962 by Felice
Schwartz to promote and assist women in their careers. Moran
said women in the boardroom need to balance frankness and
manners, according to a story in the  New York  Times.  “I think that women in general who have made it to this
point have got to be women who will stand up for what they
believe in,” she said, according to the Times. “But on the
other hand, you have to be polite, and say what you have to say
so you achieve your objective without destroying yourself.”  Revealed Salary  The Times also reported that of the five honorees, only
Moran would divulge her salary at that time -- $125,000.  Moran, who retired in 1982, “was a woman ahead of her
time,” Granlund said. “She was fun, she was witty, she loved
French wine, she was a foodie.”  She never married, though she said her focus on her career
had nothing to do with that.  “Even if I were a secretary at Woolworth’s,” she told the
Times, “I’d still be as intolerable as I am now.”  Juliette May Moran was born on June 12, 1917, in  New York
City , the second child of James Moran and the former Louise
Marks. Her father died when she was 6, and the family lived for
a time with her mother’s family in Paris.  It was there, said Granlund -- who is the daughter of
Moran’s older brother, James -- that she declared her desire to
become a chemist.  Grandmother’s Advice  “And my French grandmother, who had no idea what a chemist
was, said, ‘OK, if that’s what you want to be, you can be one,”
Granlund said.  Moran’s interest in the subject was cemented when she was a
student in New York City’s public schools.  “For the first time, an orderly universe was being
revealed to me,” the Copley profile quoted Moran as saying. “I
found out that everything in life was made up of chemistry.”  She received a bachelor’s degree in chemistry in 1939 from
New College, a short-lived unit of  Columbia University . She
worked in the book department of Macy’s department store, then
took a series of research jobs, including one with the U.S. Army
Signal Corps that required a security clearance, according to
Fortune.  In joining GAF, Moran turned down a competing offer that
required another security clearance; she later learned it was
with the Manhattan Project, the top-secret U.S. effort to build
the atomic bomb.  ‘Big Change’  At GAF, Moran’s work on budgets led her away from hands-on
chemistry and into administration, what she called “the big
change in my business life -- or what turned it into a business
life,” she told Fortune.  She received her master’s degree in chemistry from  New York
University  in 1948.  In the 1950s she worked alongside Werner, then director of
commercial development, in marketing vinyl derivatives and
polymers, according to a 2007  article  in the Bulletin for the
History of Chemistry.  By the 1970s, she was executive vice president in charge of
corporate communications. She traveled the globe in that
capacity and made use of her ability to speak several languages,
her niece said. She also served as president of GAF Broadcasting
Co., a unit of GAF that ran classical-music stations, including
WNCN-FM in New York.  Moran is survived by two nieces -- Granlund, of Coeur
d’Alene,  Idaho , and Jill Rivers, of Poughkeepsie, New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  