-- Junk Rally Sparks Sales by Nikko Amid Bubble Risk: China Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-10-23T03:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/junk-rally-sparks-sales-by-nikko-amid-bubble-risk-china-credit.html
Nikko Asset Management Ltd. and GAM
Holding AG are trimming holdings of Chinese dollar-denominated
junk bonds amid their strongest rally in almost a year,
concerned over a surge in issuance and a possible asset bubble.  Speculative-grade securities in  China  gained 3 percent in
September, the most since November, beating the 1 percent
advance for U.S. counterparts, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. Nikko and GAM decreased holdings earlier
this month, while Morgan Stanley favors investment-grade Hong
Kong-based corporates as leverage among Chinese companies soars.  “We’ve taken profits on some Chinese industrial and
property names,” said Leong Wai Hoong, a Singapore-based money
manager at Nikko, which oversees about $156 billion. “We still
retain an overweight position but with a reduced allocation
because of the valuations. I’m concerned about the supply of new
issues, and China’s economic outlook.”  A report yesterday showed home prices in China’s four-biggest cities jumped the most since January 2011 last month,
sparking speculation Premier Li Keqiang will be forced to impose
stricter policies to rein in prices and limit the risk of a
market collapse. Although growth in the world’s second-biggest
economy has rebounded from two quarters of slowdown, that
recovery may have ended as momentum eased in September, Nomura
Holdings Inc. said last week.  Rocketing Leverage  Chinese corporates pushed debt to 3.6 times their earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization in the first
half of this year, Morgan Stanley said in a note dated Oct. 18.
That’s the highest globally and at least 1.5 times more than
companies in the U.S, Europe and other  emerging markets ,
according to the report.  A lack of transparency is making GAM wary of some Chinese
high-yield names in a market dominated by developers, according
to Johannes Wagner, a London-based manager at the investment
firm, which manages some $123 billion of assets globally. It
sold some high-yield debt “in the past few days” as a tactical
move.  “There’s no idea about how they come up with their
earnings, where they’re building stuff,” Wagner said in an e-mail interview on Oct. 21. “Bonds sold by banks in Kazakhstan
were hugely popular in 2007 but the money went into construction
and there wasn’t enough demand for the apartments. So everything
went bust.”  ‘Downside Vulnerability’  Bonds of Chinese companies make up five of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s six least-favored junk notes in Asia, the New York-based investment bank said in an Oct. 16 report. They include
Citic Pacific Ltd.’s $1 billion of 8.625 percent perpetual
securities, Yanlord Land Group Ltd.’s $300 million of 9.5
percent debentures due 2017 and Soho China Ltd.’s $600 million
of 5.75 percent 2017 notes.  Morgan Stanley on Oct. 11 listed some securities issued by
Citic Pacific, KWG Property Holding Ltd., Glorious Property
Holdings Ltd. and Fosun International Ltd. as having “downside
vulnerability.”  Citic Pacific’s 8.625 percent notes, sold at par in May,
were trading at 97.708 cents on the dollar to yield 9.897
percent as of 11:15 a.m. in Hong Kong, Bloomberg-compiled prices
show. Yanlord Land’s 9.5 percent bonds sold in April 2010 at 100
cents on the dollar yielded 7.277 percent and traded at 106.79
cents.  Record Junk  “The worsening in Asia high-yield fundamentals over the
last three years is compounded by the fact bank borrowing
conditions are likely to remain unsupportive over the coming
quarter,” said  Viktor Hjort , a Hong Kong-based managing
director in the bank’s research team. “China high yield is an
asset class whose performance is always highly sensitive to the
ebbs and flows of credit.”  Mainland and Hong Kong-based companies have sold $58.5
billion of dollar bonds so far this year versus $39 billion the
same period of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Speculative-grade sales total a record $14.3 billion, the data
show.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. sold $350 million of variable
perpetual notes yesterday while Haitong Securities Co. raised
$900 million from a five-year bond offering.  “The new issuance market has reopened and we expect a
significant amount of pent-up supply in coming months,” Goldman
Sachs analysts led by Hong Kong-based Kenneth Ho said on Oct.
16. This will likely cap any market rally in the region, he
said.  Bubble Risk  Chinese high-yield bonds have gained 1.6 percent this month
through Oct. 21, matching rallies in similar notes from  Brazil ,
 Russia  and  India , according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Indonesian debt returned 3.6 percent, the data show.  Notes rallied as China’s economic outlook improved and the
Federal Reserve said it won’t taper stimulus which has buoyed
emerging-market assets globally just yet. Economic expansion
quickened to 7.8 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said Oct. 18, reversing a
slowdown that put the government at risk of missing its growth
target for 2013.  New home prices in September rose 20 percent in the
southern business hubs of Shenzhen and Guangzhou, 17 percent in
Shanghai and 16 percent in Beijing from a year earlier,
government data released yesterday show.  “Home prices, especially in big cities, are a bit out of
control,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “China’s facing an
increasing risk of a property bubble.”  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swaps insuring China’s sovereign
debt against non-payment have risen 12 basis points this year to
78 on Oct. 22, according to data provider CMA. The  yuan , which
has gained 2.4 percent against the dollar in 2013, was little
changed at 6.0861 per dollar as of 11:20 a.m. in  Shanghai .  Ten-year government bonds  were yielding 4.13 percent on Oct. 22, up
from 3.61 percent at the start of the year, Chinabond data show.  Policy makers will cut their 2014 growth target to 7
percent versus this year’s 7.5 percent goal, as fixed-asset
investments and sales of floor space weaken, Nomura’s chief
China economist Zhang Zhiwei wrote in an Oct. 18 note.  “Our base case scenario is China will continue with
reforms to unleash its economic potential and tackle the
leverage in the system,” Nikko’s Leong said. “If that doesn’t
happen, high-yield notes could struggle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  