-- Kerry Tells Netanyahu Any Iran Nuclear Deal Will Be Failsafe
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-10-23T15:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/kerry-tells-netanyahu-any-iran-nuclear-deal-will-be-failsafe.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
sought to assure Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  that
Iran will not be allowed to cheat on any agreement to curtail
its nuclear program.  Kerry and Netanyahu met in  Rome  today amid tension between
the two allied nations over the direction of negotiations to
determine the future extent of Iranian nuclear activity, which
the U.S. and  Israel  suspect is being used to develop nuclear
weapons capability.  “We will need to know that actions are being taken that
make it crystal clear, undeniably clear, failsafe to the world,
that whatever program is pursued is indeed a peaceful program,”
Kerry said before the two met at the U.S. ambassador’s
residence. Netanyahu said it would be a “tragic mistake” to
ease pressure before  Iran  agrees to dismantle its nuclear
program.  Talks have accelerated between Iran and a group of world
powers, including the U.S. and  Russia , to reach agreement on
measures that would show the Iranian program is meant purely for
peaceful purposes, as has repeatedly been stated by officials
from the Persian Gulf nation. Netanyahu has been the most
forceful voice against allowing Iran to continue with  uranium
enrichment , saying even low-level enrichment could be diverted
to weapons production.  Netanyahu took preemptive action before the meeting with a
Twitter message that any softening of sanctions against Iran
would sap Israel’s willingness to make compromises in the Middle
East peace process.  Differences Sharpened  “Our aspiration for peace is liable to be severely
affected if Iran succeeds” in getting the  United Nations  to
ease sanctions that have damaged its economy, Netanyahu said in
the message.  The prospect for a negotiated solution to the standoff over
 Iran’s nuclear program  has sharpened differences between Israel
and the U.S. on what, if any, atomic activities Iran should be
allowed to continue under tighter restrictions.  Kerry said Iran must demonstrate that it will operate under
the nonproliferation standards practiced by other nuclear
countries, while Netanyahu set out his view that Iran be barred
from uranium enrichment and other key activities.  “We have said, President Obama has made it very clear, we
will pursue the diplomatic initiative but with eyes wide open,
aware that it will be vital for Iran to live up to the standards
that other nations that have nuclear programs live up to,”
Kerry said. “No deal is better than a bad deal but, if this can
solved satisfactorily diplomatically, it is clearly better for
everyone,” he said.  ‘Tragic Mistake’  Netanyahu was specific in what he said should be declared
off-limits for Iran. It shouldn’t have “centrifuges or
enrichment, shouldn’t have a plutonium heavy water reactor which
is usable only for nuclear weapons, should get rid” of the
enriched uranium it has stockpiled, he said.  The Israeli leader said Iran should also not maintain
underground nuclear facilities, a reference to the Fordo uranium
enrichment plant that could shelter centrifuges in the event of
a military strike.  Iranian officials have insisted the nation has a right
under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty to enrich uranium as
fuel for civilian nuclear power use, and won’t give up that
activity. Iran says an under-construction heavy water reactor,
which would produce weapons-usable plutonium, is being built to
produce radioactive isotopes for medical use.  Palestinian Talks  The meeting with Kerry took place with the nine-month clock
running on Israeli-Palestinian peace talks that the secretary of
state initiated in late July. While Palestinian President
 Mahmoud Abbas  said last week that the talks are on track, he has
been trying in his own tour of European capitals to seek greater
international pressure on Israel to stop construction of West
Bank settlements.  In turn, Netanyahu said he told Italian Prime Minister
Enrico Letta during a meeting last night that  Europe  must apply
greater pressure on the Palestinians to recognize Israel as a
Jewish state. He said they must give up their “irredentist
claims” on cities in Israel such as Beersheba and Haifa with
large Arab populations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Rome at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Rome at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  