-- Nasdaq Third-Quarter Profit Rises 27% on Technology Sales
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-10-23T11:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/nasdaq-third-quarter-profit-rises-27-on-technology-sales.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the operator
of the second-largest U.S. stock exchange, said third-quarter
profit rose 27 percent as technology and information services
sales advanced.  Net income climbed to $113 million from $89 million in the
third quarter a year ago as net revenue advanced 23 percent to a
record $506 million, the New York-based company said in a
statement today. Earnings excluding some items increased to 66
cents a share in the three months ended Sept. 30 from 62 cents
in the year-earlier period. That compares with the 62-cent
average estimate of 15 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  is diversifying the
business to offset a decline in  stock trading . The exchange has
bought the eSpeed platform for dealing in U.S. Treasury bonds,
the shareholder-relations unit of Thomson Reuters Corp. and a 25
percent stake in The Order Machine, a Dutch alternative trading
system focused on options. Nasdaq also has a program called GIFT
to fund projects such as a new  derivatives market  in  London .  “Our acquisitions of eSpeed and the IR, PR and Multimedia
businesses of Thomson Reuters are ahead of plan and are
accretive to earnings,” Greifeld said in the statement.
“Although we have more to do to ensure they realize their full
potential, our confidence has never been stronger.”  Today’s earnings release is the first since  Nasdaq  halted
trading for thousands of U.S. stocks for three hours on Aug. 22
after a flood of data from NYSE Arca, a rival market, exposed a
software flaw in Nasdaq’s conduit for disseminating prices. That
prompted U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary
Jo White on Sept. 12 to order market operators to collaborate on
avoiding malfunctions.  Cost Outlook  Nasdaq OMX narrowed its full-year cost guidance, saying
core expenses will be in a range of $1.075 billion to $1.09
billion, compared with a previous forecast of $1.07 billion to
$1.1 billion. Total expenses will be between $1.12 billion and
$1.135 billion, down from the prior estimate of $1.12 billion to
$1.16 billion, the company said.  “Our expense discipline has led to very modest organic
cost growth thus far in 2013,” Lee Shavel, chief financial
officer of Nasdaq, said in the statement. “We are narrowing our
full-year expense guidance towards the low end of our previous
projections.”  Nasdaq OMX’s biggest rival,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , agreed in
December to be bought by futures bourse IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. for $8 billion in a move that underscored the growing
importance of derivatives in the face of shrinking volume
worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  