-- New Zealand Raises $1.6 Billion From Sale of Meridian Shares
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-10-23T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/new-zealand-raises-1-6-billion-from-sale-of-meridian-shares.html
New Zealand will raise NZ$1.88
billion ($1.6 billion) from the sale of shares in Meridian
Energy Ltd., the biggest initial public offering in its history.  Shares in state-owned Meridian, the nation’s largest power
company, were sold to investors at NZ$1.50 apiece, which was the
bottom of the NZ$1.50-to-NZ$1.80 offer range, Finance Minister
 Bill English  said in a statement yesterday. Investors will pay
NZ$1 a share upfront and the remainder 18 months later.  The sale of 49 percent of Meridian is the second IPO in
Prime Minister John Key’s asset-sales program that seeks to
raise about NZ$5 billion by the end of next year. The government
is allowing investors to pay for the shares in two installments
and capped the price for retail buyers at NZ$1.60 after state-owned Mighty River Power Ltd. fell from its May offering price.  Mighty River raised about NZ$1.7 billion. Key has also
pledged to sell shares in Genesis Energy Ltd. and to reduce the
government’s stake in Air  New Zealand  Ltd. to generate cash for
infrastructure spending and reduce government debt.  “Meridian has attracted a different mix of investors than
we saw with Mighty River Power earlier this year,” English
said. “While demand was strong and broad based, overall we saw
fewer retail investors bidding for larger parcels of shares.”  Meridian will have 62,000 shareholders when it lists on the
New Zealand and Australian stock exchanges on Oct. 29.  Retail Investors  Of the 1.26 billion Meridian shares available, about 749
million or 60 percent were sold to retail investors, English
said. New Zealand institutions took 160 million shares and
overseas fund managers took 347 million.  Mighty River closed in Wellington yesterday at NZ$2.20 from
an offer price in May of NZ$2.50 a share.  Meridian is New Zealand’s biggest power company, with seven
hydroelectric dams and four wind farms generating about 30
percent of the country’s electricity needs. It also has a wind
installation in  Australia  and another under construction.  Meridian had assets of NZ$7.74 billion at June 30 and
revenue of NZ$2.7 billion in the 12 months through June,
according to its IPO prospectus.  New Zealand appointed Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Macquarie
Group Ltd. and a partnership of Deutsche Bank AG and Craigs
Investment Partners Ltd. in May to manage the Meridian IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  