-- Nigerian Breweries Falls Most in 2 Weeks as Earnings Disappoint
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-10-23T14:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/nigerian-breweries-falls-most-in-2-weeks-as-earnings-disappoint.html
Nigerian Breweries Plc (NB) , the local
unit of  Heineken NV (HEIA) , fell the most in two weeks as nine-month
sales came in lower than estimates on weak consumer spending in
sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-largest economy.  The  stock  of the West African nation’s biggest brewer
snapped four days of gains, retreating 1.1 percent to 174 naira
at the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos, the commercial capital where
the company is based, the biggest closing decline since Oct. 7.
Nigerian Breweries’  relative-strength index  rose yesterday above
70, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, a level that
signals to some technical traders a stock is overbought.  Organic beer volume in Africa and the Middle East fell 2
percent, with non-beer volume dropping more than 10 percent,
Heineken, the world’s third-largest brewer, said today. Weak
demand in Nigeria, the continent’s second-biggest beer market,
has weighed on earnings, Chief Financial Officer Rene Hooft Graafland said on a conference call. The Amsterdam-based company
cut its outlook on full-year profit after third-quarter sales
missed estimates.  “Earnings were below our expectations as volume growth
disappointed,” Esili Eigbe, a Lagos-based analyst at  Stanbic
IBTC Holding Co. (STANBIC)  with a  sell  rating on Nigerian Breweries, wrote
in a client note today. “Softness in consumer spending in
Nigeria has resulted in weaker beer volume growth as the
Nigerian consumer prioritizes spending.”  Nine-month revenue through September rose 5 percent to
190.3 billion naira ($1.2 billion) from 180.7 billion naira in
the same period a year earlier, Nigerian Breweries said in a
statement posted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange website. Net
income climbed 6 percent to 26.8 billion naira.  The company’s stock has advanced 18 percent this year,
compared with the 33 percent gain of the  Nigerian Stock Exchange
All-Share Index. (NGSEINDX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  