-- Nordic Parity Odds Soar as Central Bankers Diverge: Currencies
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-10-23T12:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/nordic-parity-odds-soar-as-central-bankers-diverge-currencies.html
Norway ’s krone has about an even
chance of falling to parity with the Swedish krona in the next
two years as monetary policies in the bordering nations diverge.  There’s a 49 percent probability the krone will weaken to
the 1 per Swedish krona level last seen in 2000, up from 11
percent odds at the start of the year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank AG, the largest currency
trader, and Sweden’s SEB AB both say the krone may depreciate
more than 7 percent to match its peer.  In a month when companies from French retailer  Carrefour SA (CA) 
to Dutch chemicals producer  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  blamed the euro’s
strength for denting profits, Norwegian exporters can take
comfort from the new prime minister saying she’s willing to
weaken the currency to boost trade. Sweden’s Riksbank, which
like the Norges Bank meets tomorrow, has said it won’t use
interest rates to influence its currency.  “Sweden’s had a central bank that hasn’t felt it’s been an
issue to have a currency that’s relatively strong,”  Carl Hammer , a currency strategist at SEB in  Stockholm , said in an
Oct. 14 phone interview. “What Norway cares about the most is
to keep their competitiveness. Because Norway has become so
expensive, there’s a risk that the krone versus Sweden’s krona
may fall to 1.05 or even parity.”  Parity Reached  The Norwegian krone has slumped 7.8 percent this year to
1.0785 Swedish kronor at 8:25 a.m. in  New York . It slid to a 9
1/2-year low of 1.0578 on Oct. 2. Norway’s currency last fell to
parity in June 2000, and before 1982 had always stayed below
that level, according to data compiled by Bloomberg dating back
to 1971.  Norges Bank has kept its main  interest rate  at 1.5 percent
since March 2012, and will do so again tomorrow, according to 15
of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The dissenting voice
predicted a quarter percentage-point reduction to 1.25 percent,
matching the record-low in place from June to September 2009.  Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg, who took office last
week, said in September she’ll work to weaken the krone to boost
competitiveness as cost pressures weigh on the economy of
western  Europe ’s largest oil producer.  Paying Off  The krone has dropped 5.4 percent against its Swedish
counterpart since Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said in a
Feb. 14 interview that if Norway’s currency “gets too strong
over time, leading to inflation that’s too low, we will act.”  Norway’s consumer-price inflation  accelerated  to 2.5
percent in August, reaching the central bank’s target for the
first time in four years. The annual rate slowed to 1.7 percent
last month, the government said Oct. 10.  Sweden  has taken a different approach to interest rates.
The krona’s rate is one of many items policy makers consider
when setting borrowing costs, and policy rates shouldn’t be used
to influence the currency, Riksbank Deputy Governor Cecilia Skingsley said in a Sept. 19 interview in Stockholm.  Swedish policy makers will tomorrow leave their benchmark
rate at the 1 percent they’ve maintained since December,
according to all 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
 repurchase rate  was as low as 0.25 percent until June 2010.  Slow Inflation  Even with Norway’s and Sweden’s diverging pronouncements on
policy, swaps prices show their central banks will probably
raise borrowing costs by similar amounts over the next year.  Both Norges Bank and Riksbank will boost rates by about 20
basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, according to Credit
Suisse Group AG indexes. That may reduce the chances of Norway’s
krone depreciating relative to its Swedish peer.  Sweden’s  inflation rate  was below-target for a 21st month
in September, rising an annualized 0.1 percent, official data
showed Oct. 10, while industrial production slumped 2.3 percent
in the previous month. The Riksbank has struggled to spur growth
while reaching its 2 percent inflation target without fueling
 household debt .  The krone-krona rate is “close to bottoming out,”
 Valentin Marinov , head of Group of 10 currency strategy in
 London  at Citigroup Inc., the second-largest foreign-exchange
trader, said in an Oct. 21 phone interview.  “Investors might be too optimistic on the Riksbank, the
Swedish economy, and from that point of view we’d argue that the
scope for dovish surprises may be greater from the Riksbank than
the Norges Bank,” he said.  ‘Fair Value’  Marinov estimates “fair value” for Norway’s krone is 1.1
Swedish kronor. A more dovish tone from the Riksbank tomorrow
may push it up toward 1.14, he said.  Norges Bank said last month that it will start raising
rates from mid-2014, while Riksbank officials said they’ll start
lifting borrowing costs late next year. That should favor the
Norwegian krone rather than Sweden’s krona.  “Parity can never be ruled out but it would take another
big shift in relative  interest-rate  expectations in favor of the
Swedish krona,”  Daragh Maher , a currency strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in London, said in an Oct. 14 interview. “If
anything, Norway’s krone now looks a little oversold relative to
recent shifts in rates.”  Amsterdam-based Akzo Nobel, the maker of Dulux paint, said
Oct. 21 that a strong euro had hurt its earnings when reporting
third-quarter profit of 456 million euros ($627 million). Chief
Financial Officer Keith Nichols said in a conference call that a
year-on-year decline in revenue was “primarily driven by the
unfavorable currency effects, as the euro strengthened.”  Rising Euro  Carrefour,  France ’s largest retailer, said the euro’s gains
versus the Brazilian real and Argentine peso damped Latin
American sales when reporting Oct. 17 third-quarter revenue that
fell 1.3 percent to 21.1 billion euros.  The 17-nation common currency has risen 4.3 percent against
the dollar this year, and is the best performer after the
Israeli shekel and Danish krone among 31 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Sweden’s krona is the seventh best-performer, rising 1.9
percent versus the dollar, with Norway’s krone trailing in 22st
place with a 6 percent decline, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
While the krona has gained 3.8 percent this year against a
basket of nine developed-market peers, Norway’s currency is down
5.1 percent, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes show.  “The problem in Norway simply is that the price level is
relatively high, and that puts incredible pressure, primarily on
the export sector,”  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at
Deutsche Bank in London, said yesterday. That’s “one of the
reasons why Norges Bank still puts a lot of emphasis on
exchange-rate movements when they set the interest rate, which
is not the case for the Riksbank to the same extent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  