-- Nordic Banks Seek to Block EU Crackdown on Capital Reporting
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-10-23T07:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/nordic-banks-seek-to-block-eu-s-crackdown-on-capital-calculation.html
Scandinavia’s banks are contesting a
plan by the European Banking Authority that requires lenders to
adopt a uniform approach when calculating capital buffers,
saying the reporting rule penalizes a region that performed
better than most during the global financial crisis.  EBA ChairmanAndrea Enria said last month there are no
“rational justifications” behind the different methodologies
now used as the London-based authority pursues a harmonized
model. Yet bank groups in  Sweden , Finland, Denmark and Norway,
whose members include Nordea Bank AB, DNB ASA and  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE) , say the EBA’s approach ignores earlier rules on how to
measure reserves.  In Finland, the Nordic region’s only euro member, banks
would lose about 1 percentage point from their  capital ratios  if
calculations are harmonized as the EBA envisions, said Elina
Salminen, an analyst at the Helsinki-based Federation of Finnish
Financial Services. “It is an enormous amount of money at a
time when banks are forced to cut expenses, lay off employees
and close offices.”  Scandinavia’s banks, among the best-capitalized in  Europe ,
argue the EBA’s approach doesn’t reflect the safety of their
mortgage assets. It’s not the first time Nordic banks have taken
on global regulators. Danish lenders lobbied to change 2010
liquidity rules by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ,
arguing they threatened to destabilize the world’s biggest
mortgage-bond market per capita. Those efforts led to some
concessions inside Europe, though a final outcome is still
pending.  Basel Floor  Scandinavia’s bankers associations are now appealing the
EBA’s decision. The associations, backed by the Brussels-based
European Banking Federation, have urged the European Commission
to reject the EBA’s method, according to a letter dated last
month. The EBF is headed byChristian Clausen, who is also chief
executive officer at Nordea, the largest Nordic bank. The
commission may decide as early as this week.  At issue is how to interpret a floor on capital
requirements designed to prevent banks underestimating balance
sheet risk. Under Basel transition rules that apply until 2018,
banks are free to use an internal ratings model as long as they
don’t breach a given threshold.  ‘Wrong’ Approach  Yet countries have employed different methods for arriving
at that threshold. According to the draft EBA reporting
requirement, the floor should be interpreted as a lower limit on
risk-weighted assets, giving lenders less leeway to calculate
their own loss probabilities. That contradicts rules given to
European banks under the  Capital Requirements  Regulation,
according to Johan Hansing, chief economist at the Swedish
Bankers’ Association.  Michael Friis, head of prudential regulation at the Danish
Bankers Association in Copenhagen, said he has “discussed the
issue with colleagues in the banking associations in Norway,
Finland and Sweden and the European Banking Association, and we
agree that the EBA approach is wrong.”  Under the EBA’s draft, the threshold is set at 80 percent
of risk-weighted assets while under CRR, the floor is set at 80
percent of own funds, according to the banking groups. Applying
the two approaches to a sampling of banks resulted in a
“staggering” difference in capital requirements, Enria  said  in
a Sept. 26 speech.  In  Norway , the former government said it will accept the
EBA’s interpretation, while the new Conservative-led coalition
that took office this month has signaled it will ease national
bank regulation.  Single Supervisor  As Europe struggles to deliver one bank rulebook to match
its goal of creating a single supervisor, compromises made along
the way are returning to haunt regulators. In November, the EBA
advisedMichel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
chief, to adopt “neutral” wording on methodologies in the new
capital regulations approved by the European Parliament this
year. The EBA finalized its work in July. It declined to comment
further beyond referring to its November remarks to Barnier.  European regulators first sought to impose a floor on
capital levels in 2007, after Basel II rules gave banks more
freedom to assign risk weights to their assets. Five years
later, the EBA said it found “serious discrepancies” in
national interpretations of the floor with “deeply unsettling”
results.  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , SEB AB, Nordea and
Danske have Tier 1 capital ratios relative to their risk-weighted assets that are among the world’s highest.
Handelsbanken is the best-capitalized major bank in the EU.  Bigger Dividends  “If people think Handelsbanken is a sound bank and you
have a measure that suggests otherwise, you might want to take
another look at that measure,” said Jesper Berg, senior vice
president and head of regulatory affairs at Nykredit A/S.  Most Scandinavian lenders already exceed national capital
requirements, which are stricter than Basel III rules. That’s
led them to promise shareholders bigger payouts.  Ulf Riese, chief financial officer at Handelsbanken, said
in July the Stockholm-based bank was considering buying back
shares and paying an extraordinary dividend once regulatory
demands become clear. Nordea CEO Clausen also has signaled the
bank has enough excess cash to pay shareholders more.  The extra buffer requirement the EBA is placing on banks
would threaten Scandinavian lenders’ plans.  “The EBA should not be allowed to decide on reporting
standards that are in conflict with CRR,” Hansing at the
Swedish Bankers’ Association said.  Salminen at  Finland ’s bankers group says the industry “had
expected that once the CRR test was finalized, the EBA reporting
would reflect that. Banks are now confused because the EBA
reporting standard takes a different interpretation than the CRR
text.” The discrepancy “is a major problem for Nordic banks,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  