-- Northrop Grumman Lifts Profit Outlook After Beating Estimate
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-10-23T20:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/northrop-grumman-lifts-profit-outlook-as-earnings-beat-estimates.html
Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , the fifth-largest U.S. government contractor, raised its full-year profit
forecast after reporting third-quarter earnings and revenue that
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The maker of Global Hawk drones forecast 2013 earnings of
$8 to $8.15 a share, up from the $7.60 to $7.80 range it gave in
July, the  Falls Church , Virginia-based company said in a
statement today. It predicted profit of as little as $6.85 a
share in January.  Northrop’s performance echoes that of  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) , another prime contractor that yesterday boosted its
annual earnings outlook after reporting lower quarterly sales.
The companies’ profits rose even as across-the-board cuts
stripped $37 billion from Pentagon programs in the fiscal year
that ended on Sept. 30 and are set to cut $50 billion in the
current fiscal year.  “Another quarter, another prime beating arguably low
expectations,” Robert Stallard, a London-based analyst for RBC
Capital Markets LLC, wrote in a note to clients after Northrop’s
report.  The results were “a familiar story of sales down, profit
up,” said Stallard, who has a “sector perform” rating on
Northrop.  Beat Estimates  Northrop  climbed  4 percent to $105.56 at the market close
in  New York  in its biggest advance since September 2010. The
shares have risen 56 percent this year even as contractors
struggled with across-the-board budget cuts and this month’s
partial government shutdown, compared with a gain of 22 percent
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during the same period.  Net income climbed 8.3 percent to $497 million, or $2.14 a
share, from $459 million, or $1.82 a share, a year earlier. The
 earnings  beat the $1.82-a-share average estimate of 18 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Revenue declined 2.6 percent to $6.11 billion in the
quarter, exceeding the average estimate of $5.95 billion.  Northrop also raised its full-year sales forecast by less
than 1 percent to $24.4 billion.  In July, the contractor raised its earnings forecast as
F-35 jet work helped boost sales and profit in the second
quarter.  F-35 Jets  The military has protected large programs such as Lockheed
Martin’s F-35, the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons system,
from automatic federal spending cuts. Northrop, a subcontractor
on the fighter, booked $1.3 billion last year for work on the
F-35, according to a regulatory filing.  Congress has helped, too. Last month, Northrop received
funding for the last three Global Hawk Block 30 surveillance
drones. After the Pentagon tried to cut the unmanned aircraft,
lawmakers passed legislation funding them.  Lockheed, the largest U.S. contractor, yesterday raised its
full-year outlook as its third-quarter profit rose 16 percent.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the No. 6 federal contractor,
reduced its sales forecast yesterday. The Hartford, Connecticut-based company said Pentagon spending cuts contributed to a
decline in revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  