-- Obamacare Designer Says U.S. Agency Is Site’s Quarterback
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-10-23T21:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/obamacare-designer-says-u-s-agency-is-site-s-quarterback.html
An executive of  CGI Group Inc. (GIB/A) , a
contractor criticized for flaws that have hobbled sign-up for
health-care exchanges, said the U.S. government is the
“ultimate responsible party” for the insurance marketplaces.  CGI “works under the direction and supervision” of the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said Cheryl Campbell, a senior vice president at CGI Federal Inc., a unit of
CGI Group based in Fairfax, Virginia. The testimony was posted
today on the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee website,
which will hold a hearing tomorrow morning.  The agency, part of the Department of Health and Human
Services, plays an “important role of systems integrator or
’quarterback’” and is responsible for “the end-to-end
performance of the overall federal exchange,” Campbell said in
her prepared testimony.  The website failures have made it difficult for people to
enroll, marring its debut and giving critics ammunition to
undercut the health-care law by detractors and supporters. The
flaws may discourage young, healthy, web-savvy consumers whose
participation is critical to offset the risk of insuring older,
sicker people and to keep the program sustainable.  House Republicans are seizing on the technical defects as
they push to delay implementation of the health-care plan, while
Democrats are urging more time to overcome the woes. One
Democrat, Senator Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire, has called
for delaying the deadline to sign up for coverage.  ‘Be Fixed’  “It is premature to consider that,” Maryland
Representative Steny Hoyer, the House’s No. 2 Democrat, said in
an interview at the Capitol today. “We will see what happens in
the next few weeks in terms of fixing the system. I think it’s
going to be fixed.”  Hoyer and other House Democrats spoke after Shaheen asked
President  Barack Obama  to extend the open enrollment beyond the
March 31 deadline. Because some people were unable to enroll,
more time is needed to allow consumers additional opportunities
to access the site, she said.  House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, the California Democrat
who was House speaker when the health law was passed in 2010,
said she doesn’t support Shaheen’s request.  “We should try to fix what we have, move forward with the
deadline,” Pelosi said at a briefing today with reporters.
“While there are glitches, there are solutions as well.”  California Republican Darrell Issa, chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today released
letters to five companies asking for more information about
their possible role with the White House or the Department of
Health and Human Services to fix the flaws. The companies are
Verizon Enterprise Inc., Google Inc., Microsoft Corp.,  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)   Information Sought  “Despite the president’s assertion that ‘we’re well into a
tech surge,’ neither the White House nor HHS is providing
additional details about which private-sector companies have
been engaged or whether they are being engaged through the
appropriate procurement processes,” Issa wrote.  Republicans faulted the website defects less than a week
after resolving a partial government shutdown triggered by the
party’s opposition to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act, also known as Obamacare. House Republicans have been
seeking to delay implementation of the Obama health-care law.  “The rollout of Obamacare is nothing short of a debacle,”
Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia told reporters today in
 Washington .  ‘This Way’  Tomorrow’s hearing is meant to determine whether breakdowns
at www.healthcare.gov were caused by the contractors, or “were
they told to do it this way” by the Department of Health and
Human Services, Representative Tim Murphy, a Pennsylvania
Republican, told reporters in Washington.  “We should press pause on the president’s tech surge where
he wants to spend untold more amounts of money to throw that
after a bad website when we don’t even know if this one is even
salvageable,” said Murphy, chairman of the oversight and
investigations subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce panel.  Four contractors will answer panel members’ questions about
the website rollout. They are Quality Software Services Inc.,
owned by Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ;
Equifax Workforce Solutions, a unit of Atlanta-based Equifax
Inc.; a U.S. unit of Montreal-based  CGI Group Inc. (CJ5A) ; and a U.S.
unit of  Serco Group Plc (SRP) , a U.K. services provider.  Obama administration officials today briefed House
Democrats on the status of the health-care law implementation.  Phone Enrollment  Representative Xavier Becerra, chairman of the House
Democratic Caucus, said the White House officials outlined steps
being taken to reduce errors on the website and “they’re moving
forward with more access to phone coverage to give people access
to that information.”  Virginia Democrat Gerry Connolly said if people can’t
access the website and sign up soon, he’d be open to delaying
the penalties for not enrolling.  “ You can’t ask somebody to pay a penalty based on a
certain time frame of availability if that time frame has been
contracted through no fault of their own,” Connolly said in an
interview.  Florida Democrat Joe Garcia said he would support any
efforts to help the implementation of the health-care law.  “We are all upset that it’s not working as it should be,
there’s no question about that,” Garcia told reporters in
Washington today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  