-- Obama Sides With Tea Party as House Passes Dredging Bill
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-10-23T22:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/obama-sides-with-tea-party-as-house-passes-dredging-bill.html
The U.S. House approved 23
commercial navigation, flood control and environmental
restoration projects, work that could cost taxpayers as much as
$8.2 billion over the next decade.  The vote for the measure, H.R. 3080, was 417-3. If enacted,
it would be the first law authorizing dredging, levee
construction and port projects since 2007.  The bill was the first major policy legislation considered
since the partisan stalemate that shut down the federal
government for more than two weeks.  “This is how we ought to work,” Representative  Steny Hoyer  of  Maryland , the No. 2 House Democrat, said on the floor.  Large commercial projects that would be authorized under
the legislation include dredging the Sabine-Neches Waterway, a
major oil and natural gas refining area on the Texas-Louisiana
border, and deepening Savannah Harbor in  Georgia .  The measure won the votes of both Democrats and Tea Party-backed Republicans, who were targeted by shipping industry
groups in a months-long advocacy campaign that focused on the
Constitution and the importance of interstate commerce.  “It’s been persuasive,” Georgia Republican Jack Kingston
said in an interview. “It’s not some backroom sudden concept.”  The measure would cap spending on the waterway projects and
limit the amount of time that could be spent on required
environmental reviews. It also would set up a process to revoke
$12 billion previously authorized for projects now dormant.  Obama Support  The White House endorsed the bill in a  statement of
administration policy , though it pointed out parts of the bill
it wants to be changed.  President  Barack Obama  and Vice President  Joe Biden  have
repeatedly toured ports calling for passage of waterway
infrastructure legislation to boost U.S. exports.  “In a couple of years, new supertankers are going to start
coming through the Panama Canal,” Obama said in a July tour of
Jacksonville Port on the Atlantic coast of  Florida . “If we want
our workers and businesses to compete, then our ports have to be
ready to receive those supertankers. Otherwise, they’ll go to
 Brazil  or some other place.”  Lawmakers next will seek to merge the bill with a version
that the Senate passed in May, S. 601.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  