-- Holloway Leaves Palace With Team Near Bottom of Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-23T17:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/holloway-leaves-palace-with-team-near-bottom-of-premier-league.html
Ian Holloway  left as Crystal Palace
manager with the team next to last in English soccer’s Premier
League.  Palace Chairman Steve Parish said at a press conference the
club and Holloway parted by “mutual consent.”  “Ian felt that a new approach might help keep us in the
division,” Parish said. “I’d like to put the record straight.
We’ve never fallen out. We’ve worked together brilliantly. We
feel we need to move on to progress.”  Holloway’s departure comes two days after a 4-1 home loss
to Fulham left Palace with three points from its first eight
games after returning to  England ’s top division. Only
Sunderland, with one point, has fewer in the 20-team league.  Holloway, 50, left Blackpool last November to take over at
Palace. He guided the Eagles to a playoff victory in the second-tier Championship, returning the southeast  London  club to the
Premier League after an eight-year absence.  Palace, which brought in 14 new players before the season,
lost its first two league matches before beating Sunderland 3-1
on Aug. 31. It’s lost its past five games and been outscored on
the season 17-6 in the league.  “I have to hold my hand up and say we didn’t keep the
spirit that got us up,” Holloway said. “We changed too much
too quickly. I’m not saying my new signings aren’t good enough,
but they need to buy into this football club the same way my
others lads did.”  In 2010, Holloway led Blackpool back to the top division
for the first time since 1971 by winning the Championship
playoffs. The Tangerines finished next to last in the Premier
League and were relegated after just one season.  Holloway has also coached Bristol Rovers, Queens Park
Rangers, Plymouth and  Leicester City . He becomes the second
managerial change in the Premier League this season, after Paolo Di Canio was fired by Sunderland last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 