-- Oman Shuns Hedge Funds as Sovereign Investor Targets Equities
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-10-23T06:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/oman-shuns-hedge-funds-as-sovereign-investor-targets-equities.html
Oman, the largest oil producer in
the Arabian Peninsula that’s not a member of OPEC, said it’s
shunning  hedge funds  and alternative assets to invest directly
in emerging market equities and real estate in stable countries.  Oman Investment Fund, the sovereign wealth fund, manages
almost all its assets internally and would only consider
external managers because it could be “resource-intensive” to
follow hundreds of stocks on a daily basis, Chief Executive
Officer Hassan Al Nabhani said in an e-mailed response to
questions, his first such interview in at least seven years.  “The bulk of our portfolio comprises direct private
equities investments,” Al Nabhani said. “Hedge funds are not
transparent enough in their strategies and the risk they take do
not compensate for the returns and the fees they charge.”  Sovereign funds in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council,
such as the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, are seeking greater
control over their investments and curbing their reliance on
outside fund managers. ADIA is building up in-house teams in
areas such as real estate and private equity to make direct
investments, according to its annual report published in May.  Oman, the second-smallest economy in the  Persian Gulf , set
up OIF in 2006 to preserve and grow the country’s wealth for
future generations. OIF has assets valued at about $6 billion,
according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute.  Listed Equities  Al Nabhani said the fund holds a diversified portfolio of
listed equities, mostly in  emerging markets  and Oman. The only
alternative assets the fund invests in is a “handful” of
private equity funds, he said, without disclosing any names.  The MSCI Emerging Market Index has dropped 1.3 percent this
year, compared with the 20 percent gain in the gauge tracking
stocks in developed countries. The Omani economy is forecast to
expand at a compound annual rate of 4 percent from 2011 to 2016,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “With the uncertainties still surrounding the global
economy, we have deemed that Oman in particular and our region
overall offer extremely attractive investment opportunities,”
he said, naming the tourism, logistics, marine resources,
mining, advanced manufacturing and health care industries.  The fund in February bought a 41 percent stake valued as
much as $57 million in Oman National Investment Corp. from Dubai
Group LLC, one of several companies in the emirate seeking to
restructure about $6 billion of loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  