-- Omnicare Agrees to Pay $120 Million Over Kickback Claim
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-10-23T13:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/omnicare-agrees-to-pay-120-million-over-kickback-claim.html
Omnicare Inc. (OCR)  agreed to pay
$120 million to settle a whistle-blower lawsuit claiming it
violated the U.S. anti-kickback law by giving discounts on
certain Medicare services to nursing homes, the company said.  The company was accused in the lawsuit of providing the
discounts in exchange for referrals of patients with government-reimbursable drug costs. The case, filed in 2010 by former
Omnicare pharmacist Donald Gale, was set to begin trial next
week in federal court in Cleveland.  The company will pay $120 million, plus attorneys’ fees, to
settle Gale’s allegations, as well as certain claims raised in
another case filed in New Jersey, Omnicare said today in a
 regulatory filing . The settlement was reached yesterday, the
company said.  “The company reached an agreement in principle, without
admitting liability,” according to the filing. The settlement
requires approval from the U.S. Justice Department.  The lawsuit is one of multiple whistle-blower complaints
alleging kickback violations against the Covington, Kentucky-based company, which provides drugs to nursing home patients.
Omnicare paid a $98 million settlement to the U.S. in 2009 over
a separate claim alleging that it paid or solicited kickbacks.  Suit Unsealed  The  Ohio  lawsuit, initially filed under seal, was unsealed
in 2011 after the U.S. government decided not to join it. Gale
continued to pursue the action on behalf of the U.S. Under the
False Claims Act, the government still will receive most of the
settlement. Gale will receive a fee of as much as 30 percent of
the recovery.  Gale’s allegations targeted Omnicare’s practices in
connection with Medicare Part A, which provides prescription
drug coverage for patients in skilled nursing facilities,
according to court papers.  Omnicare offered discounts and below-cost pricing for
prescription drugs or supplies to the nursing facilities on
their Part A patients in exchange for referrals of other
patients that the company could bill against other public
insurance programs, Gale alleged in the lawsuit.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Gale v. Omnicare Inc., 10-cv-00127, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Ohio
( Cleveland .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 