-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Falls to Five-Month Low on Supplies
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2013-10-23T11:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/top-oil-market-news-wti-falls-to-five-month-low-on-supplies.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Drops to 5-Month Low; Discount to Brent Widest Since April  West Texas Intermediate fell to the lowest in five months
as crude stockpiles rose in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer. The benchmark grade’s discount to North Sea Brent was
its biggest in almost seven months.  Ineos Will Keep Grangemouth Refinery Open, U.K. Minister Says  Management seeking to restart oil refinery as soon as
possible, Energy Secretary Edward Davey says in an e-mailed
statement.  TOP OIL NEWS  U.S. Pump Prices Seen Dropping to Three-Year Low: Energy Markets  Gasoline pump prices in the U.S. are poised to drop to the
lowest since February 2011 by New Year’s Eve as supplies
increase more than demand, providing a lift for consumers in an
economy struggling to recover from the deepest recession since
the 1930s.  Iraq to Produce 3.5m B/D of Crude by Yr-End, Oil Minister Says  Iraq  to start operating platform linking offshore export
facilities on Persian Gulf Oct. 28, Oil Minister Abdul Kareem
al-Luaibi tells reporters in  Baghdad .  Iraq May Give Sonangol More Time to Produce Oil, Al-Luaibi Says  Govt in talks with Sonangol about giving Angolan state-owned co. more time to start operations at Nineveh fields in
north Iraq due to security challenges there, Oil Minister Abdul
Kareem al-Luaibi tells reporters in Baghdad.  WTI Triangle Formation May Halt Drop at $95: Technical Analysis  West Texas Intermediate crude may halt its decline as a
symmetrical triangle forms near $95 a barrel on a price graph,
according to technical analysis from CMC Markets.  Crude Inventories in U.S. Climbed a Fifth Week, Survey Shows (2)  U.S. crude supplies probably climbed for a fifth week as
refineries operated at less than 87 percent of capacity, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  Keystone Foes Pledge Sit-Ins If Pipeline’s U.S. Permit Advances  Critics of the Keystone XL pipeline say they’re still
optimistic President  Barack Obama  will block TransCanada Corp.’s
planned $5.3 billion link between the oil sands in  Alberta  and
refineries along the U.S. Gulf Coast.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Petroineos to Decide on Future of Grangemouth Oil Refinery  Co., a jv between Ineos and Petrochina, says restart of
refinery depends “primarily dependent on the removal of the
threat of further industrial action,” according to a statement
from Ineos.  Lithuania Mazeikiu Refinery Plans 4Q Reforming Unit Maintenance  PKN Orlen comments on reforming unit shutdown in
presentation posted on website.  Exxon Has Emission at Joliet Oil Refinery: Illinois Filing  Exxon Mobil flared gases at its Joliet oil refinery in
Illinois yday because “PSV failed,” according to a filing with
state Emergency Management Agency.  Unipetrol Reports Quarterly Loss on Unplanned Refinery Outages  Unipetrol AS, the largest Czech refiner, said it incurred
its fourth consecutive quarterly loss on lower sales caused by
unplanned refinery outages and continuing economic recession.  Saudi Rabigh Refining Restarts Ethane Cracker After Fixing Leak  Co. repairs leak in cooling system, according to statement
to Saudi bourse today.  Nansei Sekiyu Halts Berthing at Nishihara Refinery on Typhoon  Co. suspended marine operations at Nos. 1-3 berths on Oct.
21 due to typhoon Francisco, it says on website today.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 4.9 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  fell 4.9 percent to 8.42 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crude grades from the Middle East, Asia,
 Africa  and the Americas. Figures are in U.S. dollars a barrel,
or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  Nigeria Raises November Qua Iboe Crude Price to Two-Year High  Nigeria raised its November official selling price for
benchmark Bonny Light and Qua Iboe crudes to the highest in two
years, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. said in an e-mailed
statement.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Japan Mulls Plan for One Operator to Run All Reactors: Energy  Japan’s government is discussing a radical overhaul of its
nuclear power sector, the world’s third largest, that would
combine the nation’s 50 operating reactors into a single company
to rebuild an industry that’s been effectively halted by the
March 2011 Fukushima disaster.  JPMorgan Said to Draw BTG Bid for All of Commodities Business  Grupo BTG Pactual, the Brazilian investment bank founded by
billionaire  Andre Esteves , is working on a bid for JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s physical commodities business, said a person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  U.K. Plans Motorway Fuel Comparison Signs to Drive Down Prices  The U.K. will try out the use of signs along motorways to
tell drivers how much fuel costs at different gas stations in a
bid to drive down prices as part of measures to cut motoring
costs.  BG Sees Tunisia More Reliable Than Egypt for Gas Producers  Tunisia is proving a more reliable place to produce natural
gas than  Egypt  as the smallest nation on the North African coast
pays its fuel bills on time, a BG Group Plc executive said.  Energy Department Offers $60 Million to Spur Solar Innovations  The U.S. Energy Department will award $60 million to local
governments, universities and companies to accelerate the
development of solar power.  OTHER MARKETS  Global Stocks Decline With Metals as Yen, Treasuries Advance  Global stocks dropped from a five- year high, with shares
in Europe halting the longest rally in 40 months, while the yen
strengthened and Treasuries rose. Copper led commodities lower
as  China ’s money-market rates jumped.  Yen Rises Most in 8 Weeks Versus Euro on China Rates; Kiwi Drops  The yen strengthened the most in eight weeks versus the
euro as borrowing costs for Chinese banks jumped by the most
since July, spurring demand for safer assets.  Nordic Parity Odds Soar as Central Bankers Diverge: Currencies  Norway’s krone has about an even chance of falling to
parity with the Swedish krona in the next two years as monetary
policies in the bordering nations diverge.  Tyson Chases Hormel by Targeting Moms With Burritos: Commodities  Hidden away in one of 19 test kitchens in Tyson Foods
Inc.’s headquarters, Greg Luchak wraps a Lady Aster cheese
omelet and Wright brand bacon into a Mexican Original tortilla.
Voila -- the breakfast burrito.  Copper Slumps From One-Month High as Chinese Interest Rates Rise  Copper fell from a one-month high in  London  after surging
interest rates in China undermined the outlook for demand in the
world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  SPORTS  World Series Pits Farrell Turnaround and Matheny’s Cardinal Way  Red Sox manager John Farrell was given the task of changing
a culture in  Boston , which a year ago had its worst season in 47
years.  Japan’s Uehara Closes in on MLB Postseason Mark for Red Sox (1)  Koji Uehara is closing in on a record-setting postseason
for the Boston Red Sox with a breakout performance that’s left
him surprised, scared and sick to his stomach.  Yankees to Dodgers Among 10 MLB Teams Worth More Than $1 Billion  The average value of a Major League Baseball team is $1
billion, more than 35 percent higher than previous estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ENERGY PRICES  Energy Prices:  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- -------- WTI Crude ($/Bbl)
96.81  -1.49  -1.5  Nymex     Dec. Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    109.36
 -0.61  -0.6    ICE     Dec. Gasoil ($/Ton)         925.00
-5.25  -0.6    ICE     Dec. Gasoline (c/Gal)       260.49  -1.18
 -0.5  Nymex     Nov. Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.59  +0.01  +0.3
 Nymex     Nov. Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    109.74  -0.74  -0.7
OTC  21 Days Heating Oil            297.38  -2.35  -0.8  Nymex
  Nov. Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- ----- Dollar Index            79.38  +0.2 Gold ($/Oz)  1,342.60  +2.0 MSCI World Index     1,604.71  -0.4  Prices as of 12 p.m. London time  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net  