-- Orange Earnings Decline as Phone Revenue Slumps
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-10-23T07:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/orange-earnings-decline-as-cost-cuts-fail-to-offset-waning-sales.html
Orange SA (ORA) ,  France ’s largest
telecommunications company, reported a 7.7 percent decline in
third-quarter profit excluding some items as cost cuts weren’t
enough to offset falling sales.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization were 3.37 billion euros ($4.6 billion), the Paris-based company, formerly known as  France Telecom , said today.
Analysts estimated Ebitda of 3.34 billion euros, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 5.5 percent to 10.2
billion euros, matching the average estimate.  The former French phone monopoly’s stock has rebounded 50
percent since reaching a decade low in early July, partly
reflecting Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard’s efforts to
reduce staff expenses. Orange is attempting to thwart discounter
 Iliad SA (ILD)  with premium packages including an ultra-high-speed
mobile Internet connection to win back customers as  Europe ’s
economy shows signs of a revival.  “We’re in the midst of drafting budgets for 2014 and our
intention is to try and stabilize Ebitda as fast possible during
that year,” Chief Financial Officer Gervais Pellissier said on
a conference call. “The question remaining is at what point
during the year will we be able to do that?”  Orange  fell  1.3 percent to 10.52 euros at 9:06 a.m. in
Paris, valuing the company at 27.8 billion euros.  Revenue Pressure  Orange’s average revenue per user, or ARPU, has shrunk by
12 percent in France this year amid stiffer competition. ARPU
will fall 10 percent or less in 2014, as faster wireless
packages will help boost prices, Pellissier said.  Orange reduced the number of full-time workers 2.1 percent
during the first nine months of the year, helping it cut direct
costs by 4.2 percent in the third quarter. In France, which
accounts for about half of revenue, sales fell 5.6 percent.  In the U.S., carriers are already reaping the rewards from
offering faster mobile-phone subscriptions.  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , which has agreed to fully take over its
wireless venture with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , last week reported
quarterly profit that beat analysts’ estimates after customers
paid more for mobile-phone subscriptions.  European carriers’ valuation gap with U.S. peers has
narrowed in recent months, helped by mergers and acquisitions
and interest from international investors such as  Carlos Slim ,
the world’s second-richest man who owns stakes in  Royal KPN NV (KPN) 
and Telekom Austria AG.  KPN, the largest Dutch carrier, yesterday reported an
increase in revenue from its consumer residential unit that
offers broadband Internet and television packages.  Dominican Sale  Orange confirmed it will pay a dividend of at least 80
cents a share for this year. Faced with pressure from rating
companies, the company in the past year has hoarded cash and
emphasized efforts to reduce debt, including selling assets and
focusing acquisition prospects on fewer geographies.  The carrier has received multiple indicative offers for its
phone unit in the  Dominican Republic  and expects to reach a firm
accord with a buyer by year-end, Pellissier said. Digicel Group
Ltd. is among the bidders, people with knowledge of the matter
said last month.  The French company is continuing to weigh options for EE,
its U.K. joint venture with Deutsche Telekom AG, with an initial
public offering of a minority share of the unit in the first
half of next year still the main scenario being studied.  “It’s the ambition of both shareholders,” Pellissier said
today. “The IPO is still the scenario we’re studying. We think
if there is consolidation in Europe, backing the U.K.’s biggest
operator makes sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  