-- Housing Bubbles Upend Central Bankers’ Rate Plans: Nordic Credit
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-10-23T12:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/housing-bubbles-upend-central-bankers-rate-plans-nordic-credit.html
Central bankers in Sweden and  Norway 
are finding their efforts to steer inflation are being disrupted
by a persistent threat of housing bubbles.  While policy makers in both countries will keep interest
rates unchanged tomorrow, according to  economists  surveyed by
Bloomberg, distortions in the two nations’ property markets are
adding a layer of uncertainty to outlooks.  In Sweden, the largest  Nordic economy , a brief lull in the
housing market after a series of measures to curb demand has
been replaced by accelerating prices. Apartment prices rose 14
percent in the 12 months through August after more than doubling
since 2000. That’s prompted Swedes to take on bigger mortgages
to help finance their homes, driving debt relative to disposable
incomes to a record high. Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves has
repeatedly sounded the alarm and says the central bank needs to
use  rates  to help  Sweden  avert a property bubble.  Things have “developed relatively strongly in Sweden,”
said Henrik Erikson, chief economist in Stockholm at Nykredit
Markets, a unit of Europe’s biggest issuer of mortgage-backed
covered bonds. He says that the Riksbank may raise rates as
early as April, compared with the bank’s official target of late
next year.  Turbulence Abroad  Forward rates indicate traders see only a small chance of
tightening earlier than the Riksbank is signaling. The June 2014
three-month forward rate agreement, which settles to the
Stockholm interbank offered rate, traded as high as 1.335
percent yesterday. Three-month Stibor was fixed at 1.212 percent
yesterday.  The Riksbank, which is due to announce its rate decision
tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. in  Stockholm , is unlikely to be swayed by
economic weakness outside Sweden, Erikson said. All 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the Riksbank to keep its
main repo rate at 1 percent tomorrow. The bank also will publish
its rate path, showing future assumptions on borrowing costs.  “There’s been quite a lot of turbulence abroad but that’s
not something that I think the Riksbank will make too big of a
deal out of,” Erikson said.  The Riksbank is signaling it will raise rates even as
 inflation  remains well below its 2 percent target. Consumer
prices rose 0.1 percent in September from a year earlier, having
stalled at the pace since July. In the three months through
June, Sweden suffered a bout of deflation.  Opposite Direction  In neighboring Norway, things are moving in the opposite
direction and the housing market is already showing signs of
deflating. And with household debt at an all-time high of 200
percent of disposable incomes, the central bank may need to
rethink its plan to start raising rates next year.  “The housing market is clearly in a weaker state, so I
don’t see any need for a rate hike next year,” said  Erik Bruce ,
a senior economist in Oslo at Nordea Bank AB, Scandinavia’s
biggest lender. Nordea says Norway’s central bank won’t be able
to raise rates until the second half of 2015, compared with the
bank’s forecast for the summer. “We see a slowdown in the
economy.”  Norway’s September 2014 three-month forward rate agreement
eased to 1.875 percent yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The June contract fell to 1.795 percent from as high
as 1.995 percent last month.  Credit Demand  Of the 17  economists surveyed  by Bloomberg, all but one
expect Norway’s central bank to keep its main  deposit rate  at
1.5 percent tomorrow. The bank announces its decision at 10 a.m.
in Oslo. One economist predicts a cut to 1.25 percent.  House price growth in Norway slowed to 2.6 percent in
September, the smallest increase since June 2009. A central bank
survey released last week showed lenders saw less credit demand
from households in the third quarter with demand seen dropping
this quarter.  Norges Bank last month kept rates unchanged for a ninth
meeting as policy makers calibrate decisions to address an
overheated property market without fueling krone appreciation.  Meanwhile inflation has exceeded the central bank’s 2.5
percent target since July. Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in
September from a year earlier, the statistics office said on
Oct. 10.  Erica Blomgren, chief strategist in Oslo at SEB AB, says
regulatory efforts to cool the housing markets of Sweden and
Norway will give both central banks more leeway to refocus
policy.  “From an economic point of view, the Riksbank should have
room to support the economy further as unemployment is high,
inflationary pressure subdued and growth is well below trend --
only uncomfortably high credit growth is arguing against lower
rates,” she said. “Norway, on the other hand, is running a
very stimulative monetary policy relative to the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net 
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  