-- Oxford Nanopore to Let Customers Test Handheld Sequencer
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-10-23T11:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/oxford-nanopore-to-let-customers-test-handheld-sequencer.html
Oxford Nanopore Technologies Ltd. ,
the U.K. company developing portable gene sequencers, will begin
providing its MinION handheld device to some customers to test,
a sign it’s taking steps toward selling the instrument.  Scientists will be able to request the gene sequencer
starting in late November in exchange for assessing the device
and giving feedback on quality and performance, the Oxford,
England-based company said today in a statement on its website.
The users will pay a $1,000 deposit, to be refunded after the
equipment is returned, and shipping costs.  “This is a substantial but initially controlled program
designed to give life-science researchers access to nanopore
sequencing technology at no risk and minimal cost,” the company
said. The devices are used to study the order of building blocks
in an organism’s DNA, which provides information about genetic
makeup that is useful in establishing identity, understanding
disease processes and finding treatments.  Oxford Nanopore will show the MinION to potential customers
at the  American Society of Human Genetics  meeting in  Boston  this
week. The company had planned to begin selling the device by the
end of 2012 and was delayed by difficulties with the sensor.
The sensor chip has been redesigned and the device’s case
reduced to about half the size of a smartphone, Chief Executive
Officer Gordon Sanghera said.  The closely held company is developing handheld and desktop
devices that use a novel technique known as strand sequencing,
in which an entire string of DNA is guided by an enzyme and
passes intact through a hole in a cell membrane one-billionth of
a meter wide.  Desktop Priority  Oxford Nanopore didn’t say when it would begin selling the
MinION. It will give scientists who participate in the testing
program priority to participate in eventual testing of its
GridION desktop gene sequencer. The price of the MinION will
probably be about $1,000, Charles Weston, an analyst at Numis
Securities, said in an Oct. 9 note to clients.  The company raised 40 million pounds ($65 million) this
month from new and existing shareholders, bringing the total
invested to 145 million pounds. Investors include  IP Group Plc (IPO) ,
 Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , Invesco Perpetual, Lansdowne Partners and Odey
Asset Management. Illumina and  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , both
based in  California , are among companies developing gene
sequencers.  The company was spun out of  Oxford University  in 2005 with
technology initially based on research by Hagan Bayley, a
professor of chemical biology. Weston estimated the company’s
value at $1.5 billion in a Feb. 20 note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  