-- Mozambique Violence Signals Short-Term Threat to Energy Boom
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-10-24T15:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/mozambique-violence-signals-short-term-threat-to-energy-boom.html
Mozambican army clashes with former
rebels may disrupt coal shipments and public transportation
without heralding a return to civil war, said analysts such as
Alex Vine, head of the African program at Chatham House.  The  Mozambique  National Resistance, known as Renamo, said
it was ending the 21-year-old peace agreement with the southern
African nation’s ruling party after army troops captured its
headquarters in the Gorongosa mountains on Oct. 21. The action
followed Renamo attacks on arms depots and buses this year that
killed several people and forced the closing of rail lines used
by coal mines owned by  Rio Tinto Plc. (RIO)   “The markets are concerned -- adds additional risk for
lenders and could make it more difficult for Mozambique to raise
funds for infrastructure if this drags on,” London-based Vines
said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions. “The coal
mining companies have also seen their costs rise.”  Renamo fought a 17-year civil war against the ruling Front
for the Liberation of Mozambique, or Frelimo, until signing a
peace agreement in  Rome  in 1992. It has served as the main
opposition party for two decades without threatening Frelimo’s
hold on the presidency and parliament. Renamo leader Afonso Dhlakama’s electoral support dropped to 16.4 percent in 2009
from 47.7 percent a decade before.  “The leadership of Renamo is making a last-minute
desperate attempt to get concessions from the Frelimo
government,” Robert Besseling, senior Africa Analyst at IHS
Country Risk, said in phone interview from Johannesburg. “They
know that this is the end for them.”  Economic Growth  Fueled by transportation, communications, the world’s
largest discovery of natural gas in the past decade and coal
mining operations run by Rio Tinto and  Vale SA (VALE5) , Mozambique’s $15
billion economy is expected to expand 7.4 percent this year,
according to government forecasts.  The former Portuguese colony plans to open a liquefied
natural gas terminal in 2018 that will be the second-largest
export site in the world after Ras Laffan in Qatar.  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  are among companies investing in gas
production in the country.  “The primary risk to gas development will be elevated risk
perceptions,” Mark Rosenberg, an Africa analyst for New York-based Eurasia Group, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Given the geography of the nascent gas infrastructure and that
Renamo cannot sustain a wide-ranging or prolonged insurgency,
physical risks from recent events are quite low.”  Renamo Strongholds  U.S. State Department deputy spokeswoman Marie Harf
yesterday called on both sides to “take steps to move back from
the brink.” United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged
Renamo and Frelimo “to fully engage in an inclusive dialogue”
to ensure “the country continues to achieve social inclusion
and sustainable development for all,” according to a statement
issued by his office.  Pursued by the army, Dhlakama is now holed up in the
central province of Sofala, close to his bush strongholds during
the civil war. Support from the former white-minority
governments in Rhodesia, now  Zimbabwe , and South Africa that
backed Renamo during the conflict has ended.  “It’s only in a very small area of Mozambique where Renamo
still has a presence and a fighting capability,” Besseling
said. “It does not have the capability to stage large-scale
attacks on the military.”  Government Dialogue  Dhlakama is ready for talks with Frelimo and believes the
government must “show signs of detente” so that he can appear
in public, Lourenco do Rosario, rector of the Politechnic
University of Mozambique, said yesterday in an interview after
meeting with a Renamo delegation in the capital, Maputo.  He’s criticized President Armando Guebuza’s government for
allegedly politicizing state offices and for setting up an
electoral system that favors Frelimo.  With general elections set for October next year, there’s
no indication that Frelimo is prepared to make concessions.  “Serious gas players will expect a certain amount of
political jockeying around resources in the run-up to local and
then national elections,” John Smelcer, director of Africa
Mining & Energy Projects at the Johannesburg-based law firm,
Webber Wentzel, said yesterday in an e-mailed response to
questions from Maputo. “They also likely understand that Renamo
is no longer capable of projecting a serious threat across the
country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  