-- P&G Seen Enticing Del Monte Foods to Iams Deal: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-10-23T20:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/p-g-seen-enticing-del-monte-foods-to-iams-deal-real-m-a.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  Chief Executive
Officer A.G. Lafley, under pressure to revive the consumer-products giant, may have a willing buyer for its Iams pet-food
unit in Meow Mix maker Del Monte Foods Co.  P&G, which brought back Lafley as CEO in May amid calls
from  investors  to improve sales, could boost its share price by
selling assets including the Iams division, said shareholder
HighMark Capital Management Inc. Del Monte Foods is now a
logical buyer of Iams, said Exane BNP Paribas, because the
private-equity owned-company is seeking to expand its pet
products business after agreeing this month to sell its canned
peaches and corn division for $1.68 billion.  P&G, the largest maker of consumer products, is languishing
at a cheaper profit multiple than 86 percent of peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Selling Iams could fetch P&G
about $2.5 billion, said Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. For Del
Monte Foods, buying the unit would bolster its position in the
$20 billion U.S. pet-food and treats industry, pushing it past
Mars Inc. for the second-biggest market share in North America.  P&G “needs to be a more focused enterprise and probably at
this juncture, that means a smaller enterprise,”  Peter Sorrentino , a Cincinnati-based money manager at Huntington Asset
Advisors, which oversees about $14.7 billion including P&G
shares, said in a phone interview. Iams is “a premium product
and that’s the kind of thing that would look good. That would
make a smart addition” for Del Monte Foods.  Allocating Resources  Paul Fox, a spokesman for Cincinnati-based P&G, said in an
e-mail that the $220 billion company “will continue to focus
our portfolio, allocating resources to businesses where we can
create value and continuing to exit those where we cannot.” He
said the company doesn’t comment on speculation when asked
whether it would be open to selling the pet-care unit.  Chrissy Trampedach, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Del Monte Foods, said the company doesn’t comment on specific
merger and acquisition plans.  Buyout firm KKR & Co. acquired Del Monte Foods with
 Centerview Partners  and Vestar Capital Partners in 2011 with the
intention of selling the consumer-products unit to focus on the
pet-food division, said a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because the process is private. The
company announced this month that it’s selling the canned fruit
and vegetable business to  Del Monte Pacific Ltd. (DMPL) , an
unaffiliated Philippines-based foodmaker.  A representative for New York-based KKR didn’t immediately
have a comment.  Pet Opportunities  The remaining pet food business will generate decent free
cash flow and Del Monte Foods’ private-equity owners will
“likely continue to try to grow that business,” Bea Chiem, a
San Francisco-based credit analyst at Standard & Poor’s, said in
a phone interview. The sponsors will “want to exit at some
point down the road through either an IPO or selling the
business or taking dividends over time. There’s definitely
opportunities in pet.”  Zoetis Inc., (ZTS)  the animal-health company that was spun off
from Pfizer Inc. earlier this year, surged 19 percent in its
trading debut and has climbed another 4.8 percent since.
Expenditures on pets in the U.S. will rise to a record $55.5
billion this year,  according  to American Pet Products
Association Inc., with food making up the largest portion of
sales at about 38 percent.  To grow quickly in that market, Del Monte Foods would need
to make acquisitions, according to Brian Weddington, a New York-based senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service. The
company’s most recent annual sales from pet products totaled
about $2 billion, according to a filing.  Motivated Buyer  If the company bought P&G’s Iams unit, “they would
immediately have scale, they would have top brands,” Weddington
said in a phone interview. “If an opportunity like that came to
them at an attractive  price , I think they would be motivated to
get it done.”  Del Monte Foods’ share of the North American pet-care
market would jump to almost 20 percent if it acquired Iams,
second only to Purina-maker  Nestle SA (NESN) , which controls about 35
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “You would be merging a weakish No. 3 and No. 4 to become
quite a stronger No. 2 player,” Eamonn Ferry, a London-based
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said in a phone interview.  P&G Reward  P&G  shares  are being discounted because the company is too
diversified and too large, and selling assets like the pet-care
business could be a “prudent move,”  Todd Lowenstein , a Los
Angeles-based fund manager at HighMark Capital, said in a phone
interview.  The company traded yesterday at 19.9 times its  profit  in
the last 12 months, a cheaper price-to-earnings ratio than all
but two household products manufacturers valued at more than $10
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  If P&G sold Iams, “the market would reward management with
a higher multiple, a higher valuation because they are getting
focused,” Lowenstein, whose firm oversees about $19 billion
including P&G shares, said in a phone interview. Iams is “non-core to their future strategic initiatives. They could probably
exact a pretty decent price from someone who has a lot of
synergy value in combining those businesses.”  Today, P&G shares rose 0.7 percent to $80.91.  Ali Dibadj , a New York-based analyst at Bernstein, said the
Iams division could fetch about $2.5 billion in a sale, while
Ferry of Exane BNP Paribas estimated the unit could be valued at
as much as $3 billion. That would be the largest pet food or
supplies deal on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Debt Load  An acquisition that large may require Del Monte Foods’
private-equity owners to contribute or raise more equity, said
Weddington of Moody’s.  With equity financing from its private-equity owners and
cost cutting and other financial benefits from a merger, Del
Monte Foods could do a $2.5 billion deal without materially
increasing its debt burden, Thomas Ferguson, an analyst at bond
researcher KDP Investment Advisors Inc., said in a phone
interview.  The company had about $3.9 billion in debt prior to the
sale of the consumer-products unit. It will likely use at least
some of proceeds from the canned fruit and vegetable deal to pay
down borrowings, Ferguson said from Montpelier,  Vermont .  A deal for Iams would be a very large transaction for Del
Monte Foods and may not be cheered by bondholders, Ferguson
said.  Even so, Del Monte Foods’ focus on pet care just as P&G’s
Lafley is seeking ways to boost the company’s share price could
make it a match for Iams, according to Matt McCormick, a fund
manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc.  “There’s particular pressure on A.G. Lafley to do
something,” McCormick, whose firm oversees about $10 billion,
including P&G shares, said in a phone interview. “I would not
be surprised to see Iams spun out in some way shape or form.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  