-- Pakistan Plans First Dollar Bond Since 2007 as Offers Jump
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-10-23T20:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/pakistan-plans-first-dollar-bond-since-2007-as-offers-jump-1-.html
Pakistan  plans to raise as much as
$1 billion in its first bond issue abroad since 2007, adding to
a surge in emerging-market offerings as borrowing costs fall.  The government is looking to carry out the transaction by
the end of the fiscal year in June, according to a Finance
Ministry official who asked not to be identified because he
isn’t authorized to speak publicly. Yields on the country’s 2017
bonds fell to a six-year low of 7.56 percent today.  The offering would help shore up foreign reserves as Prime
Minister Nawaz Sharif’s four-month-old government tackles
chronic power blackouts and seeks peace with Taliban insurgents
to restore investor confidence and revive the economy. Sharif
met last night with U.S. officials including Treasury Secretary
Jacob J. Lew and Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker to discuss
Pakistan’s energy sector and opportunities for trade and
investment, according to a Treasury Department statement.  Pakistan joins issuers from  Honduras  to  Kenya  planning debt
sales as benchmark 10-year U.S. bond yields fall to a three-month low amid speculation the Federal Reserve will delay its
plans to scale back monetary stimulus. The Dominican Republic
and  Romania  sold notes earlier this week while  Brazil  plans to
sell dollar bonds due 2025 as soon as today. Emerging-market
sovereign borrowing costs  have tumbled  17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, in the past week to 5.53 percent.  “There will be investor appetite for a modest-sized
issue” from Pakistan, said  Edwin Gutierrez , a London-based fund
manager who helps oversee $10 billion of emerging-market debt at
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, said in an e-mail. “In this
market, they can get it done.”  IMF Support  The yield premium investors demand to own Pakistan’s dollar
notes over U.S. Treasuries narrowed 163 basis points this year
to 635 basis points, compared with the weighted average of 315
basis points for developing nations, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s indexes.  While Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s
assign junk status to Pakistan’s debt, Sharif can count on
support from the International Monetary Fund and Saudi Arabia to
avoid a default, Gutierrez said. The IMF agreed last month to
lend Pakistan $6.6 billion to help it avoid defaulting on
foreign loans.  The Finance Ministry official said Sharif’s economic
overhaul as well as increased capital inflows from international
lenders after the IMF loan will help make the bonds attractive
to global investors.  Pakistan Reserves  Pakistan asked banks to submit proposals by Nov. 22 for the
sale of the bonds, according to a  notice  on the Finance
Ministry’s website.  The country’s foreign-exchange reserves fell to $5.2
billion in August, the lowest since October 2008, according to
IMF  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Currency reserves held by the
State Bank of Pakistan fell to $4.1 billion on Oct. 11 from a
year earlier, enough to cover only 1.5 months of imports, the
bank’s data show.  Honduras plans to sell $250 million of bonds in December, a
Finance Ministry official, who asked not to be identified, said
yesterday. Kenya, East Africa’s largest economy, invited
JPMorgan to arrange the sale of a debut Eurobond that it plans
to issue by January, Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich said today.  Brazil is seeking to sell $1.5 billion of notes due in 2025
as soon as today. Proceeds will be used to buy back existing
notes maturing from 2017 to 2030, according to an e-mailed
statement from the Treasury.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  