-- Wall Street Is No Enemy of Public Pensions
-- B y   D a v i d   C r a n e
-- 2013-10-23T20:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/pension-funds-love-wall-street.html
Public pension funds have been
moving huge amounts of money into alternative investments
managed by  Wall Street .  According to a recent report by Cliffwater LLC, an adviser
to institutional investors, from 2006 to 2012 state pension
funds more than doubled their allocations to alternative
investments, which include private equity, real estate, hedge
funds and commodities. Totaling almost $600 billion, these
nontraditional investments now constitute 24 percent of public
pension fund assets. In contrast, the funds dropped their
investments in stocks to 49 percent from 61 percent over the
six-year period.  There’s a reason for that big move, as explained in a
recent  International Monetary Fund  report. Over the last 10
years, the average U.S. public pension fund earned a return of
6.4 percent a year, very healthy but not enough to meet the 8
percent return guaranteed to government employees. In an effort
to take pressure off the state budgets that must cover those
deficiencies, the IMF reports that state pension funds have been
shifting billions to alternative investments promising higher
yields.  To the casual observer, public pensions and  hedge funds 
might seem like strange bedfellows. Public pension funds like to
portray themselves as battlers for the little guy; hedge funds
levy sizable fees that often go into the pockets of rich people.  Cynical Ploy  Some commentators even depict pension fund participation in
alternative funds as a cynical ploy by pension reformers to
transfer wealth from retirees to billionaire fund managers. That
was the myth promoted in an Oct. 12  op-ed  article in the  San
Francisco  Chronicle by self-proclaimed progressive writers Matt Taibbi of Rolling Stone and David Sirota. But pension funds
started shoveling money into alternative investment programs
well before pension reform was even in the news. As one example,
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the largest
U.S. public pension fund and a vigorous opponent of pension
reform, has more than doubled its targeted  investment  in private
equity over the past 10 years. Its 2012 report lists almost $20
billion of investments in funds managed by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ,  KKR & Co. (KKR) 
and other well-known private equity companies. Calpers and other
public-pension funds moved into alternatives for one reason:
They are desperate to achieve higher yields to help close
pension deficiencies. If they are successful, there will be
greater security for retirees and less pressure to cut public
services or to raise taxes.  Of course, the foray by Calpers into alternatives isn’t a
panacea. Pension costs continue to rise in California. Calpers
has announced an additional 50 percent increase in costs
commencing in 2015, and the most  recent  performance of its
alternatives has lagged that of its conventional assets. But the
trajectory of  California ’s rising pension costs would have been
even steeper had Calpers not increased its allocation to
alternatives.  Sirota and  Taibbi  are right that the fees paid for
alternative  investment management  are higher than those charged
for managing conventional assets. But state pension funds are
still welcoming alternative-fund managers with open arms because
ultimately what counts most to them and their members are higher
net yields after -- and regardless of -- fees. Would you prefer
to earn (say) 10 percent after a 2 percent fee or (say) 7
percent after a 1 percent fee? In and of itself, fee size
shouldn’t drive investment selection.  Higher Returns  Fortunately for those funds, the higher fees have paid off.
According to Cliffwater,  alternative investments  played a role
in the above-average performance of 19 of the 20 top-performing
state pension funds over the last 10 years. Pension funds that
allocated less to alternatives did worse.  Absurdly, Sirota and Taibbi also accuse alternative
investment managers of favoring an end to defined-benefit
pensions. The reality is exactly the opposite. Defined-benefit
plans are a gravy train for private equity and hedge fund
managers; 401(k) plans deploy much less capital into such
nonconventional investments. Alternative investment managers
would lose a fortune if pension money were shifted to 401(k)
plans.  There’s no guarantee unconventional assets will outperform
conventional assets, but for now state pension funds and
defined-benefit pension defenders have good reason for their
aggressive support of alternative investments. So-called
progressives who prefer to portray Wall Street as sucking blood
from working people and conspiring to end their pensions should
acknowledge that truth.  ( David Crane , a former financial-services executive, is a
lecturer at  Stanford University  and president of Govern for
California, a nonpartisan government-reform group. He was an
economic adviser to California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger 
from 2004 to 2011.)  To contact the writer of this article:
David Crane in San Francisco at  davidgcrane@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  