-- Pimco Avoids Puerto Rico in Tax-Free Funds Amid Island Woes
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-10-23T20:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/pimco-avoids-puerto-rico-in-tax-exempt-funds-amid-island-s-woes.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
doesn’t hold  Puerto Rico  debt in its tax-free funds, and the
company predicts that a lack of improvement in the island’s
finances may increase volatility in other municipal securities.  Puerto Rico’s economy is shrinking and the commonwealth has
relied on deficit financing to balance recurring budget gaps.
Its general obligations, whose yields rose to record highs last
month, are rated one step above junk. The island’s debt lost
value the past four months, the longest slide since 2011,
 Standard & Poor’s   data  show.  “We’re not here to beat up on Puerto Rico,”  Joe Deane ,
head of munis for Pimco in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “But it’s important for people to understand out
there that as a municipal group our exposure to the island is
zero, and we intend to stay there for the foreseeable future.”  The  Newport Beach , California-based company, which managed
$1.97 trillion as of June 30, holds about $60 billion of munis
across its funds. Pimco has had no allocation to Puerto Rico in
its tax-exempt funds for six months, Deane said.  Should Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, who took
office in January, be unable to turn around the island’s economy
and end budget gaps, yields on Puerto Rico debt would jump
further, Deane said.  Struggle Scenario  “If Puerto Rico were to continue to struggle in here, you
probably won’t see a tremendous amount of selling in Puerto
Rico,” Deane said. Investors will instead turn to selling
“more liquid, easy-to-trade stuff,” he said. “And that might
be an opportunity to pick up some really cheap paper.”  The $553 million  Pimco Municipal Bond Fund (PMLCX) , which Deane
manages, has earned about 0.8 percent in the past three months,
beating 73 percent of its peers, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “What they say is their decision, their call,” David Chafey, chairman of the island’s Government Development Bank,
said today when asked about Pimco’s strategy in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “We are clearly delivering
on all the things that are expected of us in terms of being very
fiscally responsible.”  Pimco’s  $250 billion  Total Return Fund, managed by  Bill Gross , is the world’s largest bond fund. The asset manager is
owned by Munich-based insurer  Allianz (ALV)  SE.  The outlook for Puerto Rico’s finances and its debt has
significance beyond the shores of the Caribbean island. About 77
percent of U.S. muni mutual funds hold its securities, which are
tax-exempt in all states, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Investors should buy munis that will be easier to sell to
achieve earnings, Deane said in a report released today.  A key to choosing munis is the extent of a state’s or
locality’s unfunded pension and health-care liabilities, Deane
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  