-- Poloz Seen Keeping 1% Canada Policy Interest Rate
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-10-23T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/poloz-seen-keeping-1-canada-policy-interest-rate.html
The Bank of Canada will probably
keep its bias to tighten interest rates in the future, even with
its growth forecast declining and exports remaining lower than
before the recession, as it holds its key policy rate steady.  The  benchmark rate  will remain at 1 percent, where it’s
been for more than three years, in a decision at 10 a.m. in
Ottawa, according to all 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  Removing language about raising interest rates “would be a
far more dovish statement then they are probably wanting to make
at the moment,” said Nathan Janzen, an economist at Royal Bank
of Canada in Toronto. “The risk from the Bank’s side is that
markets interpret the removal of a ‘tightening bias’ as a shift
to an easing bias, even if that does not really represent the
Bank’s thinking.”  Governor Stephen Poloz said earlier this month that output
has fallen short of the bank’s expectation, while Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem said that second-half growth will be below
its earlier forecast, citing an “elusive” rotation to exports
and investment from indebted consumers.  “We will be watching to see how they describe the external
backdrop -- whether they are becoming more or less confident in
that long-awaited recovery in external demand,” Janzen said.  Canada’s  trade deficit  unexpectedly widened for a second
month to C$1.31 billion in August, marking the 20th straight
monthly shortfall. The country’s  inflation  rate of 1.1 percent
is close to the bottom of the central bank’s target band and
employment growth has slowed this year.  Softer Growth  “They are going to acknowledge growth has been softer but
stick to their messages that growth is going to bounce back,”
said  Krishen Rangasamy , senior economist at National Bank
Financial in  Montreal .  The central bank may move back its projection of when the
economy will reach full output from its July estimate of
mid-2015, said Rangasamy, who predicts growth next year of 2.2
percent, below the bank’s 2.7 percent prediction in July.  Macklem said in an Oct. 1  speech  that the economy will have
to grow at an annual rate of “at least 2.5 percent” to absorb
the “material degree of slack in the economy.” He also said
growth in the second half of this year would be “in the 2 to
2.5 percent range,” compared with the bank’s July prediction
for quarterly gains of 3.8 percent and 2.5 percent.  Falling Optimism  Business optimism over new investments fell to a four-year
low in the central bank’s survey published earlier this month.
The balance of opinion for investment intentions declined to 7
percentage points from 9 points in the third-quarter survey,
extending a slide from a peak of 36 points three years ago.  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  of Waterloo, Ontario, the country’s biggest
spender on research and development, has announced plans to fire
4,500 workers and is seeking a buyer for the company after sales
of its signature smartphones collapsed.  Poloz himself has said the economy’s rotation to growth led
by business investment and exports is taking longer than
anticipated.  “It’s fair to say that growth has disappointed us to this
stage,” Poloz told reporters Oct. 11 in  Washington  during
meetings of Group of 20 officials. “We are behind where we
thought we would be let’s say a year ago, or even for that
matter six months ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  