-- Pope Francis Faults Italy Justice Amid Berlusconi Amnesty Debate
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-23T16:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/pope-francis-faults-italy-justice-amid-berlusconi-amnesty-debate.html
Pope Francis said  Italy ’s justice
system has failed its prisoners by turning a blind eye to the
most powerful criminals, a message delivered as lawmakers debate
measures that may protect former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi from punishment.  “It is easier to punish the small fry, but let the big
fish swim free in the water,” Francis said in a meeting with
200 prison chaplains at the Vatican today, according to a
statement posted on Vatican Radio’s website. The pontiff
instructed the chaplains to tell prisoners that he is praying
for them.  The plight of Italy’s almost 65,000 prisoners has become an
urgent issue in parliament since Berlusconi, a billionaire who
served three terms as premier, lost his final appeal of a tax-fraud conviction in August. President Giorgio Napolitano, citing
prison overcrowding, called on lawmakers in September to pass
mass pardons or amnesties, while sidestepping mention of how any
measures could affect 77-year-old Berlusconi.  Italy’s prisons are filled at 136 percent of official
capacity, higher than the 117 percent in  France  and 99 percent
in the U.S., according to the  International Centre for Prison
Studies . Italy’s 106 prisoners per 100,000 inhabitants are more
than the 101 in France and less than the 716 in the U.S. Of the
64,758 inmates in Italian prisons, 22,770 are foreigners, or
about 35 percent, according to the Ministry of Justice.  Berlusconi, who was given a four-year prison sentence, is
unlikely to spend a day in jail on the tax-fraud conviction, due
to leniency guidelines and a mass pardon that he and former
Prime Minister Romano Prodi passed in 2005 and 2006,
respectively. He remains free while courts decide whether to
place him under house arrest or in a supervised community-service program and denies all wrongdoing.  Separate Convictions  Berlusconi is also appealing separate convictions for
illegal use of wiretaps, abuse of power and engaging a minor in
prostitution.  The amnesty debate has divided parliament and split Prime
Minister Enrico Letta’s coalition as lawmakers line up according
to their affiliation with Berlusconi. Traditional adversaries
like Davide Zoggia, a politician from Letta’s Democratic Party,
have said measures to reduce the prison population must avoid
any effect on Berlusconi’s trials. Members of Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty party, including Minister for Constitutional
Reforms Gaetano Quagliariello, have said the three-time premier
shouldn’t be excluded.  In 2005, Berlusconi’s government approved a law giving some
convicts over the age of 70 the option of serving sentences at
home. Prodi, a long-time political adversary, passed a mass
clemency that knocks three years off crimes committed before May
3, 2006. That measure was dedicated to now-deceased Pope John Paul II, who had requested a clemency provision in a 2002
address to parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  