-- Pope Puts Bishop on Leave Over $43 Million Residence
-- B y   T o m   L a v e l l
-- 2013-10-23T13:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/pope-puts-german-bishop-on-leave-pending-audit-on-cost-overruns.html
Pope Francis put German Bishop
Franz-Peter Tebartz-van Elst on leave pending an audit of a 31
million-euro ($43 million) project for a new residence in the
 diocese  of Limburg that prompted outrage among parishioners.  The pontiff advised Tebartz-van Elst, whose Roman Catholic
diocese includes the German financial capital of Frankfurt, to
take a leave of absence until the audit has been completed, the
Vatican said in a  statement  today. The Reverend Wolfgang Roesch,
who had been scheduled to become general vicar of the diocese in
January, takes that post immediately and will assume the
bishop’s responsibilities, it said.  The situation in Limburg “is such that Bishop Franz-Peter
Tebartz-van Elst can’t execute his duties at the present time,”
the Vatican said. Pending the audit, “the  Holy See  deems it
appropriate to allow the bishop time away from the diocese.”  Churchgoers demonstrated publicly this month to protest the
expenditure, which contrasts with the frugal lifestyle espoused
by the spiritual leader of the world’s 1.2 billion Roman
Catholics since his election in March. The controversy throws a
spotlight on the finances of the church in  Germany , which is
regarded as the richest in the world.  Under an arrangement that became nationwide in the  Weimar
Republic  in 1919, Germany’s Roman Catholic and Lutheran
churches, Jewish congregations and some other religious groups
receive  financing  through taxes on members assessed through
their local municipalities. The Catholic church’s income from
the tax totals about  5 billion euros  a year.  Papal Meeting  Tebartz-van Elst, 53, met Pope Francis on Oct. 21 at the
Vatican following a briefing of the pontiff by Bishop Robert
Zollitsch, head of the German Bishops’ Conference. A diocesan
spokesman declined to comment on the Vatican’s ruling prior to a
press conference in Limburg later today.  The cost of new construction and renovation of the building
complex in Limburg that includes Tebartz-van Elst’s residence
ballooned to 31 million euros, according to a diocese auditing
committee’s  statement  on Oct. 7, compared with initial estimates
of about 5.5 million euros. The diocese of Limburg’s  total
income  for 2012 was 200 million euros, according to an Aug. 31
statement on its website.  ‘Pomp Bishop’  The construction project prompted  Bild Zeitung , Germany’s
most-read newspaper, to label the cleric “the pomp bishop.”
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , in comments relayed by her spokesman
Steffen Seibert on Oct. 14, said the situation has become “an
enormous burden” for the church.  “They’re obviously seeking a solution in the Vatican,”
she said. “I can express the hope that it will be a solution
for the faithful, for people’s trust in the church.”  Pope Francis, 76, the first non-European pope in more than
1,200 years, has spoken out in favor of the world’s poor,
choosing the name of a 13th-century Italian saint from Assisi
famous for his pledge of poverty and humility.  He has also called on members of the Catholic clergy to
avoid ostentatiousness and shun modern trappings, saying “it
hurts me to see a priest or a nun in the newest car models; even
if you like it, think of all the children who are dying of
hunger.”  Tebartz-van Elst was inaugurated bishop of Limburg in
January 2008. He was ordained in the northern German town of
Muenster in 1985.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Lavell in  Frankfurt  at 
 tlavell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  