-- Popular Seeks to Repay Bailout as Asset Sale Helps Profit
-- B y   F a n n i   K o s z e g
-- 2013-10-23T21:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/popular-seeks-to-repay-bailout-as-asset-sale-helps-profit.html
Popular Inc. (BPOP) ,  Puerto Rico ’s biggest
bank, has asked the Federal Reserve for permission to repay a
$935 million taxpayer bailout it took during the financial
crisis.  The lender’s request to exit the Troubled Asset Relief
Program was disclosed today as part of the San Juan-based
company’s statement announcing third-quarter results. Chief
Executive Officer Richard Carrion said he couldn’t speculate
about if or when approval would be granted.  “Robust levels of excess capital, continued credit quality
improvements and improved financial performance have paved the
way toward our objective of the most shareholder-friendly exit
from TARP,” Carrion said in a conference call with analysts.  Carrion, 60, has sought to rid Popular of bad loans after
the 2008 bailout, the largest still outstanding under TARP’s
bank-rescue program, according to a Sept. 10 Treasury  report .
Those efforts have been hurt as Puerto Rico’s economy contracted
5 percent this year through July, the most since February 2010,
government data show.  Puerto Rico’s  bonds  are rated one step above junk by the
three major ratings firms, and yields have soared amid questions
about whether the government can carry more debt.  Fed Approval  Popular’s TARP obligation dwarfs the $254.3 million owed by
San Juan-based First BanCorp, which has the second-biggest
outstanding debt under the program, the report shows.  “While Treasury is an investor in Popular, whether the
company can repay their TARP funds is subject to approval from
their regulator, the  Federal Reserve ,” the Treasury Department
said in an e-mailed statement.  The bank today reported  net income  of $229.1 million, or
$2.22 a share, compared with $47.2 million, or 45 cents, a year
earlier. The results were helped by a $167.8 million gain from
the sale of part of its stake in payment-processor  Evertec Inc. (EVTC) ,
according to the statement. Adjusted net income was $61.3
million, trailing the $78.7 million estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Popular fell 0.9 percent to $26.05 in  New York . The shares
gained 25 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fanni Koszeg in New York at 
 fkoszeg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  