-- Traders Boost U.S. Gulf Heating Oil to Europe on Winter Demand
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-10-23T12:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/traders-boost-u-s-gulf-heating-oil-to-europe-on-winter-demand.html
Traders booked the most cargoes of
heating oil and diesel to Europe from the U.S. Gulf since June
to meet accelerating demand for the winter fuel.  Spot-tanker charters in the four weeks ended Oct. 20 rose
to 1.2 million metric tons of cargo, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg today from Simpson, Spence & Young Ltd., the
world’s second-largest shipbroker. The figure is 45 percent more
than the corresponding period to Oct. 13 and the most since June
9. Gulf Coast refineries typically export gasoil to Europe for
heating offices and homes, as well as diesel.  Refinery maintenance across Europe has curbed the region’s
inventories of gasoil, increasing the need to import, according
to KBC Energy Economics, a Walton-on-Thames, England-based
research company. Stockpiles in independent storage in Europe’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub dropped to 2.01
million tons at the start of the month, the lowest for the time
of year since at least 2007, according to PJK International BV,
a Netherlands-based company that tracks supplies.  “U.S. refineries have seized an opportunity to send
gasoil,” KBC analyst Ehsan Ul-Haq said by phone today.
“ Germany  is Europe’s largest consumer of  gasoil , and will be
stockpiling before winter so demand has been healthy in recent
weeks.”  Thirteen  ships  were booked or anticipated to haul cargoes
to Europe from the U.S. Gulf in the two weeks to Oct. 31,
compared with seven in the year earlier period, a Bloomberg News
survey of shipbrokers on Oct. 16 showed.  Charter costs to haul 38,000 tons of cargo from the U.S.
Gulf to Europe gained 2.1 percent to 87.86 Worldscale points
yesterday, after falling in 12 of 13 sessions to Oct. 18,
according to data from the London-based Baltic Exchange, a
publisher of prices on more than 50 maritime routes.  The data on charters don’t include cargoes transported
under longer-term freight contracts and depend on the
information that’s reported to the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  