-- Radian Group Accuses Arch Capital of Poaching Key Worker
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-23T22:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/radian-group-accuses-arch-capital-of-poaching-key-worker.html
Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  accused  Arch
Capital Group Ltd. (ACGL)  of inducing a former account manager to quit
and take confidential information with her to gain a competitive
edge when it enters the U.S. mortgage-guaranty business.  Regional account manager Rhiannon Bolen resigned from
Radian on Aug. 27 and later sent confidential data related to
two key Radian customers to her personal e-mail, according to a
complaint filed today in federal court in Philadelphia. The
customers accounted for almost $1.5 billion of the mortgage
insurer’s new business this year, Radian claimed.  “Radian’s need for effective injunctive relief is
particularly necessary in light of the job duties Bolen
performed for Radian,” the company said in the filing. “Bolen
was the primary point of contact for seventeen of Radian’s most
valued customers in the Southern Region.”  Arch Capital, a Bermuda-based insurer, announced plans in
February to enter the U.S. market for  mortgage insurance  by
adding assets from bankrupt insurer PMI Group Inc. in a $300
million deal. Bolen, who worked for Radian for about 18 months,
previously worked as an account manager with PMI.  Arch is poised to enter the U.S. marketplace next month by
offering mortgage guaranty insurance for loans originated by
 credit unions  as well as traditional lenders, Radian said in its
complaint.  Non-Compete Agreement  Radian accused Bolen, who’s also a defendant in the suit,
of violating a non-compete agreement that barred her from
working for competitors for at least a year after leaving the
company. Radian said it learned Bolen had signed on with Arch on
Sept. 25, about a month after she quit.  The agreement also barred the disclosure of  trade secrets 
and confidential information, according to the complaint.  Arch, which is actively recruiting for mortgage insurance
sales positions, “made the decision to hire Bolen with the
express intention of benefiting from her knowledge of Radian
trade secrets,” Philadelphia-based Radian said in the
complaint.  Officials at Arch didn’t immediately respond to a phone
message left after regular business hours seeking comment on the
suit. Bolen, a resident of Highland Village,  Texas , didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message.  The case is Radian Group Inc. v Rhiannon Bolen, 13-cv-06197, U.S. District Court Eastern District of  Pennsylvania 
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia at  spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  