-- Republican All About Building Roads Incurs Tea Party Ire
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-10-23T04:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/republican-all-about-building-roads-incurs-tea-party-ire.html
Representative Bill Shuster’s 2014
re-election race may become a showcase for the feud between the
business community and the small-government  Tea Party  movement.  That’s because the Republican chairman of the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee is on the verge of
passing a bill, as early as today, authorizing $8.2 billion in
federal water projects over 10 years sought by the construction
and maritime industries.  That sort of success has turned Shuster into a magnet for
campaign cash from companies and trade groups while also
attracting the wrath of some Tea Partyers and their supporters.  “I can’t see where he’s found a spending bill he doesn’t
like,” said Art Halvorson, Shuster’s chief primary opponent.  The Pennsylvania primary contest is being recast after a
rift in the  Republican Party  between industry backers and Tea
Party activists was intensified during the  budget  fight that led
to a 16-day partial government shutdown and brought the country
to the brink of a default of its $16.7 trillion  indebtedness .  After failing to use the showdown to defund Obamacare, the
Tea Party is vowing to challenge Republicans -- including
Shuster -- who supported a bipartisan deal to end the stalemate.
Business groups are also monitoring the elections, and some are
prepared to step in to protect their allies.  Shuster is “committed to business, committed to
infrastructure, wants to decrease regulation, speed up project
delivery, find opportunities for private investment and maintain
and increase public investment,” said  Bruce Josten , the top
lobbyist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. He said Halvorson is
“disingenuous” to attack a chairman for doing his job.  ‘Excellent Job’  “He’s doing an excellent job reaching across the aisle to
develop legislation, and he’s a pragmatist,” Josten said of
Shuster. “He’s the kind of member of Congress we can work with
on all sorts of issues.”  Shuster, 52, is better prepared financially than some other
House Republicans to weather the fight. The $2.03 million in
donations to his re-election committee and his Bill PAC, a
leadership political action committee, received through Sept. 30
exceeds the $1.88 million he collected in 2011 and 2012. The
campaign cash comes from the PACs of  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  United
States Steel Corp. (X) , among other companies.  Shuster’s emerging as a draw for industry donations, even
before his panel turns later this year to a measure to
reauthorize the Amtrak passenger-rail system and turns in 2014
to a multiyear highway bill.  Those Shuster has outraised include Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican who heads the tax-writing Ways and
Means Committee, and House Appropriations chairman Hal Rogers, a
Kentucky Republican.  Helping Halvorson  “Appropriations is not the best place to invest your
campaign money right now,” said Lee Drutman, a senior fellow at
the Sunlight Foundation, a nonpartisan watchdog group. “For
certain companies and interests, there’s a lot of money at stake
in transportation policy.”  Political groups supportive of Tea Party challengers are
rallying around Halvorson, a commercial real estate broker who
has loaned his campaign $100,000 so far and said in an interview
yesterday he will “spend what’s necessary” to beat Shuster.
When Halvorson, a Coast Guard veteran,  announced  his candidacy,
he criticized Shuster as “not an authentic conservative.”  Army veteran Travis Schooley, who says he is a
“constitutional conservative,” also is eying the primary race.  The Madison Project, a Washington-based fundraising network
run by former Republican Representative Jim Ryun of  Kansas , has
endorsed Halvorson and ran a radio ad for three weeks in July
accusing Shuster of driving up the nation’s debt.  ‘Big-Pork Republican’  Also considering jumping into the race is FreedomWorks, a
Washington-based group that spent $19.6 million in 2012 to help
elect Tea Party candidates, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics in  Washington .  “We’re looking closely at this race,” said Russ Walker,
FreedomWorks’ political director. “Shuster is a big-pork
Republican and his challenger is by all appearances someone we
can back.”  Shuster, who declined to be interviewed, “takes every
challenge seriously,” his campaign manager, Sean Joyce, said.
The lawmaker has voted against other spending measures, as well
as President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law and the revision of
banking regulations.  “Mr. Shuster’s record of fiscal responsibility is
unmatched, whether he’s fighting against wasteful spending like
the stimulus, or the failed Dodd-Frank bailout,” Joyce said.  Shuster’s Lead  Shuster won re-election last year with 62 percent of the
vote after facing no primary opponent. His southwest
Pennsylvania district is the state’s most Republican-leaning;
 Mitt Romney  carried it by 27 percentage points in the 2012
presidential contest.  Polls showed Shuster with a wide lead before the shutdown.
He led Halvorson, 63 percent to 11 percent, according to a poll
by Harper Polling, a Republican firm. Schooley, who failed to
get enough signatures to qualify for the ballot in 2012, got
just 5 percent. The Sept. 30-Oct. 1 poll of 555 likely
Republican primary voters had a margin of error of plus or minus
4.6 percentage points.  David Wasserman , House editor of the Washington-based Cook
Political Report that tracks congressional races, said Shuster’s
early fundraising was evidence that the chairman has been
looking over his shoulder for challengers.  “The knock on him in the district for a long time is that
he simply followed in dad’s wheeler-dealer, pork-barrel
footsteps,” he said, a reference to the congressman’s father,
former Representative Bud Shuster, who headed the transportation
panel in the 1990s. After the older Shuster resigned his office
in early 2001, his son won the special election to replace him.  ‘Real Race’  If Halvorson continues to tap his own finances, Wasserman
said, “it will be a real race, given the mood of the Republican
base across the country and their skepticism toward House
Republican leadership.”  After serving on the transportation committee for almost
dozen years, Shuster took over the chairmanship this year from
Florida Republican  John Mica .  Mica helped trigger last year’s partial shutdown of the
 Federal Aviation Administration  after leading  House Republicans 
in a fight with Senate Democrats over union organizing rules and
other issues. Mica declined to comment through a spokesman,
Brian Waldrip.  Former Representative James Oberstar, a Minnesota Democrat
who led the transportation panel from 2007 to 2011, said Shuster
offers a bipartisan, congenial style.  ‘Head Down’  “Mica had a flair for the dramatic,” Oberstar said in an
interview. “Bill Shuster is more in the mold of his father --
keep your head down, keep your eyes open and your ears receptive
and work with people on both sides of the aisle. He has a very
workmanlike approach to the responsibilities of the committee.”  Bailey Wood, a lobbyist for the National Automobile Dealers
Association, said Shuster, an auto dealer before he ran for
Congress, knows how to work a room and close a deal.  “His goal is to accomplish something,” said Wood, whose
group has donated $64,500 to Shuster during his congressional
career, according to the responsive politics center. “Shuster
applies his first-hand experience as an auto dealer: Let’s find
some common ground, where can we move forward, and go from
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  