-- Rolls-Royce Motor CEO Says Higher China Prices Due Mostly to Tax
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-23T18:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/rolls-royce-motor-ceo-says-higher-china-prices-due-mostly-to-tax.html
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd. said
greater taxes means it makes about the same profit on a car sold
in  China  as in other countries, despite the higher sticker price
in the world’s largest auto market.  A Rolls-Royce Ghost sedan is priced starting at 4.19
million  yuan  ($688,500) in China, according to autohome.com, a
vehicle-comparison website. A similar vehicle costs from
$256,650 in the U.S., based on quotes from motortrend.com.  “One should not be mistaken by the absolute price,”
Rolls-Royce Chief Executive Officer Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes said
in an interview in Beijing yesterday. “The difference in price
is very much taxes.”  Foreign luxury automakers have come under scrutiny after
Chinese media reports that some imported cars sold in China can
cost two to three times more than in other markets. State-run
broadcaster  China Central Television  on Oct. 20 ran a report
criticizing foreign brands including Starbucks Corp. and Jaguar
Land Rover for discriminatory pricing in the country. Rolls-Royce wasn’t named in the report.  China’s tax levels are “extremely high” and exceed other
markets like the U.S.,  Europe , the  Middle East  and Russia,
Mueller-Oetvoes said. There are also other costs and fees that
add to the final retail price in China, he said.  “For us, it is not a big difference between a car sold in
China than a car sold in the U.S. or Middle East, profit-wise,”
he said.  China, currently the automaker’s second-largest market,
behind the U.S., may regain the top sales spot at the end of
this year, according to Mueller-Oetvoes. China was Rolls-Royce’s
biggest market in 2011 before being overtaken by the U.S. last
year.  The company, owned by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,
currently has 16 dealers in China and will add four more in the
cities of Changsha, Taiyuan, Kunming and Nanning by the end of
this year, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  