-- Russian Defaults on State-Backed Loans Unnerve Finance Ministry
-- B y   E v g e n i a   P i s m e n n a y a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-10-23T11:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/russian-defaults-on-state-backed-loans-unnerve-finance-ministry.html
Defaults on loans provided under
state guarantees at the height of  Russia ’s record slump four
years ago are setting off alarms among officials over the risk-laden program, according to the Finance Ministry.  “During the crisis, decisions were being made very
quickly, and risks weren’t adequately assessed,” Konstantin Vyshkovsky, head of the ministry’s debt department, said in an
e-mailed response to questions Oct. 21.  Lenders including  Russian Agricultural Bank (RSHB)  have had a
“very large” proportion of defaults on state-backed credits,
and several criminal cases have been opened to probe borrowers
and issuance procedures, he said. Russia made 132 guarantees
totaling 242.8 billion rubles ($7.6 billion) in 2009 and 2010
under the crisis-era program.  With the economy of the world’s biggest energy exporter
reeling from a 71 percent plunge in the price of oil in 2008
from its peak, then-Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government
rushed out funding to stave off an industrial collapse and aid
banks. Russia spent more than 3 trillion rubles in 2009 on anti-crisis measures, including state guarantees on loans, Putin told
lawmakers in April 2010. The revival of lending in Russia
depended on the speed with which the government introduced state
guarantees on loans to companies, then-central bank Chairman
Sergey Ignatiev said in 2009.  Corporate lending stalled in 2009, growing 0.3 percent on
an annual basis, compared with a 34 percent jump the previous
year and followed by increases of 12 percent in 2010 and 26
percent in 2011, central bank  data  show. Russia’s economy grew
at an average annual rate of 7 percent during Putin’s presidency
from 2000 to 2008 before plunging 7.8 percent in 2009.  Toxic Assets  “In a number of cases we’re seeing that state guarantees
were issued on the most problematic loans, where banks used
state guarantees to unload their toxic assets,” Vyshkovsky
said.  Rosselkhozbank, as Russia’s state lender to the farming
industry is also known, and  OAO Sberbank (SBER)  have asked for payment
on 895 million rubles on the five state-guaranteed loans that
failed this year, adding to claims on bad loans that were filed
last year, according to Vyshkovsky.  The government has paid a total of 2.5 billion rubles
through the first nine months of 2013 to meet its commitments,
including 1.8 billion rubles on claims made last year, he said.  Rosselkhozbank’s press service declined to comment.
Sberbank’s press service didn’t respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Stricter Controls  While losses on the guarantees remain small as a percentage
of the budget’s planned 14 trillion rubles in spending for next
year, the Finance Ministry plans to propose procedures that
would require greater safeguards for the state to back loans,
according to Vyshkovsky.  “Today state guarantees are seen as a panacea to solve any
problem,” he said, adding that the ministry doesn’t plan to
issue guarantees for Olympics projects financed by
Vnesheconombank, the state-run development lender.  Russia had 172 guarantees for 933.9 billion rubles
outstanding as of Sept. 30, plus another 15 dollar-denominated
pledges for $11.3 billion, according to  Finance Ministry  data.
Those sums, which include the crisis-program guarantees, are
counted as part of Russia’s public debt, even when the state
doesn’t expect to have to pay.  Countering Crisis  Under the anti-crisis program overseen by Putin, who was
elected to his third presidential term last year, 295 companies
designated as systemically important were eligible for a maximum
of 300 billion rubles guarantees.  Each assurance could be for as much as 10 billion rubles
and last as long as five years. Under the 2009 program, the
guarantees may serve as no more than half the collateral used to
secure each loan for civilian companies and 70 percent for
defense producers.  Borrowers that have defaulted include a grain warehouse in
the Siberian region of Omsk, a meat plant in the southern Rostov
region and a St. Petersburg shipbuilder that traces its roots
back to 1856, according to Vyshkovsky.  “State guarantees are playing an increasingly significant
role as a tool for economic policy,” the Finance Ministry said
in a budget strategy for 2014-16, published in July.  Russia plans to provide 984.7 billion rubles and $7.8
billion in guarantees over the period, including 574 billion
rubles and $3.5 billion next year, according to the document.
Possible payments related to the guarantees will add 412.7
billion rubles to the deficit during the period.  State guarantees are a useful tool and have been deployed
successfully in other countries, said Igor Nikolaev, a partner
at Moscow-based auditor FBK.  “In Russian practice, though, getting a guarantee isn’t a
transparent procedure, which hurts the quality of the projects
that are selected,” he said by telephone. “State guarantees as
an instrument don’t need to be stricter, they need to be
simplified and made more transparent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Evgenia Pismennaya in Moscow at 
 epismennaya@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  