-- Russia Drops Greenpeace Piracy Charges in Favor of ‘Hooliganism’
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-10-23T18:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/russia-drops-greenpeace-piracy-charges-in-favor-of-hooliganism-.html
Russia  dropped piracy charges
against Greenpeace activists who protested against Arctic
drilling and changed them to hooliganism, the Investigative
Committee said on its website.  Investigators didn’t exclude possible charges against some
of the activists for assaulting a law enforcement agent,
according to the statement posted today.  Two protesters scaled  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ’s Prirazlomnaya rig in
the Pechora Sea on Sept. 18. A day later Russia’s Coast Guard
boarded the group’s Arctic Sunrise ship in international waters
and towed the vessel to Murmansk, where 28 activists as well as
a photographer and videographer were detained and charged with
piracy. They could have face as long as 15 years in prison if
convicted, Greenpeace said in an e-mailed statement at the time.  The new charge carries a maximum sentence of seven years in
jail, Greenpeace said today in a separate statement. The
activists “are no more hooligans than they were pirates,” said
Vladimir Chuprov of Greenpeace Russia. “We will contest the
trumped up charge of hooliganism as strongly as we contested the
piracy allegations. They are both fantasy charges that bear no
relation to reality.”  On Oct. 1, activists  delayed  a Champions League soccer game
between Basel and  Germany ’s Schalke 04, sponsored by Gazprom,
unfurling a protest banner. Demonstrations were staged outside
Russian diplomatic missions and Gazprom offices in 30 countries,
including Brazil, France and the U.S.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said today that
discussions about the ship had been held with Dutch Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  