-- Russia Rules Out Discussing Assad’s Fate at Peace Talks
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-10-23T17:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/russia-rules-out-discussing-assad-s-fate-at-peace-talks.html
President Bashar al-Assad’s fate
shouldn’t be the focus of an international conference to end
 Syria ’s civil war because his removal would undermine the
chemical disarmament process, a senior Russian lawmaker said.  Assad’s future can only be discussed after both sides begin
talks known as Geneva II, according to  Alexei Pushkov , head of
the lower house of parliament’s foreign-affairs committee.  “They understand this in  Washington ,  London  and Paris,”
Pushkov said today by phone from Moscow. “If you make Assad’s
fate the main focus of the conference, this conference won’t
lead to any results.”  Syria and Russia, one of its staunchest allies, are
insisting Assad stay in power, while the coalition of rebel
leaders is demanding he play no role in the political process
after Geneva II. Efforts to start the talks have intensified
since  Russia  and the U.S. reached a deal last month to destroy
Syria’s chemical weapons, averting U.S. strikes in retaliation
for a chemical attack the Obama administration said was carried
out by Assad’s forces.  “Assad is the person who gave guarantees on behalf of
Syria that the chemical weapons will be destroyed,” Pushkov
said. “Any demands for him to step down immediately would
undermine the implementation of this chemical disarmament
process.”  Assad’s Future  Ahmed al-Jarba, the head of the rebel coalition, said after
meeting 11 foreign ministers in London yesterday that his group
will only attend Geneva II if the objective is to remove Assad
and prosecute war criminals.  U.K. Foreign Minister  William Hague  said yesterday that
while his government isn’t setting any “preconditions” for the
Geneva talks, it expects them to lead to Assad’s departure.  More than 115,000 people have died in the conflict, which
began in March 2011, according to the the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights . Another 2.1 million people have
been forced to flee to neighboring countries, United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said yesterday in Copenhagen.  “Right now we need to agree on a halt to hostilities and
how to form a transitional government,” Pushkov said.  Russia condemns the goal of regime change in Syria in the
closing communique of the London meeting of so-called “Group of
Friends” of Syria in which al-Jarba participated, Russia’s
foreign ministry said on its  website  today.  Russia and Syria, its only Arab ally, have had close ties
since Assad’s father came to power in a bloodless coup in 1970.
Russia maintains its only military base outside the former
 Soviet Union  at Syria’s Mediterranean port of Tartus. Assad, 48,
succeeded his father in 2000, the same year  Vladimir Putin , 61,
came to power.  The differences between the two allies and the rebels don’t
bode well for the peace conference, which has been tentatively
slated for Nov. 23-24, according to Torbjorn Soltvedt, an
analyst at Maplecroft, a U.K.-based risk consultant.  “The dynamics of the conflict remain far from conducive to
serious negotiations,” he said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  