-- Samsung Criticized by China State-Run TV for Smartphone Crashes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-23T09:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/samsung-criticized-by-china-state-run-media-for-handset-crashes.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  drew
criticism from China’s national broadcaster for handsets that
allegedly malfunction because of faulty memory chips, becoming
the latest foreign company scrutinized by state-run media.  The Galaxy S and Note series handsets are crashing as many
as 30 times a day and the chips need to be upgraded, according
to  China Central Television ’s “Economic Half-Hour” program,
which cited a mobile-phone repairman it didn’t identify.
Samsung, the largest seller of smartphones in the country, said
it’s committed to the highest quality.  Samsung joins  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Danone, Volkswagen AG and
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  in being criticized by state-run media for their
operations in China, the second-largest economy. Samsung, the
world’s largest producer of handsets, sells at almost 5,000
locations in China and had 18 percent of the market in the June
quarter, according to researcher Canalys.  “It seems like China is bashing some big foreign brands in
turns,” said Lee Do Hoon, an analyst at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd
in  Seoul . “The reason behind all this may be because the
Chinese government wants to protect the local companies.”  Samsung has identified the source of the problem as
software and said customers can download a firmware patch or
visit an authorized repair outlet for free service, CCTV
reported.  Shares of Samsung fell 0.9 percent to close at 1,442,000
won in Seoul trading today, while the benchmark Kospi index,
fell 1 percent. Lenovo Group Ltd., the largest Chinese
smartphone vendor, fell 0.5 percent at HK$8.22 in Hong Kong.  China Sales  “We remain committed to providing the highest quality
products and services,” Chenny Kim, a spokeswoman for Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung, told  Bloomberg News  today. “Upon
verification of these reports, including their technical
aspects, we will respond accordingly.”  China accounted for 14 percent of Samsung’s consolidated
sales last year, compared with 29 percent for the Americas and
25 percent for Europe, according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  Samsung’s leading share of China’s smartphone market in the
second quarter outpaced the largest local handset makers in the
next five spots: Lenovo; China Wireless Technologies Ltd.’s
Coolpad; ZTE Corp.; Huawei Technologies Co.; and Xiaomi Corp.,
according to Canalys.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  apologized to
Chinese consumers earlier this year after two weeks of being
lambasted by state-run media for arrogance and poor  customer
service .  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  last year pledged to
ensure the safety of food after CCTV reported they may have sold
chicken that had been indiscriminately fed antibiotics and
growth hormones.  Danone’s Dumex baby nutrition unit this month said it will
take disciplinary measures and strengthen governance in China
after a government body and state media accused it of paying
doctors to drum up infant-formula sales. Earlier this year the
company was fined in a separate price-fixing probe and recalled
some products on contamination concern.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  