-- Samsung Apologizes After China State TV Criticizes Handsets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-24T01:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/samsung-apologizes-after-china-state-tv-report-on-handset-flaws.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  apologized
to Chinese consumers after the national broadcaster criticized
the company for making handsets that allegedly malfunction
because of faulty memory chips.  Samsung, the world’s largest maker of mobile phones,
pledged to provide free maintenance, according to Chinese rules,
for the seven models included in China Central Television’s
report, according to a  statement  posted on Samsung’s China
website and dated yesterday. The warranty for handsets produced
before Nov. 30, 2012, will be extended one year, it said.  CCTV’s “Economic Half-Hour” program reported this week
that Samsung’s Galaxy S and Note series handsets crash as many
as 30 times a day and the chips need to be upgraded. The Suwon,
South Korea-based company joins Apple Inc., Danone, Volkswagen
AG and Starbucks Corp. in being accused by  China ’s state media
of mistreating consumers in the world’s second-biggest economy.  “The Chinese government is trying to bring consumer sights
back to domestic companies because they know it’s necessary to
foster local companies to ensure stable economic growth,” said
Lee Jin Woo, a fund manager at Seoul-based KTB Asset Management
Co. in  Seoul . “Samsung has read their mind well enough to keep
a low profile to appear consumer-friendly.”  Declining Shares  Samsung “sincerely apologizes” to Chinese consumers for
inconveniences caused by the company’s “management problems,”
Asia’s biggest technology company said in the statement. The
company also welcomes media scrutiny, it said.  Samsung shares are sustaining a four-day losing streak,
declining 0.6 percent to 1,434,000 won as of 10:37 a.m. in Seoul
trading, while the benchmark Kospi index rose 1.7 percent.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  also issued a public
apology to Chinese consumers in April after state media
lambasted the company for arrogance and poor customer service.  China accounted for 14 percent of Samsung’s consolidated
sales last year, compared with 29 percent for the Americas and
25 percent for Europe, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung’s leading share of China’s smartphone market in the
second quarter outpaced the largest local handset makers in the
next five spots: Lenovo; China Wireless Technologies Ltd.’s
Coolpad; ZTE Corp.; Huawei Technologies Co.; and Xiaomi Corp.,
according to Canalys.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Penny Peng in Beijing at 
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net ;
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  