-- Santander Seen Posting Profit Increase on Lower Spain Provisions
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-10-23T09:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/santander-seen-posting-profit-increase-on-lower-spain-provisions.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest
bank, will probably report higher third-quarter profit on lower
charges for covering losses on Spanish real estate, even as
earnings fell in  Brazil (SANB11)  and Britain.  Profit likely rose to 1.08 billion euros ($1.49 billion)
from 122 million euros a year earlier, when Santander took a
1.14 billion-euro net provisioning charge, based on the average
estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of four analysts. Santander,
based in the northern Spanish city of the same name, publishes
earnings tomorrow before the stock market opens in  Madrid .  Chief Executive Officer Javier Marin, 46, is rebuilding
 earnings  after 67 billion euros of provisioning charges since
2008 by targeting lower costs and boosting more profitable
business with corporate customers in  Spain ,  Brazil  and the U.K.
The decision last week by Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
Spain’s second-biggest lender, to cut its stake in China Citic
Bank Corp. may also put pressure on Santander to bolster capital
levels,  said Benjie Creelan-Sandford, a banking  analyst  at
Macquarie Ltd. in London.  “The big question for Santander is still capital,”
Creelan-Sandford, who has an underperform rating on the bank,
said in a phone interview. “Any signs of recovery in Spain are
also going to be a focus.”  Santander rose 6.8 percent in Madrid trading this year,
valuing the bank, run by Chairman  Emilio Botin , at 72.3 billion
euros. BBVA, which reports earnings Oct. 25, rose 30 percent.  Brazil, U.K.  Santander may say profit from Brazil, its highest-earning
market, fell 17 percent from a year ago to 442 million euros as
lower net interest income outweighed a drop in loan-loss
provisions, according to Banco BPI SA. Earnings in Brazil are
also under pressure from an 11 percent quarter-on-quarter
decline in the country’s currency, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
analysts  Antonio Ramirez  and Marta Sanchez wrote in a report
dated Oct. 22.  Earnings from the U.K. may show a decline of 22 percent
from a year ago, according to BPI estimates. Profit from the
Spanish banking business may have dropped 72 percent to 95
million euros, while losses at its Spanish real estate division
may have shrunk to 168 million euros from 1.63 billion euros in
the same period of 2012, according to KBW.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  