-- SapuraKencana Deal Pushes KLCI to Record: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-10-23T09:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/sapurakencana-deal-pushes-klci-to-record-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
SapuraKencana Petroleum Bhd.
advanced to a four-month high after agreeing to buy  Newfield
Exploration Co.’s (NFX)  stakes in offshore Malaysian fields for $898
million, helping send the country’s benchmark index to a record.  Shares of Malaysia’s largest oil and gas services company
by market value advanced 5.4 percent to close at 4.30 ringgit in
Kuala Lumpur trading, its highest close since May 31. The stock
provided the biggest  boost  to the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia
KLCI Index today, and has climbed 73 percent in the past year.  “The deal will give SapuraKencana an immediate foothold in
the upstream segment and allow it to become a full-fledged
producer,” Norziana Mohd Inon, an analyst at CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd., wrote in a report issued today. “The Newfield
purchase is a major re-rating catalyst.”  SapuraKencana was created last year following the merger of
two companies. Before the tie-up, they won rights to jointly
develop their first oilfield off  Malaysia ’s eastern coast with
Petrofac Ltd. Newfield, based in Woodlands,  Texas , is seeking to
scale back international operations to focus on U.S. onshore
growth as the company isn’t able to fund additional investments
into both its businesses in North America and Asia.  The Malaysian group became the world’s largest operator of
tender rigs earlier this year after buying part of Seadrill
Ltd.’s business for $2.9 billion.  The KLCI rose 0.6 percent today and has climbed 9 percent
this year, the third-best performer among Southeast Asia’s
largest benchmark gauges after  Vietnam  and the  Philippines ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Outperform Rating  CIMB maintained its outperform rating and price target of
5.60 ringgit on SapuraKencana. That means it’s expected to show
positive returns of at least 10 percent over the next 12 months,
the bank said.  Newfield Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lee Boothby
put the company’s international assets up for sale earlier this
year, citing the “certainty” of results from expanded drilling
in North American shale.  More than 40 companies took part in the bidding process for
the Malaysian assets, the U.S. company said yesterday in a
statement. The SapuraKencana transaction is expected to close
early next year, Newfield said.  Proceeds from the sale will be used to pay off debt as well
as general corporate purposes, Newfield said. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. is acting as financial adviser on the sale of
Newfield’s international assets.  The transaction is subject to approval from Petroliam
Nasional Bhd., the Malaysian state oil company known as
Petronas, under production-sharing contracts.  Revenue from Malaysia accounted for 39 percent of
Newfield’s $2.6 billion in annual  sales  last year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  