-- Scania Orders Jump 29% in Europe Emissions-Rules Change
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-10-23T08:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/scania-orders-jump-29-in-europe-emissions-rules-change.html
Scania AB (SCVB) , the Swedish truckmaker
controlled by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said third-quarter orders rose 29
percent as customers replaced vehicles and the prospect of
stricter emissions rules in Europe pushed demand.  Sales contracts jumped to 21,809 trucks and buses from
16,925 vehicles a year earlier, while deliveries increased 23
percent to 18,244, Soedertaelje-based Scania said today in a
 statement . Net income declined 2.8 percent to 1.46 billion
kronor ($229 million), held back by a strengthening Swedish
currency and truck-price pressure. Revenue rose 10 percent to
19.7 billion kronor.  Scania is rolling out additional models, including the
Streamline long-distance lineup, as well as engines that meet
tighter emissions regulation as the manufacturer prepares for an
economic rebound in  Europe . Truck orders in the region surged 84
percent as customers sought cheaper vehicles before European
Union rules, dubbed Euro 6, limit new sales next year to models
using more expensive antipollution technology, the company said.  “There are good growth opportunities and the expansion of
annual technical production capacity toward 120,000 vehicles is
continuing,” Chief Executive Officer Martin Lundstedt said in
the statement. “To strengthen competitiveness, the level of
activity related to development projects remains high,” while
the company continues to add business in  emerging markets .  Stock Rises  Scania  rose  as much as 2.2 percent and was trading up 0.9
percent at 138.2 kronor as of 10:25 a.m. in  Stockholm . The stock
has gained 2.9 percent this year, valuing the truckmaker at 108
billion kronor.  Henrik Henriksson, Scania’s head of sales and marketing,
reiterated in September that the company is targeting deliveries
of 120,000 trucks a year by 2020 while safeguarding
profitability during its expansion. The strategy for raising
market share in Europe includes adding vehicles for industries
such as mining and forestry to a lineup focused on long-haul
freight trucks.  Industrywide registrations in Europe of commercial vehicles
heavier than 16 metric tons, excluding buses and coaches, fell 8
percent in the first eight months of 2013, with double-digit
declines in all major markets apart from the U.K., the  ACEA 
automotive trade group said on Sept. 27.  Latin America  Third-quarter operating profit rose 5 percent to 1.97
billion kronor, while earnings as a proportion of sales narrowed
to 10 percent from a 10.5 percent margin a year earlier, Scania
said today. Truck orders in  Latin America  fell 17 percent from a
year earlier, though demand remained “at a good level” in
Brazil and  Argentina , while sales contracts for the vehicles in
 Asia  increased 56 percent.  Currency effects reduced third-quarter profit in the
vehicle and services business by about 425 million kronor,
Scania said. The Brazilian real and Argentinian peso declined
against the krona in the period.  The operating  margin  will return to previous highs
exceeding 14 percent, though setting a deadline isn’t possible,
as earnings will depend on the global economy, Chief Financial
Officer Jan Ytterberg said last month. Investment spending that
holds back profitability has been necessary to prepare for more
production, he said.  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest automaker, is forging a truck
alliance between its Munich-based  MAN SE (MAN)  division and Scania to
reap cost savings and take on global market leader Daimler AG. A
domination and profit-transfer agreement giving VW full control
of MAN took effect in July. Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW promoted
former Scania CEO Leif Oestling last year to run group truck
operations and lead the efforts for joint projects.  Scania said on Aug. 29 that an arms-length policy on
cooperation with VW and MAN remains in place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Lavell in Frankfurt at 
 tlavell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  