-- Sierra Wireless Grows by Connecting Big Machines to Web
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-10-24T15:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/sierra-wireless-grows-by-connecting-big-machines-to-web.html
(Corrects date in Oct. 23 story of company earnings
release in 20th paragraph)  Sierra Wireless Inc. (SW) , the
communications-equipment maker that connects cars and coffee
machines to the Internet, is looking for acquisitions to do the
same for air compressors and other industrial machines.  Sierra plans to expand further into machine-to-machine
communications, or M2M, Chief Executive Officer Jason Cohenour
said. He plans to look in  North America  and  Europe  for hardware
and software providers that help companies connect to machines.  The global machine-to-machine communications industry, or
so-called Internet of everything, is expected to double in the
next five years to about $200 billion worldwide as machine
connections outpace growth in smartphones and tablets, according
to  ABI Research . With C$176.6 million ($172 million) of  cash  on
its balance sheet from the sale of its mobile modem business for
laptops, Sierra is poised to buy, Cohenour said.  “Over time, every machine that can benefit from being
connected will be connected in some way,” Cohenour, 52, said in
a telephone interview Oct 18. “We want to be the leader.”  Richmond, British Columbia-based Sierra fell 0.4 percent to
C$19.75 for a market value of C$607 million at the close in
Toronto today. The company’s shares  surged  149 percent in the
last year through yesterday, third among its North American
communications-equipment peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  San Jose , California-based Ubiquiti Networks Inc. was
first with a 228 percent gain, followed by CalAmp Corp. of
Oxnard,  California , which posted a 184 percent advance.  Nespresso, Chrysler  Sierra is already the global leader in sales of modules
used by manufacturers to connect products to the Internet, with
34 percent of the market, according to New York-based ABI. The
modules let doctors remotely monitor patients and help
homeowners control security systems from a smartphone. They can
also allow a broken-down car to send out a distress signal while
notifying the automaker of a possible defect that may need to be
corrected in future models.  Such devices rely on wireless networks, such as those
provided by mobile-phone carriers, to transmit information.  Nestle SA (NESN) , based in Vevey,  Switzerland , uses Sierra’s
equipment to maintain and monitor the performance of its
Nespresso coffee machines in restaurants, hotels and offices.
Sierra’s modules are also installed in Chrysler Group LLC and
Toyota Motor Corp. vehicles.  Growth in M2M connections is poised to outpace tablets and
smartphones. Traditional wireless subscribers will grow 3.4
percent to 7.2 billion connections in 2017, according to
Campbell, California-based Infonetics Research. M2M connections
will grow seven times as fast, or about 24 percent, to 545
million over the same time frame, Infonetics estimates.  Next Wave  “It’s the next wave of opportunity that’s emerging from
these networks,” said Godfrey Chua, head of M2M research at
Infonetics. “When you think about the universe of possible
devices out there, it really is pretty limitless.”  Sierra’s agreement in January to sell its AirCard mobile-modem business for $138 million proved the catalyst for its
share advance, as the company reinvented itself into a pure M2M
company.  “Sierra Wireless, by dumping or selling the AirCard
business, is one of the leaders in the M2M space, a space that
is growing,” said Christian Cyr, a portfolio manager at Fiera
Capital Corp. who helps manage C$1.2 billion, including Sierra
shares.  Sierra agreed this month to buy the module business of
 South Korea ’s AnyData Corp. for $5.9 million. It acquired the
M2M business of  France ’s Sagemcom SAS for 44.9 million euros
($61.9 million) in August 2012.  The company plans to expand its main module business
without major acquisitions, focusing instead on buying software
companies and those that specialize in connecting industrial
machines, Cohenour said.  Big Machines  “These are big, high-value machines, and if they break
there’s a big cost to go out and fix them,” Cohenour said. “In
an industrial setting, players or companies who connect to their
large, expensive machines are able to provide preventive
maintenance to their customers. They’re able to lower service
costs, they’re able to often generate new streams of revenue --
perhaps through premium service plans.”  Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA)  of  Stockholm , a Sierra client that makes
industrial air compressors the size of school buses, can monitor
and potentially remotely fix problems before they cause a
breakdown that might take down a factory, Cohenour said.  Expansion into machine-to-machine software could be
particularly profitable, with as much as 70 percent of the
industry’s total current value of $100 billion derived from
added services, according to ABI.  Record High  “They can sell a module and then complement that with a
suite of services,” Dan Shey, practice director of M2M at ABI,
said in an Oct. 18 phone interview. “They’re positioned well in
that they have a lot of those key components to be considered a
one-stop-shop supplier.”  Consumers need to be convinced that there are benefits to a
wide array of devices being hooked up to the Internet for the
M2M market to advance, Shey said. The growth of connected cars
and medical devices will be key to demonstrating M2M’s utility
to consumers.  Sierra is expected to report on Nov. 7 that revenue fell 30
percent to $113.6 million in the third quarter from a year
earlier, according to the average of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg
 survey  of analysts. Adjusted earnings are estimated to have
fallen 76 percent to 7 cents a share. The declines are largely
due to the sale of the AirCard business, analysts said.  Bull Market  Sierra is still a long way off from its record closing high
of C$216.75, posted during the Internet technology  bull market 
in February 2000. Seven analysts say the stock is a buy, five
say hold and two say sell, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The 12-month average target price of 12 analysts is
C$18.21, an 8.1 percent decline from yesterday’s close.  In the next five years, machine-to-machine connectivity
will grow fastest in health care, with a 74 percent expansion,
while the  auto industry  is forecast to grow 42 percent,
according to a Feb. 6 report from  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   Sierra supplies Internet modules to both industries.  “More and more devices are going to get connected to the
Internet, so we’re not only talking about smartphones and
tablets, we’re talking about appliances, your fridge, the TV,
automotive, smart meters,” said Steven Li, an analyst with
Raymond James Ltd. in Toronto who has the equivalent of a hold
rating on the stock. “All of a sudden when you think about
devices as not just smartphones, the number of units goes into
the billions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  