-- Singh Spends $2.2 Billion to Triple Oil Reserve: Corporate India
-- B y   D e b j i t   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-10-24T04:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/singh-spends-2-2-billion-to-triple-oil-reserve-corporate-india.html
India , Asia’s second-largest energy
user, will spend $2.2 billion to more than triple its proposed
emergency crude oil reserves as it seeks to protect the  economy 
against supply disruptions.  Four caverns with a combined capacity of 12.5 million
metric tons will be built at a cost of 133 billion rupees ($2.2
billion) and add to three with 5.03 million tons of capacity
under construction, Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Ltd.
Chief Executive Officer  Rajan K. Pillai  said. The government may
turn to its biggest refiners  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  and  Hindustan
Petroleum Corp. (HPCL)  to help fill the reservoirs, he said.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is seeking to shield Asia’s
third-biggest economy from perennial political risk in the
Middle East and  Africa , which account for 85 percent of its
imports. Sanctions by the European Union and the U.S. against
 Iran  forced India to halve its estimated oil imports from the
Persian Gulf nation in the last four years, while civil wars in
Syria and  Sudan  have limited purchases.  “It’s of utmost importance,” Pillai said in an interview
at his office in Noida, adjoining New Delhi. “If India aspires
to be a developed nation, it has to have a sizeable strategic
reserve.”  Straining Finances  The 234.8 billion rupees required to fill the first phase
of three caverns by December 2014 may strain the government’s
finances at a time when Singh is trying to shrink the  fiscal
deficit  to a six-year low. Failure may exacerbate the risk of a
ratings downgrade to junk.  “Funding the purchase in a year will be a challenge,”
said Kamlesh Kotak, head of research at Asian Markets Securities
Pvt. in Mumbai. “It would’ve been better if the government
planned to fill the caverns over three years.”  Brent crude, a benchmark for more than half of the world,
more than doubled to a record $140 a barrel in London trading in
the two years to June 2008. The price collapsed to $46 by the
end of that year and has more than doubled since then.  Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves, which was formed in
2006, has appointed SBI Capital Markets Ltd. to look at
alternate funding options for filling the caverns, Pillai said.
The cost of the first phase increased two-and-a-half times since
2005, a parliamentary committee said in a report in May.  “We’re looking at various business models,” Pillai said.
“If the government isn’t able to fill the caverns for some
reason, we have to decide whether to give it to the companies.”  Contingency Stock  A detailed feasibility report for the second phase has been
prepared, he said, without giving details of the timeline for
implementation. India, which has no contingency stock, expects
to build 90 days of inventory by 2020, he said.  International Energy Agency , the Paris-based adviser to 28
developed nations, mandates holding oil stocks equivalent to 90
days of a country’s net oil import. The U.S. has a strategic
reserve capacity of 727 million barrels, according to the Energy
Department  website , while  Japan ’s trade ministry data shows the
country had 550 million barrels of  stockpiles  as at the end of
August.  China , which imports more than half its crude, will have
emergency reserves of 500 million barrels by 2020, according to
a May 14 report by the IEA, which didn’t specify the current
holding.  Indian refiners have capacity to store as much as 22.2
million tons of crude and fuels in tanks and pipelines, which
will climb to 30.82 million tons next year, according to the
parliamentary committee report. The quantity will be sufficient
to provide cover for 70 days, it said.  Biggest Cavern  Construction of the tank at Visakhapatnam, in the southern
state of Andhra Pradesh, will be completed by February and hold
1.33 million tons, Pillai said. The one at Mangalore in southern
Karnataka state will store 1.5 million tons and be ready by
October, while the biggest, in Karnataka’s Padur, will
accommodate 2.5 million tons and be ready by December.  The tanks are being built for 39.6 billion rupees, Pillai
said. The caverns will have seven separate compartments, giving
the government the flexibility of storing seven varieties of
crude oil, he said.  Buying different grades will help avoid large volume
purchases. Also, refineries can process only particular grades
of crude. India imported 184.8 million tons of crude oil in the
year ended March 31 for $144.3 billion, which was 7.8 percent of
the country’s gross domestic product.  “The size of our requirements makes it essential to have
strategic storage,” Pillai said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debjit Chakraborty in New Delhi at 
 dchakrabor10@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  