-- S. African Debt Climbs as Gordhan Pledges Spending Curbs
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f ,   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-10-23T16:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/south-african-debt-balloons-as-gordhan-pledges-spending-curbs.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  will struggle to keep government debt under
control even as he pledges to stick to spending targets.  Gross debt will climb to 48 percent of gross domestic
product in the year through March 2017 from an estimated 43
percent last year, the National Treasury said in its mid-term
budget report released in  Cape Town  today. That’s mainly due to
rising debt costs and tax receipts falling short of targets.  While Gordhan, 64, is maintaining spending limits and
curbing wage growth, allowing him to meet this year’s budget
deficit target, borrowing will surge in the next three years.
That raises risks for South Africa as credit rating companies
such as Moody’s Investors Service warn of another downgrade and
the U.S. Federal Reserve scales back its monetary stimulus,
boosting bond yields.  “Up until now the minister has not really managed to do
what he has promised in terms of the deficit and that is why the
 ratings agencies  are still punishing us about it,” Lullu
Krugel, an economist at  KPMG  in Johannesburg, said by phone
today. “The intention is good, but the actual outcomes are not
achieved. The pace at which borrowing is rising is
frightening.”  The rand gained to 9.7714 against the dollar as of 6:54
p.m. in Johannesburg from 9.8144 before Gordhan began his
speech. The yield on the 2026 bond rose 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 7.71 percent.  While Gordhan forecast a lower budget deficit for this
year, that’s mainly due to a restating of the figures, in line
with international reporting standards, to include extraordinary
receipts, such as profit on bond sales and foreign-currency
transactions.  Restated Targets  Based on the new format, the shortfall is estimated to
reach 4.2 percent of GDP in the year through March, unchanged
from last year, Gordhan said. The deficit is forecast to narrow
to 4.1 percent, 3.8 percent and 3 percent respectively in the
next three fiscal years.  In February, Gordhan forecast a shortfall, excluding
extraordinary receipts, of 4.6 percent of GDP this fiscal year,
down from 5.1 percent last year. Calculated on this basis, the
deficit for this year was 4.5 percent of GDP, unchanged from
last year, according to the Treasury.  Moody’s cut  South Africa ’s credit rating in September last
year to Baa1, the third-lowest investment grade level, while
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings followed by cutting a
further step. Moody’s and S&P hold a negative outlook on South
African debt, indicating a greater chance the rating will be
downgraded than raised.  ‘Historical Legacies’  “We are running a sustainable fiscal ship and hopefully
the ratings agencies will do their homework and recognize that
in a very turbulent environment, and one in which we’ve got huge
historical legacies to overcome, we actually are keeping a
fairly good 19-year record and good fiscal management in South
Africa,” Gordhan told reporters in Cape Town.  Gordhan trimmed his forecast for  economic expansion  this
year to 2.1 percent from 2.7 percent as strikes in mining and
manufacturing disrupted output and global growth remains weak.
The economy will probably expand 3 percent in 2014 and 3.2
percent the year after that, according to the Treasury.  Konrad Reuss, head of S&P’s sub-Saharan African unit, said
it’s still too early for the ratings company to take a different
stance on the nation’s debt.  ‘Very Tricky’  “With regard to the budget this year and next year, there
are certain implementation risks which still should be reflected
in a negative outlook,” he said in a phone interview. “The
economic situation is very tricky, very challenging.”  The rand has lost 14 percent against the dollar this year,
the worst performer among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  In the February budget, Gordhan had forecast gross debt to
reach 45 percent of GDP by 2015/16 from an estimated 42 percent
last year. The  International Monetary Fund  said on Oct. 1 that
while South Africa should target a debt ratio of about 40
percent, a ceiling of about 50 percent to 60 percent may be
sustainable.  South Africa’s debt levels compares with 80 percent in
 Hungary , 59 percent in  Brazil  and 36 percent in  Mexico .  “The increase in debt levels is not a problem if you
compare South Africa with some other countries,” Johann Els, an
economist at Old Mutual Investment Group of South Africa, said
in a telephone interview from Cape Town. “The fact that the
deficit is getting smaller means we are putting a damper on the
growth in debt.”  Investor Sentiment  South Africa’s reliance on foreign investors to finance the
 budget deficit  has increased in recent months, adding to the
nation’s economic risks, according to the Treasury.  Investor sentiment is volatile and capital allocation “is
likely to shift as the U.S. monetary authorities taper their
asset purchase program,” it said.  “There is no magic in those ratios,” Lungisa Fuzile,
director general of the Treasury, said in an interview in Cape
Town. “We would prefer to keep these ratios as low as possible
but in the context of a counter-cyclical fiscal stance you don’t
really target them. You tolerate a bit of a deterioration.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  