-- South Africa Running Sustainable Fiscal Ship, Gordhan Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-10-23T12:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/south-africa-running-sustainable-fiscal-ship-gordhan-says.html
South African Finance Minister
Pravin Gordhan made the following comments at a press conference
in Cape Town today, ahead of delivering his mid-term budget to
Parliament:  “The past four-and-a-half years have been a period when we
have demonstrated a great deal of correct political leadership.  ‘‘We have helped growth to the extent we could have within
the scope of our current fiscal envelope. Over a period of time
we have curtailed real  government spending .’’  The government has balanced ‘‘the requirements of
supporting government consumption and supporting growth projects
in the economy while at the same time our project of medium term
fiscal consolidation is prosecuted in a  responsible way.  ‘‘We have had some slippage in the past two years or so.  ‘‘Those slippages are not the result, as some would like to
believe, of excessive spending or as some ratings agencies say,
populist pressure but rather events that have objectively taken
place in the economy, which have resulted in lower revenue.  ‘‘We recognize the deficit will certainly improve as we
move into the next three years.  ‘‘We feel quite confident  South Africa ’s growth prospects
will improve.  ‘‘On the question of the  ratings agencies , some of them
like to show that they are very influential in shaping what we
have to say.  ‘‘I believe that our approach has been very transparent and
very clear that once the recession came to our shores, as I have
always put it, we have the fiscal space in 2009/10 to borrow, to
defend expenditure.  ‘‘Counter-cyclicality is a very important part of what we
have to do. Any cuts in the wrong place will actually damage
economic growth. We have got to keep this balance going between
the elements of counter-cyclicality and support for the economy
and ensuring at the same time that we enhance the consolidation
process.  ‘‘Regrettably one of the things that we hear from some of
the rating agencies is not about the numbers, it’s about
sentiment.  ‘‘In our view we are running a sustainable fiscal ship and
hopefully the ratings agencies will do their homework and
recognize that in a very turbulent environment and one in which
we have got huge historical legacies to overcome, we actually
are keeping a fairly good 19-year record at good fiscal
management in South Africa.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  