-- South Africa Plans to Increase Diamond Processing 17-Fold
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-10-23T15:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/south-africa-plans-to-increase-diamond-processing-17-fold.html
South  Africa , the site of the
biggest diamond discovery, plans to process a greater proportion
of its gems locally to keep more profit in the country.  The government wants to cut and refine 70 percent of the
diamonds mined in South Africa by 2023, Mineral Resources
Minister Susan Shabangu said in an interview. Only 4 percent
were processed locally in 2011, according to her department.  President Jacob Zuma, faced with a 23 percent unemployment
rate before 2014 elections, is looking to revive the economy as
gold, diamond and platinum output falls and mining companies
retrench workers. By expanding processing, South Africa plans to
add jobs and increase its revenue from the jewelry industry.  “We want to establish a complete value chain to the final
product,” Shabangu said today in Johannesburg. “South Africa
is a mineral-rich country. That creates an opportunity in
creating that capacity.”  Miners in South Africa discovered the world’s biggest
certified diamond in 1905. The 3,106-carat Cullinan, found near
 Pretoria , was cut to form the Great Star of Africa and the
Lesser Star of Africa, set in the Crown Jewels of Britain.  In recent years output has dwindled as mines become
depleted. South Africa, the fifth-biggest diamond producer
according to  Charles Stanley Group Plc (CAY) , produced about 7 million
carats in 2011, less than half the 15.3 million carats mined
four years earlier,  Chamber of Mines  data show. Gold output
dropped 25 percent in the period.  Skills Drive  The country currently supplies the raw materials to the
established jewelry centers of New York, Antwerp and Mumbai. The
government will now team with universities to boost skills and
may even consider changing the law to keep more gemstones and
precious metals in the country, Shabangu said.  “The issue of sharing the mineral wealth in South Africa
is still inadequate,” she said. “If we can have more skilled
people in SA getting into the industry we can see better
growth.”  Expanding processing is “ambitious” considering that the
country’s diamond industry has been shrinking since 2008 as the
economy weakened, the rand fell and regulation increased,
according to Andrew Stephens, vice chairman of the Jewellery
Council of South Africa.  “We need a level playing field with our international
competitors,” he said, citing burdensome regulation. “We don’t
have that at the moment.”  A parliamentary committee is holding public hearings on
planned changes to natural-resources legislation with a view to
boosting local processing and declaring some output strategic to
the country. Mining companies have said the proposals would
affect their businesses negatively and give the mines minister
too much regulatory discretion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  