-- South Africa to Issue Shale-Gas Permits in First Quarter of 2014
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-10-23T10:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/south-africa-to-issue-shale-gas-permits-in-first-quarter-of-2014.html
South Africa  plans to issue licenses
permitting exploration of shale-gas reserves in the first
quarter, Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu said.  “Now we have a 30-day period where we are expecting to get
public comments from the various parties; by early next year, it
will be done,” she said in an interview in Johannesburg today.  The country published proposed regulations for hydraulic
fracturing on Oct. 15, a year after lifting a ban on the
drilling process known as fracking, as it seeks to tap as much
as 485 trillion cubic feet of resources in the semi-arid Karoo
region. Opponents of the practice, which blasts water, chemicals
and sand into rock to release natural gas, say it risks
contaminating ground water.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and other explorers have applied for
permits to explore the Karoo. South Africa, which imports 70
percent of its crude-oil needs, estimates shale gas may generate
1 trillion rand ($100 billion) of sales within three decades,
helping bring it closer to supplying its own energy demand.  The nation’s plans to exploit shale-gas reserves are
“indefensible” and will lead to a legal battle, Treasure Karoo
Action Group Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Deal said Oct. 16.  The draft rules require drillers to meet American Petroleum
Institute standards governing the type of equipment used and the
disclosure of chemicals. The move to pursue exploration follows
a shale boom in the U.S., while diverging from policy in  France ,
the Netherlands and  Bulgaria  where fracking has been restricted
or banned in response to public protests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  