-- STMicro Joins Chipmakers Hit by High-End Smartphone Drop
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-10-23T13:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/stmicro-joins-chipmakers-hit-by-high-end-smartphone-drop.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Europe ’s
biggest semiconductor maker, said chip demand is taking a hit as
smartphone manufacturers trim orders, adding to testimony of
weakening appetite for high-end handsets.  Fewer orders and slower demand have dominated third-quarter
reports in the chip industry, which caters to phonemakers from
Apple Inc. to BlackBerry Ltd.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2230) , the world’s largest contract maker of chips, as well as the
likes of  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , Qualcomm Inc. and Broadcom
Corp. reported earnings or forecasts missing analyst estimates.  STMicroelectronics has tallied more than $1.6 billion in
losses over the past eight quarters as it strove to restructure
-- then shutter -- its wireless venture with Ericsson AB. The
Geneva-based company yesterday pushed back when it expects to
hit its 10 percent profit-margin target, citing “softness” in
demand for high-end smartphones in  Asia . The stock fell as much
as 7.3 percent in Paris today.  “It’s not just us, you’ll see it also from our
competitors,” Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  said in a
conference call today. He said the slowing demand is temporary.  A shift in demand toward lower-priced smartphones will
drive handset shipments this year, according to a  report  this
week by researcher Gartner Inc. While fancy devices will grab
people’s attention, they won’t necessarily buy them, according
to consumer analyst Carolina Milanesi. The year-end shopping
season will “be all about smaller tablets as even the long-term
holiday favorite — the smartphone — loses its appeal,” she said
in the statement.  ‘Low-End’ Focus  Shares of the Franco-Italian chipmaker dropped 7 percent to
5.93 euros at 3:20 p.m. They gained 19 percent this year through
yesterday, valuing the company at 5.8 billion euros.  STMicroelectronics reported a net loss of $142 million in
the third quarter, equivalent to 16 cents a share, compared with
a $478 million loss, or 54 cents, a year earlier. Net revenue
fell 7.1 percent to $2.01 billion, falling short of the $2.05
billion average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Volumes are there, but they’re more focused on lower-end
phones than higher-end phones,” Bozotti said on the call. “We
can’t name any customers, but higher-end smartphones were lower
than what we expected.”  STMicroelectronics didn’t break out the impact of slowing
demand for high-end smartphones in the report.  The company now forecasts it will reach its operating
margin target in mid-2015, about six months later than planned.
STMicroelectronics had an operating loss of $66 million in the
third quarter and said its operating margin was 2.7 percent,
excluding some charges for a $120 million impairment and
restructuring.  ‘Wishful Thinking’  “The margin target at this stage includes a lot of wishful
thinking,” Bernd Laux, an analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux, said in
a phone interview. “The company requires a recovery in demand
in orders to be able to achieve a 10 percent margin, otherwise
it will be impossible.”  Bozotti has yet to prove that STMicroelectronics can
reinvent itself by focusing on industries such as cars, game
consoles and high-end smartphones. Earlier this year,
STMicroelectronics and Ericsson dissolved their partnership,
which designed chips for handsets, as customers such as  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V)  grappled with shrinking sales as they lost market share to
Apple and Samsung Electronics Co.  Revenue Forecast  About 10 percent of STMicroelectronics sales come from
Nokia, BlackBerry and  HTC Corp. (2498) , which “continue to
underperform their market,” according to estimates by  Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. Bozotti said today
the company’s exposure to BlackBerry, the Canadian smartphone
maker that put itself up for sale in August after years of
shrinking market share, is “very limited.”  Since the venture’s split was completed in August, 1,800
employees have joined Stockholm-based Ericsson, which took on
the modem business. STMicroelectronics absorbed much of the
rest, along with about 1,000 workers. The Global Navigation
Satellite System group was sold off.  Taiwan’s TSMC last week deemed the semiconductor-demand
decline episodic and unlikely to prove lasting.  “The timing for us to achieve our operating margin target
will depend greatly on sales and demand,” Bozotti said. “For
now we have a short-term correction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  