-- Strokes Killing Younger People as Unhealthy Habits Rise
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-10-24T12:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/strokes-killing-younger-people-as-unhealthy-habits-rise.html
Strokes are increasingly killing
younger people, especially in  developing countries  where
unhealthy lifestyle habits have taken hold, according to a study
funded by the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation .  While strokes are usually thought to afflict older people,
the number of people ages 20 to 64 who experience them has risen
by 25 percent in the past two decades, according to researchers
from countries including the U.S., U.K. and  Japan . This younger
group now makes up 31 percent of total strokes, compared with 25
percent before 1990,  the study  found.  Strokes are claiming more lives and leading to more illness
in low-to-middle-income countries, the researchers wrote today
in The Lancet medical journal. As income levels in these
countries rise, fewer people die of infectious diseases related
to poverty, they said. However, the risk of developing chronic
illnesses such as heart disease increases, they said.  “While people tend to live longer as the risk of
infectious diseases decreases, they are suddenly exposed to
these unhealthy lifestyles in which they consume too much salt,
don’t exercise, and frequently smoke,” Myles Connor, a
professor at the  University of Edinburgh  and a co-author of the
study, said in a telephone interview.  Blocked Vessel  Stroke occurs when a blood vessel carrying oxygen to the
brain ruptures or is blocked by a blood clot or some other
particle, cutting off the brain’s supply of oxygen. Nerve cells
then die, affecting the part of the body they control. These
cells aren’t replaced, leading to disability, according to the
 World Health Organization . About 15 million people worldwide
have strokes each year, of which 5 million die and another 5
million are permanently disabled, the WHO said.  The study shows the challenge posed to developing nations
from  Brazil  to  South Africa , where obesity and diabetes rates
are increasing as millions emerge from poverty only to grapple
with a lack of information that leads to poor lifestyle choices.  “The report reveals a shocking disparity between rich and
poor, where death rates from stroke are up to ten times higher
in lower-income countries,” said Jon Barrick, chief executive
of the London-based  Stroke Association . “At least half of
strokes could be prevented if people made simple lifestyle
changes, such as keeping  blood pressure  under control and
exercising more.”  Unhealthy Diets                           While the study focused on stroke trends across ages and
geographical locations and not the reasons behind the trends,
the authors said unhealthy diets, high blood pressure, obesity,
physical inactivity and smoking are probably leading to the rise
of strokes among the young in poorer countries. Obesity and
excessive weight put a strain on the entire circulatory system,
tending to raise cholesterol, blood pressure and diabetes risk
–- all of which can increase the risk of stroke.  In high-income nations, reductions in the incidence of
stroke and premature death rates over the last 20 years
“probably reflect improved education, prevention and care, and
diagnosis,” the researchers said. That suggests that education
among the elderly can successfully lower stroke rates.  “The worldwide stroke burden is growing very fast and
there is now an urgent need for culturally acceptable and
affordable stroke prevention, management and rehabilitation
strategies,” Valery Feigin, a professor at the  Auckland
University of Technology  and co-author of study, said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  