-- Swiss Stocks Decline From Highest Level Since May
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-10-23T07:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/swiss-stocks-decline-from-highest-level-since-may.html
Swiss stocks  declined from their
highest level since May  as bank shares fell after the European
Central Bank adopted a stricter definition of capital for next
year’s stress tests on lenders.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s largest
lenders, led losses.  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  climbed 1.4 percent after HSBC
Holdings Plc advised investors to buy the shares. Temenos Group
AG advanced 1.1 percent after saying it is confidence of
achieving its fourth-quarter growth target for licensing fees.
 Basilea Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  AG rallied to its highest price in almost
four years after winning European approval for a drug.  The  SMI (SMI)  dropped 0.3 percent to 8,187.96 at 9:56 a.m. in
Zurich. Even so, the gauge has gained 2 percent so far in
October as U.S. lawmakers reached an agreement to avoid a
sovereign default. The broader Swiss Performance Index lost 0.3
percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 40 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ECB said its definition of capital will become stricter
for stress tests on banks, compared with the one it will use for
an imminent review of their assets. The central bank also said
it will require lenders to maintain a capital ratio of 8
percent.  The ECB will carry out a preliminary risk check early next
year to identify asset portfolios needing further examination,
followed by a full review of the quality of banks’ balance
sheets. The European Banking Authority will then help conduct a
stress test to assess their sovereign-debt holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  