-- Symantec Sales Forecast Falls Short of Estimates
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-10-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/symantec-sales-forecast-falls-short-of-estimates.html
Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  Chief Executive
Officer Steve Bennett’s efforts to restructure the security-software maker are taking a toll on sales.  The company’s shares slumped as much as 15 percent after
the company gave profit and revenue forecasts that fell short of
analysts’ estimates. Sales staff, who are being assigned fewer
clients and getting additional training, weren’t able to close
as many deals, Bennett said yesterday.  Bennet, who was appointed CEO in July 2012 after the ouster
of  Enrique Salem , has said job cuts and restructuring to combine
far-flung divisions are part of a multiyear turnaround plan.
While he has streamlined bloated product lines and pricing at
the biggest maker of computer-security software, the
restructuring could take years to deliver results as antivirus
software sales slump along with personal-computer shipments,
according to Steve Ashley, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.  “The question is, how long, how messy, how noisy will it
be in between?” said Milwaukee-based Ashley, who has the
equivalent of a buy  rating  on the stock. “They’re going to get
some forgiveness from  Wall Street  -- everybody recognizes that
they’re headed to a much better place -- but they have to go
through some heavy lifting to get there.”  Profit excluding some costs will be 41 cents to 43 cents a
share on revenue of $1.63 billion to $1.67 billion in the fiscal
third quarter ending in December, Symantec said in a statement
yesterday. Analysts on average were projecting profit of 51
cents on sales of $1.79 billion, acccording to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘My Miss’  Symantec dropped as low as $20.82 in extended trading.
Shares of the  Mountain View , California-based company declined
2.3 percent to $24.62 at the close in  New York , and had climbed
 87 percent  since Bennett was appointed last year.  Bennett said in an interview that the changes he’s made,
such as giving each salesperson fewer products to focus on, are
causing more disruption than he anticipated. Results are being
hurt because the employees are are being re-trained and building
new client lists, learning to be “hunters rather than
farmers,” he said.  “I’m disappointed in the financial results, and I’m
disappointed that I underestimated the impact that would have,”
Bennett said, referring to the restructuring. “It was my miss.
These were all things we did intentionally. We have a bit of a
hole to dig out of here because we made these changes that we
know are the right things to help us long-term, but there is
some short-term pain.”  The changes combined with a declining PC market contributed
to a forecast that makes Symantec a “glass-half-empty” stock,
said  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets & Co. in New
York. He has a market perform rating on Symantec shares, the
equivalent of a hold.  ‘Speed Bump’  “It looks like they hit a pretty big speed bump,” Ives
said. “This continues to be a business model that’s in
transition. It just shows that the turnaround could take longer
than expected.”  In the second quarter, which ended Sept. 27, profit before
amortization, restructuring expenses, stock-based compensation
and other items was 50 cents a share on sales of $1.64 billion,
missing average analyst estimates of 44 cents and $1.69 billion.  Net income rose 28 percent to $241 million, or 34 cents a
share, from $189 million, or 27 cents, a year earlier.  Security Software  While demand for security software is rising as hacking
attacks become more sophisticated, the industry is highly
fractured. Traditional antivirus makers such as Symantec and
McAfee, which is now owned by  Intel Corp. (INTC) , are seeking to tailor
their products to counter more advanced threats and competing
security technologies from companies including  Palo Alto
Networks Inc. (PANW)  and  FireEye Inc. (FEYE)  The market for computer-security
technologies will reach $65.7 billion this year, according to
researcher Gartner Inc.  Demand for antivirus software is also waning as PC sales
decline, since the products are often bundled together. Symantec
has struggled to expand in the data-storage market. The $10.2
billion  acquisition  of Veritas Software Corp. in 2005, which
made Symantec a major data storage provider, hasn’t paid off,
and is dwarfed by bigger players including  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  EMC Corp. (EMC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  