-- U.S. Home Prices Rose 0.3% in August From July, FHFA Says
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-10-23T14:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/u-s-home-prices-rose-8-5-in-year-through-august.html
U.S. house prices  rose  0.3 percent
in August from July, the smallest gain in 11 months, as more
homeowners listed their properties, according to the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency .  The seasonally adjusted increase was less than the 0.8
percent average estimate of 15 economists, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Prices  climbed  8.5 percent from a year earlier,
the FHFA said today in a report from  Washington .  Competition for a limited  supply  of available homes has
been fueling price gains across the U.S. The increases will slow
as higher values draw more sellers to the market, adding to the
inventory, according to  Paul Diggle , property economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. Prices will rise 8 percent this year and
4 percent in 2014, the firm projected.  “Supply is loosening, and clearly that is why it’s going
to be a slowdown,” Diggle said by telephone from  London . “A
lot of people delayed selling at the bottom of the market. As
prices rise more, people are in the position to sell.”  There were 2.21 million existing homes for sale at the end
of last month, up from 2.17 million in September 2012, according
to the National Association of Realtors. It was the first time
inventory increased on an annual basis since early 2011, the
group said.  Mortgage Rates  Price increases and a jump in borrowing costs from near-record lows have put real estate out of reach for some would-be
buyers. The average  rate  for a 30-year fixed mortgage was 4.28
last week, up from 3.35 percent in early May, according to
Freddie Mac.  Home affordability was at an almost five-year low in
September, with the  median price  up 11.7 percent from a year
earlier, the Realtors group said this week.  Sales (ETSLTOTL)  of existing
houses dropped 1.9 percent to a 5.29 million annual rate, down
from a revised 5.39 million pace in August that was the
strongest since 2009, the group said.  The FHFA’s report showed prices increased 1.3 percent from
July in the Mountain region, which includes Nevada and  Arizona .
In the West North Central region, with Minnesota and  Nebraska ,
the gain was 1.2 percent. Prices fell 0.5 percent in the South
Atlantic area, including Georgia and  Florida .  The FHFA index measures transactions for single-family
properties financed with mortgages owned or securitized by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It doesn’t provide a specific price
for homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  