-- U.S. Bancorp, Fifth Third Said to Mull Chicago Branch Bids
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-10-23T21:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/u-s-bancorp-fifth-third-said-to-mull-bids-for-chicago-branches.html
U.S. Bancorp and  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB) 
are among five potential bidders for Chicago branches being sold
by Citizens Financial Group Inc., people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Wintrust Financial Corp. (WTFC) ,  FirstMerit Corp. (FMER)  and
 PrivateBancorp Inc. (PVTB)  are also interested, said the people, asking
not to be identified because the information is private.
Providence, Rhode Island-based  Citizens , the U.S. unit of  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc , may fetch about $500 million for the
105 branches, the people said.  RBS, which acquired Citizens in 1988, said in February that
it will sell a 25 percent stake in the bank to help meet
increased capital requirements. The retreat from Chicago, and
other markets where it has a smaller presence, could make it
easier for another bank to buy all of Citizens, said Jeff Davis,
managing director of the financial institutions group at Mercer
Capital, a Memphis, Tennessee, advisory firm.  “ Chicago  is somewhat of a stub operation,” Davis said by
telephone. “They are far down the market-share chain. Chicago
is a tough, competitive market.”  Most of Citizens’ branches are in the Northeastern U.S.,
according to its  annual report . The Sunday Times reported
earlier this month that Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s second-largest lender by assets, is considering a bid for all of
Citizens, citing analysts without naming them.  On an Oct. 17 investor call, Toronto Dominion’s Chief
Executive Officer Ed Clark said that the lender isn’t on the
lookout for another U.S. retail bank and doesn’t need to do a
deal, according to a transcript of the call.  Most Fragmented  The sale includes $6 billion in deposits and loans of $2.4
billion, the people familiar with the situation said. First-round bids are due by early November, the people said. Bank of
America Corp. is advising Citizens on the sale, they said.  Chicago is among the largest and most-fragmented banking
markets in the country, with 235 banks holding $328 billion in
deposits as of the end of June, according to data from the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  None of the interested buyers
ranks among the top five deposit holders in Chicago, and
Citizens ranked 12th, the data show.  Spokesmen for Citizens,  U.S. Bancorp (USB) , Fifth Third,
FirstMerit, PrivateBancorp and Bank of America all declined to
comment on the branch sale. A spokesman for Wintrust didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  Only one of the five potential bidders, PrivateBancorp, is
based in Chicago. Wintrust is based in Lake Forest, Illinois,
while U.S. Bancorp is based in  Minneapolis , Fifth Third in
Cincinnati, and FirstMerit in Akron,  Ohio .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  