-- Luxembourg Seeks New Coalition That May Mean End for Juncker
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-10-23T09:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/luxembourg-seeks-new-coalition-that-may-mean-end-for-juncker.html
Luxembourg’s royal palace named a
senior judge to explore options for forming the next government
in the wake of elections that may spell the end of the 18-year
rule of Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ,  Europe ’s longest-serving leader.  Grand Duke Henri, Luxembourg’s head of state, today tapped
Georges Ravarani, president of the administrative court, to take
soundings on the political mood as the Liberals try to form a
three-party bloc to oust Juncker. The Liberals, or DP, gained
four seats to 13 in the 60-seat Parliament in voting on Oct. 20,
while the Socialists, or LSAP, maintained their 13 seats and the
Greens went down one to six.  After a spy scandal prompted the snap elections, Juncker’s
Christian Social People’s party, or CSV, gave up three seats in
Parliament. While CSV, which has been in power almost
continuously since World War II, remains the strongest party
with 23 seats in the chamber, it was the group’s lowest tally
since 1999.  Xavier Bettel, head of the Liberals, said yesterday that he
had met “with LSAP and the Greens to see if we have enough
common ground to put together a coalition program,” which he
said “is the case.” After Ravarani reports back to the Grand
Duke, coalition talks would begin once the duke puts a party
leader in charge of negotiating the next government arrangement.  Juncker, who turns 59 in December, has been Luxembourg’s
premier since 1995. The nation of 531,000 people, which was the
EU’s smallest member until Malta joined in 2004, has been
governed by prime ministers from CSV since 1945, except for
1974-1979, the only time the head of government was a liberal in
a DP-LSAP coalition.  Early Elections  Juncker called early elections after the Socialists, the
longest coalition partner of CSV, in July said the premier
should take responsibility for a spying scandal involving
Luxembourg’s State Intelligence Service. The challenge came
after a July 5 report to parliament said he was “politically
responsible” for failing to inform lawmakers of
“irregularities and supposed illegalities” by the State
Intelligence Service.  It found that a private security agency was created by an
active intelligence agent and raised questions about Juncker’s
role in securing an agency job for his driver, a former
policeman.  During a CSV rally on July 12, two days after LSAP defected
in a marathon parliamentary hearing, Juncker rejected criticism
that he was too often absent from Luxembourg when he served as
head of the group of euro-area finance ministers from 2005 until
this year.  ‘Our Currency’  “The euro is also our currency,” Juncker said. “If one
engages in the most intense manner to help ensure that  Greece 
doesn’t exit the euro zone, that the euro zone survives and
becomes more solid -- and today it’s more solid than a year ago
-- then one fights also for the Luxembourg currency and our
buying power.”  A driving force behind the development of the common
currency, Juncker stepped back from the front lines of Europe’s
debt crisis in January when he ceded the presidency of the
Eurogroup to Dutch Finance MinisterJeroen Dijsselbloem.  A signatory of the 1992 Maastricht Treaty that created the
European Union and led to the introduction of the single
currency, Juncker served as a middleman between Germany and
 France  in hammering out the deficit-limiting stability pact in
1996 and in softening it in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  