-- Volcker Hedging Exemption Said Disputed by Gensler, Stein
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-24T20:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/volcker-rule-hedging-exemption-said-disputed-by-gensler-stein.html
Officials at two of the agencies
charged with writing the Volcker rule banning U.S. banks from
trading for their own accounts are insisting on strengthening a
key provision.  Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, and Kara Stein, a Democrat on the Securities and
Exchange Commission, want to make it more difficult for banks to
classify such trading as legitimate hedging activity, according
to three people familiar with the negotiations. The dispute
could make it harder for the five agencies drafting the rule to
meet a White House-imposed year-end deadline for completing the
regulation.  Gensler and Stein say they are concerned that the latest
draft of the rule wouldn’t prevent another episode like last
year’s “London Whale” trades at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  that cost
the bank more than $6.2 billion in losses, said one of the
people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations aren’t public. At the time, the bank argued the
losing derivatives trades would have been permitted under an
exemption for portfolio hedges.  Satish M. Kini, a partner at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in
Washington, said a more restrictive rule could be a setback for
Wall Street, which has fought to loosen the rule’s provisions.  “If a banking organization has to connect its hedging
activity to a specific contract or position, I think the concern
may be that there may be incomplete hedges,” Kini said in an
interview. “The viability of that hedging exemption is very
important for the safety and soundness of banking
organizations.”  Preventing Instability  The rule named for former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, who championed it as an aide to President  Barack Obama ,
is aimed at preventing banks with insured deposits from engaging
in the kind of speculative trading that could threaten their
stability. While the five regulators drafting the measure had
already revised it in response to the JPMorgan losses, Gensler
and Stein say it may not go far enough, the person said.  Kate Gallagher, a spokeswoman for Stein, didn’t respond to
telephone and e-mail requests for comment on the commissioner’s
position.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, and  Steve Adamske , the
spokesman for Gensler, also declined to comment.  Broad Agreement  Until this dispute, the agencies had reached broad
agreement on Volcker -- a last major piece of the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul meant to prevent a repeat of the 2008
financial crisis. Obama and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew have
held meetings in the last two months directing the regulators to
move quickly, and Lew has insisted the rule should be finished
this year.  Bank profits are on the line in the final stage of rule-writing. Standard and Poor’s has estimated that Volcker could
sap combined profits at the eight largest U.S. banks by $2
billion to $10 billion a year, depending on the final
provisions.  While Volcker’s focus is on the largest banks, it could
also affect operations at nearly all 7,000 U.S. depository
institutions. A few of the biggest companies, including New
York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , ranked
fifth and sixth respectively by assets, have shut down some
proprietary trading operations and withdrawn investments that
are likely to be outlawed under the rule.  Circulating Draft  Final draft language continues to circulate among the five
agencies, including the SEC, CFTC, Federal Reserve, Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency and Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., the people said. The deliberations have highlighted
differences among the agencies -- while the banking regulators
usually work with companies in private to ensure their safety
and soundness, the SEC and CFTC monitor public markets with a
focus on full disclosure and fair practices.  The job of policing a poorly written rule will largely fall
on the SEC and CFTC, said Republican SEC Commissioner Daniel Gallagher. The rule could force his agency to chase minor
missteps that banking regulators would have the ability to fix
behind closed doors, he said in an interview.  “It will be up to the commission, not the banking
regulators, to enforce large swaths of it,” Gallagher said.
Flaws could create a “flurry of technical violations that could
result in enforcement actions” and impede practices such as
market-making -- where banks take the other side of transactions
for clients.  The five agencies are pushing to comply with the year-end
target date for completion despite such last-minute wrangling,
the people said. Additional delays are also possible because the
CFTC staff was barred from working on the rule during the recent
U.S. government shutdown.  ‘High Water’  “Hell or high water, we’re getting it done,” Comptroller
of the Currency Thomas Curry said in an interview last month.  Curry said the final rule will clarify “what is
appropriately risk-mitigating hedging” and what constitutes
proprietary trading. His agency and others fined JPMorgan $920
million last month for having weak internal controls and
misleading regulators in the London losses.  Stein, who took office Aug. 9, worked as a senior policy
adviser to Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who
supported the Volcker rule. She has hired Ty Gellasch, a former
staff member of Volcker rule co-author Senator Carl Levin, as a
top aide in her SEC office.  Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said in a letter to regulators
last year that the final version of Volcker “should require
hedges to have a high correlation with both the underlying asset
and the specific risk that is being mitigated.”  ‘Artificial Deadline’  Dennis Kelleher, president of Washington-based advocacy
group Better Markets, cautioned against moving so fast the
regulators make mistakes.  “Meeting an artificial deadline with a rule that doesn’t
do the job or protect taxpayers is irresponsible,” Kelleher
said today in an interview. To make the rule meaningful, the
regulators need to insist the hedging exemption makes sure
hedging is direct and specific to the risk at hand, he said.
“With computers now, they know with a degree of certainty
that’s almost incomprehensible, how to do hedges.”  In addition to the ban on proprietary trading, the rule
would forbid banks from holding more than a 3 percent stake in
hedge funds and private-equity funds.  Last month, New York-based Citigroup, the third-largest
U.S. lender, said it will sell its $6 billion emerging-markets
private-equity unit. In June, New York-based JPMorgan, the
largest U.S. bank by assets, announced plans to break off its
private-equity unit One Equity. JPMorgan reported about $7.7
billion in total private-equity holdings in recent filings.  The SEC’s Gallagher said the agencies should re-propose the
rule and give companies three weeks to identify what they
consider its most damaging provisions -- a process he called a
“fatal flaw” review. He acknowledged a re-proposed rule is
unlikely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  