-- VW Calls Germany’s 1 Million Electric-Car Goal Achievable
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-10-23T14:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/vw-calls-germany-s-1-million-electric-car-goal-achievable.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest
carmaker, said the German government’s goal to have 1 million
electric cars on the country’s roads by 2020 can be achieved if
partly battery-powered cars like hybrids are taken into account.  “We will make our contribution toward this goal,”
Volkswagen Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said today
at a panel discussion at a ceremony near chemical producer BASF
SE’s headquarters in Ludwigshafen,  Germany .  Plug-in hybrids, which can switch between rechargeable
battery power and conventional combustion engines, “offer the
biggest market potential,” and should help with a rollout of
electric mobility on a larger scale, Winterkorn said.  The CEO reiterated Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen’s
plan to offer as many as 40 electric or hybrid models in the
event that demand for low-emission cars takes off. The
manufacturer will produce 14 vehicles with alternative drive
through next year after introducing electric versions of the
Golf hatchback and Up! city car at  the Frankfurt auto show  last
month. Volkswagen also showed new plug-in hybrid versions of the
Porsche brand’s Panamera four-door coupe and Audi’s A3 compact.  VW’s move echoes initiatives by peers such as  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  to promote purely electric and hybrid
cars, which help automakers comply with tightening fleetwide
emission regulations across the globe. Corporate enthusiasm for
alternative-drive engines has failed to translate into
significant sales amid consumers’ concerns that powering systems
offer only limited distance before a recharge is required and
objections to higher prices.  German Registrations  Purely or partly battery-powered vehicles accounted for
4,157 new car registrations in Germany in 2012, about twice as
many as the year before, according to the  VDA  auto-industry
association. Germany’s new car market amounts to about 3 million
vehicles a year.  VW’s e-Up! went on sale in Germany this month for 26,900
euros ($37,000). The model is “deliberately positioned”
against the battery-powered i3 city car that Munich-based
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  is bringing out, Rudolf Krebs, head
of electric-powertrain technology at VW, said on Sept. 4.  BMW, the world’s biggest luxury-vehicle manufacturer,
presented the i3 in Frankfurt last month, as well as a plug-in
hybrid version of the X5 sport-utility vehicle. The i3, priced
at 34,950 euros, will enter showrooms in Germany in November.  BMW’s Strategy  Plug-in hybrids have the most potential and BMW plans to
eventually offer one in every model line, Herbert Diess, the
automaker’s development chief, said in an interview last month.
Cars with electromobility will make up 5 percent to 10 percent
of the market by 2020 from well under 1 percent now, Diess said.  Other alternative-drive vehicles shown at the Frankfurt
auto show included an all-electric Mercedes-Benz  B-Class 
crossover from  Daimler AG (DAI)  that will use a drivetrain supplied by
 Palo Alto , California-based  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , and a hybrid
coupe prototype from Volvo Car Group.  VW was “startled” by reports of a fire earlier this month
involving a plug-in Tesla electric car, Winterkorn said today.
Electric-vehicle safety is “a very intensive issue,” and the
German company’s own systems have successfully passed extensive
testing. “Our battery technology is on the safe side.”  Tesla shares dropped to a two-week low yesterday after the
top U.S. auto regulator said the agency is studying the Oct. 1
incident, in which a Model S sedans battery caught fire
following a collision with a large metal object on a road in
Kent, Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in  Frankfurt  at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  