-- Wallabies Get Test Pay Cut Under New Australian Rugby Agreement
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-23T04:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/wallabies-get-test-pay-cut-under-new-australian-rugby-agreement.html
Wallabies players will get A$3,100
($3,000) less per Test match under a new pay structure for
Australian rugby over the next four years.  The new collective bargaining agreement, the first since
2005, will cut payments for elite international matches to
A$10,000 from A$13,100, the Australian Rugby Union said today.
For the first time, the accord includes a salary cap for the
country’s Super Rugby teams.  “This deal is arguably the most significant of its kind
since rugby turned professional in 1995,” ARU Chief Executive
Officer Bill Pulver said in an e-mailed statement. “The players
have acted with integrity and maturity throughout the
negotiations and their support for the game warrants
acknowledgment by the Australian rugby community.”  The agreement comes as the Wallabies slipped to No. 4 in
the International Rugby Board’s  world rankings  -- their lowest
position since 2010 -- and the Sydney-based ARU seeks to trim
costs after two years of losses totaling about A$20 million.  While Test-match payments will drop, minimum salaries for
Super Rugby core squad members will increase by about 15 percent
over the four years to $75,000 in 2017, the ARU said. The salary
cap will be A$5 million per season for each of  Australia ’s five
teams in the southern hemisphere’s elite provincial competition.  Australian players will also get reduced allowances while
on national team duty, the ARU said.  “The players have made significant concessions in this
deal to ensure that rugby will be a stronger game for those who
follow in their footsteps,” said Greg Harris, CEO of the Rugby
Union Players’ Association, which helped formulate the accord.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  