-- WellPoint Raises Profit Forecast Ahead of Exchanges
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-10-23T20:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/wellpoint-tops-third-quarter-analyst-profit-estimates.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
U.S. insurer, increased its full-year forecast as the company
gears up for business from the U.S. health-care law’s new online
insurance markets.  Profit is expected to be at least $8.40 a share in 2013,
Indianapolis-based WellPoint said in raising its  projection  for
the third time this year. Analysts had estimated $8.27 in  profit 
this year and $8.39 in 2014, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Third-quarter earnings topped estimates.  WellPoint has made the biggest commitment of any publicly
traded  insurer  to the health exchanges that debuted this month.
Medical-plan enrollment jumped 6 percent to 35.5 million in the
quarter as WellPoint also benefited from the slowdown in medical
claims that has boosted all insurers since the economic
recession that ended in 2009.  The raised forecast reflects “our strong performance, our
continued preparation and the outlook for coming market changes
under the Affordable Care Act,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph Swedish said in a statement today.  Health insurers stand to gain millions of customers in an
expansion of private insurance options under the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010.  Swedish, on a conference call with analysts, declined to
say how many new members WellPoint might gain from the health
law and suggested early expectations for next year’s earnings
may be below this year’s results.  Health insurer shares fell, with WellPoint slipping 3
percent to $85.48 at the close in New York.  ‘Super-Conservative’  “Our view into the quarter for was for flat-to-down stocks
for the rest of the year,” said Thomas Carroll, a Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. analyst in Baltimore, in an e-mail. “It’s based
on the irrelevance of this year, and the lack of guidance or
super-conservative guidance hints for next year.”  The shares of  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest insurer,
fell the most in two years on Oct. 17 after the Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based company declined to raise its profit forecast
for 2013. The carrier said cuts in Medicare reimbursements would
weigh on results next year as well.  WellPoint’s third-quarter earnings excluding one-time items
of $2.10 a share topped the $1.82 average of 17 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Net income fell 5.1 percent to
$656.2 million, or $2.16 a share, from $691.2 million, or $2.15,
a year earlier, the company said in a statement today. Revenue
rose 17 percent to $17.7 billion.  The insurer runs 14 Blue Cross plans. The increase in
medical-plan enrollments was fueled by last year’s $4.9 billion
acquisition of Amerigroup Corp., which specializes in coverage
for low-income Medicaid patients. The program is also set to
expand under the health-care overhaul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  