-- Wells Fargo Elects Ex-Deloitte Partner Quigley to Board
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-23T17:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/wells-fargo-elects-ex-deloitte-partner-quigley-to-board.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
mortgage lender, elected James H. Quigley to the company’s
board, bringing the number of members to 15.  Quigley, a former partner at Deloitte LLP, will join the
board immediately, San Francisco-based Wells Fargo said today in
a statement. Quigley, 61, will join the audit and examination
committee, Wells Fargo said.  Quigley’s “management experience running a prominent
global firm, together with his extensive audit, financial
reporting, and risk management expertise, makes him an
outstanding addition to the board,”  John Stumpf , Wells Fargo’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Quigley spent 35 years at firms affiliated with Deloitte,
including stints as CEO of Deloitte LLP, a U.S. firm, from 2003
until 2007, and U.K.-based Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd. from
2007 until 2011, according to the statement. He retired as a
senior partner at Deloitte LLP in 2012.  Quigley is no relation to Philip J. Quigley, who was a
Wells Fargo director until this year, or Scott P. Quigley,
Philip’s son, who works at the bank, according to Ancel Martinez, a company spokesman.  Quigley’s experience “advising diverse multinational
companies operating in complex environments” will assist the
board in its oversight of the company, said Stephen W. Sanger,
lead director and chairman of the governance and nominating
committee. Wells Fargo is expanding beyond the U.S., where
Stumpf has said the firm gets 97 percent of its revenue.  Quigley is the fourth director named to the board in the
last 28 months. Former PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP partner Howard
V. “Rick” Richardson was named in November. Federico Pena, who
led the transportation and energy departments for President  Bill Clinton , joined in November 2011, and Elaine Chao, labor
secretary under  George W. Bush , took her seat in July 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  