-- Wesfarmers First-Quarter Coles Sales Rise 4.9% After Election
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-10-23T22:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/wesfarmers-first-quarter-coles-sales-rise-4-9-after-election.html
Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , Australia’s largest
employer, posted a 4.9 percent increase in first-quarter food,
liquor and convenience sales as consumer confidence rose after
the national election on Sept. 7.  Sales from its Coles supermarkets, liquor-store and
convenience chains reached A$8.9 billion ($8.6 billion) in the
three months ended September, Perth-based Wesfarmers said in a
regulatory statement today. Those from food and liquor stores
open at least 12 months increased 3.4 percent, compared with 4
percent growth expected by the median of four analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Wesfarmers is the first major Australian retailer to report
quarterly results after the Sept. 7 election, in which Prime
Minister  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition won control
from the  Labor party . Australian  consumer confidence  hit its
highest level in almost three years in September after  interest
rates  were cut to a  record-low 2.5 percent  and the election
victory ended three years of minority government.  “Consumers have collectively upgraded their assessment of
the economy,” according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. note to
clients on Sept. 11. “An improvement in the growth outlook for
the region, solid price gains across the housing sector, and the
change in government” were responsible for the improvement,
they wrote.  Wesfarmers shares fell 0.5 percent to A$42 in Sydney
yesterday. The stock has advanced 14 percent this year, trailing
the 15 percent gain for the S&P/ASX 200 index.  Sales from the Bunnings home-improvement outlets rose 10.3
percent to A$1.99 billion while those from Target,  Australia ’s
biggest department store chain by outlet numbers, dropped 6.1
percent to A$789 million. Sales at the discount Kmart department
store chain increased 4.6 percent to A$970 million.  Food and liquor prices fell 2.5 percent during the quarter
due to “significant produce deflation” and discounting,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  