-- Apple Wins Patent-Infringement Trial Against Wi-Lan
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   D e n n i s   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-10-23T20:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/wi-lan-loses-patent-infringement-trial-against-apple-in-texas.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a patent-infringement
trial in which Wi-Lan Inc. was seeking $248 million from the
iPhone maker over an invention for wireless technology used in
mobile devices.  Apple didn’t infringe a patent for technology used in
wireless networking, a federal jury in Marshall,  Texas , said
today. The jury, which deliberated for just over an hour, also
said the two patent claims were invalid.  Wi-Lan said it was reviewing its options, and that it
“does not believe previous license agreements signed related to
the patents are negatively impacted by this decision.”
 Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment.  Wi-Lan relies on royalty payments for all of its sales.
Justin Kew, an analyst with  Cantor Fitzgerald , called the case
“pivotal” because an agreement with Cupertino, California-based Apple might eliminate much of the company’s litigation
costs that have led to quarterly losses.  Wi-Lan reported a loss of $762,000 in the second quarter on
revenue of $19.9 million, with litigation expenses accounting
for much of its costs.  The company’s shares have fluctuated with its patent suits.
An agreement announced with Samsung Electronics Co. sent it up
11 percent in June, while a trial loss against Alcatel-Lucent SA
and Ericsson AB over different patents related to wireless
transmissions sent the stock down 31 percent in July.  The shares were halted at 1:08 p.m.  New York  time, as the
jury began deliberations, and didn’t resume trading.  IPhone Value  Apple argued that it uses chips made by Qualcomm Inc.,
which doesn’t use the Wi-Lan technology. Mark Scarsi of Millbank
Tweed in  Los Angeles  told the jury that Wi-Lan valued the patent
at $4.3 million in 2006 and now wants a big payout by demanding
a cut from every iPhone sold.  “They are claiming the entire value of the iPhone,
including the charger -- that’s why they are suing Apple and not
Qualcomm,” Scarsi told the jury in closing arguments. “You
haven’t been fooled. You know what’s right.”  Apple is “slinging mud” because it needs the technology
and knows it has to take a license to the patent, Sam Baxter of
McKool Smith in Marshall, representing Wi-Lan, told the jury.  “The competitors were going to eat their lunch,” Baxter
said. “They had to take a license. Think about the 122 million
phones they would not be able to sell without a license.”  The Ottawa-based company reached agreements with HTC Corp.,
Hewlett-Packard Co. and Novatel Wireless Inc. in the days before
the trial for undisclosed terms. That left Apple the sole
defendant. Apple, which denied infringing the patent, argued it
didn’t cover anything new over prior know-how.  BlackBerry Ltd. settled its fight with Wi-Lan, as did
Alcatel-Lucent.  The case is  Wi-Lan Inc. (WIN)  v. HTC Corp., 11cv68, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  