-- Wipro Declines as Sales Growth Lags Infosys: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-10-23T06:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/wipro-declines-as-sales-growth-lags-infosys-mumbai-mover.html
Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  slumped in Mumbai
trading, poised for its biggest drop in six months, after the
software exporter posted sales growth that trailed that of
larger rivals  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)   Shares fell 5 percent to 488.85 rupees as of 10:58 a.m. in
Mumbai, headed for the largest decline since April 22. The
stock, which surged to a 13-year high yesterday before the
earnings announcement, was the  worst performer  on the benchmark
S&P BSE Sensex, which slid 0.5 percent.  Morgan Stanley and Jefferies Group LLC said there is
limited scope for the stock to gain after surging more than 30
percent in the past three months, and delivering sales growth
that lagged behind peers. Billionaire Chairman  Azim Premji ’s
Wipro reported sales rose 19 percent in the three months ended
September, compared with Infosys’s 32 percent increase and 34
percent at Tata Consultancy.  “We note that Wipro’s growth is lowest among peers,”
Vishal Agarwal, a Mumbai-based analyst at Jefferies, wrote in a
note to clients yesterday. “We remain positive on the sector;
however we prefer to play it via” other companies, he wrote.  Slow growth at Wipro’s business process outsourcing unit,
which contributed about 8.6 percent of revenue, “continues to
drag overall growth of the company,” Vipin Khare and Gaurav Rateria, analysts at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note to clients.  Net income was 19.3 billion rupees ($313 million) in the 
three months ended September, Bangalore-based Wipro reported 
after the market closed yesterday. The profit beat the 18.4 
billion-rupee median of 44 analysts’ estimates compiled by 
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  