-- Wisconsin Partnership Law Fought as Too Like Marriage
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2013-10-23T21:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/wisconsin-partnership-law-fought-as-too-like-marriage.html
Wisconsin ’s domestic partnership law
should be struck down because it too closely mimics marriage,
violating a state constitutional amendment, lawyers for a group
of taxpayers told the state’s highest court.  The plaintiffs, who first sued in 2010, asked the seven-member court in Madison to reverse lower-court rulings that
upheld the domestic partnership provision signed into law in
2009 by former Governor Jim Doyle, a Democrat.  “We are asking the court to declare the law
unconstitutional in its entirety,” taxpayers’ lawyer Austin
Nimocks told the judges today. The domestic partnership law
can’t be saved by striking only parts of it, said Nimocks, an
attorney the with Scottsdale, Arizona-based organization
Alliance Defending Freedom.  The hearing before the Wisconsin Supreme Court comes two
days after  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican,
withdrew his appeal of a Sept. 27 trial court ruling recognizing
same-sex marriage right under that state’s constitution. New
Jersey is the 14th state to legalize gay weddings.  The administration of Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , a
Republican, declined to defend the domestic partnership measure.
The gay rights advocacy group Fair Wisconsin is defending the
law in court.  Same-sex couples would lose dozens of benefits if the law
is overturned, Christopher R. Clark, the lead lawyer for Lambda
Legal Defense Education Fund, said in court.  “There are very real ramifications for same-sex couples
and their families,” Clark said. “Wisconsin would be taking a
real step back.”  The case is Appling v. Walker, 2011AP1572, Wisconsin
Supreme Court (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Wisconsin Supreme Court in Madison, Wisconsin, at
   fmarierohde@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  