-- Won Rises to Nine-Month High on Fed Stimulus Bets; Bonds Climb
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-23T01:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/won-rises-to-nine-month-high-on-fed-stimulus-bets-bonds-climb.html
South  Korea ’s won rose to the
strongest level since January as U.S. employers added fewer jobs
than forecast, bolstering the case for the  Federal Reserve  to
delay cutting its bond purchases.  Government bonds  gained.  South Korea should closely monitor and prepare for changes
in external conditions, including any stimulus reduction by the
Fed,  Bank of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo said in  Seoul  today.
The government is watching fund inflows and currency moves to
identify speculative activity and will prevent “herd
behavior,” Finance Ministry Director Kim Seong Wook said Oct.
18. U.S. employers added 148,000 workers last month, trailing
the 180,000 forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “The expectation that the Fed’s stimulus will continue may
create appetite for riskier asset,” Son Eun Jeong, a Seoul-based currency analyst at Woori Futures Co., wrote in a research
note today. “We’re paying attention to possibly more intense
intervention by the authorities as the won heads toward the
highest level this year.”  The currency advanced 0.4 percent to 1,056.35 per dollar as
of 9:50 a.m. in Seoul, the strongest level since Jan. 18,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, dropped eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 5.92 percent.  Global funds have pumped some $12.1 billion into local
stocks since Aug. 22, the last day of net sales, exchange data
show. The Bank of Korea will take steps, including liquidity
injections and changes to capital flow rules, if needed to
ensure market stability, it said in an Oct. 18 report to
parliament. The Fed refrained in September from reducing its $85
billion of asset purchases, saying it wanted to see more
evidence of an economic recovery.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2016 declined four basis points to 2.8 percent, the lowest
level since Sept. 23, according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  