-- Yue Xiu Said Nearing Deal to Buy Hong Kong’s Chong Hing
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-10-23T16:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/yue-xiu-said-nearing-deal-to-buy-hong-kong-lender-chong-hing-2-.html
Yue Xiu Group, a trading arm of
 China ’s Guangzhou city government, is nearing an agreement to
acquire  Hong Kong  lender  Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111) , according to
three people with knowledge of the matter.  An announcement may come as early as this week, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
are confidential. Chong Hing jumped 7 percent to a record
HK$37.40 at the close of trading in Hong Kong yesterday, giving
it a market value of HK$16.3 billion ($2.1 billion).  The first acquisition of a Hong Kong lender since 2009
would give Yue Xiu a network of 53 branches, providing a
platform to provide offshore financing for Chinese companies.
Chong Hing, which named Lau Wai-man as the first chief executive
officer from outside the founding Liu family last year, said in
August it had been approached by prospective bidders.  “If Yue Xiu can gain a bank, it will be easier for them to
offer cross-border financing,” said Samuel Ng, an analyst at
Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd. “There’s room to expand
that business.”  Two calls and an e-mail to Yue Xiu’s Guangzhou office went
unanswered yesterday. Edith Chan, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman
at Chong Hing, declined to comment.  Hong Kong’s role as an international center for trade in
the  yuan  has attracted Chinese financial institutions seeking to
expand abroad, including  China Merchants Bank Co. (600036) , which paid
$4.7 billion for the Wu family’s Wing Lung Bank Ltd. in a deal
completed in 2009.  Wing Hang Talks  Hong Kong retail lenders’ exposure to non-banking companies
on the mainland increased 11 percent to HK$2 trillion at the end
of June from the start of this year, according to the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority’s half-yearly report released last month.  The Liu family controls about 60 percent of Chong Hing,
exchange filings show. The lender said Oct. 8 that its
controlling shareholder was in talks with Yue Xiu and “certain
other independent third parties.”  Wing Hang Bank Ltd. (302) , another family-owned Hong Kong lender,
said last month its shareholders were in talks to sell their
stakes, without identifying any buyer. The Fung family, its
affiliates and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. together hold about
45 percent of the company.  Chong Hing, with a larger family stake, is smaller and
easier to acquire, said Daiwa’s Ng.  ‘Ridiculous’ Valuations  Lau replaced Liu Lit-chi, a family member who had spent
more than 50 years at the bank. The lender, founded in 1948 as
Liu Chong Hing Bank Ltd., dropped the family name in December
2006 to “more accurately reflect the public nature of the
bank,” according to its  website .  Chong Hing has jumped more than 150 percent in Hong Kong
trading since Nov. 28, 2012, when Lau’s appointment was
announced. The stock trades at 2.18 times historical book value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wing Hang, with a
market value of HK$35.1 billion, has a price-to-book multiple of
1.72.  China  Merchants Bank ’s purchase of Wing Lung Bank,
completed in 2009, valued the lender at 3.1 times book value,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd.’s Chief Executive Officer  Michael Smith , who lost out
to Merchants Bank in the bidding, called that ratio “crazy.”  Hong Kong banks remain overpriced, Smith said Oct. 8,
describing a ratio of two times book value as “ridiculous at
these times.”  Short-Term Loan  Yue Xiu Group, founded in 1985 by the Guangzhou city
government as a trading company for Hong Kong and Macau,
 operates in  businesses including real estate, securities and
toll roads. It is getting a $1 billion short-term loan to
finance a potential Chong Hing bid,  Bloomberg News  reported Oct.
11.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority announced changes to the
city’s banking regulations this month as it sought to tighten
oversight of shareholders in local lenders.  Last year, Guangzhou Securities Co., a member of Yue Xiu
Group,  set up a joint venture  advisory company with  Hang Seng
Bank Ltd. (11) , Hong Kong’s second-largest local lender.  Chong Hing’s network of 51 branches in the city -- it also
has one each in Macau and China -- compares with more than 260
at  BOC Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. , the Bank of China Ltd. unit
that’s the biggest local lender.  Nomura Holdings Inc. is working with Yue Xiu on the deal,
while UBS AG is advising Chong Hing, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  