-- Zambia Sees $1 Billion in Bond Offers as Stock Market Jumps
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-10-24T17:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-23/zambia-sees-1-billion-in-bond-offers-as-stock-market-rallies.html
Zambia’s  stock exchange , Africa’s
fourth-best performer this year, is turning to companies and
finance institutions to tap growing demand for debt with as much
as $1 billion in bond sales as the government boosts spending to
sustain growth.  The  African Development Bank  is set to follow the
International Finance Corp.’s local-currency Zambezi bonds that
were 4.8 times oversubscribed when 150 million kwacha ($28
million) of the medium-term notes were sold, the IFC said Oct.
3.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ’s Zambia unit has registered to sell
1 billion kwacha of debt, according to the country’s Securities
and Exchange Commission.  “Our markets are certainly poised for a take-off,” Wala
Chabala, chief executive officer of the commission, said in a
phone interview on Oct. 22 from Lusaka, the capital. “We are
having quite a resurgence of  capital markets  in the country.”  Companies in Zambia, Africa’s biggest copper producer, are
benefiting from an economy that’s expected to grow 6 percent
this year and 6.5 percent in 2014, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , as the government tries to
accelerate development. Finance Minister Alexander Chikwanda
increased spending for next year by 33 percent, with the biggest
allocations going to roads, education and health care.  Yields on Zambia’s Eurobonds due September 2022 were little
changed at 6.68 percent by 6:21 p.m. in  London , the lowest since
June 19. The yields have risen 1.25 percentage points this year
to yesterday, compared with a 0.97 percentage-point advance in
Nigerian debt due January 2021, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Price Shocks  Zambia’s budget deficit will probably reach about 8.5
percent of gross domestic product this year, wider than the 4.3
percent earlier projected, Chikwanda said Oct. 11.  Africa ’s
biggest copper producer remains vulnerable to a decline in the
price for the metal and an economic slowdown in  China , its
biggest export market, Moody’s Investors Service said on July
26. The country is rated B1, four steps below investment grade,
on par with Ghana and  Senegal .  Izwe Loans Zambia Ltd., the local unit of a South African
provider of small loans to people without collateral, and
Lusaka-based Focus Financial Services, a lender, sold debt on
the Zambian bourse worth 31 million kwacha this year. The two
companies registered to sell as much as 665 million kwacha.  While the IFC saw high demand for its debt, the sale may
have overshadowed Focus’ offer, which was approved in August,
Chabala told reporters on Oct. 22. Investors bought one-fifth of
what Focus offered in medium-term notes, or 20 million kwacha.
The company extended the sale by two months after it was
requested by investors, Treasury Manager Francis Mandona Mwape
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  Foreign Buyers  Government plans to start its own provider of small loans
probably weighed on Izwe, Chabala said. Izwe sold 11 million
kwacha, less than the 20 million kwacha offered after it was
approved by regulators in June. Local companies would be more
successful in selling debt if they sought more foreign buyers
and guaranteed the bonds, Chabala said.  Kamiza Chikula, a Lusaka-based spokesman for  Standard
Bank ’s local unit, Stanbic Bank Zambia Ltd., didn’t respond to a
voice-mail message and an e-mail seeking comment yesterday.
Olivier Eweck, financial services manager at AfDB’s treasury
department, didn’t answer his phone or immediately respond to e-mailed questions yesterday.  The IFC said it can issue as much as 2.5 billion kwacha in
bonds and the first tranche is listed on the Lusaka Stock
Exchange. The bourse is set to get stock listings before the end
of the year from an insurance company and a property company,
Chief Executive Officer Brian Tembo told reporters on Oct. 22,
declining to identify them.  Agricultural Market  That follows Prima Reinsurance Plc’s listing in September,
the first on the bourse since 2008. The exchange’s  all-share
index (NSEASI)  rallied 34 percent this year, the best in Africa after the
Ghana Stock Exchange  Composite Index (GGSECI) ’s 75 percent increase,
Kenya’s Nairobi Stock Exchange All-Share Index, which climbed 39
percent and  Nigeria ’s benchmark gauge.  The exchange may start talks with Zamace Ltd., the Lusaka-based market for agricultural products, about a merger, Tembo
said by phone on Oct. 22. He was the head of Zamace before
starting his job at LuSE last month.  “The Lusaka Stock Exchange has been having discussions of
some sort with Zamace since 2011,” Tembo said. “We want to
take that discussion to another level because there are obvious
synergies.”  Trading on the agricultural products market has been
suspended since 2011, and may resume in May if government
introduces laws required for it to do so, Tembo said in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  