-- 
‘Little Reason to Party’ Over New Greek Bailout Plan: Analysts’ Comments

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-07-22T11:56:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/-little-reason-to-party-over-new-greek-bailout-plan-analysts-comments.html
Analysts comment on 159 billion
euros ($229 billion) of new aid for  Greece  announced by euro-
area leaders late yesterday. Officials also empowered their 440-
billion euro rescue fund to buy debt across stressed euro
nations, aid troubled banks and offer credit-lines to repel
speculators. The comments were collected from reports published
by banks today.  Citigroup Inc.’s Valentin Marinov, a currency strategist in
London:  “The key issue is whether the current bailout will
lastingly reduce investors’ concerns about debt sustainability
in Greece and the euro zone periphery more generally. We think
not.  ‘‘We suspect, however, that, given the new crisis fighting
tools, any renewed increase in the peripheral risks are likely
not to trigger a broad based risk-off. This should leave the
euro close to recent lows against risk-correlated Group of 10
currencies.  ‘‘We could see some more euro-dollar upside in the near
term on the back of receding tail risks in the  euro zone  and
lingering uncertainty about the debt ceiling debate in the U.S.
Beyond the next few weeks, however, we suspect that the upside
in euro-dollar could be difficult to sustain.’’  Morgan Stanley strategists led by Hans Redeker, head of foreign-
exchange strategy in London:  ‘‘What we did hear out of Brussels does not convince us
that euro markets can remain stable for long. While the EFSF now
has the flexibility required to deal with the challenges of
protesting credit markets, the size of the EFSF has not been
increased, leaving markets guessing how long it may take before
this market-calming instrument may run out of funds.  ‘‘Our guess is that the summer months will see volatile
euro markets, which then may herald further strengthening of the
Swiss franc. We like using this rally to sell Swiss franc into
strength.’’  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.’s Lee Hardman, a currency
strategist in  London :  ‘‘It represents a positive step forward in easing fiscal
adjustment for the periphery, but crucially fails to
significantly reduce solvency concerns.’’  ‘‘The plan falls short of achieving debt sustainability
with debt to gross domestic product ratios for Greece, Portugal
and Ireland still likely to remain comfortably above 100
percent. A continuation of solvency concerns will leave the door
open for contagion fears to rebuild. Beyond the new bailout
euphoria, relative economic fundamentals are turning against the
euro with growth in the euro-zone slowing sharply.’’  FxPro’s Simon Smith, chief economist and Michael Derks, chief
strategist, in London:  ‘‘Eventually, a forced default is still more likely than
not. The euro will breathe a sigh of relief, but there’s little
reason to party.’’  Societe Generale SA’s Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange
research in London:  ‘‘There are still plenty of details to be hammered out and
it will need ‘selling’ in some countries, but we see this as
both sufficient for a short-term relief rally for the euro and
higher-beta currencies, and insufficient to prevent the crisis
rearing its head again after the summer.’’  Barclays Capital’s Alan James, head of inflation-linked bond
research in London:  ‘‘Yesterday’s euro area heads of state meeting confounded
market expectations by delivering most of the markets’ wish list
including flexible credit lines and the ability for the EFSF to
buy bonds in secondary markets, resulting in sharp tightening of
European government bond spreads.  ‘‘While there may be some further spread narrowing this
morning on positive sentiment, despite the increase in the
powers of the EFSF with no additional resources the scope for it
to deal with any further issues in the larger southern European
economies is limited.  ‘‘On the other hand the notably lower  interest rates  that
the EFSF will now apply to Ireland and Portugal significantly
improve the prospects for fiscal sustainability in these
countries and hence suggest a better environment ahead if the
Greek resolution is relatively orderly.’’  High Frequency Economics Ltd.’s Carl B. Weinberg, chief
economist in Valhalla, New York:  ‘‘This is all pretty soothing, and pretty much the maximum
that could be expected.  ‘‘The plan is, essentially, to take the debt into the EFSF,
where it will be financed for 15-to-30 years at lower-than-
market interest rates with a 10-year grace period on debt
repayment. Greece surely could not have expected anything
better.  ‘‘We have to hope that by showing that they can fix Greece,
the EU governments have convinced the markets of the folly of
speculating against  Portugal  or Ireland…or Spain… or  Italy .’’  Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. strategists led by Marc Chandler
in New York:  ‘‘The final plan proposed by European policy makers has
appeared to exceed market expectations and as a result the
positive momentum and supportive risk backdrop should boost the
euro in the short-term.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 