-- 
‘Sweat Ceiling’ Cramps Washington as Heat, Humidity Overwhelm U.S. Capital

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-07-22T18:23:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/-sweat-ceiling-cramps-washington-as-heat-humidity-overwhelm-u-s-capital.html
As the worst mix of heat and
humidity in almost a decade hit the Mid-Atlantic region today,
there’s one small consolation: The  Washington  Monument hasn’t
melted -- yet.  Instead, the  marble  obelisk was almost deserted as workers
and tourists abandoned the National Mall for air-conditioned
cover in their offices or the capital city’s museums.  Nathan and Jennifer Walters of  Memphis ,  Tennessee , spent
six hours walking on the mall yesterday before slipping into the
National Archives building, where the nation’s founding
documents are displayed.  “Is it bad that we hit where the Constitution is held to
cool off?” Nathan Walters said today in an interview outside
the historic Willard InterContinental Hotel next to the Treasury
Building. “Thank you, tax dollars, for cooling us.”  As of 2 p.m., the temperature had soared to 102 at the
Washington Reagan National Airport, and with the humidity it
felt like 119, the highest since at least 2002, according to the
National Weather Service. Temperatures are forecast to reach 103
degrees today, matching an 85-year-old record.  Similar forecasts were issued in communities along the
Eastern Seaboard, from Raleigh,  North Carolina , to  Portland ,
 Maine , according to the government weather forecasters. New York
City’s temperatures may touch 106, according to Accuweather.com
in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  “It’s really, really brutal out there,”  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland,
a Washington suburb, said in an interview.  ‘Sweat Ceiling’  Washington’s droll self-regard hadn’t entirely evaporated.
With lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  seeking to reach a
deal to avoid default by raising the debt ceiling, readers of
the Washington Post settled on the Sweat Ceiling as the best
term to describe the conditions. The runner-up? Helter Swelter.  Even at its coolest, Washington had record heat. The
overnight temperature was 77, a degree warmer than the previous
highest low reading, set 135 years ago and matched in 1993, the
 National Weather Service  reported today.  Regional environment departments issued a Code Red air-
quality alert, warning that pollution levels are unsafe for the
general population. The weather office issued an excessive heat
warning in Washington.  Temperatures are forecast to exceed 100 degrees again
tomorrow, before thunderstorms rumble into town sending
temperatures to more typical mid-90s by the end of the weekend.  Governments, utilities and businesses adopted serious
emergency preparations to deal with heat.  Pepco Peak  Pepco Holdings Co., which has 778,000 customers in the
region, put repair crews on 12-hour shifts and summoned staff
for evening call-center duty. So far the electric demand hasn’t
exceeded the daily record 6,900 megawatts used in July 2006,
said Clay Anderson, a company spokesman.  The University of the  District of Columbia  closed its
campus in Northwest Washington for the day, citing the excessive
heat. The city activated its “multi-agency heat plan,” which
started with preliminary visits to residential care homes for
the mentally ill to make sure air-conditioning systems worked,
according to a statement.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  ordered state swimming
pools, beaches and lakes to stay open later today and tomorrow.  In  New York City , more than 500 cooling centers are open
today and will be through at least tomorrow, Chris Gilbride,
spokesman for the Office of Emergency Management, said in an
emailed statement.  “Water-On-the-Go” drinking fountains -- faucets connected
to a fire hydrant -- were also deployed at various locations,
including near City Hall, Union Square, Times Square and
Rockefeller Center.  County Pools  In Maryland’s suburban Montgomery County, the government
urged residents to visit pools, libraries or shopping malls to
stay cool in free air-conditioning.  In Washington, a few hardy tourists still wandered around
the historic sites, water bottles in hand.  “It’s pretty much this hot at home; we’re just not living
on a  swamp ,” Teresa Jackson, 46, of Harrisonburg,  Virginia ,
said as she stood outside of the White House. “We’re hoping the
White House visitor’s center shop will have a spray-mister.”  Jackson and daughter Sarah opted to skip a trip to the
National Zoo and will instead stay inside at the National
Aquarium, around the corner from the center.  Eric Dodge, a 42-year-old construction worker at the
University of  Maryland ’s College Park campus, said he packed his
cooler with a gallon of water when he left for work. He’s
spending the day in the basement of a dormitory, sweating away
as he works to repair the air conditioning before students
return to campus next month.  “I try to stay in a cool spot,” Dodge said. “That’s all
you can do.”  Dodge might want to keep that cooler ready for repacking:
After a respite of a few 90-degree days, Rogers says another
spate of 100-degree temperatures may grip the region again a
week from today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  