-- 
`Use It or Lose It’ Should Be the Rule on Corporate Cash: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-22T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/-use-it-or-lose-it-should-be-the-rule-on-corporate-cash-view.html
U.S. companies are holding about $2
trillion in  cash , and the amount keeps growing, especially as
many corporations report strong first-half profits on top of
robust 2010 earnings. This leads to a few questions: Shouldn’t
managers put their cash to work, or pay it in dividends? And if
they don’t, shouldn’t shareholders be getting impatient?  Total dividends paid in the first quarter of 2011 fell from
a year earlier. The average dividend yield on Standard & Poor’s
500 Index companies is about 1.9 percent. That’s half the level
of the 1980s and a fifth less than in the 1990s.  During the late 1990s, dividends plunged as investors began
accepting a trade-off: low payouts in exchange for rising share
prices. Companies also had ample uses for their cash, such as
investing in technology to gear up for the world of online
commerce.  The 2008 financial crisis led companies to cut payouts
further to conserve cash.  General Electric Co. (GE) , for example,
slashed its quarterly dividend of 31 cents a share by two-
thirds. While GE has since raised the dividend to 15 cents, it’s
still holding $127 billion in cash and liquid assets.  At least GE pays a dividend.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  (with a $35
billion cash pile) and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  ($14 billion) don’t return
anything to shareholders. With Ford, this might be deemed a
double insult as its shares are down this year.  Hoarding Cash  Companies no longer need to hoard cash to weather the
economic crisis. Yet they aren’t putting their money to good use
by acquiring competitors to gain market share: Companies in the
 S&P 500  have used a mere $70 billion of their cash for deals so
far this year.  Nor are chief executive officers doing much in the way of
using excess cash to build plants or buy new technologies. The
same goes for innovating products or expanding into fresh
territory. Given the employment numbers, it’s safe to conclude
that they aren’t using the cash to add workers.  Instead, many companies prefer to use cash for stock
buybacks -- suggesting that they’re running low on good ideas.
The premise of a stock repurchase is that it produces higher
per-share earnings (the same amount of net income divided by
fewer shares). While some investors say dividends and stock
repurchases are equally rewarding for them, we’re skeptical.  Companies tend to be no smarter than anyone else when it
comes to judging the value of their stock. As McKinsey & Co.
reported in a May  study , “we’ve rarely seen companies with a
good track record of repurchasing shares when they were
undervalued; more often than not, we see companies repurchasing
shares when prices are high.”  No Deadbeats  It would be unfair to condemn every company that’s hoarding
cash as a dividend deadbeat.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  just reported that it
has $76 billion on hand, and while it has never paid a dividend,
it has more than compensated for it with ingenuity and a
scorching stock price. Apple is now the world’s second-most-
valuable company.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is another company that has never
paid a dividend. Of course, Berkshire has  Warren Buffett 
deploying the firm’s cash, like its March agreement to acquire
chemical maker Lubrizol Corp. for $9 billion.  These are exceptions. Unless companies begin to do more
with the money they’re sitting on, shareholders should feel
justified in raising questions. After all, corporate executives
aren’t bankers; if shareholders wanted to watch their cash earn
a pittance in interest, they would have put it elsewhere.  For Bloomberg View  editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 