-- 
A Smart Jobs-Creation Idea Both Parties Can Love: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-07-22T00:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/a-smart-jobs-creation-idea-both-parties-can-love-jonathan-alter.html
Where’s  Franklin Roosevelt  when we
need him? While campaigning amid 25 percent unemployment in
1932, Roosevelt argued for what he called “bold, persistent
experimentation.”  As he put it: “It is common sense to take one method and
try it. If it fails, admit failure frankly and try another. But
above all, try something.”  This spirit of creativity and experimentation is missing in
today’s  Washington , especially on jobs creation. If Republicans
in Roosevelt’s time had blocked his big-spending Works Progress
Administration programs, as they surely would today, he would
have changed gears and experimented with something less
expensive but still bold.  So should President  Barack Obama . To his credit, Obama has
been on the road almost every week pushing plans for jobs, from
training 10,000 new engineers to creating better partnerships
between community colleges and local businesses. But most of
those are longer-term solutions that won’t help today’s
desperate job-seekers. And there doesn’t seem to be a lot of
out-of-the-box thinking from his  Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness .  The good news is that Obama can put people to work without
spending billions if he and his team will just open themselves
to more fresh ideas. I’ll offer an excellent one I heard about
recently that could show quick results at a very low cost.  A Daunting Problem  But first, let’s be clear about how desperately Americans
crave creative problem-solving. According to a  CBS News/New York
Times poll , 53 percent of Americans say jobs are the most
important problem in the country. Only 7 percent name the  budget
deficit . Every other issue is at 2 or 3 percent.  And the scope of the problem is daunting. More than 14
million people are unemployed, and almost half of them have been
out of work for more than 27 weeks. Labor Department figures
released Thursday show that applications for jobless benefits
increased to 418,000 in the week ended July 16, more than
forecast.  I’m hoping that when the debt-ceiling crisis ginned up by
Republicans finally eases, Obama will move toward an imaginative
jobs agenda that can actually start to put a dent in these
figures in the short term.  More likely, he’ll repeat the ideas he has already floated,
like extending the payroll-tax holiday, creating an
infrastructure bank or offering a job-creation tax credit of
$5,000 (on average) for every net new worker hired by business.  Corrosive Fatalism  These are all good ideas but likely DOA in Congress. The
last thing Republicans will agree to is spending -- or even tax
credits -- that might help a president they despise. Sad to say,
their determination to prevent Obama from being re-elected
easily trumps anything serious that might help their
constituents find work.  The Republicans’ tired remedies for joblessness -- marginal
tax cuts and regulatory relief -- were tried and utterly failed
during  George W. Bush ’s presidency, when job growth was non-
existent.  And I’m afraid that a corrosive fatalism has crept into the
debate. There’s only so much we can do, we’re told. The rest is
beyond our control.  Compounding this problem is the mindset of many Democratic
policy makers. They’re lawyers and economists trained to analyze
and poke holes in arguments, not create and implement. It’s so
much safer bureaucratically to say no than to risk ridicule by
pitching something off-the-wall.  The business executives on Obama’s jobs council are mostly
corporate types, not entrepreneurs with a buccaneering spirit.
The ideas they’ve offered, like streamlining the permitting
process for construction and improving the outreach of the  Small
Business Administration , are fine as far as they go. But they
don’t go far enough.  A Bold Idea  So with more political stalemate ahead on jobs, Obama needs
to experiment with some bold ideas that don’t cost much money.  Here’s one: Alan Khazei, a Democratic candidate for the
 U.S. Senate  in  Massachusetts , suggests that the federal
government offer states the flexibility to convert their
unemployment insurance payments from checks sent to the jobless
into vouchers that can be used by companies to hire workers.  This would mean, for instance, that a position paying
$40,000 might cost employers only $20,000, thereby encouraging
them to hire. When the new employees get a chance to prove
themselves, they’re more likely to be kept on when the voucher
expires.  If a mere 10 percent of unemployed Americans persuaded
employers to accept such vouchers, more than a million people
would find work with no new spending beyond some administrative
costs. Not too shabby.  Of course there are complications.  Alan Blinder , a
Princeton University economist and former vice chairman of the
 Federal Reserve , rightly asks, “How do you make sure the firm
doesn’t fire Peter to pay Paul?”  Try Something  The answer might be to make the voucher redeemable by the
employer only with a commitment to no net reduction of workers
for a certain period. Such logistical concerns can be worked
through if officials have the will.  But do they? When I contacted the U.S. Department of Labor,
Gay Gilbert, Administrator of the Office of  Unemployment
Insurance , showed no interest beyond saying “There is no legal
authority for states to implement the ‘voucher’ idea.”  Obtaining that legal authority from a Republican House that
loves the concept of vouchers might not be so hard. But it’s
only possible if policy makers are willing to consider fresh
thinking.  And what if Khazei’s idea is a loser in the end? All that
means is that it’s time for the government to follow Roosevelt’s
advice and “admit failure frankly and try another. But above
all, try something.” Fourteen million Americans looking for work
deserve no less.  (Jonathan Alter, the author of “The Defining Moment: FDR’s
Hundred Days and the Triumph of Hope,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
 Jonathan Alter  at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 