-- 
Macmillan Publishers Must Pay $18 Million for Africa Corruption

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-22T11:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/macmillan-publishers-must-pay-18-million-for-africa-corruption.html
Macmillan Publishers Ltd. was fined
11.3 million pounds ($18.4 million) over possible bribes to win
contracts for education materials in Rwanda, Uganda and Zambia.  The  book publisher , based in Basingstoke,  England , was
ordered by a London court to pay the settlement after an
internal investigation found evidence its processes for bidding
on contracts “were susceptible to improper relationships,” the
U.K. Serious Fraud Office said in a statement today.  “It was impossible to be sure that the awards of tenders
to the company in the three jurisdictions were not accompanied
by a corrupt relationship,” the SFO said. “It was plain that
the company may have received revenue that had been derived from
unlawful conduct.”  The investigation began after the World Bank Group told the
 City of London  Police that Macmillan tried to pay a bribe to win
a contract in  Southern Sudan . The police searched premises in
December 2009 to gather evidence and Macmillan reported the case
to the SFO in March 2010, the prosecutors said.  The SFO is increasingly turning to the civil courts to
settle bribery allegations instead of prosecuting. SFO Director
 Richard Alderman  has said the length of criminal cases is
getting longer and that it takes fewer resources to obtain a
civil recovery if a company reports the issue or cooperates.  In the past year, the SFO obtained court orders for fines
against KBR Inc.’s U.K. unit, MW Kellogg, and Johnson &
Johnson’s British subsidiary, DePuy International, for paying
bribes overseas.  Reputation  The Macmillan fine shows companies “it’s time to drive the
risk of bribery and corruption out of their tendering processes
wherever they are,” City of  London  Police Commissioner Adrian
Leppard said. “The reputation of U.K. Plc depends on it.”  Macmillan cooperated with the SFO and police, the publisher
said in  a statement  on its website. Chief Executive Annette Thomas said the issues were limited to its education business in
East and West Africa, and that they have hired an independent
monitor to oversee compliance with bribery laws.  “The company deeply regrets what has passed, but has
learned from the experience and has emerged stronger as an
organization,” Thomas said.  Alderman said the civil recovery order “delivers value for
money to the public by saving the costs of lengthy
investigations and protracted legal proceedings and removes any
property obtained as a result of the wrongdoing.”  The  World Bank  barred Macmillan in April 2010 from
tendering for its contracts for six years.  “Corruption is any form is inexcusable, but corruption in
an education program for children in a developing country is
simply repugnant,” said Stephen Zimmerman, the director of
operation for the World Banks’ Integrity Vice Presidency.  To contact the reporters on this story: Lindsay Fortado in
London at   lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 