-- 
Madoff Trustee Says Some Common Law Claims Remain Against UBS

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-22T19:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/madoff-trustee-says-some-common-law-claims-still-in-place-against-ubs.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
firm hasn’t withdrawn all common law claims against UBS AG and
has left them in place in one of two lawsuits against the Swiss
bank, a spokeswoman said.  Trustee Irving Picard sued UBS twice, seeking $2.6 billion
and alleging the Zurich-based bank aided Madoff’s fraud by
setting up so-called feeder funds and agreeing “to look the
other way” at irregularities. He told U.S. District Judge
 Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan this month he would drop some
claims and ask UBS only to return money taken from the Ponzi
scheme before its 2008 collapse.  The common law claims for damages were dropped in the
second, smaller suit against UBS and won't affect the amounts 
sought, Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, said in an e-mail 
today.   “Our decision was meant to promote judicial economy by
enabling the district court to leave the bankruptcy case in
 bankruptcy court ,” she said.  UBS,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and UniCredit
SpA, sued by Picard with other parties for a combined $90
billion in transfers and damages, took their cases to district
court. McMahon and Judge Jed Rakoff have said they will decide
if Picard has a right to use common law and other laws to sue
for damages.  Fees  Picard’s first suit against UBS demands $2 billion. The
second suit, filed in December, asks for $555 million in
withdrawals from the con man’s business, plus “millions of
dollars” in fees, “in an amount to be determined at trial, for
helping deposit money with Madoff,” according to the complaint.
Also demanded were unspecified “compensatory and exemplary
damages in an amount to be proven at trial.”  Giving up the damages sought in the $555 million suit won’t
affect the trustee’s potential recovery from UBS because they
duplicate amounts sought in transfers, Remus said.  UBS has said Picard sought more than $2 billion based on
common law claims. UniCredit is part of a suit that demands
triple damages, or a total of $59 billion.  The cases are Picard v.  UBS AG (UBSN) , 11-cv-04212 and 11-cv-
04213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  