-- 
Thai Mutual Funds Exit Kimchi Debt as Yield Advantage Vanishes

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-07-22T02:55:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/thai-mutual-funds-to-exit-south-korean-bonds-as-yield-advantage-vanishes.html
Thai mutual funds will sell all of
the 130 billion baht ($4.4 billion) they have invested in South
Korean bonds next year as rising  interest rates  offer better
returns at home.  Sathapana Leoprapai, chief executive officer of the
 Association of Investment Management Companies , a group
representing 21 Thai mutual funds, said they would stop offering
products to invest in Korean bonds after existing investments
expire in 2012. Thai funds, the third-largest foreign holders of
Korean debt, will switch to short-term domestic notes, he said.  “The kimchi funds in Thailand will become history,” the
Bangkok-based Sathapana said in an interview yesterday.
“Returns on domestic bonds will remain attractive as the
expanding economy and accelerating inflation will push up
interest rates.”  The Bank of  Korea  has raised its benchmark interest rate by
1.25 percentage points to 3.25 percent in the past year,
compared with a 2 percentage point lift to 3.25 percent in
 Thailand . The Bank of Thailand “still needs to continue its
rate normalization process” as the real interest rate remains
negative and inflation is still a key risk in the second half,
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said on July 18.  Negative Spread  Thailand’s onshore one-year interest-rate swaps have gained
43 basis points this month, reflecting mounting speculation
borrowing costs will be raised after the Pheu Thai party won a
majority in the July 3 election. The party, led by Yingluck
Shinawatra, has pledged to increase the minimum wage and
guaranteed rice prices for farmers, spurring concern inflation
will quicken.  The Thai one-year swap, the fixed cost needed to receive a
floating payment, is 124 basis points, or 1.24 percentage
points, higher than the equivalent contract in  South Korea .  Yields on Thailand’s three-year government bonds surpassed
those on Korea’s similar-maturity debt on June 28 for the first
time in more than four years and were 17 basis points above them
last week, the biggest spread since Jan. 3, 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate on Thailand’s 5.25 percent
security due May 2014 was at 3.81 percent as of 9:41 a.m. in
Bangkok, compared with 3.79 percent for Korea’s 3.5 percent bond
due June 2014.  Thais held 9.78 trillion won ($9.3 billion) of Korean
bonds, the third-biggest investors after the U.S. and
Luxembourg, as of the end of June, according to data from the
Seoul-based Financial Supervisory Service. That was a decrease
from 16.7 trillion won at the end of 2009, when Thai investors
were the biggest holders of the debt. The Association of
Investment Management Companies oversees about $68 billion,
according to the data on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  