-- 
Malawi President Vows to ‘Smoke Out’ Riot Leaders as 18 Die in Protests

-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 
2011-07-22T14:23:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/malawi-president-mutharika-threatens-to-smoke-out-leaders-of-protests.html
Malawi President Bingu wa Mutharika
vowed to prosecute leaders of protests against his government
that left 18 people dead and dozens injured, as the U.S. and
U.K. condemned a crackdown by security forces.  “To overthrow a legitimate government is treasonous and
you will hear from me soon,” Mutharika said in a speech
broadcast on state radio. “I will smoke you out wherever you
are because you have no right to destroy our peace.” Yesterday,
Mutharika said he was ready to hold talks with the protest
organizers.  Eighteen people were killed in clashes between police and
demonstrators in the towns of Blantyre, Lilongwe and Mzuzu over
the past two days, Henry Chimbali, the spokesman for the health
ministry, said by phone today. At least 44 people are being
treated for gunshot wounds in Mzuzu,  Amnesty International  said,
calling for an investigation into the police response. Mutharika
said 11 people died in the protests.  Civil society groups, including the Institute of Policy
Interaction, the Malawi Law Society and the Council of Churches,
and opposition political parties led the demonstrations to
demand an improvement in the lives of poor Malawians and an end
to fuel and currency shortages. The protests started on July 20
and rioting continued in some areas yesterday. About 74 percent
of Malawi’s 15 million people live on less than $1.25 a day,
according to the  World Bank .  Red Clothes  Police fought with protesters as tens of thousands of them
wearing red clothes marched in Blantyre, the commercial capital,
while people set cars alight and burned tires in Mzuzu in the
country’s northern region.  Mutharika today dismissed a petition from the protesters
and read out a list of people that were trying to depose him.
The deaths should be blamed on the organizers of the
demonstrations, he said.  The U.S., among foreign donors that provide as much as 40
percent of Malawi’s annual national budget, condemned the use of
force by Malawi’s police and warned the government against a
crackdown on the free press.  “The government’s attempt to prohibit its citizens from
marching, and the Communications Regulatory Authority’s ban on
independent media coverage undermine democracy and the rule of
law that Malawians cherish,” U.S. Department of State
spokeswoman Heide Bronke Fulton said in an e-mailed statement.  Cut Aid  The telecommunications regulator switched off three private
 radio stations  -- MIJ FM Radio, Joy FM Radio and Capital Radio -
- to stop them from reporting on the protests, according to the
Media Institute of Southern Africa, Malawi Chapter.  The U.K. also expressed its concern “about the state of
democratic governance and human rights in Malawi,” Minister for
Africa Henry Bellingham said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“The situation is extremely worrying.”  The U.K. cut aid and announced in May it is reviewing
relations with the country after Mutharika expelled its envoy
for criticizing him in a leaked cable. Other countries are
holding back on giving aid until Malawi completes the second
review of its program with the  International Monetary Fund ,
which is overdue.  Amnesty said in an e-mailed report that it had recorded
“increasing intolerance of dissent, and vilification of human
rights activists by senior members of the government” in recent
months.  Demonstrators oppose government policies and want an end to
shortages of fuel and foreign currency. Declining tobacco
exports have reduced foreign exchange receipts, making it more
difficult to pay for motor fuel imports. Malawi is the world’s
biggest producer of the burley variety of tobacco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  