-- 
Schleck Outclimbs Rivals to Take Tour de France Lead With Two Days Left

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-22T17:42:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/andy-schleck-takes-yellow-jersey-from-voeckler-as-rolland-wins-alps-stage.html
Andy Schleck  took the lead of the
Tour de France, replacing  Thomas Voeckler , after outclimbing the
Frenchman on the last mountain stage to Alpe d’Huez.  Pierre Rolland, a teammate of Voeckler on the Europcar team,
won the stage after breaking away from  Samuel Sanchez  and
 Alberto Contador , the defending champion, near the end of the
68-mile ride that began in Modane.  Luxembourg’s Schleck has a 53-second overall lead over the
next cyclist, his older brother Frank.  Cadel Evans  of  Australia 
is third, four seconds further back.  “Schleck, Schleck, Evans: that sounds good,” Andy Schleck,
a two-time runner-up, told France Television when asked about
the standings.  The brothers are seeking to become the first winner of the
 Tour de France  from Luxembourg since Charly Gaul in 1958. There
is a time trial in Grenoble tomorrow before the final ride to
Paris on July 24.  Voeckler led by 15 seconds at the start of the day after
losing time on another mountain stage yesterday. Today’s
performance dropped him to fourth, 2 minutes, 10 seconds behind
Schleck. Damiano Cunego of Italy is fifth and Contador is sixth,
3 minutes, 55 seconds behind Schleck.  Contador, who lost more than four minutes to Andy Schleck
yesterday, attacked on the first climb to Col du Telegraph
barely 10 miles into the stage. Schleck followed his wheel. On
the second climb, the Col du Galibier, the two riders agreed to
take turns to set the pace.  Bike Swap  Evans, who was slowed when he had to swap bikes after a
mechanical problem, fell behind but joined the pair near Alpe
d’Huez. Contador attacked again near the foot of the mountain,
gritting his teeth and riding out of his seat. He built a two-
minute lead on Schleck.  Schleck cut the margin back to about 30 seconds during the
8.5-mile climb, which has 21-switchback turns and an average
gradient of 7.9 percent.  Voeckler struggled to keep up. At one point, he smashed a
water bottle down on the road as he saw his lead slipping away
on the Col du Galibier.  Andy Schleck said he was still wary of Evans, who’s also a
two-time runner-up, in the time trial. “He’s a specialist and
I’m not,” Schleck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Gap,  France  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  