-- 
SEC Rule on Ousting Directors is Rejected

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g ,   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-07-22T18:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/appeals-court-rejects-sec-proxy-access-rules-chamber-of-commerce-opposed.html
A U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission rule making it easier for shareholders to oust board
members was rejected by a federal appeals court.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington today agreed with
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the  Business Roundtable  that
the SEC failed to study the cost to companies of fighting a
challenge from shareholders and connect those costs to
“efficiency, competition, and capital formation.”  The rule, known as proxy access, was mandated by the Dodd-
Frank financial-regulatory overhaul enacted last year amid
criticism that some corporate boards failed to keep management
in check in the run up to the 2008 financial crisis. The rule
would have allowed investors or shareholder groups that own at
least 3 percent of a company’s stock for three years to put
their own board nominees on proxy statements.  “The commission inconsistently and opportunistically
framed the costs and benefits of the rule; failed adequately to
quantify the certain costs or to explain why those costs could
not be quantified; neglected to support its predictive
judgments; contradicted itself; and failed to respond to
substantial problems raised by commenters,” U.S. Circuit Judge
Douglas Ginsburg wrote for the unanimous three-judge panel.  The SEC could request a hearing before all  District of
Columbia  Circuit judges or appeal to the  Supreme Court . The
agency could also opt to redraft the rule from scratch.  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman, said the commission is
“reviewing the decision and considering our options.”  Chamber’s Challenge  “The court’s decision is deeply disappointing to long-term
shareowners,” said Amy Borrus, a spokeswoman for the Council of
Institutional Investors in Washington. “We think proxy access
is a core shareholder right and is standard in many countries.”  The chamber and the Business Roundtable, which represents
chief executive officers of the nation’s biggest companies,
challenged the rule in a lawsuit in September, claiming the SEC
botched its responsibility to consider the cost and potential
abuse of the rule.  The rule could have cost big companies facing a proxy
battle as much as $14 million each, said Eugene Scalia, a lawyer
at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in  Washington  who represents the
business groups, during oral argument in April.  Potential Costs  The SEC, which put the measure on hold pending the outcome
of the business groups’ suit, argued the potential costs are
reasonable because not every board will oppose a candidate put
forward by shareholders.  Ginsburg, in the ruling, said that argument “had no basis
beyond mere speculation.”  The SEC, according to the ruling, didn’t respond to public
comments arguing that investors with special interests, such as
unions and state and local governments, would use the rule to
leverage concessions from companies.  `Strong Message'  “We applaud the court’s decision to prevent special
interest politics from being injected into the boardroom,”  Tom
Donohue , president of the Chamber of Commerce, said in a
statement. “Today’s decision also sends a strong message that
regulators need to meet their statutory requirement to clearly
prove that the benefits of regulation outweigh the costs.”  Flawed economic analysis has been a focus of successful
efforts to overturn SEC rules in recent years.  Business groups including the Chamber of Commerce have
benefitted from a 1996 revision of securities laws that require
the regulator to consider factors other than investor protection
when writing rules. Specifically, the law requires the SEC to
evaluate whether its regulations will promote “efficiency,
competition and capital formation.”  Today’s loss for the SEC is at least the fifth time since
2005 that the appeals court in Washington has rejected SEC
regulations on the grounds that the commission didn’t adequately
justify its actions.  SEC Chairwoman  Mary Schapiro  said in arguing for the rule
that the 2008 credit crisis, which cost financial firms almost
$2 trillion worldwide, showed shareholders needed more clout in
picking board members.  Under the regulation, shareholders would be able to
nominate at least one director and as much as 25 percent of a
board. Investors couldn’t use the rule if their intent is to
oust a majority of board members and take over a company.  The case is Business Roundtable v. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 10-1305, U.S. Court of Appeals, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at +1-
   jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 