-- 
Harbottle & Lewis Under Investigation in Phone-Hacking Case

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-22T17:45:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/harbottle-lewis-under-investigation-in-phone-hacking-case-2-.html
The actions of Harbottle & Lewis LLP
relating to the phone-hacking scandal at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-
defunct News of the World tabloid may be investigated by the
U.K. regulator that oversees attorneys.  The  Solicitors Regulation Authority  said in a statement
today it was starting a probe into lawyers related to the
scandal after U.K. lawmaker  Tom Watson  raised  concerns . A post
on Watson’s website said the regulator’s response related to
Harbottle & Lewis. Testimony at Parliamentary hearings this week
on phone hacking focused on the London  law firm .  Police are investigating whether reporters at the News of
the World hacked into the voice mails of politicians,
celebrities, and murder and terror victims, and bribed police
for stories. The scandal has led to the resignation of senior
officials at  News Corp. (NWS)  and the Metropolitan Police, and the
closure of the 168-year old tabloid.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  and his son James told a
parliamentary committee on July 19 that they relied on a 2007
investigation into phone hacking at the paper that said the
practice didn’t extend beyond a former reporter and private
investigator who were jailed. Harbottle & Lewis said client
confidentiality rules prevented it from defending itself against
the Murdochs’ claims.  A message left with Harbottle & Lewis’s press office wasn’t
immediately returned. The law firm was given permission by News
Corp. this week to explain the scope of the 2007 investigation.  Client Confidentiality  The firm is seeking clarification from New York-based News
Corp. about the extent to which its client confidentiality duty
is waived, according to a person familiar with the situation,
who declined to be identified because the matter is private.  Ken Macdonald, the former director of Public Prosecutions
in the U.K. who had been hired by News Corp. earlier this year
to review the evidence, told a separate group of lawmakers the
evidence in files Harbottle & Lewis had indicated “serious
criminal offenses” may have taken place at the tabloid.  MacDonald said he “can’t imagine anyone looking at that
file and not seeing crime on its face.”  “We have now carried out a preliminary review of public
domain material in this fast-moving situation,” SRA Chief
Executive Officer Antony Townsend said in a letter to Watson,
posted on the politician’s  website . “As you will be aware, a
number of issues are emerging which include the matters which
you have raised.”  The regulator has the power to issue fines and ban people
from working as lawyers. Townsend said any regulatory action
taken will be public, and the SRA “will pursue it vigorously
and thoroughly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 