-- 
Asian Stocks Erase Yearly Drop on Optimism Europe Crisis Easing

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-07-22T23:26:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/asian-stocks-erase-yearly-drop-on-optimism-europe-crisis-easing.html
Asian stocks climbed this week,
erasing the regional benchmark index’s loss for the year, as
steps by European leaders toward easing the region’s sovereign
debt crisis, including fresh aid for Greece, boosted the
earnings outlook for Asia’s banks and exporters.  Esprit Ltd., a clothier that gets most of its revenue from
 Europe , jumped 12 percent in Hong Kong through this week.
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Japan ’s biggest publicly
listed bank, rose 3.6 percent in Tokyo. Samsung Electronics Co.
led technology stocks higher, gaining 2.2 percent in  Seoul  after
Apple Inc.’s profit topped estimates.  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) ,
the biggest seller of home siding in the U.S., rose 4.4 percent
after new-homes construction in the nation surged to a five-
month high.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 2.5 percent to 139.04 this
week, capping the gauge’s fourth advance in five weeks. Last
week, the measure dropped for the first time in four weeks after
Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S. under review for a
possible credit-rating downgrade and European finance ministers
declined to rule out a temporary default for Greece.  “Europe seems to have prevented the Greek sovereign-debt
issue from escalating into something bigger,” said Ng Soo Nam,
the Singapore-based chief investment officer at Nikko Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $154 billion. “There’s a
case for a decent rebound for the market from these levels.”  Erasing Loss  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average increased 1.6 percent,
taking it within 1 percent of erasing its loss for the year.
South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 1.2 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 2.9 percent, while Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index advanced 2.6 percent.  Esprit jumped 12 percent to HK$24.15 in Hong Kong and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank by market value, climbed 3.2
percent to HK$78.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender
by market value, added 3.1 percent to A$50.52 in Sydney after
appointing Ian Narev as its new chief executive officer from
December.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  jumped 7.8 percent to
A$25.22. Mitsubishi UFJ gained 3.6 percent to 407 yen in  Tokyo 
after the Nikkei newspaper said the lender’s profit may have
more than doubled.  Euro-area officials this week renewed efforts to end the
region’s sovereign bond crisis and announced 159 billion euros
($228 billion) of aid for Greece in their latest rescue plan.
European leaders also erected a firewall around Spain and Italy
to help ease the region’s sovereign debt crisis, reducing
uncertainty over earnings at financial companies.  Apple Profit  Technology shares climbed after Apple reported that profit
in the third quarter increased to $7.79 a share from a year
earlier, exceeding the $5.87 predicted by analysts on average,
on record iPhone and iPad sales.  Samsung, South Korea’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics whose smartphones compete with Apple’s iPhones,
advanced 2.2 percent to 850,000 won in Seoul.  Wintek Corp. (2384) , a
supplier of touch sensors for Apple’s iPad, rose 1.3 percent to
NT$40.30 in Taipei.  “Confirmation there’s going to be more support for Greece
eases concern about the financial system and it gives investors
a little more tolerance for risk,” said Juichi Wako, a senior
strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.97 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 6.9 percent by the
S&P 500 and a drop of 1.4 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Exporters to the U.S. climbed after construction of new
homes rose more than forecast in June to the highest level in
five months, adding to signs the housing market is stabilizing.
Work began on 629,000 houses, a 15 percent increase from May,
the Commerce Department reported July 21.  Optimistic Forecast  The level of home-building starts exceeded the most
optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Building permits, a sign of future construction, unexpectedly
climbed 2.5 percent.  Asian exporters rose even as President Barack Obama battled
to overcome a political impasse to avert a U.S. default.  “People are feeling less anxious about a default and the
economy in the U.S.,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities manager
in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  James Hardie, a supplier of building materials that gets 68
percent of sales in the U.S., rose 4.4 percent to A$5.96 in
Sydney.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the largest supplier of toys and clothes
to Target Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., advanced 3.1 percent
to HK$14.20 in Hong Kong. Honda Motor Co., the Japanese
automaker that counts North America as its biggest market,
gained 0.8 percent to 3,235 yen in Tokyo.  Asian commodity stocks also rose as  oil prices  advanced in
the week on optimism global demand will accelerate as the U.S.
and European economies recover.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, rose
1.3 percent to A$43.43 in Sydney as crude for September delivery
rose 2.7 percent in  New York  this week.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,
Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer, added 1.6
percent to A$39.80, while in  Hong Kong , PetroChina Co., the
nation’s second-biggest oil refiner climbed 1.7 percent to
HK$11.68 in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 