-- 
Treasuries, Dollar Rise on Debt-Deal Optimism; AMD Shares Rally

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-22T22:09:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/asia-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-as-yen-bond-risk-fall-on-europe-aid-plan.html
Treasuries rose and the Dollar Index
rebounded from a six-week low amid speculation U.S. lawmakers
were nearing a deal to raise the debt limit and avoid default.
After the close of trading, House Speaker  John Boehner  withdrew
from negotiations with the White House.  The gain in Treasuries pulled the 30-year yield down six
basis points to 4.26 percent and the 10-year rate five points
lower to 2.96 percent at 4 p.m. in New York. The Dollar Index
added 0.3 percent, while the euro fell against 13 of 16 major
peers.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  led a rally in U.S.
technology stocks that drove the Nasdaq-100 Index to a 10-year
high, while  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  dragged the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  lower after earnings missed analysts’ estimates.  Treasuries strengthened as House Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp  predicted Congress will raise the $14.3
trillion debt ceiling before the government runs out of cash on
Aug. 2. After trading ended for the week, Boehner said he will
talk with Senate leaders instead of Obama on a way to avoid a
U.S. default.  “It’s going to be hard for any deal not to go through --
odds are there’s going to be a deal,”  Michael Franzese ,
managing director and head of Treasury trading at Wunderlich
Securities Inc., said in a telephone interview regarding the
U.S. debt ceiling.  The euro erased almost a third of yesterday’s 1.5 percent
advance against the dollar amid skepticism about Europe’s latest
effort to halt the spread of the government debt crisis.  No Cure  Europe’s debt-crisis plan is “not a cure, it’s a Band-
Aid,” Franzese said. “The risk is coming out of the market.”  Advanced Micro Devices, the second-largest maker of
processors for personal computers, climbed 19 percent for its
biggest gain since November 2009. The company’s earnings and
sales forecast topped estimates on orders for new chips. The
shares led technology stocks up 1.2 percent as a group for the
biggest gain among 10 industries in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, which increased 0.1 percent to extend its weekly advance
to 2.2 percent.  Caterpillar, which accounted for the second-biggest
proportion of the Dow before the start of trading, led the 30-
stock gauge down 43.25 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,681.16
after the company said demand for construction equipment in
 China  slowed. Rockwell Collins Inc., the maker of communication
and aviation electronics, slid 5 percent after its earnings also
trailed the average analyst estimate amid a drop in sales. C.R.
Bard Inc., a maker of medical devices, slumped 12 percent for
its biggest drop in 18 years after reporting a quarterly loss
due to a legal settlement.  Earnings Season  Per-share earnings have grown about 19 percent and topped
analyst estimates at about 83 percent of the 122 companies in
the  S&P 500  that have reported earnings since July 11, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The euro fell for the first time in four days against the
dollar, losing 0.4 percent to $1.4363, amid concern measures to
contain the debt crisis won’t be enough to quell regional
turmoil.  After European markets closed yesterday, euro-area leaders
announced a plan to empower their 440-billion euro ($635
billion) rescue fund to buy debt of stressed nations in a bid to
build a firewall around Spain and  Italy . European stocks and
Greek bonds maintained gains today after  Fitch Ratings  said the
country faces “restricted default” following the agreement on
the new bailout.  Greek Yields  Greek two-year yields were 618 basis points, or 6.18
percentage points, lower at 27.63 percent. The yield on the two-
year Irish note fell 4 percentage points to 15.11 percent, down
from a record 23.5 percent on July 19. Italian two-year yields
rose one basis point and Spanish yields were 10 basis points
higher, both reversing earlier declines.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 0.6 percent to extend this
week’s increase to 1.9 percent. National Bank of Greece SA
rallied 9.4 percent. SSAB AB, the world’s largest supplier of
high-tensile steel, surged 6.8 percent as earnings topped
estimates.  Norway’s benchmark OBX stock index rose 0.2 percent, wiping
out most of a 1 percent earlier rally after a bombing in the
capital. The krone lost 0.3 percent against the  U.S. dollar . A
bomb blast tore through central Oslo, shattering windows at the
prime minister’s office and leaving at least seven people dead,
while a gunman shot several people on an island near the
Norwegian capital, police said.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.9 percent, taking
its increase for the week to 1.6 percent. Benchmark gauges in
 India ,  South Korea  and  Thailand  advanced more than 1 percent.  Crude oil climbed to a six-week high in  New York , rising
0.8 percent to $99.87 a barrel in New York.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities increased 0.9 percent to
the highest level since June 10, with 19 of 24 materials tracked
by the gauge advancing. Corn rose for a third straight week and
soybeans gained after a crop researcher said harvests in the
U.S., the world’s largest grower and exporter, will be smaller
than government forecasts. Sugar surged 5 percent amid concern
the cane crop will be smaller than forecast in  Brazil .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  