-- 
Verizon Falls as AT&T Wins Round in Carriers’ IPhone Battle

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-07-22T20:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/at-t-tops-verizon-in-iphone-activations-in-second-quarter.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  fell the
most in three months in  New York  trading after losing to  AT&T
Inc. (T)  in the battle for iPhone customers in the second quarter.  Verizon Wireless , the country’s largest wireless carrier,
said today it activated 2.3 million of the handsets made by
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in its first full quarter of selling the device. AT&T
said yesterday it switched on 3.6 million devices in the period,
including the older 3GS model, which it sold for $49.  Verizon, which doesn’t have the older model, sells its
iPhone 4 starting at  $199 . The New York-based company is
awaiting a newer version of the Apple handset to help it meet a
target to have 50 percent of its contract subscribers using
smartphones, up from 36 percent at the end of June.  “It will be the first time that we’re supposed to have a
phone that’s at parity,” Verizon Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo said today in a phone interview, referring to a new
iPhone model. “Today we don’t. They have a different phone at
$49 than we have.”  Verizon, which co-owns Verizon Wireless with  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , fell 83 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $36.74 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest drop since
April 21. Dallas-based AT&T rose 4 cents to $30.32.  Verizon also reported second-quarter profit of 57 cents a
share, after a loss a year earlier, topping the 55-cent average
of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  IPhone 5 Debut  Investors may be disappointed with Verizon’s second-quarter
figure for monthly revenue per subscriber, said Christopher Larsen, an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in New York who has a
neutral rating on Verizon shares. The figure rose 1.9 percent
from a year earlier to $54.12, compared with the $54.62 average
estimate of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The revenue-per-subscriber figure includes data devices
such as portable wireless routers, laptop cards and tablet
computers. Average revenue per contract mobile-phone subscriber
grew faster, up 3.2 percent from a year earlier, Verizon said.  Verizon had expected a new iPhone around June, when Apple
has normally introduced upgraded versions, to help the carrier
reach its forecast of 50 percent smartphone use by the end of
the year, Shammo said in the interview. The company probably
won’t reach that target until the end of next year’s first
quarter, he said.  He referred to the next version of the device as iPhone 5.  Smartphone users represent 50 percent of AT&T’s contract
subscribers, the company said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  