-- 
Latvia Voters May Dissolve Parliament

-- B y   K i r a   S a v c e n k o
-- 
2011-07-22T10:47:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/latvia-voters-may-dissolve-parliament-in-anti-corruption-fight.html
Latvians will probably vote to
dissolve parliament in a referendum tomorrow as part of a
campaign to crack down on corruption that may strengthen Prime
Minister Valdis Dombrovskis’ deficit-cutting government.  Opinion polls show that close to 80 percent of Latvians
support former President Valdis Zatlers’ call to dismiss
lawmakers after they refused to lift the immunity of a
legislator targeted by a corruption probe. Passage of the
referendum will set up parliamentary elections on Sept. 17.  Zatlers and Dombrovskis are seeking to weaken businessmen
who got rich and gained political influence when the Baltic
nation sold state assets after the  Soviet Union  collapsed.
Zatlers in May warned of attempts to “privatize democracy” as
he named three politicians as oligarchs who he said influence
policy and may secretly own companies.  “If we show that the parliament can be easily kicked out,
the next time they will think twice,” said Ksenija Sahova, a
25-year-old copywriter in Riga, referring to lawmakers.  Dombrovskis, 39, marshaled a deficit-cutting package equal
to 16 percent of gross domestic product after Latvia turned to
the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  for a 7.5
billion-euro ($10.6 billion) bailout in 2008. Latvia needs to
find another 110 million lati ($202 million) of savings to meet
its pledge to bring the  budget deficit  below the EU limit of 3
percent of GDP next year from 7.6 percent in 2010 and qualify
for euro adoption in 2014.  Dombrovskis ‘Ticket’  Dombrovskis’ experience with international lenders is his
“ticket” to lead the next government, said Aigars Freimanis, a
director of Latvijas Fakti, a Latvian research company.  “There is no political force ready to take the risk and
talk to the lenders without Dombrovskis,” Freimanis said.  Eighty percent of Latvians support the referendum,
according to an Internet poll of 900 people conducted by TNS
 Latvia  and published June 2. TNS didn’t provide a margin of
error. A similar proportion, 79 percent, backed Zatlers in a
poll of 1,002 people conducted June 10-19 by Latvijas Fakti.  Zatlers, 56, called the referendum on May 28, naming
lawmakers Ainars Slesers and Andris Skele, as well as Aivars Lembergs, mayor of the port city of Ventspils, as oligarchs. All
three have denied any wrongdoing.  Five days later Zatlers lost his bid for re-election as
lawmakers voted 53-41 in favor of Andris Berzins, a 66-year-old
former banker. Berzins, backed by Lembergs’ Union of Greens &
Farmers, was greeted by protesters after the ballot.  Ending Oligarch Control  Skele, a two-time prime minister, abolished his  People’s
Party  after Zatlers called the referendum. Slesers’ Latvia First
Party/Latvian Way is unlikely to garner the 5 percent vote
needed to win seats in the next parliament, opinion polls show.  “A main goal of the elections will be to ensure that
oligarchs, and the parties supporting oligarchs, do not control
a majority in the next parliament,” Dombrovskis said July 21 in
an interview at Bloomberg’s offices in  New York . “If this will
happen, then I would say the former president’s initiative of
dissolving the parliament will pay off.”  The issue of oligarch influence goes deeper than the three
men named by Zatlers, former President Vaira Vike-Freiberga said
today in an interview with Latvian Independent Television,
according to the Leta news service.  “I think we have many more wealthy people who are directly
or indirectly involved in politics,” Vike-Freiberga said. “And
not all of them are Latvians by nationality.”  Government Reshuffle  New elections would probably reshuffle the governing
coalition, which currently consists of Dombrovskis’ Unity Party,
with 33 seats in the 100-member legislature, and Lembergs’
Greens & Farmers, with 22.  That may threaten Dombrovskis’ government because voters
who supported the oligarch-led parties probably won’t back
Dombrovskis, said Dzintars Zakis, head of the Unity faction in
parliament. While Zatlers plans to create a new party for the
September elections, it is likely to pull support from
Dombrovskis, Zakis said.  The situation would keep Latvia’s economic program
“unpredictable and dangerous,” he said.  Harmony Center, which represents Russian speakers who make
up almost a third of Latvia’s population, was backed by 18.1
percent of those surveyed in the June 10-19 poll by Latvijas
Fakti. Unity ranked second with 14.7 percent, followed by Greens
& Farmers at 10.5 percent and the For Fatherland/All for Latvia
coalition at 8.8 percent.  Democratic Boost  The referendum is positive for Latvia because it will help
develop the country’s democracy, said Toms Silins, vice-chairman
of the Foreign Investor Council in Latvia, which represents 25
companies, including the local units of Statoil ASA, Ernst &
Young LPP and Volvo AB.  “We would like to see less corruption,” Silins said.  Zatlers, who will officially form his Reform Party
tomorrow, said in a phone interview that he plans to nominate
his own candidate for prime minister if the party wins seats in
parliament. The former president said he’s prepared to form a
government with any parties that prove they aren’t linked to the
oligarchs.  “We will do our best to end the oligarchs’ power in
Latvia,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kira Savcenko in London at 
 ksavcenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  