-- 
Balanced-Budget Amendment Makes Politics Easy, Budgets Bad: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-22T00:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/balanced-budget-amendment-makes-politics-easy-but-bad-for-budgets-view.html
An amendment to the U.S.
Constitution should have two qualities: It should make sense as
a piece of legislation, and it should be, as much as possible,
politically neutral. The  balanced-budget amendment , which has
re-emerged in Congress as part of the political jockeying over
the budget impasse, fails on both counts.  Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes famously said that a
constitution is “made for people of fundamentally differing
views.” There are limits to this. You don’t want the
Constitution to be neutral between slaveholders and
abolitionists. But it shouldn’t be choosing sides in budget
disputes. These decisions are up to the elected branches.  A balanced-budget amendment, especially the current model,
clearly does take sides. It would require a two-thirds
supermajority in both houses to raise taxes, with no such
requirement to lower taxes. It would require spending to be cut
to 18 percent of gross domestic product, down from its current
24 percent, and even down from the 19 percent to 20 percent of
recent years, prior to the recession. If the amendment were in
effect today, the budget passed by  House Republicans  in April
would spend too much -- it would be unconstitutional.  There are a variety of other practical objections. The main
one is that requiring a balanced budget every year -- even one
that can be waived by a two-thirds supermajority in both houses
-- would deprive us of the ability to respond quickly to an
incipient recession by increasing government spending or, for
that matter, by cutting taxes.  There are plenty of technical problems, too: How do you
decide when a recession has started, an event that would allow
legislators to override budget constraints? What happens if
Congress or the president simply ignores one or more of the
amendment’s restrictions?  All such questions would have to be clarified by the
courts. Just as they found themselves designing school bus
routes in their efforts to enforce the  Civil Rights Act , judges
might well find themselves choosing among social programs to
kill. Thus the party that supposedly stands for judicial
restraint and deference to the elected branches now wants to
invite judges to take over large chunks of national policy on
basic questions of taxing and spending. All 47 Republican
senators have endorsed the balanced-budget amendment.  Here’s a better idea: If House Republicans want a balanced
budget, why don’t they propose one? Republicans controlled both
houses of Congress and the White House during President  George W. Bush ’s first term. There was nothing to stop them from
submitting and enacting a balanced budget. But they never did.
Instead, they brandished their balanced-budget constitutional
amendment. For a senator or member of Congress, voting for a
balanced-budget constitutional amendment is an easy vote. Voting
for a balanced budget, by contrast, would be a tough vote
indeed.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 