-- 
Bank of Ireland Likely to Fall Under State Control, Analysts Say

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-07-22T14:31:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/bank-of-ireland-likely-to-fall-under-state-control-analysts-say.html
Ireland’s government will probably
take a majority stake in Bank of Ireland Plc, one of the last
two banks left in private ownership, after a share sale next
week, analysts said.  Bank of Ireland is trying to raise 1.9 billion euros ($2.7
billion) in a rights offering that closes on July 26. Investors
are being offered shares at 10 cents each, compared with 10.2
cents the shares are trading at today. The Dublin-based lender
said July 8 that the state’s holding may be between 29 percent
and 70 percent, depending on take-up of its share sale.  “Appetite among our clients for the new shares is quite
low,” said Colm Foley, an analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers , the
country’s second-largest securities firm, said by telephone. The
government will likely end up controlling as much as 65 percent
stake of the lender, he said.  Ireland may own its entire banking system by the end of
this month, as the government injects cash into the banks to
help meet new capital targets. The state already controls Anglo
Irish Bank Corp., Irish Nationwide Building Society and EBS
Ltd., with Irish Life & Permanent Plc also close to falling
under the state’s aegis.  “With the share price trading close to the rights offer
level of 10 cents, and sometimes dipping below it over the past
few weeks, there really isn’t any incentive for investors to
subscribe for the new shares,” said  Michael Cummins , a director
at Dublin-based fixed-income firm Glas Securities. “Majority
state ownership would appear the most likely outcome.”  Bank of Ireland shares have fallen 70 percent over the last
six months, and traded at 10 cents as of 3 p.m., giving the
company a market value of 559 million euros. Bank of Ireland
spokesman Dan Loughrey declined to comment on the state’s future
stake, as did Finance Ministry spokesman Eoin Dorgan.  Private Capital  The bank continues to talk with “other sources of private
capital,” the lender said this month.  In all, the bank needs to raise 5.2 billion euros to shore
up its balance sheet against mounting bad loan losses and meet
new regulatory capital targets.  “While the bank continues to talk to other sources of
private capital, it remains to be seen whether private capital
will ultimately materialize,” Cummins said.  Investors in  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the nation’s second-
largest lender, also meet July 26 to vote on the government’s
plans to raise its stake in the lender to 99.8 percent from 93
percent. The bank reports first-half earnings on July 25.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said on July 20 that the
government has a legal option to seize control of Irish Life &
Permanent, the third-largest lender, after shareholders rejected
proposals for a capital injection from the state.  “I’d be surprised if the government ended up with less
than 60 percent,” of Bank of Ireland, Karl Goggin, an analyst
with Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers, said. “Still, it’s a result
that they’ll manage to keep the government’s stake below the 75
percent level, after which they’d have to delist from the main
stock markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  