-- 
Foreclosure Deal Said to Be Held Up Over Liability Releases

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-22T16:54:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/bank-foreclosure-practices-deal-said-to-be-held-up-over-liability-releases.html
A push by U.S. banks to win broad
liability releases has become one of the main obstacles in talks
to resolve a nationwide probe of mortgage-servicing and
foreclosure practices, two people briefed on the matter said.  The mortgage servicers want protection from additional
state and federal claims over their mortgage practices as part
of reaching a settlement that may exceed $20 billion, according
to the people, who declined to be named because the talks are
private. The banks are seeking releases that go beyond servicing
of mortgages to include lending and securitization of loans, one
of the people said.  That effort has encountered resistance from at least two
states. Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  and New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , who are investigating the
bundling of  mortgage loans  into securities, don’t want their
probes blocked by a broad settlement of liability.  Biden said he has “strong reservations” about a deal that
provides releases of claims related to practices such as
securitization and lending, because servicing is the focus of
the nationwide settlement talks.  “We have an investigation going on. It would hinder our
ability to do that, so that’s why I have real reservations,”
Biden said in an interview.  Nationwide Agreement  State  attorneys general  and officials from federal
agencies, including the  Justice Department , are negotiating a
nationwide agreement on foreclosure practices with the five
largest mortgage servicers:  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Ally
Financial Inc.  Officials are seeking a settlement that sets standards for
how the banks service loans, interact with borrowers and conduct
foreclosures, according to terms proposed in March. They are
also seeking monetary payments. Attorneys general from all 50
states announced their investigation last year after reports
that banks were using faulty foreclosure documents.  “Attorney General Schneiderman remains concerned by any
settlement agreement that would preclude state attorneys general
from conducting comprehensive investigations of the mortgage
crisis,” Danny Kanner, a spokesman for the attorney general,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of New York-based
JPMorgan Chase, said the bank was prepared to go to court if
necessary.  ‘Do Anything’  “I would do anything to get it done today,” Dimon said
July 14 about a settlement, according to a transcript of the
company’s second-quarter earnings call. “But we’ve got to get
it right. We’re not going to do it and be subject to double and
triple jeopardy. We’d rather litigate it.”  Representatives of the banks declined to comment.  Biden said it would be “imprudent” to relinquish claims
in areas that haven’t been fully investigated.  “I hesitate to release those claims and those potential
liabilities mostly because we’re still in the midst of
investigating many of the other related issues,” he said.  Eric Tabor, chief of staff for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, declined to comment about the liability releases and the
comments from Biden and Schneiderman. Miller is leading
negotiations for the states.  “The release is part of settlement negotiations, and we’re
not commenting on negotiations,” Tabor said.  Broad Release  In an interview in June, Miller said that in all settlement
talks, particularly toward the end, both sides negotiate a
release, “and the defendants want as broad a release as they
can get, and the states wants to give as narrow a release, and
that’s negotiated.”  California Attorney General Kamala Harris is also
conducting an investigation into mortgage practices. In May,
Harris announced a mortgage-fraud  task force  that would
investigate mortgage lending and the sale of mortgage-backed
securities to investors.  Shum Preston, a spokesman for Harris, declined to comment
about the settlement talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ; Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at
   dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 