-- 
Beazley Swings Into First-Half Loss After Record Natural Disaster Claims

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-22T08:21:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/beazley-posts-first-half-loss-after-natural-disaster-claims-1-.html
Beazley Plc (BEZ) , the Lloyd’s of London
insurer that tried to buy Hardy Underwriting Bermuda Ltd., swung
into a loss in the first half after record claims from natural
disasters in  Japan ,  Australia  and  New Zealand .  The firm had a net loss of $14.1 million in the first six
months of the year, compared with a profit of $97.9 million in
the year-earlier period, Dublin-based Beazley said today.  The insurer, which writes policies protecting clients from
hurricanes, lawsuits and terrorism, was hurt by the biggest
Japanese earthquake on record earlier this year as well as
catastrophes in Australia and New Zealand. The net cost of the
disasters is likely to be $154 million, an estimate that’s
unchanged from April, Beazley said today.  “The Japanese loss is the second-largest insured loss
ever,” Chief Executive Officer Andrew Horton said in a
telephone interview today. “It’s quite unusual to have so many
losses in one half.”  The insurer still expects to meet analysts’ estimates for
full-year profit of $70 million to $100 million, so long as
there are no major hurricane losses in the second half, Horton
said. The company raised its first-half dividend to 2.5 pence a
share, from 2.4 pence a year earlier.  The stock rose almost 2 percent to 129.4 pence as of 9:20
a.m. in London trading, valuing the firm at about 670 million
pounds ($1.1 billion).  Acquisitions  Beazley is on the lookout for acquisitions to expand in the
U.S. and  Europe , following the failure of its bid for Hardy at
the end of last year. Premium rates have failed to rise
substantially so far this year, putting pressure on smaller
firms to seek mergers or acquisitions to grow.  “In these more stressed times when results aren’t that
good, there will be opportunities to acquire people or books of
business, or small- or medium-sized companies,” Horton said.  The insurer named Dennis Holt, former CEO of Axa SA’s U.K.
division, as a director, it said in a separate statement today.
He will succeed Jonathan Agnew as chairman in March next year,
subject to regulatory approval, Beazley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  