-- 
Berlusconi’s Majority Looks Wobbly as Arrest of Lawmaker Strains Coalition

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-07-22T08:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/berlusconi-s-majority-looks-wobbly-as-ally-is-arrested-in-corruption-probe.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s majority looks increasingly wobbly after his key
coalition partner backed the arrest of a ruling party lawmaker,
the latest to be investigated for alleged corruption.  Members of the  Northern League  joined opposition parties on
July 20 as the Chamber of Deputies approved a request by Naples
prosecutors to arrest Alfonso Papa, a former magistrate from the
southern port city. Papa denies the allegations of  influence
peddling  and revealing state secrets and told lawmakers in  Rome 
that any trial will prove his innocence.  The vote “clearly is another signs of an increasing
‘discrepancy’ between the League and” Berlusconi’s party,
“which may turn into a proper rift,” Lavinia Santovetti, an
economist at Nomura International in  London , said in an e-mail.
“At the moment, it looks very hard for the coalition to survive
until 2013,” when its term ends.  Papa’s case has highlighted deepening divisions between
Italy’s ruling parties as the government tries to protect the
country from  Europe ’s debt crisis. Italy’s 10-year borrowing
costs surged 1 percentage point this month, reaching a euro-era
record 6.03 percent on July 18 on concern about contagion. The
yield fell to 5.344 percent today after European leaders agreed
yesterday on new aid for  Greece  and steps to shield countries
such as Italy and  Spain  from the fallout.  Naples Trash  The League, an anti-immigrant party based in the north that
seeks to devolve government powers to the regions in an overhaul
called “federalism,” is increasingly lining up against key
initiatives of Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party. The League
voted this week against a government plan to ship trash from
Naples for treatment in other regions to ease that’s city’s
garbage crisis. Its leaders have also vowed to vote against
Berlusconi in coming days on renewing funding for foreign
peacekeeping missions, including in  Afghanistan  and Lebanon.  “We’ve seen enough criminal cases inside” Berlusconi’s
party, League member Gian Paolo Gobbo, mayor of Treviso, told
Radio24 on July 20. “The moral question is increasingly nagging
at the People of Freedom party, and once we get federalism
passed, we will toss Berlusconi out to sea.”  The spate of corruption cases also reminds voters of
Berlusconi’s own legal woes as he seeks to defend himself in
four different corruption cases. Papa is the latest in a series
of Berlusconi allies to come under investigation, adding to
investor concern that the government’s legal woes are
distracting from efforts to tame finances.  Credit Rating   Confidence in the country has waned over the past two months
as both  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service warned
that they may cut its credit rating because slow economic growth
and political instability may threaten efforts to reduce the
euro-region’s second-largest debt that stands at almost 120
percent of gross domestic product.  League leader  Umberto Bossi , who blamed Berlusconi for the
ruling parties’ rout in local elections across the country in
May, had urged his party to approve Papa’s arrest. Berlusconi,
suffering from record-low approval ratings, warned that would
spark a wave of prosecutions similar to the “Clean Hands”
graft probes that helped topple  Italy ’s political old guard in
the early 1990s and led to the media mogul’s entry into
politics.  “Remember, before you press that button to vote, you’ll be
opening the bars of prison for yourselves as well,” Mario Pepe,
a parliamentarian for the People of Liberty party told lawmakers
before the ballot in the lower house.  Berlusconi yesterday said his coalition “is not at risk.”  Resignations  Last year, former Industry Minister  Claudio Scajola  and
former Finance Ministry Undersecretary Nicola Cosentino were
both forced to step down amid respective probes into alleged
corruption. Former Credito Cooperativo Fiorentino SC Chairman
Denis Verdini, a coordinator for Berlusconi’s party, saw his
bank put under state administration after he came under
investigation for allegedly rigging tenders and being part of a
secret society aimed at defrauding the state. All three men deny
any wrongdoing.  Over the last month, Agriculture Minister Saverio Romano has
been forced to assert his innocence as Palermo prosecutors probe
him for alleged Mafia ties. President Giorgio Napolitano
expressed “reservations” about Romano’s appointment last
spring due to his alleged involvement in “serious crimes,”
according to a March 23 statement. Marco Milanese, a former aide
to Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  who’s now a parliamentarian,
is also being investigated by Naples prosecutors for alleged
corruption.  Both Romano and Milanese deny wrongdoing.  Rent-Free  Tremonti, credited by many economists for keeping Italy’s
budget deficit in check, said on July 7 he was moving out of a
Rome apartment provided to him rent-free by Milanese. “After
learning of the judicial developments concerning the property,
as of this evening I will change my arrangements,” Tremonti
said in an e-mailed statement.  Berlusconi, who calls himself “history’s most persecuted
man,” is himself being tried in Milan for allegedly paying an
underage nightclub dancer for sex. He also faces bribery, fraud
and tax-evasion charges in three other trials related to
management of his broadcaster  Mediaset SpA. (MS)  The premier denies
any wrongdoing and has accused prosecutors of seeking to destroy
him politically.  His holding Fininvest SpA was ordered by a Milan appeals
court on July 9 to pay Compagnie Industriali Riunite SpA more
than 540 million euros ($770 million). Fininvest was found to
have bribed a judge during a takeover bid for publisher Arnoldo
Mondadori Editore SpA dating back to 1991. Fininvest has said it
will appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 