-- 
BHP’s Escondida Workers Strike as Coal Miners Down Tools

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-07-22T20:23:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/bhp-s-escondida-workers-strike-in-chile-as-coal-miners-prepare-for-action.html
Workers at  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s
Escondida copper mine, the world’s biggest, began striking as
coal miners at the company’s Australian operations prepared to
escalate industrial action.  The strike by all union members at the northern Chilean
mine began at 8 p.m. New York time yesterday and will run
through 8 p.m. today, which may lead to about 3,000 metric tons
of lost copper production, union leader Jose Vidal said by
telephone. The union may prolong the strike if talks with
management fail, he said.  Labor unions are stepping up demands for higher wages and
improved conditions as surging commodity prices swell profits at
mining companies including Melbourne-based BHP. The strike at
Escondida follows a one-day stoppage by union members at
Codelco,  Chile ’s state-owned copper producer, on July 11 to
protest planned job cuts as management revamps century-old
mines.  “We are going to define our strategy” later today, Vidal
said. Workers had some informal talks with management, he said.  The Escondida strike took place after workers failed to
agree with the company over bonuses linked to production, Vidal
said. BHP owns 57.5 percent of Escondida and its share of output
in the year through June was 390,500 tons. Smaller rival Rio
Tinto Group owns 30 percent.  Copper Prices  Copper futures for September delivery rose 2.65 cents, or
0.6 percent, to close at $4.41 a pound at 1 p.m. on the Comex in
 New York . BHP declined 0.3 percent to close at A$43.43 in Sydney
trading.  Chile is the world’s biggest source of copper. Futures have
more than doubled since 2008 as global consumption outpaced mine
output.  In  Australia ’s Queensland state, workers at the  BHP
Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance -owned Saraji mine will hold 12-hour
stoppages this weekend, said  Stephen Smyth , a division president
at the  Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union . Miners
will stop work for 36 hours on July 27 at the Norwich Park mine,
followed by stoppages at six other mines, he said.  Higher Prices  The strikes in Australia, the world’s largest coal
exporter, may bolster prices already driven higher by supply
shortages following floods in the state. The last stoppage by
the coal workers was for 18 hours at the Gregory mine on July
17, Smyth said by phone from Queensland.  “We’ve increased our action and we want to put more
pressure on the company,” he said. “We’ve made only very
little progress at the last meetings so we’re extending
negotiations until August.”  BHP this week reported a 13 percent drop in full-year
coking coal output following floods in Queensland.  “We continue to negotiate with the unions and we believe
progress is being made,” in Queensland, BHP spokeswoman
Samantha Stevens said by phone from  Melbourne  today. “We would
again stress that further industrial action at this time won’t
be in the best interest of finalizing an agreement.”  She declined to comment on the impact of the strikes in
Queensland or Chile.  About 3,500 coal miners in Queensland took part in several
work stoppages that began last month, BHP’s first at its
Australian coal mines since 2001. The workers are seeking
changes to employment contract in matters relating to  job
security , recruitment, use of contractors, training and
development, Smyth said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  