-- 
Europe’s Biggest Banks Face $30 Billion Writedown on Greek Debt

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-07-22T11:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/biggest-european-banks-face-29-7-billion-writedown-on-greek-bondholdings.html
Europe ’s biggest banks stand to lose
20.6 billion euros ($29.7 billion) on their Greek  government
bonds  after lenders in the region pledged to contribute to a new
rescue package for  Greece .  Banks will voluntarily agree to write down the value of
their Greek securities by 21 percent as part of the bond
exchange and debt buyback program, the Institute of
International Finance said in a statement today. Europe’s 90
biggest banks hold about 98 billion euros of Greek debt,
according to the European Banking Authority.  European leaders are trying to contain a debt crisis that
started with Greece from engulfing Spain and Italy. The Greek
aid package, which requires banks to contribute 54 billion
euros, followed weeks of discussions among banking officials as
well as meetings with European Union leaders during the
emergency summit in Brussels yesterday.  “Banks should be able to digest any haircuts on Greek
debt, and it is already priced in to their shares,” said
 Andreas Plaesier , a Hamburg-based banking analyst at M.M.
Warburg. “What was really key was supplying capital to Greek
banks and stopping the possible chain reaction to lenders
outside the country that hold Greek banking assets.”  Greek 10-year government bonds are trading at 61.5 cents on
the euro, up from 55.4 cents yesterday and 50.5 cents on Monday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Irish government bonds
are trading at 63.7 cents, compared with 61.8 cents yesterday.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
rose 1.2 percent today, taking its gain this week to 6.8
percent.  France’s  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA stands to lose about 1 billion
euros,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA 500 million euros,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
317 million euros and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  about 138 million euros
from the writedowns, analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. led
by Dirk Hoffmann-Becking and Marcello Zanardo said in a note to
clients today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  