-- 
Billionaire Jindal’s JSW Delays Power-Project Expansion on High Coal Costs

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-07-22T11:02:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/billionaire-jindal-s-jsw-delays-power-project-expansion-on-high-coal-costs.html
JSW Energy Ltd. (JSW) , the Indian power
producer controlled by the billionaire Jindal family, delayed
expansion of an electricity project because of high coal costs.  The company will shelve a planned 3,200-megawatt expansion
at a plant in Ratnagiri in the western state of Maharashtra as
it waits for coal-pricing “clarity” from  Indonesia  and
Australia, Chief Executive Officer Lalit Kumar Gupta said in an
interview in Mumbai yesterday.  JSW Energy, which imports all the coal it needs to fire its
1,730 megawatts of plants, faced a doubling of raw-material
costs in the year ended March as floods in Australia pushed up
coal prices and fuel consumption increased with the addition of
generation capacity. The utility added 735 megawatts last year
and plans to import 7 million to 8 million metric tons of the
fuel this year, Gupta said.  Australia  this month unveiled plans to make polluters pay a
charge of A$23 ($24.90) for every ton of carbon dioxide they
emit, starting in July 2012. The tax will increase by 2.5
percent a year, plus inflation. Indonesia has announced plans to
link its coal charges to global benchmark prices.  JSW Energy gained 3.5 percent to 73.45 rupees at the close
in Mumbai. The stock has declined 26 percent this year, compared
with an 8.7 percent drop in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  “The new regulations being proposed in Australia and
Indonesia will only make prices more volatile,” Gupta said.
“We will depend on domestic coal for expansion until some
clarity emerges.”  Russia ,  Latin America   JSW Energy plans to increase its power generation capacity
more than sixfold to 11,390 megawatts by 2015, according to its
 website . Environmental restrictions and delays in land purchases
have hampered  India ’s coal output, forcing consumers to increase
imports. JSW Energy has said it’s now considering acquiring coal
from suppliers in Russia and Latin America.  In November, JSW Energy agreed to buy Canada’s CIC Energy
Corp. for C$422 million ($446 million) to add coal assets in
 Africa , shielding itself from rising spot prices. CIC Energy
subsequently terminated the deal, saying it wouldn’t be
completed by the May 31 deadline. JSW Energy continues to
explore potential mine acquisitions, Gupta said.  “What we need is a good deal that benefits all our
stakeholders,” he said. “Regulations will be there. There
needs to be absolute clarity on how they will impact our
costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  