-- 
BlackRock’s Rieder Says U.S. Risks AAA Loss on Debt Burden

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-07-22T19:48:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/blackrock-s-rieder-says-u-s-to-lose-aaa-because-debt-burden-is-so-large-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which manages $3.7
trillion in assets, said the U.S. risks losing its top  credit
rating  because the nation’s debt is “so significant,”
according to Rick Rieder, chief investment officer for
fundamental fixed income.  “The debt load in the U.S. is so large,” Rieder said
during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track”
with Deirdre Bolton and Erik Schatzker. Part of the reason why
the U.S. risks losing “the AAA, it’s not necessarily the debt
ceiling, it’s the fact that our debt in this country is so
significant.”  The Treasury has said the government, which reached its
$14.3 trillion borrowing limit on May 16, will run out of
options to prevent a default on Aug. 2.  The yield on the benchmark U.S. 10-year note rose five
basis points this week, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.96
percent as prices of the securities fell. Yields fell five basis
points today in  New York  on speculation President Barack Obama
will reach an agreement with lawmakers to cut the  budget deficit 
and raise the borrowing limit.  A rating reduction would be “ultimately terrific” for the
U.S to encourage government to reduce its debt burden, said New
York-based Rieder, who manages $595 billion.  Standard and Poor’s placed the U.S. on “CreditWatch” for
a downgrade on July 14, a day after Moody’s Investors Service
put the U.S. on review for a downgrade. S&P said the nation’s
AAA rating might be lowered to the AA+ range with a negative
outlook next month if an agreement is reached to raise the debt
ceiling without a “credible” plan to lower deficits.  Fitch Ratings  reiterated July 18 it would downgrade all
defaulted  Treasury securities  that it ranks to B+ from AAA if
the government’s misses a debt payment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  