-- 
Boehner Ends Deficit Talks With Obama, Says Deal Was ‘Never Really Close’

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-07-22T22:11:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/boehner-ends-debt-talks-with-obama-says-we-couldn-t-connect-.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  withdrew
from negotiations with the White House on a broad deficit-
reduction package and said he will instead talk with Senate
leaders on a way to avoid a U.S. default.  “A deal was never reached, and was never really close,”
Boehner said in a letter prepared for distribution to House
colleagues. “In the end, we couldn’t connect.”  President  Barack Obama  said he had offered Boehner an
“extraordinarily fair deal” that would cut trillions of dollars
in spending, including on entitlement programs.  “It is hard to understand why Speaker Boehner would walk
away from this kind of deal,” the president said.  “We have now run out of time,” Obama said, saying he is
calling legislative leaders to the White House at 11 a.m.
tomorrow.  Obama and Boehner have confronted strife within their ranks
and dwindling time to avert a default as they pressed for a plan
to boost the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit. The two leaders
had discussed cutting spending by trillions of dollars and
overhauling the  tax code .  Boehner said he would “begin conversations with the
leaders of the Senate in an effort to find a path forward.”  The Republican aide said the speaker decided to withdraw
from the White House talks because of the limited time left to
avoid default before Aug. 2, when Treasury officials project the
U.S. will exhaust its legal debt limit.  Boehner told  House Republicans  earlier in the day that the
House would have to vote on legislation by Wednesday so that it
could pass both chambers of Congress in time, a Republican
lawmaker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 morning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  