-- 
Branding Medici-Style, No Need for Tiger: Virginia Postrel

-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 
2011-07-22T00:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/branding-medici-style-no-need-for-tiger-woods-virginia-postrel.html
Florentine authorities and residents
were appalled when the cast of  MTV ’s “Jersey Shore” invaded the
Tuscan capital for the show’s fourth season, which will debut
Aug. 4. What were Snooki and The Situation doing associating
themselves with the refined city of Dante and Botticelli (not to
mention Ferragamo)? Even  New Jersey  won’t claim these louts.  The ostensible idea was to pay homage to the cast members’
Italian heritage. But these hyper-American descendants of
peasants from  Italy ’s far southern regions hardly represent the
Florentine heritage of art, humanism and elegant style. Nicole
“Snooki” Polizzi and Jennifer “JWoww” Farley aren’t even of
Italian descent. The cast’s Florence connection is quite a
stretch.  But stretching, it turns out, puts them in a great
Florentine tradition. Brand-building through misleading images
wasn’t invented on Madison Avenue or Hollywood. Many of
Florence’s Renaissance treasures are monuments to exaggeration
for the purposes of self-promotion. The medium may have changed,
but the motives haven’t. It’s a bit of history that today’s  Wall
Street  billionaires, who have a bit of a collective image
problem, might want to study.  The Renaissance patrons who paid for all those frescoes,
paintings, altar pieces and sculptures weren’t generally funding
beauty for its own sake. They were buying status -- building
their brands, we’d say today. Their patronage showed off their
wealth and piety and, in many cases, advertised their supposed
links to the prestigious and powerful. In the process, these
patrons often shaded the truth, leaving out unflattering facts
and suggesting associations they didn’t in fact have.  Buttering Up Bankers  Know what to look for and Florentine artworks reveal secret
messages that, while not as sexy as Dan Brown’s Mona Lisa
fantasies, have the advantage of actually existing.  Take the boys shown walking up the stairs behind their
tutor in Domenico Ghirlandaio’s fresco in the Santa Trinita
 church . What could these kids have to do with the “Confirmation
of the Rule of Saint Francis,” the official subject of the
fresco? They aren’t friars or church officials.  In fact, their portraits are just good public relations.
The patron, a banker named Francesco Sassetti, included them to
butter up their father, Lorenzo de’ Medici, and to let the
churchgoing public know that he and Lorenzo were tight.  Renaissance Public Relations  But the painting doesn’t tell the whole story. It
“conveniently omits a crucial fact about the patron’s
relationship with the Medici,” write art historian  Jonathan K.
Nelson  and economist Richard Zeckhauser in their  book , “The
Patron’s Payoff,” which uses economic signaling theory to
analyze Renaissance patrons’ motivations and techniques. That
fact: “By the time he commissioned the fresco, Sassetti had
nearly run the Geneva branch of the Medici bank into
bankruptcy.” Oops. Maybe the portraits were meant as a
distraction or damage control. How could you fire (or worse) a
man who had sponsored such fine pictures of your kids?  Nelson and Zeckhauser’s work demonstrates that Renaissance
art is full of status signals and calculated image-building --
once-obvious messages that today’s tourists never notice.
Nelson, who is the art history coordinator at  Syracuse
University ’s campus in Florence, showed me some examples at
Santa Maria Novella, the church dedicated to the Virgin Mary
that stands near Florence’s train station. (It was novella, or
new, in the 13th century.)  Like Stadium Naming  Consider Filippo Strozzi, who paid big money for the
private  chapel  to the right of the main altar. As often happens
with stadium-naming rights today, the chapel was available only
because the previous owner had fallen on hard times. And just as
the new stadium sponsor can’t evict the old team and install a
new one, Strozzi couldn’t kick out the private chapel’s old
patron saint, St. John the Evangelist, in favor of his own
namesake, St. Philip the Apostle.  So Strozzi found a way to give both saints seemingly equal
treatment, while actually making his namesake the more
prominent. He commissioned two walls of frescos, each with
scenes from the life of one of the saints. Both walls are
beautiful works by Filippino Lippi -- but St. Philip is on the
right side, which is much easier to see.  To the left of the Strozzi chapel, the church’s prime real
estate, surrounding the main altar, is decorated in an even more
blatantly image-building fashion. This area was controlled by
another wealthy patron, Giovanni Tornabuoni, who (surprise) took
it over after the previous patrons ran out of money.  A Flattering Image  Tornabuoni commissioned Ghirlandaio to create  frescoes 
with scenes from the lives of the Virgin Mary (the church’s
patron saint) and John the Baptist (the city’s) -- and to
include in them flattering portraits of many members of the
Tornabuoni family.  In one scene, the official subject is the angel’s
appearance to Zacharias, John the Baptist’s father, to announce
the saint’s impending birth. But Zacharias and the angel are
decidedly secondary figures, stuck in the background like a play
nobody’s paying attention to. Flanking them are various groups
of Florentines, including Tornabuoni himself.  To demonstrate how Tornabuoni stretched the truth to make
himself and his family look even more prominent, Nelson points
to a clutch of four men in the scene’s foreground: the city’s
leading humanists. Why put a philosopher, poet, or professor in
a scene filled with family members and other close associates?  Celebrity Endorsements  They were there, Nelson suggests, to advertise that
Tornabuoni was footing their bills. It was the Renaissance
equivalent of putting a photo of yourself shaking hands with the
president in your office. But Tornabuoni didn’t need the
humanists’ permission to include their portraits, and he
certainly didn’t have to pay them. In fact, there was no such
connection. Tornabuoni was just enjoying a little reflected
humanist glory. Should someone object, he could simply say that
he was honoring his city’s greatness. When exaggerating,
deniability is essential. “You don’t want to blow the balloon
too big,” says Nelson.  These days, celebrity endorsements come at a price. But
stretching is still common. What, I used to wonder every time I
got off an airplane, does  Tiger Woods  have to do with consulting
services? But there he was, seemingly every few feet in every
airport, on  Accenture Plc (ACN)  billboards proclaiming, “We know what
it takes to be a Tiger.”  Tiger and Medici  Then one day Accenture realized that it didn’t know Tiger
so well after all, and the billboards suddenly vanished. Similar
things happened in the Renaissance, when patrons backed the
wrong Medici in paintings, which were a lot harder to get rid
of.  But such permanence also has its upside. To curry favor
with the Medici, Guaspare del Lama, a Florentine broker and
money changer, paid Sandro Botticelli to put  portraits  of family
members in the “Adoration of the Magi” in his own chapel at
Santa Maria Novella. But, notes Nelson, “this pandering did not
help him when he was arrested, and convicted, of fraud.” It did,
however, make him immortal. More than 500 years later, people
still talk about the “Del Lama Adoration,” which is now in the
Uffizi museum, largely because of its portraits of five Medici
patriarchs.  Zeckhauser, who is on the faculty at Harvard’s Kennedy
School of Government, notes a similar phenomenon there, with the
school’s Taubman Building. Its namesake, A. Alfred Taubman, can
hope that in 50 years he isn’t remembered just as the shopping
mall magnate who went to prison for price fixing at Sotheby’s
but as a Harvard patron. Given the building’s usefulness as a
reputation-builder, one of Zeckhauser’s colleagues cynically
proposed, “maybe we should go after him for another.”  (Virginia Postrel is Bloomberg View columnist writing about
commerce and culture, innovation, economics and public policy.
She is the author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The
Substance of Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vpostrel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  