-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Fall as Europe Crisis Clouds Growth Outlook

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-07-22T21:27:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/brazil-rate-futures-fall-as-europe-crisis-clouds-growth-outlook.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts maturing in July 2013 or later fell as
traders bet that global growth may slow while euro-area leaders
worked to persuade investors that a new bailout plan can contain
the debt crisis.  The yield on the contract due in January 2015, among the
most actively-traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.69 percent. The contract due in
January 2017 fell three basis points to 12.49 percent.  Spanish and Italian bonds erased earlier gains and the euro
weakened as investors dissected a new European bailout plan.
Euro-area leaders fanned out to persuade investors that their
$229 billion bailout to contain the region’s debt crisis can
help stop the debt turmoil that’s defied them for more than a
year. Investor concern that the plan may fail is spurring bets
that the central bank may have to raise borrowing costs less in
2012 and beyond to control inflation, said Arthur Totti, who
helps manage 350 million reais ($226 million) at Grau Gestao de
Ativos.  “The external market still has a lot of uncertainty,”
Totti said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “The
question of uncertainty is really the weaker growth than the
market expected, for the U.S. as much as  Europe , and the
slowdown in emerging markets.”  Brazil ’s central bank signaled earlier this week that a
fifth straight increase in borrowing costs may be enough to
contain inflation running at a six-year high.  Selic Rate  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini increased the Selic rate by a quarter point to 12.50
percent on July 20. In a statement accompanying the decision,
which was forecast by all 57 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
policy makers withdrew a comment made in April and June
signaling they would raise rates for a “sufficiently long”
period.  The market is waiting for the central bank to release the
minutes from its July board meeting to better understand policy
makers’ rationale before making further bets, said  Solange Srour , chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos in Rio de
Janeiro.  “Since the statement was very short, we can’t tell if this
change in Copom’s signals is because of the more uncertain scene
abroad or because of greater confidence that activity in Brazil
slowed and inflation is going to converge to the target within
the planned time horizon,” she said in a telephone interview.  The central bank targets inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points.  The real gained 1.5 percent this week to 1.5519 per dollar,
from 1.5745 on July 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  