-- 
Brilliant Songs Bring Brooding ‘Holiday’ to Life: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-07-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/brilliant-songs-give-death-takes-a-holiday-spark-of-life-jeremy-gerard.html
     July 23 Bloomberg) -- The female fauna is lush, the food
four star and there are hot and cold running servants.  What better place for respite, however brief, from the rich
carnage of World War I? Especially if you’re a visitor from the
Dark Side?  “Death Takes a Holiday,” the new musical by Maury Yeston
at the  Roundabout , opens with a car ride that begins in rapture.  A mash-up of horror story, rumination and comedy of
manners, it’s based on a play that became the 1934 film starring
Fredric March and, in 1998, “Meet Joe Black,” with  Brad Pitt .  When that car crashes in the Italian countryside, a blithe,
beautiful heiress Grazia (Jill Paice, as much a treasure here as
she was in “The 39 Steps”) is thrown to her apparent end.  She returns somehow unscratched. The stunned party -- they
have been celebrating Grazia’s engagement to Corrado (Max Von
Essen) -- returns to the lakeside Villa Felicita, with the Alps
looming in the distance.  Later that night a tall, very dark stranger appears. He
confides to Grazia’s father, the Duke (Michael Siberry) that he
is Death (Julian Ovenden, whose moving performance rivals that
of Paulo Szot’s debut in “South Pacific”).  A chance encounter earlier that evening (guess what that
was?) has led him to a detour from his appointed rounds. He will
take human form as Russian prince Sirki and join them for the
weekend in an attempt to understand why humans cling so
tenaciously to life.  Falling in Love  What he really wants, of course, is the high-spirited
Grazia, whose heart he wins, much to the consternation of both
her father and her fiance.  Yeston, best known for two other film adaptations, “Nine”
and “Titanic,” began work on the show with author Peter Stone,
who met Death himself and was replaced by Thomas Meehan (“The
Producers,” “Hairspray”), another fine craftsman.  They made several unimportant changes to the screenplay,
which also has its odd inconsistencies of tone. Frankly, I
didn’t mind, because Yeston’s songs are so beautifully made.  The beguiling, accessible numbers include magisterial
ballads (Matt Cavenaugh is dreamy as a returning aviator singing
of his lost comrade in “Roberto’s’ Eyes”), up-tempo toe-
tappers (“Life’s a Joy”) and torchy weepers (Sirki’s “I
Thought That I Could Live”).  This is one of the most beautifully written and sung scores
I’ve heard in a long time, even if Yeston occasionally settles
for the easy rhyme.  American Flapper  I can’t be as enthusiastic about Doug Hughes’s deathly
staging. Still, there are lovely contributions from Mara Davi,
as an uninhibited American flapper; Alexandra Socha as Grazia’s
lonely best friend and, especially, Rebecca Luker, as Grazia’s
mother.  Derek McLane’s setting, vibrantly lit by Kenneth Posner, is
simple and elegant, as are Catherine Zuber’s period costumes.
“Death” is a fine, if weird, romance.  Through Sept. 4 at the Laura Pels Theatre, 111 W. 46th St.
Information: +1-212-719-1300;  http://www.roundabouttheatre.org 
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 