-- 
Weidmann Says Greek Crisis Package May Weaken Incentive for Budget Reforms

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-22T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/bundesbank-s-weidmann-says-greek-deal-weakens-monetary-union-s-foundations.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
said  Greece ’s second bailout package may weaken incentives for
governments to implement solid fiscal policies.  “By transferring sizeable additional risks to aid-granting
countries and their taxpayers, the euro area made a large step
toward a collectivization of risks in case of unsolid public
finances and economic mistakes,” Weidmann said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “That’s weakening the foundations of a
monetary union founded on fiscal self-responsibility. In the
future, it will be even more difficult to maintain incentives
for solid fiscal policies.”  European leaders agreed on a 159 billion-euro ($228
billion) plan to stem Greece’s debt crisis and contain a
spillover into larger countries such as Spain and  Italy  late on
July 21. The package empowers the region’s 440-billion euro
rescue fund to buy debt of distressed euro nations, aid troubled
banks and offer credit-lines to repel speculators. Financial
institutions will contribute 50 billion euros to the proposal.  Weidmann “makes it very clear that he’s not happy with the
outcome,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-region economist at
Citigroup Inc. in  London . “This suggests that he will try to
prevent the ECB from taking additional action by re-activating”
its bond-purchase program.  Greek two-year notes soared the most in 14 months
yesterday, pushing the yield down 617 basis points to 27.64
percent in London. Irish two-year note yields fell below 15
percent for the first time since July 6.  ‘Acute Tensions’  “Overall, acute tensions in financial markets could ease
with the program,” said Weidmann, who took over the helm of the
Frankfurt-based central bank from  Axel Weber  in May.  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday Greece faces a “restricted
default” if the plan includes getting bondholders to assume
part of the cost. The ratings company will assign post-default
ratings, likely “low speculative grade,” to Greece after new
securities are issues to investors, it said.  “The Bundesbank was one of the strongest opponents of a
default, and now there’s a default,” said  Christian Schulz , an
economist at Berenberg Bank in London, who used to work at the
ECB. “That means the concerns have in a way been waived and the
risks have been transferred to the taxpayer.”  ECB ‘Integrity’  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
indicated late July 21 that European leaders will guarantee
Greek bonds in money market operations should a bailout
agreement trigger a default, telling reporters after a summit in
Brussels that he won’t “prejudge” whether Greek securities
will be classified as being in default.  “The protection of the integrity of the central bank is
non-negotiable,” Trichet said yesterday in an interview with
 Germany ’s Sueddeutsche Zeitung. Greece must “rigorously and
comprehensively” implement its adjustment program, he said.  Weidmann, who is also ECB council member, echoed Trichet’s
remarks, saying it’s “decisive for monetary policy” not to
transfer additional risks to the Eurosystem and that the
“dividing line between monetary and fiscal policy isn’t blurred
any further.”  “Solvent counterparties and adequate collateral are
indispensable for the refinancing operations of the  euro zone ,”
he said. “The position of the European council, to assure
sufficient collateral and adequately capitalized banks, in the
framework of a new aid program for Greece, is to be very
welcomed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in London at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  