-- 
Burrup Fertilisers Bids Due Today; Yara Awaits Final Price

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-07-22T11:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/burrup-fertilisers-bids-due-today-yara-awaits-final-price-2-.html
Final bids for  Burrup Fertilisers
Pty , an Australian ammonia producer under receivership, are due
today, said PPB Advisory.  Yara International ASA (YAR) , which has the
right to match any offers, said it will first assess the price.  “There has been a huge amount of activity in the data
room,” Ian Carson, a Melbourne-based partner at receiver PPB
Advisory, which is managing the sale, said by phone. “We will
take two to three weeks to analyze the bids.” The firm  said in
January  it received more than 20 “serious enquiries.”  The fertilizer industry is consolidating as rising food
prices spur farmers to plant more crops, boosting demand for
soil nutrients. Yara, which owns 35 percent of Burrup
Fertilisers’ parent, Burrup Holdings Ltd., is studying taking
full ownership, the Oslo-based company said Feb. 15.  “We haven’t put in a bid,” Asle Skredderberget, a Yara
spokesman, said by telephone today. “We’re awaiting the
development of the process to see what the price will be.”  Yara dropped 0.5 percent to 308.6 kroner at 12:12 p.m. in
Oslo trading. The benchmark OBX Index was 0.9 percent higher.  After analyzing the shortlisted offers, PPB expects to cut
down the candidates to one or two preferred bidders, Carson
said. Burrup Fertilisers may fetch A$1 billion ($1.1 billion),
the  Australian  newspaper has reported.  Incitec Pivot Ltd. (IPL) ,  Australia ’s largest fertilizer maker,
said in May it wanted to be part of the process. Orascom
Construction Industries,  Egypt ’s biggest publicly traded
builder, was also preparing a bid, a person with knowledge of
the matter said May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net 
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net 
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  