-- 
California Plans $5 Billion Bridge Loan to Avoid Possible Debt-Limit Mess

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-07-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/california-plans-5-billion-bridge-loan-to-avoid-debt-limit-mess.html
California plans to borrow $5
billion in a bridge loan next week to have cash available ahead
of any disruption to the credit markets if U.S. lawmakers fail
to raise the federal debt ceiling, Treasurer Bill Lockyer said.  The state will seek competitive bids July 26 from
investment banks, commercial banks,  credit unions  and investment
funds, Lockyer’s spokesman,  Tom Dresslar , said yesterday.
Proceeds will help pay bills until the state can sell an
estimated $5 billion of so-called revenue-anticipation notes, or
RANs, scheduled for late August.  Without those short-term securities, the state may run out
of cash as it did in 2009, when it issued $2.6 billion of IOUs.
President  Barack Obama  and Congress are negotiating to raise the
U.S. debt ceiling and avert a default before an Aug. 2 deadline.
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service have said they
may lower the U.S. government’s AAA credit rating if the talks
falter.  “The notes will be privately placed, rather than sold in
the market,” Dresslar said in a statement. “If the president
and Congress reach an agreement to raise the debt ceiling before
we award the bids, we could pull the plug on the sale.”  California used a $6.7 billion bridge loan from  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and five other banks in October, when a record 100-
day budget impasse prevented Lockyer from issuing RANs. The
notes are commonly used for  cash flow  before the bulk of taxes
is collected later in the year.  Paying Off Loan  “The state still will go to the market at some point to
sell about $5 billion of regular RANs,” Dresslar said. “The
proceeds of that sale would be used to pay off the bridge loan,
if that transaction is completed.”  Governor  Jerry Brown  is considering whether to sign a  bill 
that would let the state borrow almost $2 billion of cash held
by the University of  California , the California State University
system and California community colleges.  The money could be used to pay bills and would help
guarantee repayment of the notes, lowering interest costs. The
state would pay about 1.5 percent interest on the college loan.  California paid 1.4 percent on the October loan, which was
repaid when Lockyer sold $10 billion of RANs at the end of
November. The sale included $2.25 billion of notes that came due
in May with a yield of 1.5 percent and $7.75 billion that
matured in June at 1.75 percent.  California Yield  The May notes yielded 98 basis points, or 0.98 percentage
point, more than top-rated one-year debt at the time and the
June notes yielded 123 basis points more, Municipal Market
Advisors data show. California sold $8.8 billion of such notes
in September 2009 and $5 billion the previous year.  Yields on RANs have plunged along with Treasuries. One-
year, tax-exempt note yields fell to 0.28 percent this week,
according to a Bond Buyer index, down from 0.54 percent a year
earlier, and 3.69 percent in 2007, before the recession.  California, which has the lowest credit rating of any state
from  Standard & Poor’s  and is typically the largest U.S. issuer
of municipal debt, hasn’t sold any general-obligation bonds in
2011 as legislators debated solutions for a $26 billion deficit.  Ten-year general obligation bonds from California issuers
yielded 4.01 percent on average, or about 1.10 percentage points
more than average top-rated debt of that maturity, according to
Bloomberg Fair Value indexes yesterday. The yield difference was
the smallest since April 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net 
STOCA1 US <Equity>
JPM US <Equity> 