-- 
California Gasoline Strengths Most in a Month on August Trading

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-07-22T20:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/california-gasoline-strengths-most-in-a-month-on-august-trading.html
Spot California-blend gasoline
strengthened the most in a month as the Carbob grade in  Los
Angeles  began trading for August delivery and against September
futures.  The discount for prompt-delivery of Carbob narrowed 6.35
cents in Los Angeles to a discount of 14.15 cents versus futures
traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 2:12 p.m. East
Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel
weakened yesterday to the lowest level since January 2008.  Carbob in San Francisco strengthened 5.35 cents to a
discount of 15.15 cents versus futures, the largest single-day
increase for the fuel since June 22.  Traders are watching California gasoline for export
opportunities, said Randy Simpson, vice president of supply and
trading at Idemitsu Apollo Corp. in Sacramento, California.  “We are one of the lowest-price fuel markets in the world
right now,” Simpson said. “The West Coast is now getting a lot
of attention as an export market. If more cargoes leave the West
Coast, prices will rebound.”  The Energy Department said yesterday it has delivered 1.77
million barrels of crude to date from the U.S. Strategic
Petroleum Reserve, bringing “more clarity” to markets in
 California , said Naveen Agarwal, chief executive officer of fuel
hedging company  Pricelock  in Redwood City, California.  “Over time, SPR will be factored in and then you’re back
to a normal market,” Agarwal said. “Refiners here will figure
out where the oil is moving, and California will jump back at
least to no discount.”  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in New
York Harbor narrowed 0.87 cent to 8.13 cents below futures at
3:50 p.m. East Coast time. The same fuel in the Midwest
strengthened 0.5 cent to a discount of 8 cents.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  reported maintenance on a pump yesterday at
its Bayway refinery in Linden,  New Jersey . The Houston-based
company was also said to be operating a fluid catalytic cracker
at its Wood River refinery in  Illinois  at about half of
capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 