-- 
Camp Predicts U.S. Debt-Limit Increase By Aug. 2 (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-07-22T16:08:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/camp-predicts-u-s-debt-limit-increase-by-aug-2-transcript-.html
Representative  Dave Camp , a
Michigan Republican and chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee, predicted in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” that Congress
will raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling before the
government runs out of cash Aug. 2.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Chairman Dave Camp of
the House Ways and Means Committee. Mr. Chairman, you’re
right in the middle of everything. Thank you for being with
us.  REPRESENTATIVE DAVE CAMP: Great to be with you, Al.  HUNT: Simple question: Will Congress pass an increase
in the debt ceiling by August 2?  CAMP: I think Congress will pass an increase in the
debt ceiling, but I think it’ll have to have the spending
reductions and some of the structural reforms that we’ve
been looking for. And I hope -  HUNT: But you can’t get those passed by August 2, can
you?  CAMP: Well, I think you can get a commitment to pass
those.  HUNT: A commitment.  CAMP: And I think if there’s a structured deal and an
agreement between the president and the speaker and the
Senate, I think, yes, you could do that.  HUNT: One of the things that’s on the table right now,
apparently, is immediate cuts from discretionary spending -
mainly of about $1.7 trillion - and then with a commitment
to come back this year to do about $2 trillion more, half
roughly in entitlements, half in higher revenues. Can you
live with something like that?  CAMP: Well, I think what we also need is a tax reform
piece, because we need to not only cut, but we also need to
begin to grow our economy. And I think that’s where the
trade agreements and tax reforms are a critical part of -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: But can you agree to a net revenue increase?  CAMP: It’s - not - I don’t like the idea of higher
taxes.  HUNT: We know that, but -  CAMP: So that’s probably not going to be something that
will work in the House. But I think certainly a series of
spending cuts that at least match where we have to go on the
debt limit and the tax reform, which will help grow our
economy, is something we can look at.  HUNT: Pete Domenici, as you know, longtime Republican
chairman of the House Budget Committee, who’s done a study
on this, says that if Democrats won’t accept cuts in
entitlements and Republicans won’t accept higher revenues,
higher net revenues, there’s no way anything substantive can
happen.  CAMP: Well, what Republicans are accepting is an
increase in the debt limit.  HUNT: Right.  CAMP: And we believe that the taxes are not a good
idea. Now, what we really need to do - because that’ll hurt
our economic growth. And, obviously, national unemployment
at 9.3 percent, Michigan just went to 10.5 percent -  HUNT: Right.  CAMP: - we need jobs. And the tax increases will
actually hurt the  job creation  -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: Let me ask you about that. If taxes are the chief
drivers of economic growth, tax cuts, lower taxes, let me
ask you two questions. Why did Ronald Reagan in 1982 -
unemployment was at 10 percent - increase taxes about $100
billion a year, and why did Bill Clinton increase taxes and
produce a lot more jobs than  George Bush , who cut taxes?  CAMP: Well, in ‘82, we had a huge recession, and, of
course -  HUNT: Right.  CAMP: - I was in the private sector then and suffered
the ill effects of that. But where we got the job growth was
after ‘86, after tax reform -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: Well, we got it - we got it from ‘82 to ‘84,
because  Ronald Reagan  ran on morning in America.  CAMP: But the real growth in jobs occurred after that
’86 tax reform act.  HUNT: But don’t you agree those tax increases of
Clinton and Reagan’s weren’t the job-killers that
Republicans now say tax increases -  (CROSSTALK)  CAMP: Well, we had a very different world situation. We
didn’t have the competition from growing economies around
the world. And what we’ve got now is a stagnant economy in
the U.S. So in a growing economy, the Clinton tax increases,
the Reagan tax increases were a very different prospect than
they are now.  And the fact that we’ve had this long-time high
unemployment, longer than the Great Recession -  HUNT: Right.  CAMP: - tax increases would only hurt that recovery.  HUNT: Mr. Chairman, let’s see if I’m reading you right.
I think you’re saying you hate the idea of higher taxes. You
don’t want higher taxes. You think it’d be a bad idea. If
you could put together a deal and you had to swallow some
higher revenues in a context - net revenues in the context
of tax reform, you might consider it?  CAMP: If you could get higher revenues to the
government through growth in the economy -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: No, no. No, I’m talking about tax reform. I’m not
talking about long-term growth. I’m saying something that
you wouldn’t like but you could accept if you got
entitlement reform and the other thing.  CAMP: Well, we had Secretary - former Secretary Baker
and former Leader Gephardt come to the Joint Taxation
Committee with Senator Baucus and myself -  HUNT: Right.  CAMP: - and they said, if you raise revenues in tax
reform, it makes it much harder to do it, because everyone
will say, “My ox is being gored.”  So I think the higher
revenues make it harder to get the kind of tax reform that
we need to grow our economy.  HUNT: Right.  CAMP: And also, I really believe it will make it harder
for us to create jobs.  HUNT: Let’s talk about spending cuts, then, because you
supported the House-passed “cut, cap and balance” plan. A
constitutional amendment for a balanced budget is coming up,
10 years to have a balanced budget.  Paul Ryan  has a budget,
which you also voted for: $338 billion deficit in 2021. What
would you cut beyond Paul Ryan?  CAMP: Well, I think, frankly, the Ryan budget is a
great path that we need to get on. And it just shows how
enormous this deficit problem is that we really have to
begin to address these so-called promises that have been
made to the American people, because, frankly, they’re false
promises.  The long-term debt of the United States is not
sustainable. We need to get on a path to get to balance.
Frankly, the president’s budget never got to balance.  HUNT: Right, but Paul Ryan’s goes to $338 billion
deficit. What would you cut beyond that?  CAMP: Well, I think that what you have to do is get on
a path. And what - what - which is now - it’s not just the
Ryan budget, but it’s now the House budget, because it
passed the House with bipartisan support.  HUNT: Yes.  CAMP: That proposal has the right mix of spending
reductions immediately, long-term changes, and tax reform -  HUNT: But no balanced budget to 2040.  CAMP: But it’s scored to give us a million jobs in the
first year alone.  HUNT: So that’s more important than the balanced
budget, per se?  CAMP: Well, I think we get to balance with the House
budget. We never get to balance under the president’s
budget. That’s the big distinction.  HUNT: Well, the Republican Study Committee, which was
oft-cited in this debate, would get to balance. It raises
the Social Security  retirement age  to 70. You support that?  CAMP: I think that anything we do with Social Security
has to be done together in a bipartisan way. But clearly,
the current path we’re on with Social Security is not
sustainable.  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: But you would only support raising the retirement
age if Democrats agree?  CAMP: Well, the Democrats have to agree.  HUNT: Okay. How about raising the Medicare eligibility
from 65 to 67?  CAMP: It’s something that’s being discussed. I think,
again, I think that will be something - hopefully it will be
part of the larger agreement that the president and both the
speaker and the Senate are working on.  HUNT: Mr. Chairman, what the Democrats say is you’re
right, but if you want us to accept that, you’ve got to
accept higher revenues. We give on an issue that has been
precious to our base, increasing Social Security, increasing
Medicare eligibility. Will you give on higher net revenues?  CAMP: And we have - are giving and have given - you can
see by the vote on “cut, cap and balance” - on the issue of
increasing the debt limit. That is the issue that’s
important. So this idea that the tradeoff is us accepting
higher taxes, we’ve already begun that tradeoff -  HUNT: With the debt ceiling.  CAMP: - with increasing the debt ceiling.  HUNT: Okay, let me ask you this. You want a 25 percent
top individual rate when you get around to tax reform. It
would be the lowest since 1931. Would you envision ending or
sharply curtailing the home mortgage deduction and health
care exclusion in order to do that?  CAMP: Well, the home mortgage deduction is obviously a
very critical part of many people’s investment, so that is
something that we’re going to look at very carefully, but do
it in a way that understands just how important that is. I
think it’s something that we’re going to look at every
deduction -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: So with home mortgage, may be gradually reduce
it, but not do it instantly and not eliminate it?  CAMP: We - we would put everything on the table,
discuss everything, and see where we could get the political
consensus to move forward. But clearly, we have to look at
the two largest so-called tax items, which are, as you
mentioned, home mortgage and the health care deduction.
We’re going to look at those. But I’m not going to prejudge
where the committee might end up on those issues.  HUNT: Corporate tax reform, you think you’ll get to it
this year?  CAMP: I think so. I hope so.  HUNT: You think you’ll write a bill this year in Ways
and Means Committee?  CAMP: I’m going to try to do that.  HUNT: Right.  CAMP: And especially if it’s part of the debt ceiling,
I’ll be able to do that.  HUNT: And with a top rate of 25 percent for
corporations?  CAMP: That’s the target.  HUNT: OK. Let me ask you this. Chinese currency - in
the last Congress, you voted for a bill to retaliate against
Chinese goods if they didn’t do something with their
currency. There’s a discharge petition coming up, has 40
percent of the House. Would you consider a similar bill this
year?  CAMP: I would consider that issue in connection with
the many issues that we have regarding  China . I think,
frankly, intellectual property and a host of others need to
be part of that discussion. China currency was the only
issue that we had presented as - we weren’t in control.  But I do think that we have an important relationship
with China, a complex relationship with China. But, frankly,
many of these issues need to be led by the administration.  HUNT: Do you think you can -  CAMP: These are government-to-government contacts to
help resolve some of these issues. And we need a stronger
effort from the administration on all of these fronts -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: Can you fend off -  CAMP: - intellectual property.  HUNT: Can you fend off that discharge petition, then?  CAMP: I believe so.  HUNT: You believe so. Okay, one final question. Tax
holiday for repatriation and foreign-source income, is that
likely to happen this year?  CAMP: I think repatriation is best not done as a one-
off.  HUNT: Okay.  (CROSSTALK)  CAMP: - that changes the structure so that we’re not
back at the table in another two years, saying -  HUNT: So part of corporate tax reform?  CAMP: Part of corporate tax reform.  HUNT: Okay.  CAMP: Because if you don’t do it, then in a few short
years, you have money stranded overseas that’s being
invested there, not here. We want that money invested here
so those plans and those high-value jobs that go with those
factories and plans and structures are in the  United States ,
not overseas.  HUNT: Chairman Dave Camp, all the issues we’ve been
talking about will come before your committee. You’re in the
hot seat. Thank you very much for being with us today.  CAMP: Thanks a lot, Al.  HUNT: Okay. And when we come back, a lot of plans are
in the mix, but will any of them help us avoid default?
Bloomberg reporters are next.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT
IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT
AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL
USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL
HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST
PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN CONNECTION
WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH TRANSCRIPT.
NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF
BLOOMBERG LP.  #<610771.1204164.2.1.87.23378.25>#
 