-- 
Canada May Retail Sales Index Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-07-22T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/canada-may-retail-sales-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's retail sales report for May as released by
 Statistics Canada .  Retail sales edged up 0.1% in May to $37.5 billion.
Higher sales in 7 of 11 subsectors were mostly offset by
declines at motor vehicle and parts dealers and at food
and beverage stores.  In volume terms, sales were unchanged.  Building material and garden equipment and supplies
dealers (+3.3%) registered the largest increase in sales,
partially offsetting the declines observed in March and
April. More favourable weather conditions stimulated sales
of hardware and lawn and garden products.  These same conditions also pushed up sales at general
merchandise stores (+0.8%), which posted their fourth
increase in five months. The category of "other general
merchandise stores" led the gain, rising 1.3%. Department
store sales increased 0.4%, a third consecutive monthly
increase.  Gasoline station sales increased 1.1% in May, a fourth
consecutive increase. This was the highest sales level
since July 2008.  Sporting goods, hobby, book and music store sales rose
1.3%, the first significant increase since November 2010.
In particular, sales were strong at sporting good stores.  After two consecutive monthly gains, sales at  motor
vehicle  and parts dealers fell 1.0% in May. Lower sales at
new car dealers (-1.1%) led the decline. Sales decreases
were also reported at used car dealers (-1.9%) and
automotive parts, accessories and tire stores (-0.6%).
Sales in the category of "other motor vehicle dealers"
rose 1.0% following a large increase in April.  Food and beverage store sales fell 0.9%, the third
monthly decrease in a row. Supermarkets and other grocery
stores (-1.5%) accounted for most of the decline.  Sales up in six provinces  Results were mixed in May at the provincial level as
higher sales were reported in six provinces. The largest
sales gain in dollar terms occurred in Ontario where sales
rose 0.5%, the third increase in four months.  Following two consecutive monthly declines, sales in
Manitoba increased 1.5%.  British Columbia retailers registered a 0.7% sales
decline, after increasing for three months in a row.  Sales declined 1.0% in Nova Scotia following gains in
March and April.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Total retail sales by volume are measured by deflating
values in current dollars of the various trade groups
using consumer price indexes. This retail sales in chained
dollars series (2002) is a chain Fisher volume index with
2002 as the reference year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  