-- 
Canadian Inflation Slows More Than Forecast on Car Discounts, Hotel Rates

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-07-22T16:58:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/canadian-june-inflation-slows-more-than-any-forecast-on-cars-and-gasoline.html
Canada ’s inflation rate slowed more
than economists forecast in June as carmakers offered larger
discounts, hotel rates declined and gasoline prices eased.  The consumer-price index increased 3.1 percent from a year
earlier, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa, following a May
increase of 3.7 percent that was the fastest since March 2003.
The lowest prediction in a Bloomberg survey of 24 economists was
3.4 percent, with a median forecast of 3.6 percent.  The core inflation rate, which excludes eight volatile
items such as gasoline, unexpectedly slowed to a 1.3 percent
pace in June from May’s 1.8 percent. Economists forecast it
would accelerate to 1.9 percent.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said this week that
inflation will exceed 3 percent, the top of his target range, in
“the short term,” while keeping his key  interest rate  at 1
percent to foster an economic recovery. Policy makers are
weighing rising prices against the risks posed by  Europe ’s debt
crisis and slow U.S. growth.  “It certainly gives the Bank of Canada a little bit more
flexibility to stay on the sidelines,” said  Sal Guatieri , a
senior economist at Bank of Montreal in Toronto.  The Canadian dollar fell 0.7 percent to 94.99 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 12:55 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0527. The two-year Canadian government bond yield fell six
basis points to 1.50 percent.  Currency Weakens  The currency weakened from about 94.35 cents to 94.65 cents
during the 40 minutes before  Statistics Canada  released the CPI
data at 7 a.m. Toronto time.  “There was, once again, heavy speculation about the number
before the release,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , via e-
mail.  Canada’s statistics agency made economic data available to
companies licensed to distribute its data up to 59 seconds
before the official publication time for more than six years,
according to a KPMG LLP report published yesterday on Ottawa-
based Statistics Canada’s website.  “KPMG contacted a number of licensed distributors and
concluded that it is unlikely that any data were actively
released to their clients prior to the official release time,”
a Statistics Canada  summary  of the report said.  KPMG Investigation  The KPMG investigation was ordered in December by then-
Industry Minister  Tony Clement  after the agency, Canada’s
primary source of economic information, said it had allowed
distributors to get information as much as 59 seconds before it
was released to the public. The agency stopped the practice on
Nov. 25 after being alerted to it by Bloomberg News.  “Statistics Canada applies strict security procedures
during media lockups to prevent release of protected information
prior to official release time,” Peter Frayne, head of
Statistics Canada’s media relations in Ottawa, said in an e-
mail. “These procedures were followed during this morning’s
lockup and we have no indication that anything unusual
occurred.”  The currency reached the strongest in more than three years
yesterday on speculation the  Bank of Canada  will increase its
policy interest rate this year. The central bank’s statement at
its July 19 rate decision dropped the word “eventually” from a
phrase about when policy makers will move.  “It’s comforting in so far that some of the immediate
pressure on the Bank of Canada” to raise interest rates is
lifted, said  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit.  Monthly Data  On a monthly basis, consumer prices fell 0.7 percent in
June and the core measure fell 0.6 percent. Economists forecast
consumer prices would drop 0.2 percent from May and that core
prices would be unchanged.  Gasoline prices fell 3.7 percent on the month in June,
slowing the year-over-year advance to 28.5 percent from May’s
29.5 percent, Statistics Canada said.  The main factor behind the decline in the annual inflation
rate was a 3.1 percent drop in passenger vehicle prices that was
due to “larger discounts given by some manufacturers,” the
report said.  Traveler accommodation prices fell 2.9 percent in June from
a year earlier, compared with a May gain of 3.3 percent.  The Bank of Canada two days ago raised its inflation
forecast over the next nine months, saying consumer prices will
average 2.8 percent from July through September and slow to 1.9
percent in the second quarter of next year. They also said the
core rate, which excludes eight volatile items, will peak at 2.1
percent in the first quarter of 2012.  Underlying Pressures  “The underlying inflationary pressures are stronger in
Canada than they are in the  United States ,” said Paul Fenton,
chief economist at Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec ,
Canada’s biggest pension-fund manager and a former Bank of
Canada economist, before the report. “Starting to raise
interest rates in the fall is the most likely outcome,” he
said, adding the central bank “will go at a measured pace.”  Statistics Canada also said today that retail sales rose
0.1 percent in May, compared with economist predictions for a
0.3 percent decline. Gasoline receipts were the highest in
almost three years and building material and gardening store
sales rose 3.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 