-- 
Canadian Dollar Falls as Inflation Rate Slows More Than Forecast

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-22T21:04:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/canadian-dollar-falls-from-almost-three-year-high-as-inflation-rate-slows.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened from almost
a three-year high after a government report showed the nation’s
inflation rate slowed in June more than forecast.  The loonie, as the currency is also known, pared its weekly
gain versus the greenback to 0.6 percent as the report
discouraged speculation that the Bank of Canada will resume
increasing borrowing costs. The central bank raised its
inflation forecast for the next nine months this week.  “Every aspect of the release was a big miss in light of
the market’s expectation that core inflationary pressures were
rising, dovetailing with the bank’s guidance provided earlier
this week,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange
at  National Bank of Canada , said by phone from Toronto. “We’re
already seeing it in terms of the Canadian dollar.”  The Canadian dollar slid for the first time in four days,
depreciating 0.5 percent to 94.80 cents versus the greenback at
5 p.m. in Toronto, from 94.33 cents yesterday, when it touched
94.23 cents, the strongest level since November 2007. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0549.  The currency weakened from about 94.35 cents to 94.65 cents
during the 40 minutes before  Statistics Canada  released the CPI
data at 7 a.m. Toronto time.  Release Time  “There was, once again, heavy speculation about the number
before the release,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at  Societe Generale  SA in  London , via e-
mail.  Canada’s statistics agency made economic data available to
companies licensed to distribute its data up to 59 seconds
before the official publication time for more than six years,
according to a KPMG LLP report published yesterday on Ottawa-
based Statistics Canada’s website.  “KPMG contacted a number of licensed distributors and
concluded that it is unlikely that any data were actively
released to their clients prior to the official release time,”
a Statistics Canada  summary  of the report said.  The KPMG investigation was ordered in December by then-
Industry Minister  Tony Clement . The agency stopped the practice
on Nov. 25 after being alerted to it by Bloomberg News.  Official Response  “Statistics Canada applies strict security procedures
during media lockups to prevent release of protected information
prior to official release time,” Peter Frayne, the head of
Statistics Canada’s media relations in Ottawa, wrote in an e-
mail today. “These procedures were followed during this
morning’s lockup and we have no indication that anything unusual
occurred.  Consumer prices advanced 3.1 percent in June from a year
earlier after a 3.7 percent gain in the previous month,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The median forecast of
24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 3.6 percent
rate of increase.  “The way the market had already priced in a shift by the
 Bank of Canada , there was already a certain amount of caution in
CPI failed to deliver to expectations,” said  Michael Leavitt ,
an institutional-derivatives broker at  MF Global Canada Co . in
 Montreal , via e-mail. The CPI number “relieves some of the
pressure the market had built up on the Bank of Canada moving
rates in September,” he said.  Target Rate  “The Canadian dollar, like the Swiss franc, is starting to
show the impact of a high currency,” Societe Generale’s Galy
said. “Canada is a land for bond investors rather than foreign-
exchange investors in the coming weeks.”  Government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on benchmark 10-
year bonds down seven points to 2.93 percent, as the price of
the 3.25 percent bond due June 2021 rose 61 cents to C$102.74.  Yields on the six-month overnight index swap, a security
based on what investors expect the central bank’s rate will
average during that period, dropped 2.1 basis points to 1.11
percent after the CPI number, after climbing 7.9 percent over
the three days since policy makers said July 19 that monetary
stimulus “will be withdrawn.” The statement omitted the word
“eventually” that had been contained in previous releases.  The currency briefly pared losses after retail sales
unexpectedly rose in May.  Retail sales rose 0.1 percent to a seasonally adjusted
C$37.5 billion ($39.5 billion), Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent decline, according to
the median estimate of 23 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  