-- 
Caterpillar Profit Misses Estimates on Japan Quake Impact; Shares Decline

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-07-22T20:26:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/caterpillar-profit-misses-estimates-as-earthquake-tsunami-cut-japan-sales.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
largest construction and mining-equipment maker, posted lower-
than-expected profit for the first time in 10 quarters after the
Japanese earthquake reduced sales and manufacturing costs rose.  Second-quarter earnings excluding $204 million in costs
related to its acquisition of Bucyrus International Inc. were
$1.72 a share, Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar said in a
statement today. That trailed the $1.75 average of 20 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shares dropped the most in
more than two years in New York trading.  “Expectations were getting too high,”  Eli Lustgarten , an
Independence, Ohio-based analyst for Longbow Research who rates
the shares “neutral,” said in an interview. “People were
expecting a beat and bump.”  Caterpillar said the March 11 disaster in  Japan  caused
“sporadic disruptions” at its plants and suppliers globally,
losing the company $200 million in sales and $60 million in
operating profit. Manufacturing costs climbed by $364 million in
the second quarter and expenses related to research and
development, selling and administration rose by $239 million.  Caterpillar dropped $6.45, or 5.8 percent, to $105.15 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest decline since April 7, 2009. Caterpillar has risen 12
percent this year.  Acquisition Costs  Second-quarter net income climbed 44 percent to $1.02
billion, or $1.52 a share, from $707 million, or $1.09, a year
earlier. Revenue increased 37 percent to $14.2 billion from
$10.4 billion.  Caterpillar, whose first-quarter profit rose fivefold, had
until today beaten analysts’ estimates since the first quarter
of 2009.  Upfront integration costs for Bucyrus of $700 million in
2011 were a “bit higher” than expected when the deal was
announced in November,  Mike DeWalt , Caterpillar’s director of
 investor relations , said on a conference call with analysts. The
costs included an unexpected loss on interest-rate swaps of $150
million and a higher-than-expected inventory cost of $250
million, DeWalt said.  The earthquake and tsunami in Japan caused a “sharp” drop
in first-half output, Caterpillar said. As reconstruction
begins, “we do see upside to our business in Japan,” Chief
Financial Officer Ed Rapp said today in a telephone interview.  China  Growth  Caterpillar saw “some softening of growth” in China,
Oberhelman said in the statement. China “is doing a good job of
balancing growth and inflation” and Caterpillar is still
positive on the country’s market, he said.  “We remain very bullish on China,” Rapp said in the
interview. “We saw strong growth in dealer deliveries. We
continue to build out our business model. Our dealers are
continuing to build out their footprint.”  China’s economy  will grow more than 9 percent this year,
compared with 10.3 percent in 2010, Caterpillar said in the
statement.  The company projects the  U.S. economy  will grow 2.5 percent
this year, down from an April forecast of 3.5 percent.  Uncertainty about the deficit, trade agreements and
legislation authorizing spending for transportation is leading
to a lack of business confidence, Rapp said.  Mining Expansion  Caterpillar raised its full-year profit forecast excluding
Bucyrus to $6.75 to $7.25 a share from $6.25 to $6.75
previously. It also raised its sales forecast to a range of $54
billion to $56 billion from $52 billion to $54 billion.  Including Bucyrus, the company expects profit of $6.25 to
$6.75 a share on $56 billion to $58 billion in sales.  Caterpillar is betting on expansion in mining with its $8.8
billion acquisition of Bucyrus, completed this month, and demand
for construction machinery in  developing countries  to help drive
growth. The company reiterated it’s still targeting earnings of
$8 to $10 a share in 2012 as demand for excavators, trucks and
wheel loaders increases amid greater consumption of commodities
and construction of roads, bridges and buildings in countries
such as China, India and  Brazil .  The Bucyrus acquisition adds surface and underground mining
equipment products to Caterpillar’s portfolio. Caterpillar
purchased locomotive maker Electro-Motive Diesel last year and
its acquisition of German engine-maker MWM Holding GmbH is still
pending.  ‘Organic Growth’  Rapp didn’t rule out additional acquisitions.  “We will always be on the lookout for opportunities for
acquisitions, especially those that are in attractive industries
and fit our business model and have good bolt-on capability,”
Rapp said. “But the real story relative to Caterpillar’s growth
going forward is the opportunities that exist for organic
growth.”  The company has projected $3 billion in  capital
expenditures  in 2011, with about half of that spent in the U.S.,
Rapp said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 