-- 
Cattle Herd Shrinks to Smallest Since 1973 as Drought Scorches U.S. South

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-22T20:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/cattle-herd-shrinks-to-smallest-since-1973-as-drought-scorches-u-s-south.html
The U.S. cattle inventory on July 1
shrank to the smallest since at least 1973 as producers reduced
herds amid a prolonged drought in the Southwest and rising feed
costs.  Beef and dairy farmers held 100 million head of cattle as
the month began, down 1.1 percent from a year earlier, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said today in a semiannual report.
Nine analysts in a Bloomberg News survey forecast a 1.4 percent
drop, on average.  “The U.S. cattle herd continues to liquidate due mainly to
drought conditions in the southern half of the country,” Troy Vetterkind, the owner of Vetterkind Cattle Brokerage in Chicago,
said in an e-mail before the report. “Drought continues to
force increased numbers of beef cattle to market, and it has
prohibited ranchers from retaining beef heifers to rebuild the
cow herd.”  Ranchers may make $100 per cow sold this year, up from an
estimated $50 in 2010,  Ron Plain , a livestock economist at the
 University of Missouri  in Columbia, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. Producers aren’t expanding because of the
sluggish economy and short-term  cash-flow  concerns, he said.  Cash-Flow Focused  “The overall weak economy has caused some cattlemen to
feel the need to sell part of their herd to generate cash flow,
rather than expanding to take advantage of what looks to be good
prices in the future,” Plain said. “People are more short-term
focused on cash flow than they are focused on long-term
profits.”  Corn prices, which surged 76 percent in the past year, are
also discouraging livestock producers from expanding.  The number of young, female beef cattle held for breeding
fell to 4.2 million, down 4.5 percent from 4.4 million a year
earlier, according to the USDA. Analysts expected a 3.3 percent
drop.  Cattle futures for October delivery settled unchanged at
$1.154 a pound at 1 p.m. on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. The
price has climbed 22 percent in the past year. Feeder-cattle
futures for August settlement gained 1.2 cents, or 0.9 percent,
to $1.364 a pound. The most-active contract advanced 19 percent
in past 12 months.  The report “just confirms why this market is higher,”
Lane Broadbent, a vice president of KIS Futures Inc. in  Oklahoma
City , said in a telephone interview. The smaller herd size is
going to keep pushing prices higher into next year, he said.  ‘Selling Off’  “We’re still selling off our cow herd and our heifer
retention is even lower” than estimates, Broadbent said. “It
still confirms that our cow herd is shrinking.”  Steers  for immediate delivery averaged $1.0835 in the first
three days of this week, up 16 percent from the same period a
year ago, according to USDA data. Wholesale beef has climbed 13
percent in the past 12 months.  The inventory of heifers for milk-cow replacement totaled
4.2 million, up 3.7 percent from 4.05 million at the same time
last year, the USDA said. The average analyst estimate was for a
0.6 percent gain.  The 2011 calf crop was estimated at 35.5 million, down 0.5
percent from a year earlier, according to the USDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in  Chicago  at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 