-- 
Chilean Minister’s Resignation Is Pinera Misstep, Analysts Say

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-07-22T16:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/chilean-minister-s-resignation-is-pinera-misstep-analysts-say.html
Chilean Energy Minister Fernando
Echeverria’s resignation last night over a conflict of interest
after being named to the position July 18 by President Sebastian Pinera may be “costly” and betrays “trend of rushing rather
than paying attention to detail,” according to two analysts.  Patricio Navia, a specialist in Chilean politics at  New
York University , responded in an e-mail to questions on the
change:  “The extremely early departure of the new energy minister
will be very costly for the Pinera government. Since Echeverria
left due to his conflicts of interests, there will be more
controversy over the close ties between the Pinera government
and the business elite.  “Though the government will claim that Echeverria resigned
on his own, before any accusations, the fact that the government
did not conduct due diligence before appointing him confirms the
accusations that the government is improvising and lacks what it
takes to govern responsibly.  “A good part of the positive effect of the Cabinet shuffle
earlier this week is now lost, since the press is more
preoccupied with Echeverria’s resignation than with the new
blood brought in by the new ministers.”  Robert Funk, a political science professor at the
University of  Chile , commented on the resignation in a telephone
interview today:  “I don’t think it will affect approval ratings, other than
the fact that in general terms it’s seen as a lack of
coordination and not doing things right. This government sold
itself in the campaign as one that would do things better rather
than implement major changes. And time after time, it has shown
that it doesn’t do things better.  “These are silly mistakes that are easy to avoid. Here it
appears we’re seeing a trend of rushing rather than paying
attention to detail.  “This also confirms impressions of a close tie between
this government and businesses, which in a country like Chile
isn’t healthy because most people are suspicious about the
business world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  