-- 
China One-Year Swap Reaches Record High as Maturing Bills Drop

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-22T09:24:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/china-one-year-swap-jumps-to-record-as-maturing-debt-declines.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps touched
a record high on speculation the cash supply won’t improve due
to a decline in the amount of central bank bills and repurchase
agreements that are maturing.  Debt redemption will drop to 34 billion yuan ($5.3 billion)
next week, compared with 55 billion yuan this week, according to
Pin Ru Tan, a strategist at HSBC Securities Asia Ltd. China
Development Bank Corp., the nation’s biggest bond issuer after
the  finance ministry , canceled a sale of 15 billion yuan of 174-
day bills planned for today, “due to market changes,”
according to a statement on Chinabond’s website yesterday.  “Money-market rates are unlikely to fall in the near term
given the lack of fresh funds entering the market and the
tension will only be exacerbated by leveraged bond portfolio
positions held by domestic banks,” said Hong Kong-based Tan.
The amount of maturing bills and repos will be 46 billion yuan
the week after next, she said.  The one-year swap, the fixed cost needed to receive the
floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose 35 basis points in the
week to 4.19 percent as of 5:18 p.m. in  Shanghai , the biggest
weekly increase in six months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts declined six basis points today and
touched 4.31 percent earlier, the highest level in Bloomberg
data going back to 2006.  “The pressure from paying positions is less now,” said
Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale
SA in  Hong Kong . “But the cash shortage will continue. I expect
the seven-day repo fixing to stay high for two more weeks.”  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, declined 51 basis points today to 5.41
percent, according to a weighted average rate compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It rose 128 basis points, or
1.28 percentage point, this week.  “Even though the seven-day repo declined today, it’s still
above 5 percent, showing liquidity is still tight,” said Huang Yanhong, a bond analyst at Bank of Nanjing Co.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes, Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 