-- 
Citigroup, Student Loan Reach $13.5 Million Investor Accord

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-07-22T15:06:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/citigroup-student-loan-agree-to-13-5-million-investor-pact.html
Former stockholders of  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s Student Loan Corp., bought by  Discover Financial Services (DFS) 
in December for $30 a share, are to receive another $2.50 a
share under a $13.5 million settlement filed in court.  Investors who owned about 4 million Student Loan shares
will get the additional payment from Citigroup once the accord
is approved by a judge, and shareholders’ lawyers will get as
much as $3.5 million in fees and expenses, according to papers
made public today in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “All defendants deny and continue to deny that they have
committed or aided and abetted” any wrongdoing, and “maintain
that they diligently and scrupulously complied with their
fiduciary duties,” lawyers for Student Loan directors said in
the agreement.  Investors sued Student Loan last September contending the
shares were worth more in the $600 million acquisition. Judge J. Travis Laster in December declined to block the merger saying
shareholders could seek damages later in a trial.  The  Student Loan Corp (STU)  was one of at least 21 Citigroup
businesses tagged for sale by Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit in the wake of the bank’s $45 billion bailout in 2008.
The New York-based bank, the third-biggest in the U.S., took a
$435 million loss on the sale during the third quarter of 2010.  Jon Diat, a Citigroup spokesman, and Leslie Sutton, a
spokeswoman for Riverwoods, Illinois-based Discover, declined to
comment on the settlement. Discover wasn’t sued.  The main case is Kahn v. Student Loan Corp., CA5832,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York 
at   dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 