-- 
Clinton Says Myanmar Must Takes Steps to Improve Relations

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-07-22T06:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/clinton-says-myanmar-must-takes-steps-to-improve-relations.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
called on Myanmar to improve relations with the U.S. and the
international community or face consequences.  The U.S. wants Myanmar to release more than 2,000 political
prisoners and begin meaningful dialogue with minorities and the
political opposition including  Aung San Suu Kyi , Clinton said
today at a meeting of the 10-member  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations .  “The choice is clear,” Clinton said. “They can take
these steps and gain back the confidence of their people and the
trust of the international community. Or they can continue down
the path they’ve been on.”  The U.S. reserves the right to take punitive steps if
Myanmar doesn’t make progress, a U.S. administration official
told reporters today in Bali,  Indonesia , where the Asean meeting
is taking place. The official spoke on condition of anonymity
because he wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  Clinton said that her country had taken Asean’s advice and
engaged directly with Myanmar’s government, a step that “helped
lower one of the more significant stumbling blocks in the U.S.-
Asean relationship.” The top U.S. diplomat will also demand
that Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, immediately stop any
trade with North Korea that violates a United Nations Security
Council resolution extending an arms embargo against the country,
according to the U.S. official.  Clinton is at the Asean meeting as part of a 12-day around-
the-world trip to consult with allies on issues ranging from the
unrest in Libya and  Syria  to trade with  India  and strategic
issues in Asia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Bali at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bali at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  