-- 
Commonwealth Bank Appoints Narev Chief Executive Officer, Replacing Norris

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-07-22T07:05:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/commonwealth-bank-names-narev-as-ceo.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the
nation’s largest lender, named Ian Narev to succeed Chief
Executive Officer Ralph Norris as competition intensifies in
the weakest mortgage market in three decades.  Narev, a former McKinsey & Co. partner who joined
Commonwealth Bank in May 2007, heads its business and private
banking unit, the Sydney-based lender said in an e-mailed
statement today. The 44-year-old will take over on Dec. 1.  Norris, 62, steered the bank through the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression without bailouts and expanded
the mortgage business by acquiring BankWest in 2008. A New
Zealand citizen like Norris and a child actor who appeared in a
1979 television  miniseries , Narev needs to fend off competition
even as home loans grow at their slowest pace since 1977.  “The ongoing challenge for CBA is to maintain or pick up
their market share,” said  Paul Xiradis , who manages about $12
billion in assets including Commonwealth Bank stock as chief of
Ausbil Dexia Ltd. in Sydney. “In the past they’ve done that by
focusing on their customer satisfaction and cross selling --
that’s going to be the ongoing challenge for him.”  Market Beater  The bank’s shares rose 1.6 percent to A$50.52 in Sydney.
The stock is this year’s second-best performer among the
nation’s four-pillar banks, so named for laws that prevent them
from buying each other. The shares have climbed about 33
percent since Norris took charge in September 2005.  Narev’s rise to the top follows roles overseeing
Commonwealth Bank’s corporate strategy, including its A$2.1
billion ($2.3 billion) acquisition of Perth-based Bankwest from
the troubled U.K. bank HBOS Plc at the height of the credit
crisis in 2008.  In January 2009, he moved to his current position as head
of the business and private banking unit, which includes its
retail brokerage and margin lending operations and employs
about 4,000 of Commonwealth Bank’s 45,000 staff.  Narev “has restructured and revitalized business and
private banking, which has delivered double-digit revenue and
profit growth with significant efficiency gains,” Commonwealth
Bank Chairman David Turner said in today’s statement. “He is a
proven and inclusive leader.”  ‘Right Time’  Turner said on a call with reporters that “it’s important
not to read” into the appointment as any change in strategy.  Commonwealth Bank’s unaudited cash earnings in the three
months ended March 31 was about A$1.7 billion, the bank said
May 11. That’s 13 percent more than the A$1.5 billion reported
a year earlier. Full-year earnings are to be released Aug. 10.  Narev’s appointment is “a bold choice” and a surprise
since the bank’s retail business chief, Ross McEwan, was the
“favored internal candidate,” according to Citigroup Inc.
analysts led by  Craig Williams  in  Melbourne . “But his track
record is thus far solid,” they wrote in a note today.  Challenges facing the bank include economic disruption,
new business models powered by technology and “greater
regulatory and public scrutiny,” Narev told reporters today.
“I expect one way or another, these trends will be with us for
some time,” he said.  Norris became a lightning rod for public anger after the
bank led rivals in November by boosting its mortgage rate by
more than the central bank’s benchmark increase in a move that
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  condemned as a “cynical cash grab.”  Moody’s Downgrade  “I was always aware of the fact that that was going to be
controversial, but in the end I was in this position to make
the tough decisions,” Norris told reporters today.  Moody’s Investors Service in May downgraded the bank,
along with  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , National  Australia  Bank Ltd.
and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., one level to
Aa2, citing their reliance on wholesale funding markets.  The banks, which account for about 87 percent of the
nation’s home loans, have since reduced the amount of money
they borrow from global debt markets, partly because of a surge
in deposits as consumers save at the highest rate in two
decades and demand for credit wanes.  Loans to home buyers in May rose 6.2 percent from a year
earlier, the slowest annual pace since 1977, when the central
bank began recording the data. Property prices slid 1.7 percent
in the first quarter, the most since 2008. Australia has the
developed world’s highest benchmark interest rate.  Acting Stint  Australia’s four largest banks will also see earnings
growth curbed by proposed capital buffer rules aimed at
preventing another global credit squeeze, Citigroup analysts
said this week. Citigroup cut the forecast for earnings per
share at the lenders by 2 percent to 4 percent over the next
four years as a result of the proposed changes and higher
funding costs.  Narev joined McKinsey in  New York  in 1998, and worked in
its financial institutions group until 2002, before
transferring to McKinsey’s Auckland and Sydney offices. He
became a global partner in 2003 and headed McKinsey’s New
Zealand office from 2005 until his departure in 2007.  He holds degrees in law from  Cambridge University  and the
University of Auckland, as well as in international relations
from  New York University .  As a child, Narev had a role in a 13-part historical
miniseries, “ Children of Fire Mountain ,” which was set in
1900 and portrayed the conflict between the Maori and white
settlers. Filmed in 1979, the series was shown on the  BBC  in
1980, according to Wikipedia. His role in the series was
confirmed by Commonwealth Bank spokesman Steve Batten.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  