-- 
Contador Wilts in Alps as Andy Schleck Nears Tour de France Yellow Jersey

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-22T00:12:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/contador-wilts-in-alps-as-andy-schleck-nears-tour-de-france-yellow-jersey.html
Andy Schleck  is closing on the Tour
de France yellow jersey after leaving three-time champion
Alberto Contador adrift in the Alps.  The 26-year-old from Luxembourg won the second-last
mountain stage with a 37-mile (59.5-kilometer) attack yesterday,
moving to within  15 seconds  of leader  Thomas Voeckler  of France.
There are three stages remaining.  “I said to myself this morning I’m going to risk
everything,” Schleck, a two-time Tour runnerup, told reporters.
“That’s the way I am, I’m not afraid of losing.”  Schleck’s brother Frank was second, 2 minutes, 7 seconds
behind after a 6-hour slog that ended atop the 2,645-meter
(8,700-foot) Col du Galibier. It was the highest stage finish in
the race’s 108-year history.  Andy Schleck raced clear of his rivals on the second of
three climbs, Col d’Izoard. Contador finished 15th and told
reporters it’s now “impossible” for him to win a fourth title
in five years.  After today’s stage to Alpe d’Huez, there is a time trial
in Grenoble before the last leg to Paris on July 24.  As Schleck rode alone at the front past fans waving
 Luxembourg ’s national flag, Contador started losing ground 1.5
miles from the end of the last 9-mile climb.  “My legs didn’t respond and I hit a wall,” Contador said.
He’s now 4 minutes, 44 seconds behind Voeckler, who said he
doubts he’ll keep his lead today.  Getting Stronger  “Everybody knows Andy Schleck is a better climber than me
and every day he is stronger,” Voeckler said. “That’s three
days now that I’ve lost time.”  The 6-foot-1 Schleck steadily built a lead over as much as
4 minutes over the other contenders. He was supported by
Leopard-Trek teammates Joost Posthuma and Maxime Monfort who had
been in an initial breakaway on the first climb.  Monfort shielded him from the wind the longest as part of a
six-man group at the front.  Australia ’s  Cadel Evans , a two-time runnerup, didn’t have
such support from his BMC Racing team on the final ascent and
had to try and chase down Schleck on his own. The Luxembourgian
responded, pulled away from Maxim Iglinskiy of the Astana team
and rode the rest of the stage alone to finish in 6 hours, 7
minutes and 56 seconds.  Frank Schleck pulled away from Evans over the last few
hundred meters to pass him in the overall standings.  The elder Schleck brother is 1 minute, 8 seconds behind
Voeckler and Evans is another 4 seconds further back in fourth.
Damiano Cunego and Ivan Basso, both Italians, are fifth and
sixth, while Contador is seventh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Le Monetier-Les-Bains,  France  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  