-- 
Corporates ‘Ripe’ for Third-Quarter Buybacks, Meli Says

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-07-22T16:44:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/corporates-ripe-for-third-quarter-buybacks-m-a-meli-says.html
Corporations are facing “ripe”
conditions for buying back shares, pursuing mergers and
acquisitions and increasing debt after hoarding cash since 2009,
said Barclays Capital’s Jeffrey Meli.  “Conditions will be ripe once macro-volatility settles
down in the third quarter for corporations to start getting more
aggressive with their balance sheets,” Meli, head of credit
strategy at the firm in  New York , said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.”
“Some of the lessons from 2009 in terms of needing to hoard
cash, needing to run very conservative balance sheets, are
starting to fade.”  Executives are signaling that they’re gaining enough
confidence in the economic recovery to begin deploying some of
the record $1.9 trillion in cash they amassed after the 2008
credit crisis. The level of acquisitions and share buybacks,
which slowed in the second quarter amid Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis and slower-than-expected growth in the U.S., is set to
increase through September, Meli said.  “With all-in yields lower, with corporate performance
continuing to be strong, the shareholder-friendly activity, M&A
and generic re-leveraging will start to increase again” as long
as the U.S. resolves its debt ceiling impasse and stability in
 Europe  takes hold, he said.  The cost to protect U.S. corporate debt from losses is
poised to drop for the first time in three weeks after 101 of
121 Standard & Poor’s 500 companies that have reported earnings
since July 11 exceeded the average analyst estimate, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.
(See related Bloomberg View commentary).  Swaps Index  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, has dropped 4.5 basis points this
week to a mid-price of 92.8 basis points as of 12:32 p.m. in New
York, according to Markit Group Ltd. The swaps index decreases
as investor confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates.  Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds were 3.78
percent yesterday, down from 4.1 percent at the start of 2011,
and 5.78 percent two years ago, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  Since the end of 2010, 53 percent of non-financial
companies in Barclays Capital’s U.S. Credit Corporate index have
increased total debt, with less than 40 percent reducing,
Barclays strategists wrote in a June 3 research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  