-- 
Corporate Spending Spree Helps Revenue for Microsoft, Intel

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-07-22T20:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/corporate-spending-spree-bolsters-revenue-for-microsoft-intel.html
Corporate spending on computers and
software gathered steam last quarter, bolstering sales and
profit at  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Results from all three companies this week surpassed
analysts’ predictions, with Microsoft saying yesterday that
sales climbed to $17.4 billion in its fiscal fourth quarter.
That topped the $17.2 billion average estimate of analysts.
Intel’s revenue forecast for the current quarter, released a day
earlier, also exceeded projections.  Companies are replacing aging desktop machines and
equipping data centers to deliver computing over the Internet,
via the so-called cloud. That’s fueling demand for new versions
of Microsoft programs for businesses, more powerful chips from
Intel and technology services provided by IBM. It’s also making
up for sluggish PC buying from consumers in developed markets.  “What Intel said was the enterprise was strong, and that’s
what you saw in the Microsoft numbers as well,” said Pat Becker Jr., a  fund manager  at  Portland , Oregon-based Becker Capital
Management Inc. His firm holds Intel and Microsoft shares among
the $2.5 billion it has under management.  Net income in the fiscal period that ended in June rose 30
percent to $5.87 billion, or 69 cents a share, Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft said in a statement yesterday. That
beat the 58-cent estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Stock Gains  Microsoft rose 44 cents to $27.53 at 4 p.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Intel, based in  Santa Clara ,
 California , rose 32 cents to $23.13, while Armonk,  New York- 
based IBM climbed 28 cents to $185.18 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  IBM’s second-quarter revenue, reported July 18, topped
predictions. Other technology companies also have benefited from
increased spending by businesses.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the biggest Web-
search company, said last week that ad prices are up because
companies are more willing to spend to market online.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, said
companies are snapping up copies of Windows 7, Office software,
and programs tailored for servers -- the powerful machines that
outfit data centers.  The company also benefited from lower taxes. Its rate fell
to 7 percent last quarter from 25 percent a year earlier because
more earnings were taxed at lower rates in Ireland,  Singapore 
and  Puerto Rico , Microsoft said in a  statement .  ‘Strong Close’  The rate explains much of the reason why results surpassed
predictions, Chief Financial Officer Peter Klein said in an
interview.  Unearned revenue -- which comes from multiyear contracts
that isn’t recognized in the current period and indicates future
sales -- was also higher than analysts projected. That figure
was $17.1 billion, above the average estimate of $15.6 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  “It implies a strong close to the end of the quarter from
a bookings perspective, and that’s going to flow into revenue in
the next couple of quarters,” said Tony Ursillo, an analyst at
Loomis Sayles & Co.,  which manages $162.3 billion , including
Microsoft shares. “The flywheel has a lot of energy.”  Microsoft saw higher demand for Windows PCs for
corporations than those for consumers, Klein said. That trend
will continue through the fiscal year that started July 1 as
companies continue replacing older machines, he said.  Sales in Microsoft’s business unit, mostly from Office
software, rose 7.5 percent to $5.78 billion, compared with the
$5.7 billion analysts predicted.  Consumers Favor Tablets  Sales to large corporations were strong in part because
Microsoft representatives pushed to close deals before the end
of the fiscal year, as is often the case, Klein said.  Sales in Microsoft’s server software unit rose 12 percent
to $4.64 billion.  Windows revenue fell less than 1 percent to $4.74 billion,
missing the $4.8 million average estimate of analysts. That was
the third-straight quarter that the division missed estimates.  Consumer demand for Windows PCs was also crimped by
economic weakness in some parts of the world, Klein said. Some
households are also favoring tablets over PCs, he said. That’s
taking a toll on netbooks -- the stripped-down laptops that had
been popular during the recession.  “There are macroeconomic constraints on spending,” he
said. “We see it as specifically acute in netbooks, which
continue to drop roughly 40 percent. Certainly tablets are part
of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at   dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 