-- 
Cukurova to Appeal Ruling Awarding Turkcell Shares to Altimo

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-07-22T12:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/cukurova-to-appeal-ruling-awarding-turkcell-shares-to-altimo-1-.html
Cukurova Holding AS will appeal a
decision to award its 13.7 percent indirect stake in Turkcell
Iletisim Hizmetleri AS,  Turkey ’s biggest mobile phone operator,
to  Russia ’s Altimo.  Cukurova will challenge the decision by the higher
Caribbean Court at the Privy Council in  London , the company said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Altimo said yesterday it won a legal case in the Eastern
Caribbean Supreme Court, which ruled that Altimo’s appropriation
of an extra 13.7 percent of Turkcell share held by Cukurova’s
units in return for Cukurova’s $1.35 billion debt to the Russian
investor was legal. Altimo, majority owned by Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa Group , has 13.2 percent
indirect stake in Turkcell Iletisim.  “The appeal process may take two years and the current
structure ownership may continue,” Erdem Hafizoglu, an analyst
at BCG Partners Istanbul, said in a telephone interview. “The
legal process is likely to continue pressuring Turkcell stock.”  Turkcell rose 6 kurus, or 0.3 percent, to 8.4 liras at
12:41 a.m. on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange . The stock has lost 22
percent since the beginning of the year in Istanbul, compared
with a 10.4 percent-loss by the national ISE-100 Index.  Complex Ownership  Cukurova Holding, owned by chairman Mehmet Emin Karamehmet,
controls Turkcell Iletisim through a complex ownership
structure.  Turkcell Holding, which owns 51 percent of Turkcell
Iletisim, is 53 percent by Cukurova Telecom Holding, with
 TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  of  Sweden  as holding the remainder. Altimo’s
parent Alfa Telecom Turkey Ltd. owns 49 percent of Cukurova
Telecom Holding and Cukurova Holding controls 51 percent.  “If Altimo finally wins the court case and raises its
stake to 27 percent in Turkcell, it may prefer policies of more
growth with acquisitions abroad than giving out dividends,”
Hafizoglu said.  TeliaSonera and Altimo are battling Cukurova over control
of Turkcell. The two companies sought to oust Turkcell Chairman
 Colin Williams , who replaced Cukurova Chairman Mehmet Emin
Karamehmet last year, in a shareholders meeting April 21 because
they said Williams lost impartiality by siding with Cukurova in
board decisions.  Blocked Dividends  TeliaSonera, which blocked the approval of distribution of
dividends in the April meeting, filed a court case to include
board changes in the agenda of an extraordinary shareholders
meeting due on Aug. 11.  “If Altimo raises its holdings to 27 percent in Turkcell,
it may be positive in terms of ending shareholder disputes,”
Hafizoglu said.  Cukurova signed a $3.3 billion agreement with Altimo in
2005 to finance the payment of its debt to the government
because of its collapsed Pamukbank AS. Altimo bought 13.2
percent of Turkcell Iletisim for $1.6 billion from Cukurova and
lent it another $1.7 billion with Cukurova pledging the
remaining Cukurova Telecom Holding stake, an effective 13.7
percent in Turkcell Iletisim, as collateral for the loan.  “In 2007, following a number of defaults by Cukurova
Group, Alfa appropriated the shares representing the Cukurova’s
stake in Turkcell which Cukurova charged to Alfa as security for
its outstanding loan of US$1.35 billion,” Altimo said in a
statement yesterday. Cukurova had repaid $357 million of the
$1.7 billion loan in 2006, it said.  Cukurova denied the default and said it was ready to repay
the debt with a $1.5 billion loan from international markets.  “Cukurova has an automatic right to appeal the decision to
the Privy Council in the  United Kingdom ,” Istanbul-based
Cukurova said today. “It intends to do so and will file the
necessary appeal papers as soon as practicable.”  Cukurova strongly disagrees with the decision of the Court
of Appeal and is confident that the decision will be overturned
at the Privy Council, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 