-- 
Cyprus Government, Opposition Agree on Package to Cut Deficit

-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 
2011-07-22T15:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/cyprus-government-opposition-agree-on-package-to-cut-deficit.html
Cyprus’s government and opposition
parties agreed on a package of austerity measures to reduce the
 budget deficit  as the economy’s recovery is threatened by
blackouts after a power plant explosion this month.  “The first package of fiscal measures has been agreed,”
 Stefanos Stefanou , a government spokesman, told reporters in
Nicosia today after President Demetris Christofias met coalition
and opposition party leaders. “The dialogue will continue in
the next days and will focus on short-term measures.”  Stefanou didn’t provide further details about the package,
which he said will help Cyprus, the euro area’s third-smallest
economy, narrow its deficit to 4 percent of gross domestic
product this year from 5.3 percent in 2010.  Cyprus’s economic recovery has been undermined by an
explosion at a munitions depot this month that knocked out the
767-megawatt Vasilikos power station. The loss of the plant,
which represented about half the country’s power-generation
capacity, has led to electricity shortages. Christos Patsalides,
undersecretary at the Ministry of Finance, said the economy may
grow less this year than the 1.5 percent forecast by the
government in May.  “Our first assessment is that growth will be near zero
this year,” he said in an interview today. “This is still very
preliminary.”  The basis of today’s fiscal discussions was a government
proposal that included public job cuts, overhauling the civil-
servant pension system, a clampdown on  tax evasion , increasing
property-tax rates and a business levy, according to a  statement 
on the government’s website.  The agreement, which also includes the privatization of the
 Cyprus Stock Exchange , is not far-reaching enough, said Averof
Neofytou, deputy chairman of opposition DISY party.  “My estimation is that we shall need budget cuts of up to
600 million euros ($860 million) in 2011,” he told reporters.
The deficit in the first half “was 3.7 percent of GDP, and this
does not factor in the explosion at Vasilikos.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  