-- 
De Beers, Anglo American Workers Join Strike Wave Engulfing South Africa

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-07-22T11:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/de-beers-strike-in-south-africa-starts-national-union-of-mineworkers-says.html
Workers at De Beers,  Anglo American
Plc (AAL)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  are downing tools as a wave of South African
strikes that began in steel and engineering before spreading to
the petroleum industry engulfs diamond and coal production.  The nation’s employees at De Beers, the world’s largest
diamond producer, begin striking at 6 p.m. Johannesburg time,
Head of Employee Relations Wayne Smerdon said by phone today.
The action has already started, Lesiba Seshoka, a spokesman for
the National Union of Mineworkers, said separately.  About 30,000 workers at Anglo American Thermal Coal,  Exxaro
Resources Ltd. (EXX) , Xstrata and  Optimum Coal Holdings (OPT)  will stop work
on July 24 after wage talks failed, the Chamber of Mines said.
Gold miners at companies including  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  may
also walk out if negotiations on July 25 collapse, the NUM said.
In the fuel industry, strikers resume discussions today after
gas stations at employers such as Royal Dutch Shell Plc ran dry.  Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., South Africa’s state utility, and
the NUM, the country’s biggest labor union, postponed wage talks
until the first week of August after failing to reach an
agreement yesterday, according to Eskom spokesman Tony Stott.  Workers are seeking above-inflation wage gains to address
inequalities caused by apartheid, a system of institutionalized
racial discrimination that ended in 1994. The NUM is asking for
increases of 9.5 percent to 10 percent at De Beers, compared
with an offer of 7 percent, and seeking 14 percent at coal
companies, which are offering 6 percent to 8.5 percent. South
African consumer prices rose an annual 5 percent in June.  De Beers , controlled by Anglo along with the Oppenheimer
family, said in a statement yesterday its talks with the union
cover 1,778 of its 2,818 workers at five mines in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in London at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  