-- 
Reagan’s Tax Increases Have Democrats Recalling Republican Hero

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-07-22T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/democrats-recall-reagan-s-tax-increases.html
Democrats are claiming an unlikely
ally in this year’s fight over the debt limit:  Ronald Reagan .  Reagan, renowned by Republicans as a tax-cutter, also
increased revenue about a dozen times when confronted with
surging deficits. The Treasury Department has estimated those
measures would be the equivalent of $300 billion annually today
-- more than what many Democrats are now seeking as part of a
deal to raise the U.S. debt ceiling.  That often-forgotten history has some lawmakers trading
places, with Democrats hailing the former Republican president
as an example for today’s budget negotiators.  “He’s a guy who was willing to compromise,” said
Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the top Democrat on the House
Budget Committee. “He was a practical conservative” who
“recognized that it’s unrealistic to get 100 percent of your
demands.”  Republican opposition to tax increases has emerged as one
of the main obstacles to an agreement on a deficit-reduction
package that would clear the way to raise the $14.3 trillion
debt limit by Aug. 2, when the Treasury Department says the
government will be unable to meet its obligations.  The tax issue has stymied lawmakers all year, helping to
scuttle Vice President  Joe Biden ’s efforts to find a solution to
the debt dispute as well as an effort by President  Barack Obama 
and House Speaker  John Boehner  to strike a “grand bargain.”
It’s still frustrating lawmakers even as  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service warn they may cut the government’s
credit rating if lawmakers don’t act.  Senate Democrats yesterday balked at a potential deal
between Obama and Boehner over the issue of raising taxes.  Changing Course  Reagan is remembered for his tax cuts, owing to his
signature Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981, which slashed the
top marginal rate to 50 percent from 70 percent. And even with
the later increases, he was a net tax-cutter: He didn’t rescind
the marginal cuts, and lowered the rates again in a 1986
overhaul that traded rate reductions for the elimination of
individual tax preferences. By the end of his administration,
the top marginal rate had been dropped to 28 percent.  Still, his administration reversed course after the first
tax-cut bill became law, when budget projections showed the
deficit poised to reach levels not seen since the World War II
era.  “We were scared out of our wits because that seemed to be
unimaginable,”  David Stockman , Reagan’s first budget director,
said in an interview.  Corporate Breaks  Reagan’s biggest deficit came in 1983 when it reached 6
percent of the gross domestic product -- about two-thirds the
size of the shortfalls the government has run in each of the
past three years.  The Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982, then
criticized as the largest tax increase in history, scaled back
corporate tax breaks, increased unemployment-insurance levies,
and raised excise taxes on cigarettes, among other changes.  “The goal is simple and just: to see to it that everyone
pays his fair share,” Reagan said in August 1982. He predicted
the tax increase would help the economy because it would reduce
the deficit, which he said would lead to lower  interest rates .  Reagan later signed the Highway Revenue Act of 1982, which
temporarily doubled the gasoline tax. Both measures came as
millions struggled with the 1981-1982 recession, when the
jobless rate was stuck at about 10 percent for almost a year.  Undercutting the Argument  “That put the lie to the current arguments of Republicans
that the economy is too weak to bear a tax increase” because
“the next year 3.5 million jobs were created,” said Stockman,
who says tax increases are now needed to help reduce the
deficit. “When the Republicans rhetorically say now, ‘Who would
raise taxes in a recession?’ the answer is Ronald Reagan.”  The following year came the Social Security Amendments of
1983, which was designed to head off the program’s insolvency.
It raised the Social Security payroll tax and, for the first
time, began taxing the benefit checks of wealthier seniors. The
Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 raised the estate tax, cut more
business tax breaks and boosted taxes on distilled spirits,
among other items.  A review of Reagan’s budget requests to Congress shows his
administration expected those and a handful of smaller levies to
raise about $1 trillion between 1983 and 1992. A 2006 Treasury
Department  report  shows that Reagan’s tax increases now would
bring in about $300 billion a year, if the increases were
measured against today’s economy.  Those higher taxes replaced about half the revenue lost to
the Treasury with the 1981 cuts, according to Reagan’s budget
documents.  ‘A Mistake’  “I would hope that today’s  Republican Party  can learn from
President Reagan and work with Democrats,” said Representative
 Steny Hoyer  of  Maryland , the No. 2 House Democrat.  Grover Norquist , head of the anti-tax Americans for  Tax
Reform , blamed Congress for the Reagan-era tax increases, saying
“every one of those was a mistake.” Reagan was “pushed” into
them by the Democrats who then controlled the House and the
“liberal” Republicans who ran the Senate. “Reagan didn’t get
to win every fight,” said Norquist.  He said Reagan helped him in 1986 write his group’s anti-
tax pledge, which has now been endorsed by most Republican
lawmakers.  “This is a different Republican Party you’re talking
about,” he said. “The modern Republican Party does not raise
taxes.”  Focused on Today  Representative Richard Nugent, a freshman Republican from
 Florida , called Reagan’s tax increases “ancient history,”
saying, “I live in the present.”  “I’m more focused on what’s happening today,” said
Senator  Marco Rubio , another Florida Republican. “I’ve yet to
meet a job creator who’s told me they’re looking for higher
taxes.”  Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s second-ranking Republican,
said, “Reagan was in a situation where he had to compromise in
order to get some things done” and “presidents sign lots of
things that they’re not for.”  Van Hollen , of Maryland, said if Reagan were around today,
he’d have to fight to win his party’s nomination.  “In today’s environment, Ronald Reagan would be primary-ed
by a Tea Party candidate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  