-- 
Dodd-Frank Rules May Be at Legal Risk After SEC Loses U.S. Court Appeal

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-07-23T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/dodd-frank-act-s-rules-may-be-at-legal-risk-after-sec-appeals-court-defeat.html
Some of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s Dodd-Frank rules may face legal challenges
after a federal appeals court ruling rejected an agency
regulation on shareholder rights, analysts said.  The SEC rule written last year was meant to open company
boards to candidates pushed by major shareholders. The  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in Washington yesterday agreed with business
groups that the rule shouldn’t be implemented because the
regulator didn’t properly explore the costs of the change.  The requirement that the SEC do a full cost-benefit
analysis on its rulemaking has been a trouble spot for the
agency, which has lost several similar cases in the same court.
Today’s defeat comes as the SEC works on more than 100 rules it
was assigned by the Dodd-Frank overhaul enacted a year ago.  “The whole implementation of Dodd-Frank is at risk,” said
 Hal Scott , director of the Committee on Capital Markets
Regulation, a research group that has been critical of the
regulatory overhaul. “This is a problem that we should have
been aware of from the beginning. That’s why this rush to
rulemaking was flawed.”  Among federal regulators, the SEC faces the largest share
of Dodd-Frank rule-writing. About 70 of the rules have been
proposed so far, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told lawmakers at a
hearing July 21. The law requires the agency to study each
rule’s effect on “efficiency, competition and capital
formation.”  Three-Judge Panel  The SEC declined to comment on whether Dodd-Frank rules are
legally vulnerable. On yesterday’s ruling,  Kevin Callahan , an
SEC spokesman, said the commission is “reviewing the decision
and considering our options.”  In the so-called proxy access rule struck down by the court
yesterday, the three-judge panel sided with the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and the  Business Roundtable , finding that the agency
failed to study how much the rule would cost companies to fight
investors’ bids to oust board members.  “The commission inconsistently and opportunistically
framed the costs and benefits of the rule; failed adequately to
quantify the certain costs or to explain why those costs could
not be quantified; neglected to support its predictive
judgments; contradicted itself; and failed to respond to
substantial problems raised by commenters,” U.S. Circuit Judge
Douglas Ginsburg wrote.  “The court has sent a clear signal that the agency must
continue to improve its efforts in that area,” said Eugene Scalia, a lawyer at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in  Washington 
who represented the business groups. “The decision is notable
for the number of different errors it finds in the commission’s
analysis and the degree for which those errors go to the very
core of the commission’s argument.”  Fourth Victory  Yesterday’s finding was Scalia’s fourth victory since 2005
challenging the cost-benefit reviews of SEC rules. The Court of
Appeals in Washington rejected other SEC rules that defined
indexed annuities as securities and that required 75 percent of
a mutual fund’s directors to be independent. Scalia said the
latest finding gives guidance to the SEC to consider “the
rationales for its other rulemakings, including those under
Dodd-Frank.”  “This is sort of a wake-up call for Dodd-Frank,” said
Jeff Morgan, president and chief executive officer of the
National Investor Relations Institute in Vienna, Virginia. “It
puts a light on the SEC and their process for how they make
decisions.”  Morgan, whose group represents investor-relations officials
at 3,500 public companies, offered advice to the SEC: “You
really need to make sure you spend the time.”  ‘Agency of Lawyers’  Scott, the director of the capital markets group who is
also a professor at  Harvard Law School , said that the SEC is
“an agency of lawyers” where economists struggle for
recognition. Its failure to review the full economic weight of
its rules “is largely, in my mind, a cultural problem in the
agency.”  President  Barack Obama  this month issued an executive order
for independent agencies to look at the costs of new and
existing rules to avoid regulations that are “excessively
burdensome.”  In a June report examining whether the SEC had properly
estimated the costs and benefits of new rules, Inspector General
H. David Kotz said the agency had set up teams of officials with
“sufficient expertise to conduct a comprehensive and thoughtful
review.” Kotz said two rules had “potential deficiencies” and
that there was a lack of quantitative analysis in a rule that
would establish municipal advisers’ registration with the
commission.  “This is a very difficult time for the commission,” said
Jeffrey W. Rubin, chairman of the  American Bar Association ’s
committee on federal regulation of securities. “Maybe it’ll add
some degree of caution in its rulemaking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 