-- 
Dodgers Judge Favors League’s Bankruptcy Loan Offer, Rejects JPMorgan Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/dodgers-judge-rejects-bankruptcy-loan-sides-with-major-league-baseball.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers cannot
borrow $150 million from a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit for its
bankruptcy and must hold talks with  Major League Baseball  on its
rival loan offer, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross sided with baseball
yesterday after a 10-hour hearing on July 20 where the two sides
attacked each other’s motives related to the competing loans.
MLB contended its proposal carried a lower  interest rate  and
lower fees than the loan the Dodgers sought from JPMorgan’s
Highbridge Capital Management LLC.  “A comparison of the Highbridge loan and the proposed
Baseball loan clearly shows the substantial economic superiority
of the Baseball loan,” Gross wrote in his eight-page opinion in
Wilmington, Delaware. The team is “directed to negotiate with
Baseball cooperatively and in good faith,” he said.  The judge rebuffed the typical practice of deferring to the
Dodger’s “business judgment” in deciding which loan was best
because McCourt didn’t make a “disinterested or independent
decision” regarding the loan.  Evidence shows that if the Dodgers, controlled by Mr.
McCourt, “did not seek court approval for the Highbridge loan,
Mr. McCourt would personally owe $5.25 million to Highbridge,”
Gross said in the decision. He further added that “such
potential personal liability clearly compromised” McCourt and
the Dodger’s decision.  Interim Approval  The Dodgers initially rejected the MLB loan, saying
Commissioner  Bud Selig  is biased against the team and owner
 Frank McCourt . Gross on June 28 gave the team interim approval
to borrow $60 million from Highbridge after the Dodgers agreed
to changes in the loan terms.  “A short-form unsecured credit agreement with MLB, when
combined with other sources of revenues, should provide the
Dodgers with ample liquidity to meet team payroll and other
expenses,”  Bruce Bennett , a lawyer for the Dodgers, said in an
e-mailed statement. The team will proceed “with the objective
of emerging from the Chapter 11 process before the end of
2011,” he said.  Baseball attorney  Tom Lauria  didn’t immediately return an
e-mail seeking comment on the judge’s decision.  MLB has agreed to drop the provisions the team considered
“problematic,” Bennett said in a telephone interview today.
Bennett doesn’t think the league’s loan will have any effect on
the Dodgers’ plan to auction off the team’s TV rights. “We
expect this credit agreement will not, in any way, restrict our
reorganization strategy,” the lawyer added.  Team Control  MLB said in a July 14 filing that it would be willing to
provide “unsecured financing” to the team that wouldn’t
require any collateral to guarantee repayment. The so-called
debtor-in-possession loan would fund the Dodgers’ operations
during the bankruptcy.  The next phase of the case will center on control of the
Dodgers and how best to reorganize the team. In bankruptcy, the
DIP lender can have more influence over the direction of the
case than other creditors, especially when there are no other
large, secured debts.  The MLB loan must be “independent of and uncoupled from
Baseball’s oversight and governance of the Dodgers,” Gross said
in his ruling. He added that he didn’t view the loan as “a
vehicle for Baseball to control” the Dodgers.  Both sides agree that selling assets, especially the rights
to show games on  cable television , would pay creditors and allow
the Dodgers to exit bankruptcy. The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy
on June 27 after Selig rejected a proposed cable-TV rights deal
McCourt negotiated with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  TV Rights  The Dodgers plan to begin a sale process for the TV rights
next month. Selling those rights is the main goal of the
bankruptcy, Bennett has said.  Lauria previously said that Selig hasn’t yet decided what
the Dodgers should do while under court protection from its
creditors.  Disputes over who should control the Dodgers and what the
team should do in bankruptcy will be more intense than the fight
over the loan, Gross said at the end of the July 20 hearing.  “I suspect it is going to be a little bit more of a bare-
knuckled affair than what it has been,” Gross said.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 