-- 
Dundee International Real Estate Trust Said to Raise C$410 Million in IPO

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-22T16:47:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/dundee-international-real-estate-trust-said-to-raise-c-410-million-in-ipo.html
Dundee International Real Estate
Investment Trust raised C$410 million ($433 million) in an
initial public offering, 12 percent more than it originally
sought, said three people with knowledge of the sale.  The Toronto-based REIT sold 27 million units at C$10 each,
as well as C$140 million in convertible debentures with a 5.5
percent coupon, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the terms aren’t public. Dundee International initially
sought to raise C$365 million, the people said, and increased
the amount because of investor demand. Proceeds will be used to
buy properties in  Germany , according to a regulatory  filing .  Dundee International was one of three Canadian REITs that
raised at least C$725 million this week. TransGlobe Apartment
REIT sold C$225 million of units and debentures in a secondary
offering and Allied Properties REIT raised C$90 million in its
sale. CIBC led the TransGlobe deal and Scotia Capital led the
Allied sale, which were both completed yesterday.  Dundee International’s offering is the largest REIT IPO in
 Canada  in at least a decade, surpassing TransGlobe’s C$247.3
million IPO in May 2010. TD Securities led a group of 11 firms,
and the banks have an option to buy another 15 percent of
shares. The units will start trading Aug. 3 on the Toronto Stock
Exchange.  The REIT was founded by  Dundee Corp. (DC/A) ’s real estate unit to
buy 295 office and other commercial properties in Germany with
about 12.5 million square feet (1.2 million square meters) of
leasable commercial area, according to a June 8 filing.  Deutsche
Post AG (DPW) ,  Europe ’s largest mail carrier, leases about 75 percent
of the property, which would make Dundee International REIT the
largest landlord in Germany for the postal company, according to
the filing.  Dundee Corp., a Toronto-based firm that offers asset
management and real estate services, will buy 10 million units
and its Dundee Realty Corp. unit will buy 2 million units, the
filing said. Dundee Realty, which formed Dundee REIT in 2003,
has about C$5 billion in assets under management.  A telephone message left for Dundee Corp. Chief Executive
Officer Ned Goodman wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story: Doug Alexander in Toronto
at   dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  