-- 
E*Trade Rises After Broker Hires Morgan Stanley to Explore Sale

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-07-23T00:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/e-trade-call-trading-jumps-on-speculation-broker-will-be-bought.html
E*Trade Financial Corp., the online
brokerage whose shares have fallen 94 percent in four years,
responded to its biggest owner’s request to address those
“catastrophic losses” by hiring  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to explore a
sale of the company. The stock rallied.  Citadel LLC,  Ken Griffin ’s Chicago-based hedge fund, asked
E*Trade on July 20 to arrange a meeting for shareholders to vote
on items such as hiring an investment banker and removing two
directors. While New York-based E*Trade rejected a meeting, the
board decided to retain Morgan Stanley for advice on “strategic
alternatives,” according to a statement yesterday.  Trading of  call options  giving the right to buy E*Trade
shares has exceeded 20,000 contracts for three straight days, a
first for the company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Investors are betting E*Trade will be acquired, according to
Steve Sosnick, equity risk manager at Timber Hill LLC in
Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “There is a lot of takeover speculation,” he said in a
telephone interview yesterday. Citadel “is agitating for a
sale, but who’s going to buy it?” he said.  Susan Hickey, a spokeswoman for E*Trade, declined to
comment on takeover speculation.  The company’s shares climbed 3.6 percent to $16.21 as of 8
p.m. in New York yesterday. The announcement that Morgan Stanley
had been hired was made after the regular trading session ended
at 4 p.m., when the shares were up 21 percent since July 15, the
biggest weekly rally since June 2009.  Schwab’s CEO  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  Chief Executive Officer Walt Bettinger
was asked yesterday at a meeting with analysts whether his
company was interested in E*Trade. Schwab, based in  San
Francisco , competes with E*Trade for online brokerage clients.  “We certainly understand the dynamics around E*Trade and
the consolidation opportunity and the opportunity to potentially
derive value from reducing expenses to a meaningful extent
within E*Trade,” he said. “At the same time, there are many
issues around that we are looking at and would always look at
with respect to any possible transaction.”  E*Trade has posted more than $3 billion of losses related
to bad mortgages following the collapse of the subprime market.
To help E*Trade avoid bankruptcy, Citadel injected $2.55 billion
of cash into the company in November 2007, and Griffin joined
the board in June 2009. The hedge fund cut its stake to less
than 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  