-- 
EasyJet Jumps Most in 8 Years as Business Flyers Lift Profit

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-07-22T17:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/easyjet-annual-profit-to-beat-estimates-on-business-bookings.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  jumped the most in eight
years in London trading after  Europe ’s second-biggest discount
airline said annual earnings will beat estimates following a 20
percent surge in business bookings.  Pretax profit for the 12 months ending Sept. 31 will be in
the range of 200 million pounds ($326 million) to 230 million
pounds, Luton, England-based EasyJet said today, sending the
stock as much as 19 percent higher. Analysts were predicting
earnings of 179 million pounds, based on 22 estimates.  Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall began offering
flexible fares via travel agents last November in an effort to
attract more business people, extending the plan to the web in
May. EasyJet, which is also targeting corporate travel by adding
frequencies on key routes, said today that third-quarter revenue
jumped 23 percent from a year earlier to 935 million pounds.  “This is a very good performance, with fantastic revenue
against a very difficult consumer background,” said  Wyn Ellis , a
Numis Securities analyst in London who rates EasyJet “add.”  EasyJet stock closed almost 18 percent higher at 368 pence
in London, the sharpest gain since June 6, 2003, and the best
performance in the index of Britain’s top 350 traded companies.
That pared the stock’s decline this year to 16 percent and
values the company at 1.58 billion pounds.  Punctuality  EasyJet boosted the number of corporate travelers by one-
fifth in the third quarter, helping to grow per-seat sales by
5.2 percent to 56.02 pounds. Business revenue is rising even as
economic concerns weigh on leisure bookings at European
carriers. U.K. consumer confidence fell in June as the economic
outlook dimmed and higher fuel prices left households with less
disposable income,  Nationwide Building Society  said yesterday.  “The new focus seems to be paying off,” said Jonathan Wober, a Societe Generale analyst in London with a “buy” rating.
“People going on business tend to book later and pay more.”  EasyJet’s improved punctuality is also boosting corporate
acceptance, Wober said. More than 81 percent of flights were
defined as on time last month, compared with 57 percent a year
earlier, when flights were hampered by crew shortages and
rostering problems at the airline’s main  London Gatwick  base.  “The strong operational and commercial performance in the
quarter reflects the continued successful implementation of the
strategy we outlined last November,” McCall said in a statement,
adding that 75 percent of summer seats have already been sold.  Fleet Issue  The third-quarter passenger total advanced 17 percent,
slightly ahead of the increase in seats, so that the  load
factor , a measure of occupancy, rose 0.2 percentage point.  Stephen Furlong , an analyst at Davy Stockbrokers in Dublin,
upgraded EasyJet stock to “outperform” from “neutral.”  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s biggest low-cost carrier,
rose 4.8 percent in Dublin. It reports earnings July 25.  EasyJet took delivery of 11 Airbus SAS A320 jets in the
three months, while returning seven to leasing companies,
leaving it with a 203-strong fleet at the end of June.  Stelios Haji-Ioannou , the airline’s founder and largest
shareholder, said July 13 it should halt a January order for 35
planes after failing to clear the plan with investors. The fleet
spat, running since 2008, may hamper the performance of EasyJet
stock, said Andrew Fitchie, a London-based analyst at Investec.  “The shares could continue to be somewhat turbulent if
Stelios’s EasyGroup continues its dispute with the board,” the
analyst said in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  