-- 
Televisa Unit Aims for Telmex’s Subscribers With Internet Offer

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-07-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/televisa-unit-aims-for-telmex-s-subscribers-with-internet-offer.html
Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO) ’s Empresas
Cablevision SAB unit is seeking to lure subscribers from
Telefonos de Mexico SAB with a new high-speed Internet offer.  Cablevision , which serves the Mexico City area, began
selling Internet this week at a download speed of as much as 3
megabits a second for 149 pesos ($13) a month. That compares
with an earlier offer of 2 megabits for 199 pesos.  The carrier aims to take advantage of Telmex’s failure to
get a license to offer TV service by attracting clients with
video and Internet packages, said Jean Paul Broc, the cable
carrier’s chief executive officer. The promotion should bring in
40,000 customers this year, he said.  “The more clients we have with more services, the harder
it will be for another provider to enter,” Broc said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “If Telmex gets TV someday, we’re
ready.”  Televisa gained 49 centavos yesterday to 52.15 pesos. The
shares have lost 18 percent this year before today. Cablevision
is one of three cable carriers controlled by the Mexico City-
based company, the world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster.  While the offer will cut into Cablevision’s revenue per
subscriber, the greater number of subscribers will make the
discount worth it, Broc said. Cablevision had about 329,000
Internet customers at the end of last quarter, up 19 percent
from a year earlier. That gives it 22 percent of Internet
subscribers in the Mexico City area, Broc said.  Telmex doesn’t sell  Internet service  individually. The
company offers a package of phone and Internet service with a
speed of 2 megabits a second for 599 pesos a month. A similar
package from Cablevision, including the new Internet offer,
would be 403 pesos a month.  Network Upgrade  A Telmex official who can’t be named under company policy
declined to comment. The Mexico City-based company had 7.7
million Internet subscribers at the end of last quarter, up 10
percent from a year earlier.  Cablevision has almost completed a three-year, $450 million
plan to upgrade its network by extending fiber-optic cables
closer to clients’ homes, Broc said. Internal surveys show the
investment is improving customers’ perception of the quality of
Cablevision’s services, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 