-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for Weekly Gain as Europe Agrees on Greek Aid

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m ,   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-07-22T21:05:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-as-europe-agrees-on-greek-aid.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
pushing the benchmark index to its biggest weekly gain in three,
as euro-area leaders sought to persuade investors that measures
they’re taking to staunch the region’s sovereign debt crisis
will work.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.9 percent to
1,153.18 at 4:30 p.m. in  New York , taking its increase for the
week to 1.6 percent. Today’s rally erased the gauge’s losses for
the year. Brazil’s Bovespa index recorded its first weekly gain
in three, and India’s Sensex rose 1.6 percent, completing a 0.9
percent weekly advance. Thailand’s SET Index climbed to the
highest since August 1996 and the Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index jumped 2.2 percent. The South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rose 1.2
percent.  Euro-area leaders announced 159 billion euros ($229
billion) in new aid for Greece late yesterday and eased the
terms of loans for cash-strapped nations. Leaders declined to
increase the 440 billion-euro bailout fund, prompting economists
from Citigroup Inc. to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to question
whether it’s big enough to insulate Spain and  Italy  from
contagion.  “There are still some question marks out there, but this
is certainly a helpful move,” said John Lomax, an emerging-
markets strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc, in a phone interview
from  London . “We have continued uncertainty about the Italian
outlook, and the question is, once people become uncertain about
that, does it become relatively more difficult to address.”  European leaders will likely take further actions if “it
turns out this isn’t enough,” Lomax said.  China Advances  The Shanghai Composite Index advanced for the first day in
five as the improving outlook for  Europe ’s economy helped drive
 oil prices  higher for a fourth day. Samsung Electronics Co.,
which gets about a fifth of its revenue from Europe, rose 1
percent.  “The European debt crisis seems to have made a little bit
of progress, which is positive,”  Pu Yonghao , the Hong Kong-
based chief investment strategist for Asia Pacific at UBS AG’s
wealth management unit, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  of equities retreated 1.8
percent in its longest losing streak since September 2008.
Earlier this week,  Fitch Ratings  said Turkey’s record current-
account deficit is causing “uncertainty” on its outlook for an
investment-grade rating.  Fund Flows  Developing-nation equity funds reported withdrawals of $1.1
billion in the week ended July 20, snapping three straight weeks
of net inflows, Citigroup Inc. said in a report today. Citigroup
expects emerging equities to “pick up steam” in the second
half of 2011 and eventually outperform developed market equities
for the full year, analysts led by Geoffrey Dennis wrote in a
separate report.  Infosys Ltd., India’s second-biggest software maker, gained
2.2 percent. The country’s largest software companies get about
a quarter of their orders from Europe.  Oil rose as signs that Europe and the U.S. will contain
their debt crises eased speculation that demand for raw
materials may falter. Crude for September delivery advanced 0.8
percent to settle at $99.87 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Thailand’s stock benchmark index, the world’s second-best
performer in the past month, reached a 15-year high as a
peaceful transition of power following the July 3 election drew
overseas investors.  Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK) , the third-largest lender
by assets, jumped 6.3 percent to a record on expectations that
economic expansion and new government policies will fuel
earnings growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 