-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for Fourth Day on Europe Agrees on Greek Aid

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-07-22T06:09:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-on-europe-agrees-on-greek-aid.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
a fourth day, driving the benchmark index to the biggest weekly
gain in three, amid optimism European officials will contain the
region’s debt crisis.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.9 percent to
1,153.42 at 2:07 p.m. in Singapore, taking its increase for the
week to 1.6 percent. Today’s rally erased the gauge’s losses for
the year. Thailand’s SET Index climbed to the highest since
August 1996. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index jumped 2
percent, while South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rose 1.2 percent.  Euro-area leaders announced 159 billion euro ($229 billion)
in new aid for Greece late yesterday and eased the terms of
loans for cash-strapped nations. PetroChina Co. rose the most in
two weeks and  S-Oil Corp. (010950)  surged 7 percent as the improving
outlook for  Europe ’s economy helped drive  oil prices  higher for
a fourth day. Shares of exporters climbed, paced by Samsung
Electronics Co.  “Today’s a relief rally,”  Pu Yonghao , the Hong Kong-based
chief investment strategist for Asia Pacific at UBS AG’s wealth
management unit, said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.
“The European debt crisis seems to have made a little bit of
progress, which is positive.”  Emerging-market equities have trailed their developed-
nation counterparts this year, with the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index
climbing 5.2 percent in 2011. Companies on the emerging-market
index are trading at 11 times estimated earnings, less than the
four-year average multiple of 12.6 times.  Fund Flows  Developing-nation equity funds reported withdrawals of $1.1
billion in the week ended July 20, snapping three straight weeks
of net inflows, Citigroup Inc. said in a report today. Citigroup
expects emerging equities to “pick up steam” in the second
half of 2011 and eventually outperform developed market equities
for the full year, analysts led by Geoffrey Dennis wrote in a
separate report.  In Europe, officials empowered their 440-billion euro
rescue fund to buy debt across stressed nations, helping to
erect a firewall around Spain and Italy even as they risked
temporary default to lighten the Greek debt burden.  PetroChina climbed 1.9 percent in  Hong Kong . Oil for
September delivery gained 0.5 percent in  New York , extending a
three-day, 3 percent increase.  Samsung Electronics, which gets about a fifth of its
revenue from Europe, rose 1 percent in Seoul. Shares of the
world’s biggest maker of computer memory chips also rallied
after Microsoft Corp. and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. posted
profits that beat estimates.  Nanya Technology Corp. (2408)  and  Inotera
Memories Inc. (3474)  surged more than 4.5 percent in Taipei.  Thai Shares Rally  Thailand’s stock benchmark index, the world’s second-best
performer in the past month, reached a 15-year high as a
peaceful transition of power following the July 3 election drew
overseas investors.  Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK) , the third-largest lender
by assets, jumped 3.3 percent to a record on expectation that
economic expansion and new government policies will fuel
earnings growth.  China Shenhua Energy Co. advanced 2.5 percent in Hong Kong,
set for the highest close since January 2010, after sales
climbed last month. Other coal producers also rallied, with
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. adding 1.5 percent.  Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB) , Malaysia’s biggest power producer,
slid 4.8 percent, headed for the lowest close since May 25.
Tenaga had a net loss of 440.2 million ringgit ($148 million) in
the third quarter ended May 31, compared with a profit of 1.11
billion ringgit a year earlier, because of higher generation
costs, according to a company statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 