-- 
Merkel Gains Parliamentary Support for New Euro Debt Package

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-07-22T13:20:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/merkel-gains-parliamentary-support-for-new-euro-debt-package.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
gained the backing of skeptics in her own coalition as well as
opposition parties for the latest euro-area package aimed at
stemming  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition partner was poised
to sign onto the agreement after its parliamentary group leader,
 Rainer Bruederle , called the involvement of private investors in
a new Greek bailout package “good and significant.” The
opposition  Social Democrats  and Greens also signaled that the
deal meets their approval, shoring up broad support for the
crisis package as it heads for approval in  Germany ’s
legislature.  “It’s my cautious view that an SPD majority will back this
package in parliament,” Joachim Poss, deputy leader for the SPD
in the lower house of parliament, or Bundestag, said in an
interview in Berlin today. “At the same time, we need to
scrutinize the details and study the implications for the
country.”  The latest efforts to end the 21-month debt crisis
dispelled concerns of German lawmakers who threatened to reject
any proposal that didn’t seek to share the burden of fresh
financial assistance with private creditors. Euro-area leaders
unveiled 159 billion euros ($229 billion) of new aid for  Greece 
as well as new powers for the 440-billion euro rescue fund late
yesterday after eight hours of talks in Brussels.  Merkel’s Majority  Merkel predicted her Christian Democratic-led bloc and the
FDP will vote in favor of the measures. She said the Bundestag
will have sufficient time to debate the package after it
reconvenes following the summer recess on Sept. 5. The
chancellor has a majority of 20 lawmakers in the 620-seat
Bundestag.  “I’m very certain that I can rely on a majority in my
coalition,” Merkel told reporters today in Berlin.  The government coalition will still have outliers who
reject the plan, though there will be enough support in the
coalition alone to pass legislation, Otto Fricke, the FDP’s
budget spokesman in parliament, said in an interview.  “There will surely be individual lawmakers in both ruling
parties who will reject it, but I think they would have rejected
everything anyway,” Fricke said. “Those who say that Greece
should exit the euro reject any kind of agreement.”  Investors will contribute 50 billion euros to the latest
bailout through bond exchanges and buybacks.  Euro Drops  The euro dropped for the first time in four days against
the dollar on concern measures announced by European officials
won’t be enough to quell regional turmoil. The euro fell 0.3
percent to $1.4378 at 8:33 a.m. in  New York , from $1.4425
yesterday, after reaching $1.4439, the highest since July 6.  Germany’s  Green Party  will also support the plan, Juergen Trittin, the party’s co-parliamentary leader told ARD
television. He said the measures take the European Union a step
in the direction of euro bonds.  Opposition parties in Germany may be reluctant to attack
the government’s handling of the euro crisis amid polls
indicating increased worries over the euro. Some 86 percent of
voters said they see “great danger” in the currency’s
stability, a ZDF television poll from July 15 showed.  “There’s no appetite among the opposition parties to try
to garner points on the debt crisis,” said Peter Matuschek,
chief political analyst of Berlin-based polling company Forsa,
in an interview today. “Voters, parties, the government all
want this crisis behind them -- the stakes are too high.”  Merkel and her Christian Democrats aren’t due to go to the
polls for the next federal elections until 2013. The
chancellor’s CDU has lost four state elections so far this year
and will contest two more by the end of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  