-- 
Estonia Benefits From Euro Amid Sovereign Debt Crisis, Prime Minister Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-22T07:57:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/estonia-s-benefits-from-euro-beating-its-expectations-prime-minister-says.html
Estonia , which joined the euro area
this year as its members fought to end a sovereign-debt crisis,
is benefitting from the currency amid turmoil in the monetary
union, Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  said.  “It was really an important thing for Estonia to join the
euro zone, and even knowing now what happened during the last
year, I can say that, yes, this was a really good decision for
Estonia,” Ansip said in an interview yesterday in Washington.
“We had expectations, and now I can say reality was even better
than we expected.”  The package euro-area leaders crafted to end the 21-month
sovereign bond crisis was “remarkable,” with “impressive”
involvement from the private sector, Ansip said. The leaders,
after eight hours of talks yesterday in Brussels, announced 159
billion euros ($229 billion) of new aid for  Greece , with
bondholders picking up part of the bill.  After enduring one of the deepest recessions in the
European Union in 2008-09, Estonia had the bloc’s fastest
growing economy in the first quarter and was the only member to
post a  budget surplus  last year. Ansip said becoming the 17th
euro member helped reassure investors, attracting capital,
boosting exports and creating jobs.  The prime minister, who met with the International Monetary
Fund’s No. 2 official,  John Lipsky , in Washington, said second-
quarter growth was strong and the economy should expand more
than 5 percent this year. Inflation, which is “a challenge,”
should slow in the second half, he said. The inflation rate
dropped to 4.9 percent in June, the lowest in eight months.  Sustaining Effort  Ansip, who oversaw austerity measures equal to 9 percent of
Estonia’s economy in 2009 to prevent the  budget deficit  from
ballooning, said the Greeks are making efforts to reduce their
budget shortfall and “know what they have to do.”  Greece must sustain its efforts to meet conditions attached
to the aid package, and close cooperation between the EU and the
IMF on bailouts in the region should continue, he said.  “The IMF has really good expertise,” Ansip said. “They
are experienced.”  Estonia’s credit rating was raised one step to A+ this
month by  Fitch Ratings , which cited its improved public finances
and adoption of the euro.  The country doesn’t see itself as an economic model for the
rest of the world, said Ansip, who also met with Vice President
 Joe Biden  and House Speaker  John Boehner  while in the U.S. One
policy that served Estonia well was accumulating reserves before
the global recession, when growth was strong, he said.  As a euro-area member, Estonia will need to contribute to
the new bailout package for Greece.  “That’s life,” Ansip said. “When somebody has big
difficulties, their friends have to help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  