-- 
MetLife Could Pay $3 Billion for ING Unit, Bernstein Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-07-22T20:44:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/metlife-could-afford-3-billion-for-ing-latin-america-unit-bernstein-says.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the U.S. life insurer
considering acquisitions in Latin America, has resources to pay
$3 billion in cash for  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s business in the region,
said Suneet Kamath, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “This deal would be viewed positively,” Kamath said today
in a research report. “In our view, an acquisition would be
better than buybacks.”  MetLife added to its business outside the U.S. with the
purchase of American Life Insurance Co. last year for about $16
billion. Chairman Robert Henrikson said in June that MetLife was
“looking at possibilities” in Latin America and that the
insurer’s existing business in the region would help it with any
acquisition. ING has said it is reviewing options for its
insurance assets in  Latin America .  MetLife has enough capital to spend $3 billion on an
acquisition, lift the dividend and buy back stock, Kamath said.  Christopher Breslin , a spokesman for MetLife, declined to
comment on Kamath’s note. Raymond Vermeulen, a spokesman for
ING, didn’t return a call for comment outside normal business
hours in Amsterdam. Vermeulen said last month that ING was
evaluating its options for the business.  ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services company, is under
European Union orders to sell its insurance operations as a
condition for approval of state aid it received during the
financial crisis. The Amsterdam-based firm owns the second-
largest mandatory pension fund management business in Latin
America, including positions in the biggest markets of Mexico
and  Chile .  ‘Strong Capital Position’  MetLife has a “strong capital position,” Henrikson said
on June 1 at an investor meeting arranged by Kamath and
Bernstein. The firm, which holds most of its funds in the
regulated insurance units, had $3.6 billion of cash and liquid
assets at the holding company level, Henrikson said.  MetLife paid cash and securities including common stock for
its purchase of Alico from American International Group Inc. in
November. The Alico deal expanded MetLife’s presence to more
than 60 companies from 17.  The insurer slipped 30 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $41.74 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
company has dropped 6.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  