-- 
Metorex Sees Hurdle for Any Rival to Attractive Jinchuan Bid

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-07-22T16:39:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/metorex-sees-hurdles-for-anyone-to-compete-with-attractive-jinchuan-bid.html
Any bidder for  Metorex Ltd. (MTX)  seeking
to compete with an “attractive” $1.36 billion offer by  China ’s
Jinchuan Group Co. faces hurdles as the African miner seeks to
close a deal, Chief Executive Officer Terence Goodlace said.  “We’re moving very quickly,” Goodlace told Bloomberg in
an interview today in Johannesburg, where the company is based.  Shareholders voted against a lower offer by  Vale SA (VALE3)  today,
leaving Jinchuan as the only bidder for the producer of copper
and cobalt in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Zambia. The
Chinese nickel company is offering 8.90 rand a share, 21 percent
more than the Brazilian iron-ore producer’s proposal.  “It’s an attractive offer,” Goodlace said after the vote.
“If you look at the market and shareholder feedback, they’re a
lot more positive than they were about Vale’s offer.” Any new
bidder would have to “start from scratch,” he said.  Jinchuan is scheduled to release further details of its
offer in early August, Johannesburg-based Metorex said today.
The deal would strengthen the Chinese company’s  Zambia  and Congo
business, according to a statement by Jinchuan on July 5.  A 42 percent jump in copper prices in the past year in
London trading is spurring acquisitions in the industry. Barrick
Gold Corp., the world’s largest producer of the precious metal,
offered C$7.3 billion ($7.7 billion) for Equinox Minerals Ltd.,
partly to secure the Lumwana copper mine in Zambia.  Metorex’s production will probably be “similar” in the
second half of the year to the first, when it produced 26,562
tons of copper and 1,890 tons of cobalt, Goodlace said.  The company was little changed at 8.42 rand by the 5 p.m.
close of trading Johannesburg and has advanced 19 percent since
April 7, the day before Vale announced its offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  