-- 
European Leaders Try to Persuade Investors on Accord to Halt Debt Turmoil

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-07-22T18:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/european-leaders-try-to-persuade-investors-on-accord-to-halt-debt-turmoil.html
Euro-area leaders fanned out to
persuade investors that last night’s array of crisis-fighting
measures can help stop the debt turmoil that’s defied them for
more than a year.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said government chiefs had
learned from the “systemic effects” in the single-currency
area and widened the scope of their bailout fund to allow it to
buy the bonds of debt-laden nations, support banks and offer
credit lines. The agreement included new aid for Greece that
embraced bondholders, prompting  Fitch Ratings  to say it will put
a default rating on Greek debt.  The risk is that the package will follow the pattern of
previous agreements and eventually disappoint markets. Leaders
declined to increase the 440 billion euro ($632 billion) fund,
prompting economists from Citigroup Inc. to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to question whether it’s big enough to insulate  Spain  and
Italy from contagion. The onus also remains on  Greece  and other
cash-strapped nations to keep delivering austerity measures.  “The European Financial Stability Facility has gone from
being a single-barreled gun to a Gatling gun, but with the same
amount of ammo,”  Willem Buiter , chief economist at Citigroup
Inc. told Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.” “It needs to be
increased in size urgently.”  The EFSF will have about 323 billion euros ($464 billion)
to fend off any speculative attacks against Spain and Italy
after contributing to Greece’s second aid package, European
officials said.  Ballooning Deficit  (For a related story on bankers’ agreement to participate
in a Greek bond exchange, click here. To read a story on credit-
default swaps and the rescue package, click here.)  The euro fell for the first time in four days against the
dollar, slipping 0.5 percent to trade at $1.4360 as of 4:21 p.m.
in  London .  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds rose 6 basis points to
5.4 percent, while the yield on Spanish bonds of the same
maturity increased 3 basis points to 5.76 percent.  Policy makers have fought a running battle to stamp out the
crisis, which was sparked by Greece’s ballooning budget deficit.
They moved too slowly to defend Greece in early 2010, before
agreeing a bailout in April of that year that wrongly assumed
the country would borrow in markets as soon as 2012.  Leaders then set up a rescue fund which ran into opposition
from national lawmakers and lacked the firepower initially
assigned to it. Merkel reignited the turmoil in October by
demanding investors help taxpayers cover the rescue costs,
sparking a market rout that forced Portugal and Ireland to seek
bailouts.  ‘Very Clear Awareness’  Government chiefs said this time will be different.  “Unfortunately, we’ve seen systemic effects in the euro
area and now we’ve taken the necessary steps,” Merkel said.
“Now there is a very clear awareness of what the causes are. We
know what we need to do.”  Spanish Prime Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said the pact
“should generate confidence and stability in the markets.”  The agreement sparked a surge in Greek bonds even after it
opened the door to a potential default through the involvement
of private investors. The yield on Greek two-year debt plunged
more than 600 basis points to 27.6 percent.  “The proposed debt exchange implies a 20 percent net
present value loss for banks and other holders of Greek
government debt,” Fitch said today. “An exchange that offers
new securities with terms that are worse than the original
contractual terms of the existing debt and where the sovereign
is subject to financial distress constitutes a default event.”  ‘Expressly Voluntary’  The International Swaps & Derivatives Association, by
contrast, said participation of private bondholders in the Greek
rescue plan “should not trigger credit-default swaps” on the
nation because it’s “expressly voluntary.”  Credit-default swaps on Greece plunged 500 basis points to
a six-week low of 1,500 as of 12:15 p.m. in London, the biggest
decline on record. That’s down from an all-time high of 2,568
basis points on July 18 and signals a 72 percent chance the
government will default within five years, a figure that
approached 90 percent earlier this month.  Under the terms of last night’s agreement, Greece was
promised 159 billion euros of new aid with lower  interest rates 
and longer repayment times. The euro region and  International
Monetary Fund  will contribute 109 billion euros, with banks
chipping in 50 billion euros through bond exchanges and
buybacks.  ‘Significant Shift’  The decision to allow the EFSF to buy  government bonds  and
offer IMF-style precautionary loans will protect the most
indebted countries, said  Andrew Bosomworth , a  fund manager  at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in Munich.  “That is a significant shift, a significant change in tack
from the policies taken up to now, and that puts an extra line
of defense ahead of those countries from financial markets,”
said Bosomworth in an interview with Bloomberg TV.  The aid still leaves Greece under pressure to cut a debt of
around 143 percent of gross domestic product and may only delay
a restructuring of the burden by one or two years, said  Paul Donovan , deputy head of global economics at UBS AG. The economy
is contracting for a third year and fiscal consolidation
policies have already triggered riots.  “This is fiddling around at the margins,” said Donovan.
“The debt needs to halve.”  The  European Central Bank  helped pave the way to an
agreement after softening its opposition to a default when
governments pledged to guarantee Greek collateral in money
market operations.  Possible Delay  The test may come should investors again challenge the
ability of  Europe  to contain the crisis to Greece, Portugal and
Ireland. National parliaments need to approve the fund’s new
powers, which could hold them up until September, said Laurent Bilke, an economist at Nomura International Plc.  That may force the ECB to reactivate the bond-buying
program it suspended in April, he said. Once enabled, the fund
can still only buy bonds if sponsoring states agree.  Economists at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have argued
the EFSF should be boosted to 2 trillion euros, while those at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch say it would need to be increased
by about 700 billion euros to comfortably cover the debt
issuance of  Italy  and Spain until 2014.  “The size of the EFSF may need to be revisited in the
future if its greater scope and deterrent function can be put to
work in practice,” said Francesco Garzarelli, chief interest
rate strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “This tendency to
‘under-size’ otherwise good policy initiatives has been a
recurrent feature of European policies.”  AAA-rated governments may be wary of boosting the fund for
fear it would threaten to erode their own creditworthiness.
Finland has said it won’t support increasing the fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Brussels at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  