-- 
European Rescue Fund to Have $464 Billion to Defend Spain, Italy

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-22T14:18:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/european-rescue-fund-to-have-464-billion-to-defend-spain-italy.html
The euro area’s main rescue fund
will have about 323 billion euros ($464 billion) to fend off any
speculative attacks against Spain and  Italy  after contributing
to  Greece ’s second aid package, European officials said.  The 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility,
which sells bonds to finance rescue loans, will gain the
authority to buy the debt of stressed euro-area countries, aid
troubled banks and offer credit lines to governments under an
accord reached yesterday by government leaders.  The  EFSF , which has already contributed a total of 44
billion euros to the bailouts of Ireland and  Portugal , will
provide about 73 billion euros to Greece under its new aid
program, the officials told reporters today in Brussels on the
condition of anonymity in line with European Union policy. That
leaves 323 billion euros for the EFSF’s expanded powers,
according to one official.  Euro-area leaders are seeking to ease the Greek
government’s budget strains and build a firewall around Spain
and Italy to draw a line under a 21-month-long sovereign-debt
crisis that Greece triggered. Greece in May 2010 won an initial
loan package of 110 billion euros from euro-area states and the
 International Monetary Fund .  The leaders yesterday  approved new aid  for Greece totaling
159 billion euros, including 50 billion euros in projected
contributions from bondholders. Of the 109 billion euros in
planned public support, the IMF will contribute about 36 billion
euros, according to the officials, who said all the figures are
preliminary and may change as more detailed plans are worked out
in the coming weeks.  Bond Sale  Of the public funding, 20 billion euros will be earmarked
for the recapitalization of Greek banks and another 20 billion
euros for a Greek debt-buyback program, said the officials.  The buybacks will account for a projected 12.6 billion
euros of bondholders’ planned contribution. The remaining 37
billion euros will result from bond exchanges and rollovers,
according to the officials.  The EFSF may start selling bonds to raise its share of the
new aid for Greece as soon as September, one official said.  The new powers that euro-area leaders decided to give the
Luxembourg-based EFSF are meant to “address contagion” after
the yield on Spanish and Italian bonds touched euro-area
records. That helped to create the need for yesterday’s summit.  In March, euro-area leaders took initial steps to bolster
the EFSF by giving it the authority to purchase bonds directly
from governments in an aid program and raising the fund’s
lending capacity to 440 billion euros from 250 billion euros.
Those changes are still going through a ratification process in
national capitals.  The new aid package for Greece excludes 45 billion euros
left over from the first program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Leon Mangasarian at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net  