-- 
European Stocks Rally After EU Agrees on Second Bailout Plan for Greece

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-22T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/european-stocks-post-weekly-rally-after-second-greek-bailout.html
European stocks climbed this week,
snapping two weeks of losses, as euro-region leaders agreed on a
second bailout package for  Greece  in a bid to end the region’s
debt crisis.  Banks led gains in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, with
National Bank of Greece SA, Alpha Bank SA and Dexia SA all
surging more than 18 percent. Renewable Energy Corp. jumped 33
percent, the most since 2008, after its biggest shareholder said
the share price is too low for it to consider selling its stake.
Electrolux AB, the world’s second-largest appliance maker,
plunged 17 percent after earnings missed estimates.  The Stoxx 600 advanced 1.9 percent to 272.02 this past
week. The gauge has still fallen 6.6 percent from year’s high in
February amid speculation Europe’s fiscal crisis will derail the
economic recovery and concern U.S. lawmakers will fail to agree
on raising the nation’s debt ceiling.  The EU deal is “a step in the right direction,” said
Veronika Pechlaner, an investment manager at  Jersey , Chanel
Islands-based Ashburton Ltd. “The increase in visibility on the
form and magnitude of private-sector involvement is very
important.”  National benchmark indexes rose in all 18 western European
markets, except Iceland.  France ’s CAC 40 advanced 3.1 percent,
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 1.6 percent and  Germany ’s DAX gained
1.5 percent. Greece’s ASE rallied 9.3 percent for the biggest
increase since October 2008.  Greek Aid  Euro-area leaders announced 159 billion euros ($228
billion) in new aid for Greece on July 21 and cajoled
bondholders into footing part of the bill. Officials empowered
their 440-billion euro rescue fund to buy the debt of stressed
nations to help erect a firewall around Spain and  Italy .  The Greek financing package will consist of 109 billion
euros from the euro area and the  International Monetary Fund .
Financial institutions will contribute 50 billion euros after
agreeing to bond exchanges and buybacks that will also cut
Greece’s debt load.  In the U.S., lawmakers must agree on a plan to boost the
government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit and avert a default by
Aug. 2. House Speaker  John Boehner  said yesterday that he and
the White House are “not close to an agreement” on raising the
debt ceiling following a meeting with  House Republicans  in which
the speaker was described as in a gloomy mood.  Debt Ceiling  “The market needs a resolution on the U.S. debt ceiling,”
said Martin Dobson, head of trading at London-based Westhouse
Securities. “I think the problem is that we’re through one
crisis but not necessarily out of the woods. The European and
U.S. crises will remain as a weight on the market for the
foreseeable future.”  The Stoxx 600 started the week by falling to the lowest
level since November after results from bank stress tests failed
to allay concern that they have sufficient capital to withstand
the debt crisis. The 1.8 percent tumble on July 18 took the drop
from this year’s high to 9.98 percent, just short of the 10
percent slide that analysts define as a correction.  The gauge then rebounded 3.8 percent over the final four
days of the week.  Banking stocks led gains this week, with the Stoxx 600
Banks Index rallying 5.7 percent. National Bank of Greece soared
28 percent and Alpha Bank surged 23 percent, the biggest gains
since 2008. Dexia, the French-Belgian bank forced to shrink its
balance sheet by 35 percent by 2014, advanced 19 percent.  REC Rallies  REC rallied 33 percent for the biggest increase in the
Stoxx 600 after its largest shareholder, Orkla ASA, said its
current share price is too low for it to consider selling its
39.7 percent stake in the Norwegian maker of solar energy
components.  “We are a financial investor in REC and that position has
not changed,” Orkla Chief Executive Officer Bjoern Wiggen said
at its earnings presentation in Oslo on July 20. “We would look
for exit opportunities if the price was right, which it is not
at the moment.”  Trelleborg AB, the world’s biggest maker of vibration
dampening gear, jumped 6.3 percent after saying profit exceeded
analyst estimates.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  climbed 7 percent after
first-quarter sales rose 2 percent, boosted by income from
capital markets and information services.  Electrolux plunged 17 percent, the biggest drop since
October 2008, after saying second-quarter net income fell to 561
million kronor ($88.5 million) from 1.03 billion kronor a year
earlier. Analysts on average expected profit of 677 million
kronor, a survey by Bloomberg showed.  Atlas Copco AB tumbled 4.8 percent after the world’s
largest maker of air compressors also reported earnings that
trailed projections.  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  dropped 9.6 percent as the Italian diary
company’s weighting on the FTSE MIB shrank at the close of
trading on July 15. Separately, analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc.
said the company may reduce its full-year earnings forecast when
it reports first-half results on July 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Conor Sullivan in London at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 