-- 
Everbright Bank Said to Seek More Key Investors for Hong Kong Stock Sale

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-07-22T02:05:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/everbright-bank-said-to-seek-more-key-investors-for-hong-kong-stock-sale.html
China Everbright Bank Co. is seeking
more institutional buyers for its  Hong Kong  share sale after
getting commitments for about one third of the offering from key
investors, two people with knowledge of the deal said.  Prudential Plc and  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  are among 12
so-called cornerstone investors who have agreed to buy about 30
percent of the 10.5 billion shares on offer, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the information is
private. The sale may raise about $5.3 billion, based on the
lender’s closing price of 3.28 yuan (51 cents) in  Shanghai 
yesterday.  Everbright Bank’s underwriters are seeking to sell at least
40 percent of the stock to cornerstone investors, said the
people. Such buyers, typically funds, companies or wealthy
individuals, are offered guaranteed shares in an offering in
exchange for pledges not to sell the stock for a fixed period.  The Beijing-based bank delayed the sale in June as shares
of Chinese lenders declined on concern that loans made to local
governments may turn sour. China Guangfa Bank Co., part owned by
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , is among other financial companies planning to
sell shares in Hong Kong, according to people with knowledge of
the matter. Everbright Bank shares have lost 17 percent this
year in Shanghai.  Officials at Everbright Bank, Prudential and United
Overseas Bank were not immediately available to comment.  Lower Valuation  With demand for bank shares slackening, securing key
investors may help ensure a deal gets done.  Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. (1288)  sold about 52 percent of the Hong Kong portion of its
initial public offering to cornerstone investors in July last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Hang Seng
Finance Index has dropped 6.9 percent since Dec. 31, the worst-
performing industry group on Hong Kong’s benchmark.  Everbright Bank may sell shares at as much as a 5 percent
discount to the average trading price in Shanghai in the 10 days
leading up to the offering, the people said. The top end of the
price range would represent a 10 percent premium to the 10-day
average, they said.  That range would value Everbright Bank at 1.25 to 1.39
times its estimated 2011 book value, based on the 10-day average
through yesterday, according to the people. Some potential
cornerstone investors are demanding a lower valuation, they
said.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the country’s
largest lender, trades at 1.77 times estimated 2011 book value,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lucky Date  Everbright Bank has yet to set a new timetable for the
offering, the people said. The company may aim to list in Hong
Kong on Aug. 18, according to one person.  China Everbright Group Ltd., Everbright Bank’s parent
company, was founded on Aug. 18, 1983, according to the group’s
 website . Everbright Bank was born nine years later to the day
and started trading in Shanghai on Aug. 18, 2010. The stock
jumped 18 percent on its debut.  China International Capital Corp., Morgan Stanley, UBS AG,
BNP Paribas SA, BOC International Holdings Ltd., China
Everbright Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
Shenyin Wanguo HK Ltd. and Daiwa Capital Markets HK Ltd. are
managing Everbright Bank’s offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  