-- 
Ex-JPMorgan Banker Admits to Stealing Identities for $1.1 Million Theft

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-22T22:09:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/ex-jpmorgan-chase-banker-pleads-guilty-to-stealing-1-1-million.html
A former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
business banker pleaded guilty to using other people’s
identities to steal more than $1.1 million from the bank and its
customers, the Manhattan district attorney said.  Hao “Howie” Wang, 28, of Newark,  New Jersey , pleaded
guilty today in New York state  Supreme Court  to grand larceny,
 identity theft , falsifying business records, forgery and scheme
to defraud, the office of District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr.
said in a statement.  “The defendant took advantage of his access to the
confidential files and accounts of customers who entrusted their
money to JPMorgan Chase & Co.,” Vance said in the statement.  Wang, who worked at a retail branch at 270 Park Avenue from
December 2007 to July 2008, was arrested at  Newark  Liberty
International Airport in New Jersey on Nov. 17 and indicted by a
grand jury in New York in December. Prosecutors said he operated
his scheme from February 2008 to February 2009.  In one instance, prosecutors said, he used the identity of
a person without his knowledge or authorization to obtain a
$100,000 loan from New York-based JPMorgan. Wang created fake
bank documents in the name of the victim, who wasn’t a JPMorgan
Chase customer, making it seem as if the person had opened the
account and applied for the loan, according to the statement.  Falsified Documents  He transferred $90,000 of the stolen money into bank
accounts outside the U.S. and spent the rest through debit card
purchases and cash withdrawals, prosecutors said.  Several months later, in June 2008, Wang stole the identity
of an actual JPMorgan customer and falsified documents to create
a fake account in that person’s name, prosecutors said. Wang
then transferred $250,000 from the person’s authorized JPMorgan
Chase account into the fake account before sending $200,000 into
bank accounts outside the U.S. and used $46,000 to purchase an
Audemars Piguet watch.  In February 2009, Wang stole the identities of two other
JPMorgan customers and used them to transfer $139,536 and
$700,000 from their bank accounts to accounts outside the U.S.,
prosecutors said.  Remains in Jail  As part of his plea agreement, Wang will be sentenced to
two to six years in prison and make full restitution, according
to Vance’s office. He could have faced as long as 25 years on
one of the grand larceny counts he faced had he been convicted
at trial.  Wang was ordered to return to jail pending his next court
appearance, for a pre-sentencing report, which is set for Aug. 4
before  New York  State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus,
according to court records.  JPMorgan Chase spokeswoman  Jennifer Zuccarelli  didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail and an e-mail message seeking
comment on the plea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  