-- 
Mexico Central Bank Sees Inflation Risks Falling on Weaker Domestic Demand

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-07-22T18:44:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/mexico-central-bank-sees-inflation-risks-falling-on-weaker-domestic-demand.html
Mexico ’s central bank said weaker
demand is causing growth to slow and easing consumer price
pressures, cementing expectations it will keep the benchmark
lending rate at a record low at least through year-end.  Policy makers said that “even when the risks to lower
growth have increased, the balance of inflation risks have
improved,” according to the  minutes  of their July 8 meeting
posted on bank’s website today. Mexico’s output gap “continues
in negative territory, and is closing at a slower pace than
anticipated a few months ago,” they said.  The central bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens,
this month extended its longest-ever pause, keeping the
overnight rate at 4.5 percent for a 20th straight meeting.
Consumer prices fell the most in 42 years in May and were
unchanged in June, pushing the annual rate down to 3.28 percent
last month from 3.36 percent in April, within the bank’s target
range of 2 percent to 4 percent.  “The minutes are more dovish than the  monetary policy
statement ,” said  Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., in a phone interview in Mexico City.
“More board members are aligned with the view of a bearish
growth outlook and a benign inflation.”  ‘No Demand Pressure’  In today’s minutes, the policy makers said there’s still
“no demand pressure on the prices of the principal goods or
external accounts” of Mexico. Slack remains in labor market,
and investment has eased, the bank said.  The central bank expects prices to remain within the target
range for the remainder of this year and 2012, according to the
minutes.  Core inflation , excluding tortillas and tobacco, is
below the 3 percent target.  Some board members highlighted the importance of treating
inflation in a “symmetrical” fashion, the statement said. That
means the monetary authorities should cut the overnight rate
when the rise in consumer prices is less than the target.  The comment “could open the door for cuts, but we think
this is a non-credible threat,” Casillas said. “It’s going to
be really hard to see inflation below the target for the
reminder of the year. The comment adds marginally to the dovish
tone.”  JPMorgan Forecast  JPMorgan expects inflation to fluctuate between 3.5 percent
and 3.7 percent in the second half of this year, and forecasts
that the bank will start raising rates after the first half of
2012. The majority of economists covering Mexico expect to see
the first rate increase in April next year.  Earlier today, Mexico’s National Statistics Agency reported
that consumer prices in the first  two weeks of July  rose 0.32
percent, the biggest increase since the two weeks ended Dec. 31.  The bank’s board highlighted that global commodity prices
have declined in recent weeks, according to the minutes.  “In contrast, there’s still the risk of return of
turbulence to the international financial markets with the
subsequent effect on the  exchange rate ,” the statement said.  The bank doesn’t rule out “an increase in some
agricultural products with consequential effects on the
inflation,” the minutes show.  Against the backdrop of tame inflation, the expansion of
the $1.04 trillion economy decelerated to an annual pace of 2.4
percent in April, the slowest rate of growth since 2009.  The next monetary policy meeting will be Aug. 26.  The peso dropped 0.4 percent to 11.6321 per  U.S. dollar  at
2:325 p.m. New York time from 11.5910 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  