-- 
Express Scripts’s Deal for Medco May Spur Purchases by Rivals Seeking Size

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-07-22T20:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/express-scripts-s-deal-for-medco-may-spur-purchases-by-rivals-seeking-size.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s takeover of
 Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  may fuel acquisitions of specialty
pharmacy benefit managers by rivals seeking to gain enough size
to negotiate lower prices with drugmakers.  Once the deal closes, the number of people served by St.
Louis-based Express Scripts would rise by 50 percent to 135
million, based on current data, said Art Henderson, an analyst
at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee . The next biggest
rival, CVS Caremark Corp., serves 85 million people.  Pharmacy services companies negotiate prices with
drugmakers for employers and governments and manage worker
claims. More customers give them added leverage to insist on
lower prices, providing savings that may be used by the
companies to reduce expenses or compete for contracts. Size also
helps companies accumulate data to develop efficient disease
management programs and weigh treatment cost effectiveness.  “Fifty percent more purchasing power in an industry that
hangs on scale is really very significant,” Henderson said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Express Scripts yesterday said it agreed to buy Medco,
based in  Franklin Lakes ,  New Jersey , for $29.1 billion to become
the largest pharmacy-benefits manager in the U.S. The next two
in size would be Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based  CVS Caremark
Corp. (CVS)  and the pharmacy unit of  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , based in
 Minnetonka ,  Minnesota .  ‘Close’ FTC Review  The agreement, the largest in at least a decade among U.S.
companies that manage drug benefits, will likely get “a very,
very close look” by the Federal Trade Commission because of the
scale issue, said Bob Leibenluft, who led the agency’s health
unit from 1996 to 1998 and is now a partner at Hogan Lovells
LLP, a Washington law firm.  The combined company would control as much as 30 percent of
the market if approved, said Helene Wolk, an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. CVS will have a market share
“in the low 20s” and UnitedHealth’s unit will be “in the low
teens,” she said.  The deal “raises the bar for the other major players, no
doubt,” Dave Shove, a New York-based analyst at Bank of
Montreal, said in a telephone interview. “Health-care reform
demands data, low costs and efficiency. The only way for for-
profit companies to achieve that quickly is to merge.”  CVS’s Caremark  CVS’s Caremark unit may be offered up as a possible
acquisition, according to Bernstein’s Wolk, although she said
she thinks CVS will keep it. When the company’s then-chairman,
Tom Ryan, retired in May, there was speculation that it may spin
off or sell the Caremark unit, she said.  Larry Merlo, CVS president and chief executive officer, said
in May that “despite conjecture in the marketplace, there are
no plans to split up the company.”  Carolyn Castel , a CVS spokeswoman, declined to comment
yesterday on the Medco takeover, or whether the move might
prompt CVS to make acquisitions.  “CVS Caremark has the widest breadth of capabilities in the
industry with a leading PBM, drugstore chain and retail health
clinics,” Castel said in an e-mail. “Our integrated model
enables us to offer unique products and services that enhance
pharmacy access, reduce costs and improve health-care
outcomes.”  Express Scripts  gained $1.95, or 3.5 percent, to $57.30 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Medco rose
$2.13, or 3.3 percent, to $65.96. CVS declined 47 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $37.35. UnitedHealth advanced 60 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $52.75.  Unsuccessful Bid  Express Scripts had unsuccessfully bid on the Caremark unit
when CVS bought it in 2007, and the prospect of its sale or
spinoff drove Medco to seek the merger with Express Scripts,
according to three people familiar with the deal who didn’t want
to be identified because the negotiations were private.  Tyler Mason, a spokesman for UnitedHealth, wouldn’t comment
on whether the company is looking to acquire other pharmacy
benefit managers.  UnitedHealth’s unit “capabilities equal to any in the
industry, distinctive expertise and resources and a proven track
record that’s led to significant growth,” Mason wrote in an e-
mail.  Behind the three largest pharmacy services managers is a
group of regional and specialty companies, all of which may be
potential acquisition candidates, Jefferies’ Henderson said.  Potential Targets  These include MedImpact Healthcare Systems Inc. in  San
Diego , with about 32 million participants;  Catalyst Health
Solutions Inc. (CHSI)  in Rockville,  Maryland , with 17 million; Prime
Therapeutics LLC in  St. Paul , Minnesota, also with 17 million
members; and Philadelphia-based insurer  Cigna Corp. (CI) ’s pharmacy
unit with 6.2 million, he said.  The problem “is there is such a long stretch between the
biggest and the rest of the pack in this industry,” Bank of
Montreal’s Shove said. “There’s no one to buy that gets you
that close to the two biggest.”  Consolidation has been going on for years in the industry.
Express Scripts Chief Executive Officer George Paz said the
Medco purchase is the company’s seventh major transaction since
he joined the company in 1998 as senior vice president and chief
financial officer.  Express Scripts’s biggest previous acquisitions were the
2005 takeover of Priority Healthcare Corp. for $1.3 billion and
the 2009 purchase of WellPoint Inc.’s NextRx unit for $4.7
billion.  Trade Groups’ Opposition  The proposed Medco takeover would create a company that’s
“too big to play fair,” trade groups representing drugstore
chains and independent pharmacists said yesterday.  “This combination will monopolize control of the supply
line for brand and generic prescription drugs, threaten access
to pharmacy patient care, and is a bad deal for America, for
healthcare plans, for pharmacies, and -- most notably -- for
patients,” Steven Anderson, chief executive officer of the
 National Association of Chain Drug Stores , and Douglas Hoey,
chief executive officer of the  National Community Pharmacists
Association  said yesterday in a  joint statement .  Anderson’s group has 137 member companies that operate
39,000 pharmacies, including  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and CVS, the two
biggest U.S. drugstore chains. Hoey’s group represents more than
23,000 community pharmacists.  The Medco purchase would unite two “culturally different
rivals,” Bernstein’s Wolk said. “Medco is more strategic and
takes a long view when it is making acquisitions. Express
Scripts looks short term and is focused more on the financial
aspects of deal than building a long-term vision.”  Pitch to Reviewers  The differences between the two companies will be part of
the pitch to U.S. regulators that the deal should be approved,
according to the three people familiar with the agreement. The
companies will argue that Medco mostly focuses on national
accounts while Express Scripts is more geared to local and small
businesses, the people said.  “It will be challenging to get this past the FTC,” Wolk
said. “But with the growth of UnitedHealth,” an insurer with
its own pharmacy services unit, “we will be back to having
three dominant players.”  The FTC review of Express Scripts’s purchase of Medco may
take as long as six months, according to  Robert Maness , a
 College Station , Texas-based economic and antitrust consultant
of Charles River Associates.  In the meanwhile, the review and a disruptive integration
may help rivals grab business away in the short term from
Express Scripts and Medco in the highly competitive marketplace,
said Jeff Jonas, an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye,  New York   “Right now, we’re in the selling season for 2012 for big
contracts that generally start Jan. 1,” he said in a telephone
interview. The deal “throws a lot of uncertainty in for people
who want to sign with either Express Scripts or Medco.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  