-- 
F&C Asset’s Mahtani Says He’s Become ‘More Positive’ on Indian Equities

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-07-22T07:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/f-c-asset-s-mahtani-says-he-s-become-more-positive-on-indian-equities.html
Sam Mahtani, director of emerging-
market equities at London-based F&C Asset Management Plc, which
has $6 billion in assets, comments on the outlook for the
nation’s equities. He spoke today in an interview with
Bloomberg-UTV in Mumbai.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index rose 1.6 percent
to 18,735.41 at 12:55 p.m. in Mumbai.  On markets outlook:  “We’re becoming much more positive on the outlook for
 India  and emerging markets over the next 12 months. We have
decided to increase allocations to India in the past three to
four weeks, and to some of the other bigger emerging markets
like Brazil and China. They have been oversold. Concerns on
inflation have been pretty much well discounted. Now is a good
time for investors to start dipping their toes into India.”  “The market has pretty much bottomed. On a daily basis,
there could be weak days as we navigate markets with news flow
out of Europe and the U.S., but we don’t see a significant
downside to India and emerging markets.”  On Europe and U.S. concerns:  “The balance sheets of emerging markets are much better
and stronger than the developed world. There’ll be a resolution
of the U.S. debt issue much before the Aug 2 deadline. We’re
getting close to an inflexion point for emerging and Indian
markets and the resolution of the two key global uncertainties
will be a positive for emerging markets and India.  ‘‘There’s still a huge amount of  risk aversion  in the
investment community. A a lot of funds are still defensively
positioned in emerging markets. They are investing in stable
consumer-type names and are not willing to take much risk. We
feel we are sticking our neck out in making this call.”  On outlook for Indian software companies:  “We believe in Infosys Ltd. and  Tata Consultancy Services
Ltd. (TCS)  Technology is one of our key themes in India.  ‘‘You got to believe the Infosys model. They are looking to
reposition the company into much higher value-added areas.
There’s some transition taking place in terms of organizational
structure and senior management. The last quarter was not
brilliant. If you look out over the next 12 months, we think
there is definitely decent upside to Infosys. Valuations are
attractive. The market still has lot of doubt on whether the
company can achieve this transformation. It’s a very strong,
well-managed company.  ‘‘The TCS story is slightly different. They are much more
in the bread-and-butter software services businesses, which are
growing. It is taking market share as a lot of global players
are moving away from these kind of maintenance services market
to high value-added market. TCS is effectively a machine. It’s
benefiting from the weakness of some of its key competitors.’’  On  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) :  ‘‘There are short-term uncertainties that could impact the
stock price. On a longer term view it is a decent investment
opportunity. Some of the issues driving the stock price down
will not necessarily get result overnight, particularly the
production issues at KG-D6.’’  Reliance shares have fallen 17 percent in the past year,
compared with the 3.2 percent gain in the Sensex.  On outlook for India’s inflation:  ‘‘High inflation and the possibility of another 25 to 50
basis point increase in rates is pretty much discounted. We are
looking to position the portfolio back into some rate-sensitive
areas. The two themes are banking and automobiles. In banks, we
are focusing on high quality blue-chip names where we have very
minimal risk of non-performing assets.’’  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the nation’s second-biggest lender,  HDFC
Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , the third-largest, and  Housing Development Finance
Corp. (HDFC) , the top mortgage lender, are among his favorite banking
stocks. He also favors  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the nation’s
biggest maker of sport-utility vehicles and tractors, and  Bajaj
Auto Ltd. (BJAUT) , the second-largest motorcycle maker.  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , Asia’s second-largest cigarette maker by market
value,  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s top producer of the fuel,
 Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s largest engineering company,  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , the nation’s most valuable drug
maker and  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the biggest cell-phone operator,
are among F&C’s top holdings, Mahtani said.  He expects Indian equities to return an average 20 percent
in the next 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  