-- 
Fitch Ratings Says Greece Faces ’Restricted Default’ After New Debt Pact

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-07-22T10:40:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/fitch-ratings-says-greece-faces-restricted-default-after-new-debt-pact.html
Fitch Ratings  said Greece faces
``restricted default’' after euro-area leaders agreed on a 
new bailout for the nation that would involve contributions 
from bondholders.  The private sector involvement in a new deal “in Fitch’s
opinion, constitutes an event of ‘Restricted Default,’” the
ratings company said in a statement today. “According to the
Institute for International Finance, the proposed debt exchange
implies a 20 percent net present value loss for banks and other
holders of Greek government debt. An exchange that offers new
securities with terms that are worse than the original
contractual terms of the existing debt and where the sovereign
is subject to financial distress constitutes a default event
under Fitch’s ‘Coercive Debt Exchange Criteria.’”  Euro-area leaders agreed yesterday to provide  Greece  with
159 billion euros ($229 billion) in new aid, including
contributions from bondholders, to stem the debt crisis. They
also empowered their 440-billion euro rescue fund to buy debt
across stressed euro nations after a market rout last week
sparked concern the crisis was spreading. The fund can also aid
troubled banks and offer credit-lines to repel speculators.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
policy makers may be able to accept Greek collateral in the
event of a default because euro-member nations have agreed to
provide guarantees. Heads of governments said they will back
Greek bonds up to the value of 35 billion euros in refinancing
operations in the event that the country is judged in default on
its loans, Trichet added.  The financing package will consist of 109 billion euros
from the euro region and the  International Monetary Fund .
Financial institutions will contribute 50 billion euros after
agreeing to a series of bond exchanges and buybacks that will
also cut Greece’s debt load, according to the communiqué.  Fitch Ratings downgraded Greece by three levels to the
lowest grade for any country on July 13, saying a default is a
“real possibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  