-- 
Five Banks Have $6.8 Billion of Derivatives With Italy, EBA Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r
-- 
2011-07-22T13:47:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/five-banks-have-6-8-billion-of-derivatives-with-italy-eba-says.html
Five European banks have a total of
4.8 billion euros ($6.8 billion) of derivatives contracts with
the Italian government, according to data released for the first
time by European regulators.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  has the most with contracts valued at 1.78
billion euros, followed by BNP Paribas SA with 1.13 billion
euros, Dexia with 777 million euros,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  with 661
million euros and Intesa Sanpaolo SA with 458 million euros,
according to data from the European Banking Authority’s stress
tests last week. Banks had 326 billion euros in all of such
deals with Italian central and local governments, the EBA said.  “It’s a big deal,” said Gustavo Piga, author of
“Derivatives and Public Debt Management,” and a professor at Tor
Vergata University in  Rome . “Now we have more tools to pressure
governments to be more forthcoming about derivatives,” he said.
“This makes it more difficult for them to hide.”  The disclosures, required for the first time in this year’s
stress tests, shed light on an aspect of government debt
management that is subject to only limited disclosure. In 2001,
 Greece  used off-market swaps with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
conceal the true size of its borrowings. Repeated revisions of
Greece’s figures, beginning in 2009, spurred a surge in
borrowing costs that pushed the country to the brink of default
and triggered a region-wide debt crisis.  Managing Exposure  Governments sell long-dated debt and enter into interest
rate swaps with investment banks to adjust the duration of their
debt portfolio. Greece also used cross-currency swaps to receive
up-front payments and reduce the size of its foreign-denominated
debt in euro terms.  The data also show indirect exposure through contracts with
third parties, such as banks, that reference specific countries,
indicating how banks were managing their exposure to countries
through derivatives. Of the 2 trillion-euro total exposure to EU
governments reported by the EBA, derivatives account for 263
billion euros. Most of the contracts have a maturity of one year
or less. The longer-dated positions include debt management-
related swaps with sovereign counterparties, and credit default
swaps between banks that reference the sovereigns.  The data indicate  BNP Paribas (BNP)  may have being buying
protection against a potential Italian default. The lender’s
contracts with other counterparties that reference  Italy  with a
duration of between three and five years had a total negative
fair value 1.38 billion euros. Credit-default swap contracts
typically have a duration of five years. Negative fair value
indicates a short position. Officials at the lender declined to
comment.  UniCredit Swap  Armin Niedermeier, spokesman at Deutsche Bank in  Frankfurt ,
declined to comment beyond the EBA figures. The exposure to
Italy UniCredit reported for the end of December mainly referred
to one large interest rate swap position the bank held with the
treasury, the lender said in an e-mailed statement. The other
banks declined to comment.  EBA analyst Paolo Bisio said the direct sovereign exposure
figure referred only to derivatives contracts between the banks
and the sovereign, essentially central and local government
counterparties. Other public sector derivatives, such as those
with state-backed companies, were excluded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 Ndunbar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ted Merz in New York at   tmerz@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  