-- 
Ford Is Most Vulnerable Carmaker Without Ban on Strike as Union Talks Open

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n ,   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-07-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/ford-is-most-vulnerable-without-strike-ban-as-union-talks-open.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the most profitable
U.S. carmaker, heads into contract talks with the  United Auto
Workers  next week in the worst position among the companies.  Because Ford didn’t take a government bailout, it lacks two
weapons rivals have: binding arbitration and a ban on strikes.  As part of U.S.-backed bankruptcies in 2009, workers at
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC agreed not to strike
over wages and benefits during these contract talks and to take
unsettled disputes from the bargaining table to arbitration.
Workers at Ford went against the wishes of union leaders and
rejected the strike ban and arbitration, so Ford is the only
U.S. automaker that faces the threat of a strike.  “There’s no doubt that Ford would be better off if they
had binding arbitration,” said Kristin Dziczek, a labor analyst
at the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.
“Ratifying a deal at Ford is a bit more dicey than the other
two because they’ve proven they’ll turn down an agreement.”  The union usually picks one automaker to create a deal it
uses as a template with the other two. This pattern bargaining
has kept wages and benefits close to parity among the three
automakers, which now employ about 113,000 U.S. hourly workers.  This time, the parity could be disrupted: With Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford earning $9.3 billion in the last two years,
workers there may hesitate to accept an agreement crafted at GM
or Chrysler or by an arbitrator for those companies.  ‘Difficult Circumstance’  “If either GM or Chrysler went to arbitration, the real
question would then be whether the UAW could live with that
agreement at Ford,” said Joel Cutcher-Gershenfeld, dean of the
School of Labor and Employment Relations at the  University of
Illinois  at Urbana-Champaign. “It won’t go to a strike at GM or
Chrysler, so it really puts Ford in a very difficult
circumstance.”  UAW President  Bob King  said the union’s legal staff “is
focusing on the arbitration process because we have a
responsibility to be prepared.” That’s not an option the union
intends to invoke, he added.  “We don’t expect or want to go to arbitration,” King said
in an e-mailed statement. “We’re focused on getting good
contracts for our members.”  At Ford, UAW members are focused on getting back what they
gave up. King has said workers must be rewarded for the $7,000
to $30,000 in concessions they each gave since 2005 to help the
U.S. automakers survive.  ‘Christmas Bonus’  “The average worker on the factory floor is saying, ‘I
want my Christmas bonus back and I want my cost of living
increase back’,” said Brian Pannebecker, a hoist operator at
Ford’s axle plant in  Sterling Heights ,  Michigan . “Ford should
take the lead role in talks because we not negotiating from a
position of weakness.”  Ford rewarded Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  in March
with $56.6 million in stock for leading the automaker’s
turnaround. In addition, his 2010 compensation rose 48 percent
to $26.5 million. King has called Mulally’s stock award
“morally wrong” and “outrageous.”  Ford declined to elaborate on the lack of a no-strike
clause.  “We have a strong relationship with the UAW,”  John Stoll ,
a Ford spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We have a history of
working collaboratively together to find solutions to critical
issues and we look forward to our discussions with them.”  GM Difference  The threat of a strike at Ford, which hasn’t had a
nationwide walkout since 1977, gives the union more strength at
the bargaining table. Not having that weapon at GM and Chrysler
will make those talks more challenging, UAW GM Vice President
Joe Ashton told reporters in Flint, Michigan, July 18.  “It makes it more difficult,” said Ashton, who leads the
union’s negotiations with GM. “It’s part of what the government
decided on, and we’ll get through it.”  If GM and Chrysler take the lead and go to binding
arbitration, their workers will not get to vote on that
contract, Dziczek said. Ford’s 41,000 hourly workers would still
have a ratification vote. In 2009, more than 70 percent of Ford
workers rejected a second round of concessions that included the
strike ban, which King had endorsed.  “The Ford membership not being where the UAW leadership is
could really screw things up,” Dziczek said.  While Ford workers want to recover what they lost, the
automaker still says it needs to lower its labor costs.  Cost Gap  Ford said on a website that it spends $58 an hour to
provide wages and benefits to UAW members, $8 more than the
average labor costs at the mostly nonunion U.S. factories of
foreign automakers such as  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  Chrysler has said
its hourly labor costs are about $50. Dziczek estimates GM’s
hourly labor costs at $56.  “We cannot continue to have a cost gap with the
competition and still be able to make significant U.S.
investment and create new jobs,” Ford said on
 www.fordahead.com , where it details its bargaining position.
“We’ll need to focus on closing the gap.”  An arbitrator might consider labor costs at the U.S.
factories of Hyundai,  Toyota Motor Corp. (TM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , when
determining wages and benefits for GM and Chrysler workers,
Cutcher-Gershenfeld said.  “An arbitrator would likely award a fairly conservative
package: You’re not going to get a massive wage” increase, he
said. “It’s truly a roll of the dice.”  GM, Chrysler and the UAW have not yet defined how the
arbitration process would work, said people familiar with their
discussions who aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Arbitration Options  Options include “baseball arbitration,” where an
arbitrator or panel would choose the “last best offer” from
one side or the other, said Christine Newhall, senior vice
president with the American Arbitration Association. They also
could go with “high-low arbitration,” where the arbitrator
crafts a settlement between the two parties’ proposals.  Each side makes its case to the arbitrator in a style
similar to a courtroom, with witnesses and documents presented
by lawyers, she said. It can take months for the arbitrator to
hear the case and reach a decision.  “For the average labor case to reach its final conclusion,
it takes about eight or nine months, but some may take longer,”
said Newhall, who is based in  Boston . “Many cases that go to
arbitration settle before a final reward is rendered.”  Patrick McDonald, who has arbitrated grievances between GM
and the UAW for the last 10 years, said he’s noticed more
cooperation between the automaker and the union recently.  ‘Fewer Issues’  “Fewer issues arise between the parties,” said McDonald,
who has resolved just two or three grievances at GM this year.
“Sure they have their differences, but they don’t approach the
other side as the enemy.”  McDonald, a former professor at  Ave Maria School of Law ,
has been a professional arbitrator for 39 years. Besides GM, he
said he has handled cases for Chrysler,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , PepsiCo
Inc. and the Teamsters union, as well as airlines, universities,
municipal governments and their unions. Reached at his Brighton,
Michigan, office McDonald said he hasn’t been retained for the
contract negotiations.  If GM and the UAW don’t have an agreement by the contract
deadline, they would probably extend it before going to
arbitration said Art Schwartz, a former GM labor negotiator and
principal of Ann Arbor, Michigan-based consulting group Labor
and Economics Associates.  “Arbitration is absolutely binding,” Schwartz said. “So
you have to be careful what you wish for going in. I don’t know
that anyone wants it because you lose control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in  Detroit  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 