-- 
French Farm Adviser Offre et Demande to Open Office in Poland

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-22T11:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/french-farm-adviser-offre-et-demande-to-open-office-in-poland.html
Offre et  Demande Agricole , which
advises more than 5,000 French farmers on crop sales, plans to
open an office in Poland as the company expands its presence in
major agricultural producing countries across  Europe .  The Warsaw branch will open in coming weeks, Bourges,
France-based  Offre et Demande  said in an e-mailed statement
today. The company has eight offices in  France , as well as one
in Bartlow, England, and Odessa in Ukraine.  Poland is the European Union’s fourth-largest wheat
producer, behind France,  Germany  and the U.K., EU data show. The
country has 12.1 million hectares (29.9 million acres) of arable
land, with about 21 percent cultivated by farms with a size of
50 hectares or more, Offre et Demande said.  “We believe in the strong development potential for Polish
agriculture,” Renaud de Kerpoisson, the president of Offre et
Demande, said in the statement. “That’s why we’re investing in
this market.”  Poland ’s grain production, excluding millet and sorghum, is
expected to rise to 27.6 million metric tons this year up from
27.2 million tons in 2010, Offre et Demande said, citing
forecasts from the Institute of Agricultural and Food Economics.  Wheat output is forecast to be 9.49 million tons, up from
9.47 million tons a year earlier, with exports in the 2011-12
crop year of 1.1 million tons compared with 1.15 million tons
last season, the French company said.  The farm adviser will open other branches in key European
countries in the next three years, Kerpoisson said in the
statement, which didn’t give any further details on the
expansion plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 