-- 
Bernanke, Geithner, Dudley Are Said to Meet on Debt Limit

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-07-22T13:34:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/geithner-said-to-meet-bernanke-dudley-to-discuss-consuquences-of-default.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  was scheduled to meet this morning with Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to discuss the implications of a
failure of Congress to raise the debt limit in a timely manner,
according to an administration official.  William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, was also scheduled to take part in the meeting. The
administration official wasn’t authorized to discuss the meeting
and declined to be identified.  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker John Boehner,
seeking to avert a U.S. default, are pursuing a broad agreement
to boost the debt limit while cutting spending by trillions of
dollars and overhauling the tax code. Geithner says the Treasury
Department’s borrowing ability will expire on Aug. 2 unless
Congress raises the ceiling.  The Treasury Department yesterday announced the meeting of
three top officials, without disclosing the topic of their
talks.  Dudley, as head of the  New York  Fed, oversees Wall Street
and leads the regional branch through which the central bank
executes monetary policy. Dudley is also vice chairman of the
policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee and is the only
regional chief with a permanent vote.  ‘Off the Table’  Geithner has repeatedly said he expects Congress will raise
the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and that Republican leaders have
taken default “off the table.” He has not discussed publicly
any contingency plans in the event that the Aug. 2 deadline is
not met.  Henry Paulson , Geithner’s predecessor as Treasury
secretary, said after a breakfast meeting today with Geithner
that “the sense of urgency is clear.”  “Failing to raise the debt ceiling would do irreparable
harm to our credit standing, would undermine our ability to lead
on global economic issues and would damage our economy,”
Paulson, who served under former President  George W. Bush , said
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  