-- 
GE Profit Beats Estimates as Finance Unit Blunts Energy-Profit Drop

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-07-22T20:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/general-electric-profit-rises-18-as-finance-unit-blunts-energy-sales-drop.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  posted second-
quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates, buoyed by its
finance unit, as the industrial order backlog rose to a record.  Profit from continuing operations climbed 18 percent to
$3.73 billion, or 34 cents a share, from $3.15 billion, or 29
cents, excluding pension costs, Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE
said today in a statement. That exceeded the 33-cent average of
13 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  has said losses have
peaked at GE Capital, and the unit is writing more profitable
loans. The division’s gains helped offset narrower operating
margins at  GE Energy , where the company said profitability will
improve in the second half. GE’s total backlog, a measure of
future industrial growth, rose 6.8 percent to a record $189
billion.  “The source of earnings growth was really  GE Capital ,
where profits more than doubled,” Matt Collins, a St. Louis-
based analyst with  Edward Jones , said in an e-mail. “Industrial
revenue growth actually slowed and profits declined, but if the
healthy order growth continues, earnings should rebound in 2012
and beyond.”  Equipment orders gained 33 percent as GE introduces more
efficient wind and gas turbines, and service orders climbed 16
percent. Infrastructure orders increased 24 percent.  GE dropped 12 cents to $19.04 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading amid a broader decline in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Industrials Index.  ‘Growth Prospects’  Revenue of $35.6 billion topped analysts’ estimates of
$34.7 billion after a majority of the NBC Universal media
division was sold in January.  Including a pension cost of $181 million, profit
attributable to the company was $3.76 billion, or 33 cents a
share. This was the second quarter in which GE broke out per-
share pension costs or benefits.  “We’re going to see solid double-digit operating earnings
growth for the year, and we’re confident in our total-year
framework for both earnings” and  cash flow  from operations,
Immelt said on an earnings conference call. “We see momentum
building for 2012.”  GE doesn’t give specific earnings and sales forecasts,
providing instead a framework that analysts and investors can
use to calculate their own estimates. Industrial earnings and
sales should increase in the second half of 2011 and accelerate
into 2012, Immelt said in the statement.  GE Capital profit from continuing operations more than
doubled to $1.66 billion on revenue that was little-changed at
$12.4 billion, the company said.  Export Sales  Immelt is working to boost GE’s share of profit from
industrial operations and shrink the percentage contribution
from the finance division.  Profit in the energy infrastructure segment slid 19 percent
to $1.55 billion amid lower prices for wind and gas turbines,
even as sales increased.  Profit at the Transportation division climbed almost seven-
fold as sales increased 74 percent to $1.23 billion. Health-care
profit rose about 8 percent to $711 million on a 10 percent
sales gain.  Immelt has doubled research and development spending to
about 6 percent of industrial sales this year and plans to keep
it at about that level, he told investors, as new product
introductions stoke global demand.  More Profitable Backlog  GE said it’s on track to generate between $12 billion and
$13 billion in cash from industrial operating activities this
year. In the first half, it posted $4.4 billion, a 31 percent
decline from a year earlier.  “Investors have to believe the orders in the backlog now
are more profitable than some of the revenues coming out of that
backlog now,” said  Mark Demos , a Minneapolis-based analyst at
Fifth Third Asset Management, whose parent company owns more
than 5.9 million GE shares. “GE needs to make profitability its
key focus.”  Earnings at the energy and health-care units fell short of
estimates from Brookfield Investment Management Inc. while the
aviation unit performed better than projections,  Joel Levington ,
managing director of corporate credit, said in an e-mail.  Jet Engines  Sales from markets outside the U.S. were 59 percent of the
total in the quarter, up from 53 percent for all of last year.
Immelt has bolstered exports while adding jobs in the U.S. amid
demand from emerging markets including the  Middle East , eastern
 Europe  and  Brazil .  Forecasts for record jet-engine production were bolstered
this week when Boeing Co. chose a GE Aviation partnership as the
sole provider for an upgrade of its best-selling 737 jet.  David Joyce , GE Aviation’s chief, told investors last month
that research and development will rise this year to about  $1.4
billion  from $1 billion in 2010. GE and its partners logged $27
billion in orders at the  Paris Air Show  last month, including a
200-plane order from  Malaysia ’s AirAsia BHD.  All 22 large gas turbines built at the world’s biggest such
plant, in Greenville,  South Carolina , will be exports this year.
GE is the world’s biggest provider of power-plant turbines,
medical-imaging equipment, locomotives and jet engines.  GE last week reorganized management at the Energy
Infrastructure segment as it absorbs about $12 billion of
acquisitions, a process the company said today is ahead of
schedule.  Pricing’s Time Lag  GE Chief Financial Officer Keith Sherin said the company
sees a pickup in volume for energy equipment, including wind and
gas turbines. GE projects wind-turbine volume will rise to about
 1,400 in the second half of 2011  from 1,208 in the same period
last year.  “There’s a time lag to the pricing that takes place, that
always is the way it goes,” Immelt said, referring to wind
turbines. “We’re seeing the early indicators of it turning, but
that’s going to take some time.”  To improve margins as volume increases, GE will look to
productivity improvements and “material pricing and things like
that at the same time,” he said.  Lower material costs of $300 million from working with
suppliers, procuring materials locally for plants in emerging
markets and some direct commodity contracts aren’t enough to
bridge a “value gap” of $500 million to $700 million from
selling some equipment at lower prices, Sherin said in a
telephone interview.  The gap should level off as the company works on higher
productivity and buying materials from lower-cost suppliers, he
said.  “Our whole team is focused on the value gap, and that’s
what we’re going to be working on,” Sherin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  