-- 
Georgia to Seek Conditional Release of Photographers in Spy Case

-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-07-22T11:41:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/georgia-to-seek-conditional-release-of-photographers-in-spy-case.html
Georgian prosecutors said they will
seek the conditional release of four photographers who admitted
to spying for Russia because of their co-operation with
investigators.  Prosecutors will ask a judge today to release the
photographers after they confessed to passing secret documents
to Russian intelligence services and provided Georgian
authorities with information “of particular importance for our
national security,” according to a  statement  on the Ministry of
Justice’s website. “Accordingly, the Office of Chief Prosecutor
will file a motion to the court on the application of
conditional sentences.”  Zurab Qurtsikidze from the European Pressphoto Agency was
arrested July 7 along with President Mikheil Saakashvili’s
personal photographer Irakli Gedenidze and his wife Natia, and
Foreign Ministry photographer Giorgi Abdaladze. A court in
Tbilisi ordered July 9 that Qurtsikidze, Gedenidze and Abdaladze
be held for two months while they await trial. Natia Gedenidze
was released on bail.  On July 6, Georgia sentenced nine people, including three
Russians, to 11 to 14 years in prison for spying for Russia
before the two countries fought a five-day war over the
separatist region of  South Ossetia  in 2008.  Georgia  also
expelled two Russian citizens on suspicion of espionage in 2006.
One of them has links to Qurtsikidze, police said July 13.  In addition to the confessions, evidence against the
photographers includes secret documents they obtained illegally
and extracts of telephone conversations with Russian
intelligence, according to today’s statement. It didn’t provide
details on the conditions of their potential release.  A court will hear the case today, Khatuna Iosava, a
spokesman for the Chief Prosecutor’s office, said by phone from
Tbilisi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  