-- 
Georgia Subpoenas, Dodd-Frank, Greek Rescue: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-22T12:38:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/georgia-subpoenas-dodd-frank-greek-rescue-compliance.html
Georgia requested information from
 UBS AG (UBSN) , Morgan Stanley and  Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP)  in its
probe over whether the firms broke the state’s securities laws
in sales of structured notes called reverse convertibles.  The  Secretary of State ’s office sent subpoenas requesting
data from each of the firms on how many reverse convertibles
they sold in Georgia and the names of the investors, according
to a person familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the investigation is ongoing.  Reverse convertibles are short-term bonds generally sold to
individuals that convert into stock if a company’s share price
plummets. Georgia began examining the securities in May after
lawyers received complaints from investors who asked if the
state had any open investigations, Vincent Russo, general
counsel and acting assistant securities commissioner for the
Secretary of State’s office, said in a telephone interview last
month.  “We received a generic subpoena seeking a list of Georgia-
based clients who invested in certain types of products, some of
which we do not offer,” Benjamin Pratt, a spokesman for
Minneapolis-based Ameriprise, said in an e-mail. “The subpoena
does not name products or advisers.”  Matt Carrothers, a spokesman for the Georgia Secretary of
State’s office, said he couldn’t immediately comment. Allison
Chin-Leong, a spokeswoman for Zurich-based UBS, and Mary Claire
Delaney, of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in New York, declined to comment.  Sales of structured notes such as reverse convertibles are
soaring as investors frustrated by record-low interest rates on
savings seek higher returns through investments that carry more
risk. The “complex” securities can be difficult for investors
and brokers to evaluate, according to the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Special Section: Dodd-Frank Anniversary  Frank Says Cutting Funds to Regulators ‘Worst of All Worlds’  U.S. Representative Barney Frank said Republican efforts to
cut funding to agencies implementing new Wall Street rules under
the Dodd-Frank Act are creating the “worst of all worlds” for
regulators.  “This nickel and diming the Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission does grave
harm,” said Frank, co-sponsor of the financial-regulation law
that bears his name, during testimony at a Senate Banking
Committee hearing in Washington yesterday.  Frank, of Massachusetts, the senior Democrat on the House
Financial Services Committee, was the first witness at a hearing
marking the one-year anniversary of the law signed by President
Barack Obama. Regulators including Federal Reserve Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke, SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro and CFTC Chairman Gary
Gensler were expected to testify at the hearing conducted by
Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson.  House Republicans, who took majority control of the chamber
after Dodd-Frank was passed, have pushed to cut the funding of
the SEC and CFTC, which are required to write hundreds of rules
to implement the law.  For the video of Frank’s testimony, click here.  Bernanke testified at the  Senate Banking Committee ’s
hearing yesterday. His remarks included such topics as the
impact of the financial crisis on U.S. economy, the purpose of
Dodd-Frank, and the financial regulations that have been
implemented under the law.  For the video of Bernanke’s testimony, click here.  Wells Fargo’s Vitner Says Dodd-Frank Hasn’t Made System Safer  Mark Vitner , senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities
LLC, talked about the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the
financial markets and the strengths and weaknesses of the
legislation.  Vitner, who spoke with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bottom Line,” also discussed the outlook for the
debt ceiling debate.  For the video, click here.  Talbott Sees Narrower Margins for Banks Under Dodd-Frank  Scott Talbott, senior vice president for government affairs
at the  Financial Services Roundtable , talked about the
accomplishments of the Dodd-Frank Act in the year since it
became law and its impact on financial services companies.  Talbott spoke with Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s
“Fast Forward.”  For the video, click here.  Harvard’s Scott Says Dodd-Frank Act ‘Handcuffed’ Fed  Hal Scott , a professor at Harvard Law School, said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview that the Dodd-Frank Act “has
handcuffed the Federal Reserve’s ability to respond to a future
crisis.”  Scott talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Dodd-Frank Swipe Caps Slow Growth, End Rewards: One Year Later  Less than a month after the Federal Reserve approved Dodd-
Frank Act rules capping debit-card swipe fees, the limits on so-
called interchange are looking like a compromise that displeases
almost everyone.  Big banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are looking for ways
to make up for $8 billion in lost revenue, payment networks
including  Visa Inc. (V)  are forecasting slower growth and smaller
retailers are questioning whether the change will boost their
bottom lines. Meanwhile, there is little specific discussion
among big retailers of any benefits for consumers.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted a year ago
yesterday, required the Fed to ensure fees charged for debit-
card purchases were “reasonable and proportional” to the cost
of processing transactions. The 21-cent cap approved by the
central bank on June 29 reflected a pullback from a 12-cent
limit it proposed in December, which roiled shares of Visa and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and prompted banks to seek to delay or overturn
the rules.  The largest debit-card issuers, which stand to lose
billions of dollars in annual revenue under the Fed caps, have
already begun to eliminate rewards programs and free checking
and new fees may be next in the effort to help make up the
difference, according to analysts and executives.  While financial firms face the loss of half their debit-fee
revenue, the question of who wins remains a toss-up, according
to retailers. The debit-card market is massive -- more than 38
billion transactions took place in 2009 -- and its participants
include grocery and electronics stores, gas stations and large
retailers like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) , all of
whom lobbied for limits on the power of banks and payment
networks to impose fees.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Euro-Area Leaders May Accept Greek Default, Ease Bailout Terms  Euro-area leaders may accept a temporary Greek default and
ease the terms on bailouts to cash-strapped nations as they
intensify efforts to resolve the 21-month sovereign debt crisis,
officials said.  European leaders fanned out to persuade investors that last
night’s array of crisis-fighting measures can help stop the debt
turmoil that’s defied them for more than a year.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel hailed  “significant”
progress after government chiefs widened the scope of their
bailout fund to allow it to buy the bonds of debt-laden nations,
support banks and offer credit lines. The agreement included new
aid for Greece that embraced bondholders, prompting Fitch
Ratings to say it will put a default rating on Greek debt.  The risk is that the package will follow the pattern of
previous agreements and eventually disappoint markets. Leaders
declined to increase the 440 billion euro ($634 billion) fund,
prompting economists from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  to question whether it’s big enough to insulate Spain and
Italy from contagion. The onus also remains on Greece and other
cash-strapped nations to keep delivering austerity measures.  With Greece being charged about 35 percent to borrow for
two years, heads of government meeting in Brussels may cut the
interest rates on loans to it, Portugal and Ireland to about 3.5
percent and double the repayment period to at least 15 years.
Europe’s main rescue fund may get the power to buy bonds from
investors, help countries recapitalize banks and offer
precautionary lines of credit to repel speculative attacks.  Policy makers are meeting for the second time in a month in
a bid to calm Greece’s financial distress and inoculate Spain
and Italy from it.  For more on Europe’s debt crisis, see EXT4.  Compliance Action  Consumer Bureau Notifies Banks Supervisory Role Begins  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau alerted U.S. banks
with more than $10 billion in assets that it plans to focus on
compliance with federal consumer laws and regulations in its new
supervisory role over the firms.  The bureau, created by the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul
enacted a year ago, notified bank chief executive officers of
its new role in letters dated yesterday as it began official
operations in Washington.  “We expect that institutions will offer consumer financial
products and services in accordance with federal consumer
financial laws, and will maintain effective systems and controls
to manage their compliance responsibilities,” the bureau wrote
in the letters, according to copies e-mailed to reporters.  Dodd-Frank took away supervisory powers on consumer issues
from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and gave it to the bureau.  Steven Antonakes, the bureau’s assistant director for large
bank supervision, said on June 15 that it will periodically
supervise 111 banks, thrifts and credit unions, which control
about 80 percent of U.S. banking assets. Most banks with assets
above $100 billion will face continuous supervision by on-site
examiners.  Under the law, the bureau doesn’t assume other powers until
it has a director confirmed by the U.S. Senate.  MetLife Seeks to Sell Business to Avoid Banking Regulation  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the biggest U.S. life insurer, is exploring
the sale of its deposit-gathering business to avoid tighter
regulation that comes with bank status.  “We do not believe it is appropriate for the overwhelming
majority of our business to be governed by regulations written
for banking institutions,” Chief Executive Officer Steven
Kandarian said yesterday in a statement.  MetLife is seeking to avoid stronger federal oversight
imposed on banks after government bailouts in 2008 prompted
Congress to increase regulation through the Dodd-Frank Act. New
York-based MetLife, which opted against accepting U.S. Treasury
Department capital, said it got about 2 percent of operating
earnings from its banking unit in the first quarter.  MetLife said the business that may be sold includes savings
accounts, certificates of deposits and money-market accounts.
The insurer plans to continue lending through its residential
mortgage business. MetLife Bank began in 2001 and expanded
through acquisition in 2008. The unit had total assets of $15.6
billion, including $9.3 billion in deposits, as of March 31.  MetLife and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-biggest
life insurer, are pushing federal regulators to refrain from
applying bank capital standards to insurance companies. Newark,
New Jersey-based Prudential isn’t a bank holding company and,
like rivals, including MetLife, has insurance operations
regulated by individual U.S. states.  Fed’s Dudley Got Waiver to Keep AIG Holdings After Bailout  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s William C. Dudley
got a waiver in 2008 to keep personal financial holdings of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  after the company received a
Fed rescue, Senator Bernard Sanders, a Vermont Independent, said
yesterday in a statement.  Dudley, who was the New York Fed’s markets-group chief at
the time and is now the bank’s president, is the senior New York
Fed official identified in a  Government Accountability Office 
report yesterday as receiving the waiver.  Jack Gutt , a New York
Fed spokesman, declined to comment.  The GAO criticized the Fed’s standards for managing
conflicts of interest, saying the Dudley example “highlights
the potential for appearance concerns” even if the stake is a
small percentage of the person’s total holdings. New York Fed
employees who requested permission to retain holdings in
companies receiving assistance were “generally allowed” to
keep the investments, the GAO said.  The Fed on Sept. 16, 2008, authorized a loan to AIG to
avert its collapse. The bailout later expanded to include aid
from the U.S. Treasury and the Fed.  For  more, click here.  Courts  Keydata Founder Says FSA Probe Relied on Confidential E-Mails  Lawyers for Keydata Investment Services Ltd. founder
Stewart Ford are seeking to prevent U.K. regulators from using
in an investigation seized e-mails that were sent by the
insolvent company’s law firm.  The e-mails contained confidential legal advice and
shouldn’t have been available to the Financial Services
Authority, the lawyers told a London court yesterday.  Hodge Malek, one of Ford’s lawyers, said the FSA “was
neither fair nor transparent in the way it got the e-mails.”  Keydata was forced into administration by the FSA in 2009
and the U.K. regulator is investigating potentially misleading
marketing and tax irregularities at the company, which managed
as much as 2.8 billion pounds ($4.6 billion) before it failed.  The FSA obtained the e-mails in 2009 from Keydata’s
administrators at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Ford’s lawyers
said they contained material covered by “legal and professional
privilege.”  The founder and former chief executive officer of Keydata
was granted a judicial review in May to question the way the FSA
carried out its investigation.  Part of yesterday’s judicial review was held in private
after Judge Ian Burnett ruled the contents of the e-mails
shouldn’t be publicized until he ruled on whether it was fair
for the FSA to use them.  K1 Hedge Fund Founder Kiener Convicted of Ponzi-Scheme Fraud  K1 Group founder Helmut Kiener was convicted of defrauding
investors with a 345-million euro ($497 million) Ponzi scheme
and sentenced to 10 years and eight months in prison.  Kiener, 52, was found guilty of fraud, forgery and tax
evasion by a court in Wuerzburg, Germany. Kiener in April
confessed to using new investors’ money to make up for losses in
the wake of the financial crisis and to having manipulated some
account statements.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA lost a combined 223 million
euros and private investors lost about 122 million euros,
prosecutors said. Dieter Frerichs, the former managing director
of two K1 funds in the British Virgin Islands, killed himself
last year to avoid being arrested on the Spanish island of
Mallorca.  Achim Groepper, Kiener’s lawyer, said he was satisfied with
the sentence because it was less than the 12 years and nine
months sought by prosecutors. He won’t appeal the verdict.  K1 Invest Ltd. and K1 Global Ltd. were the two main funds
Kiener operated and which took the losses that prompted the
trial.  For more, click here.  Minkow Gets Five Years in Prison for Stock-Fraud Conspiracy  Barry Minkow, a convicted confidence man who started a
fraud-detection firm, was sentenced to five years in prison for
his role in a stock-manipulation scheme.  Minkow, 45, was also ordered yesterday in Miami federal
court to pay $583 million in restitution. U.S. District Judge
Patricia Seitz gave Minkow, who pleaded guilty in March to
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, 60 days to surrender so
he can get his sons settled in school.  Prosecutors said Minkow made false and misleading
statements about Miami homebuilder  Lennar Corp. (LEN) ’s financial
condition to drive down the company’s share price. The U.S. said
Minkow also abused his relationship with federal law enforcement
agents to get non-public information about Lennar and traded on
that information.  The case is U.S. v. Barry Minkow, 11-cr-20209, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 