-- 
Greek Notes Soar on EU Bailout Accord; Bunds Rebound Amid Contagion Worry

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-07-22T16:10:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/german-goverment-bonds-decline-after-europe-boosts-greece-rescue-efforts.html
Greek two-year notes soared the most
in 14 months after European leaders agreed on a second bailout
for the nation in a bid to end the region’s debt crisis.  Irish two-year note yields fell below 15 percent for the
first time since July 6.  Europe ’s leaders announced 159 billion
euros ($229 billion) in new aid for  Greece  following eight hours
of talks yesterday. German bunds reversed their losses and bonds
from  Spain  and  Italy  erased their gains on speculation contagion
risks will linger as  Fitch Ratings  said the debt deal will still
result in a “restricted default” rating for Greece.  “The initial response to the plan has been positive, but
there are some limitations,” said  Philip Marey , a senior market
economist at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht,  Netherlands . “It’s very
focused on Greece. The market is still worried about whether
Italy and Spain will be the next casualties. They are very large
economies and you’d need a lot more money.”  Yields on Greek two-year notes sank 617 basis points, or
6.17 percentage points, to 27.64 percent at 4:50 p.m. in  London ,
set to end the day with the biggest drop since May 2010.
Equivalent Irish yields fell 401 basis points to 15.11 percent.  Greece led a decline in the cost of insuring against a
default on European government bonds, with swaps on the
Mediterranean nation plunging 500 basis points to a five-week
low of 1,660, dropping the most on record. The Markit iTraxx
SovX Western Europe Index of default swaps tied to 15
governments sank 20 basis points to 243.  Spain Reversal  Greek 10-year yields dropped below 15 percent for the first
time since April 26, sinking 180 basis points to 14.68 percent.
Irish 10-year yields tumbled 46 basis points to 11.89 percent.  Spanish 10-year yields rose three basis points to 5.76
percent, after earlier falling 16 basis points to 5.57 percent.
Yields on Italian 10-year debt increased six basis points to
5.41 percent, after earlier sliding 18 basis points to 5.16
percent.  Ten-year bund yields fell five basis points to 2.83 percent
after reaching 2.95 percent, the highest since July 8. German
two-year yields dropped five basis points to 1.37 percent, after
touching 1.50 percent, also the highest level since July 8.  Weeks of discord on how to solve Greece’s debt woes drove
yields on Spanish and Italian bonds to record highs this month
as turmoil threatened to spread across the 17-member bloc.  The agreement opened the door to a potential default
through the involvement of private investors through a debt
exchange. Greek two-year note yields surpassed 40 percent this
week for the first time as European leaders bickered over
whether to force private creditors to contribute.  Rescue Package  “It seems people still don’t understand how the package,
especially the private-sector involvement, is going to work,”
said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European rates strategy at  RBC
Capital Markets  in London. “There’s still a lot of uncertainty.
Bunds will remain supported by safety bids.”  The rescue package agreed upon last night will consist of
109 billion euros from the euro region and the  International
Monetary Fund . Financial institutions will contribute 50 billion
euros after agreeing to a series of bond exchanges and buybacks
that will also cut Greece’s debt load.  European leaders also broadened the scope of the 440-
billion euro rescue facility to allow it to buy the debt of
distressed euro-member nations in the secondary market. The fund
can also aid banks and offer credit lines to repel speculators.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the bank may be able to accept Greek bonds as collateral in the
event of a default because euro countries have agreed to provide
guarantees. Heads of governments said they will back Greek bonds
up to the value of 35 billion euros in refinancing operations in
the event that the country is judged in default on its loans.  German  government bonds  have returned 1 percent this year,
compared with 3.2 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have lost 18 percent,
while Portuguese securities have decreased more than 25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  