-- 
German Business Confidence Index Falls to Nine-Month Low Amid Debt Crisis

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-22T08:46:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/german-business-confidence-index-falls-to-nine-month-low-amid-debt-crisis.html
German business confidence fell more
than economists forecast in July, according to a survey taken
before European leaders agreed new aid for  Greece  as part of an
intensification of measures to stem the region’s debt crisis.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, declined to 112.9,
the lowest in nine months, from 114.5 in June. Economists
forecast a decline to 113.7, according to the median of 42
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The index reached a record
high of 115.4 in February.  European leaders announced 159 billion euros ($229 billion)
of aid for Greece late yesterday in their latest attempt to stem
a 21-month debt crisis that is threatening to engulf Spain and
 Italy . While investor sentiment in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest
economy, dropped more than forecast in July, the country’s
economic outlook remains “favorable” as stronger domestic
demand compensates for a slowdown in export growth, the
Bundesbank said this week.  “The decline is not a drama as economic growth will slow
but remain relatively solid in the second and third quarters,”
said  Holger Sandte , chief economist at WestLB Mellon Asset
Management in Dusseldorf, Germany. “The debt crisis is unlikely
to cloud the outlook too much.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation fell to 121.4 in July
from 123.3 in June, while an index measuring executives’
expectations slipped to 105 from a revised reading of 106.2.  Crisis Plan  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
report was published. It traded at $1.4398 as of 9:29 a.m. in
 London , down 0.2 percent since yesterday.  Europe’s new financing package for Greece will include a 50
billion-euro contribution from financial institutions through a
series of bond exchanges and buybacks that will also cut
Greece’s debt load, according to a statement issued in Brussels.
The plan will also empower the euro-area’s 440-billion euro
rescue fund to buy debt across stressed euro nations, aid
troubled banks and offer credit-lines to repel speculators.  In Germany, the jobless rate has fallen to the lowest in
two decades and the Bundesbank forecasts that the economy will
expand 3.1 percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2012. That would
compare with growth of 1.6 percent and 1.8 percent in the euro
area, according to European Commission projections in May.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest carmaker, said July 15 it
expects to continue outperforming the auto market in the second
half of the year as the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company
benefits from growth in emerging markets such as  Brazil ,  Russia ,
 India  and  China .  Concerns  At the same time, some companies have signaled concern that
austerity measures in euro-area nations and a clouded outlook in
the U.S. risk hurting profit growth. A report on July 22 showed
Europe’s services and manufacturing industries grew at the
slowest pace in almost two years this month.  “While we’re enjoying a lot of success with new models and
seeing many markets moving very strongly, we also see some
potential risk,”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Marketing
Director Ian Robertson said July 14. “Certain economies around
the world will go into a more difficult situation.”  German consumer sentiment will rise for the first time in
four months in July, Nuremberg-based market research company GfK
predicted on June 28. “Good general conditions” have become
“more influential than detrimental factors, such as the state
of affairs in Greece,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  