-- 
Goldman Model Championed by Blankfein Planted Seeds of Distress

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-07-22T00:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/goldman-sachs-model-championed-by-blankfein-planted-seeds-of-own-distress.html
The window shades were lowered to
block out the sunlight soaking lower Manhattan on a Friday
afternoon in June as 14 students in  Eric H. Kessler ’s executive
MBA class gathered in a conference room to present their
analyses of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s leadership.  The firm’s management shows “resistance to change” and is
“doing business in a bubble,” one of the three student teams
explained in a PowerPoint presentation. Another recommended
creating an “ethics role” within Goldman Sachs’s securities
division. Kessler, who teaches management at Pace University’s
 Lubin School of Business , peppered the students with questions.
Could cohesive culture be a weakness as well as a strength?  Such critiques have been rare in Goldman Sachs’s 142-year
history. The company’s status as Wall Street’s most powerful and
profitable securities firm -- with a leadership that produced
 two U.S. Treasury secretaries  -- has lured top students from Ivy
League business schools. After financial markets collapsed in
2008, driving Goldman Sachs and rivals to accept taxpayer aid,
the investment bank became the most vilified on Wall Street.  Bungled public relations and a thirst to find a scapegoat
for the worst U.S. economic crisis since the Great Depression
may explain some of the shift in the firm’s reputation under
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein. The
mistrust and waning investor faith in the company’s prospects
are rooted in something more fundamental: Blankfein’s reliance
on trading and investing the bank’s own capital to reap profits,
even if that meant sometimes competing with clients.  ‘Significant Challenges’  “The idea that you can manage what is a tremendously
conflicted array of relationships is ridiculous,” said Michael C. Aronstein, a 32-year Wall Street veteran and president of New
York-based Marketfield Asset Management LLC. “That’s exactly at
the heart of it.”  Blankfein’s business model was ideal for a period of high
leverage and low regulation, producing average annual profits
more than double those achieved under his predecessor, Henry M. Paulson. As new capital rules and limits on proprietary trading
take effect, those profits will be harder to achieve, said
analysts including Fiona Swaffield of  RBC Capital Markets .  “Goldman Sachs’s business model faces significant
challenges in a post-crisis world,” according to a June 13
investor note by RBC analysts led by Swaffield, who’s based in
 London  and rates the stock “underperform.”  David Wells, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment or make Blankfein available for an interview.  Return on Equity  In the first half of 2011, as trading revenue dropped 25
percent, Goldman Sachs’s return on equity slumped to 8 percent,
or 10 percent excluding the cost of repurchasing preferred stock
from  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. That’s down from
13 percent in the first half of last year.  “Our normal desire is to get to 20 percent; I think it’s
going to be very tough in this environment,” Chief Financial
Officer David Viniar said on July 19 after the firm reported
second-quarter net income that fell short of analysts’
estimates. “I’d be surprised if we did that this year.”  With its business practices under scrutiny by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and the  Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations , Goldman Sachs is fighting to
maintain the trust of clients. The firm paid $550 million last
year to settle an SEC lawsuit alleging it duped buyers of a 2007
mortgage-linked investment. The Senate subcommittee’s bipartisan
report on the crisis, under review by the SEC and Department of
Justice, accused the bank of misleading customers.  While Goldman Sachs didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing under
the SEC settlement, the largest ever by a Wall Street firm, the
company said it made a “mistake” in its marketing materials
about the investment.  ‘Wall Street Shark’  After writing a history of Goldman Sachs that was published
in April, William D. Cohan described the firm in a Bloomberg
Television interview as “the perfect embodiment, the ultimate
evolution, of the Wall Street shark.” A poll of Bloomberg
subscribers in May found 54 percent had an unfavorable view of
Goldman Sachs, more than any other major Wall Street firm.  Jay W. Lorsch, a Harvard Business School professor, said
the bank’s focus has shifted toward “more immediate greed”
from long-term gains because Blankfein and many of his deputies
come from a trading background instead of investment banking.
Lorsch, who helped run an education program for new Goldman
Sachs partners in the late 1980s, is “probably the world’s
expert on governance,” said his Harvard colleague and Goldman
Sachs board member William W. George.  “Goldman now needs to be more thoughtful about how they
are perceived,” Lorsch said. “Lloyd needs to be careful in
public pronouncements and testifying before Congress. Lloyd is
coming across looking pretty greedy himself.”  Stock Drop  Goldman Sachs has dropped 7.4 percent to $135.58 from its
closing price of $146.49 on June 28, 2006, the day Blankfein
became CEO. Under Paulson, the stock almost tripled from an
initial public offering price of $53. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Financials Index has fallen 51 percent during Blankfein’s tenure
as CEO after rising 17 percent while Paulson led Goldman Sachs
as a public company.  The firm also slipped to second place advising on announced
corporate takeovers in 2009 and 2010 after eight years in the
top spot, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs
has regained the No. 1 position so far this year, the data show.  Shareholders have continued to back Blankfein, re-electing
him to the board at the annual meeting on May 6 with 97 percent
of the vote. Blankfein said at the meeting that he had no plans
to step down, and the firm has declined to comment on his
eventual successor.  East  New York   Blankfein, 56, who grew up in a public-housing project in
the East New York neighborhood of Brooklyn, was only 16 when he
went to Harvard College. He later graduated from Harvard Law
School and worked as a tax lawyer before beginning his Wall
Street career in metals sales. From there, he ascended the ranks
of Goldman Sachs’s trading division, which became the firm’s
profit engine under Paulson.  Blankfein’s top deputy, President and Chief Operating
Officer Gary D. Cohn, has worked with him since their days at
Goldman Sachs’s commodities-trading division, J. Aron & Co.  That gives them a different approach to the business than
some former leaders, such as John C. Whitehead or Paulson, whose
focus was on persuading corporate executives to hire Goldman
Sachs as an investment banker on takeovers or financings,
Marketfield’s Aronstein said.  “The people who ran Goldman back in my early days had a
banking background,” he said. “They built that business on the
basis that if you hired them, you would be part of the team that
won. The commodity business is completely different. You have to
guess whether you’re somebody’s customer or their prey.”  Trading Revenue  As high-flying technology stocks crashed and the mega-
mergers of the late 1990s faded away, Goldman Sachs’s
investment-banking revenue plunged to $2.71 billion in 2003 from
$5.37 billion in 2000. Meanwhile, revenue from trading and
principal investments, which include the firm’s own stakes in
companies and real estate, surged to $10.4 billion from $6.63
billion. On Dec. 18, 2003, Goldman Sachs said that Blankfein,
the vice chairman who was responsible for trading and principal
investing, would become chief operating officer, putting him in
line to succeed Paulson.  By the end of fiscal 2005, trading and principal
investments accounted for two-thirds of Goldman Sachs’s revenue.
After Paulson left to become Treasury secretary under President
George W. Bush, the company’s trading revenue and profit
shattered Wall Street records in 2006 and 2007. Blankfein’s
$67.9 million bonus for 2007 made him the highest-paid
securities-firm CEO ever.  ‘Making Money’  “They went to a model that said, ‘Look, we’re making money
from all these people with all these different things we do,
let’s start trading for ourselves and therefore we make more
than just commissions and fees, we make capital gains,’” said
Ted Kaufman, who stepped in for Vice President Joseph Biden as a
Delaware senator and served on the investigations subcommittee.  In his 2008 book “The Partnership: The Making of Goldman
Sachs,” Charles D. Ellis wrote that Paulson, not Blankfein,
initiated the shift toward acting as a principal investor as
well an agent for clients. Paulson countered resistance from
clients and some senior partners by saying that Goldman Sachs
would become a more effective adviser if it also invested its
own money, Ellis wrote.  Revenue from Goldman Sachs’s principal investments, which
include the firm’s direct stakes in companies and real estate as
well as holdings in  hedge funds  and private-equity funds, surged
to $2.23 billion in 2005 from $566 million two years earlier,
company reports show.  ‘Spank From Hank’  In April 2006, two months before leaving the firm, Paulson
sounded a note of caution. He admonished senior managers at
Goldman Sachs that they must keep in mind the “perception” of
the firm’s actions, Lucas van Praag, a company spokesman, said
at the time.  The warning followed an unsolicited approach by Goldman
Sachs bankers to buy BAA Plc less than two months after they
offered to help the U.K. airport operator fend off a takeover
offer from  Spain ’s Grupo  Ferrovial SA (FER) , people familiar with the
matter said. The “spank from Hank,” as it was dubbed in a
Financial Times column, was an effort to remind bankers about
the risks of perceived conflicts of interest.  “In addressing conflicts, there is another issue at play:
public perception. Does it appear appropriate?” Paulson said in
an April 2006 interview with the Wall Street Journal. “We are
increasingly aware of that.”  ICBC Stake  Once Blankfein was CEO, he set about building Goldman
Sachs’s private-equity and hedge funds, which sometimes got as
much as 30 percent of their money from the firm and employees,
as well as direct, principal investments. Revenue from principal
investments hit records of $2.82 billion in 2006 and $3.76
billion in 2007.  Goldman Sachs’s January 2006 investment in Industrial &
Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd., China’s largest bank by market
value, produced a $949 million gain when ICBC went public nine
months later. The company, which alongside its own private-
equity funds paid $2.58 billion for a 7 percent stake in ICBC,
reaped $3.5 billion in mostly paper profits in the ensuing four
years. Goldman Sachs-managed funds and employees who invested in
them also had gains.  In a November 2006 investor presentation, Blankfein
explained how the bankers’ relationships were increasingly
becoming the gateway to investment opportunities.  Kinder Morgan  A slide accompanying his presentation provided examples of
companies in which Goldman Sachs funds or the firm itself had
made investments, including ICBC; South Korea’s Hana Bank;
Aramark Corp., a Philadelphia-based provider of food services;
German department-store owner KarstadtQuelle AG;  Japan ’s Sanyo
Electric Co.; and Kinder Morgan Inc., then the biggest U.S.
natural-gas pipeline operator by market value.  “While clients seek us out because they trust us as an
adviser and they want our skills at managing complex
transactions, they also value our long-term involvement as an
investor,” Blankfein said. “Over the long term, principal
investing has proven to be a successful and profitable business,
benefiting in many ways from our investment-banking franchise.”  Blankfein illustrated the trend with the firm’s role in the
$15 billion management buyout of Kinder Morgan. Goldman Sachs
advised Kinder Morgan’s management on structuring the
transaction, underwrote the debt financing, and its private-
equity funds invested alongside management, he said.  Kinder Morgan investors, including Goldman Sachs and buyout
firm Carlyle Group, raised $2.9 billion in February by selling
to the public 95.5 million shares, or 13.5 percent of the
company, at $30 apiece. The stock dropped to $28.51 yesterday in
New York, giving the company a $23 billion market value.  Blackstone, KKR  In April 2007, less than a year after Paulson cautioned
partners about the firm’s image, Goldman Sachs announced that
its newest private-equity fund had raised $20 billion, including
$9 billion from Goldman Sachs and its employees. The new fund
was a record at the time, eclipsing buyout firms like  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , Carlyle and KKR & Co. Four months later, Blackstone
overtook Goldman Sachs with its own $21.7 billion fund.  KKR co-founder Henry Kravis, after an April 2007 speech in
New York, was asked how he felt about investment banks such as
Goldman Sachs competing in the private-equity business.  ‘Potential Conflicts’  “I had a problem with it because here we are giving them a
lot of business, and they’re turning around and competing with
their customer,” Kravis said. “It’s their prerogative, and
it’s our prerogative, too, to give business or not to give
business. So we said, ‘God bless you, if that’s what you want to
do, that’s fine.’”  Goldman Sachs wasn’t among the banks chosen to lead
Blackstone’s IPO that year and hasn’t managed offerings of KKR
stock since 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
firm has invested in deals alongside both buyout firms and has
also provided financing.  Along with private equity, Goldman Sachs’s ballooning
trading risk and revenue contributed to record profits in 2006
and 2007. Value-at-risk, a measure of how much the firm
estimated it could lose in a single day of trading, almost
doubled to an average of $138 million in 2007 from $70 million
in 2005, a steeper climb than the 53 percent rise in shareholder
equity. Included in that were bets for the firm’s own account.  “Under Blankfein, they moved the model toward more of a
proprietary-trading operation to improve returns,” said Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in New York, who
has a “hold” recommendation on Goldman Sachs. “That’s where
the conflicts come up, or the potential conflicts.”  Proprietary Bets  Goldman Sachs’s Special Situations Group, which buys
distressed debt and other assets with the company’s own money,
was the largest source of revenue in the fixed-income,
currencies and commodities division during 2006 and 2007,
according to a Goldman Sachs document released by the U.S.
Senate this year.  SSG produced $4.1 billion in 2007, or 9 percent of the
firm’s revenue, and $3.79 billion in 2006, or 10 percent, the
document shows. The unit produced more revenue than currency and
interest-rate trading combined.  The firm was also making proprietary bets on at least two
other desks -- the “global macro” team that speculated on
currencies and interest rates and the principal-strategies team
that focused primarily on equities. Goldman Sachs hasn’t
disclosed revenue from those teams. Both were closed in the past
year because of a new U.S. regulation known as the Volcker rule,
which limits such proprietary trading by banks.  ‘Don’t Trust Goldy’  With trading and principal investing contributing 68
percent of the company’s 2007 revenue, compared with 9 percent
from advisory fees, some clients questioned whether they could
count on Goldman Sachs to provide unbiased counsel.  “We always need to worry a little about Goldman because we
need them more than they need us, and the firm is run by
traders,” Todd Baker, then-executive vice president for
corporate strategy and development at Washington Mutual Inc.,
wrote in an October 2007 e-mail to Kerry Killinger, CEO at the
time. Killinger, in considering whether to hire Goldman Sachs
for advice on transferring credit risk off of WaMu’s balance
sheet, wrote back, “I don’t trust Goldy on this.”  WaMu hired Goldman Sachs after all, less than a year before
the Seattle-based bank failed and was taken over by regulators,
who sold it to JPMorgan Chase & Co. for $1.9 billion.  Before asset prices began plunging in 2008, this distrust
was mostly expressed in private e-mail exchanges and
conversations. After the meltdown, it came out in the open.  ‘Gray Areas’  “There was an underlying suspicion that Goldman did play
in the gray areas, and I’ve spoken to a number of clients who
finally did leave Goldman or refuse to do business with Goldman
because of that concern,” Peabody said, declining to name any.  Blankfein, at first admired for posting record profit in
2007 as rivals began losing money on subprime-mortgage bets,
came under scrutiny after the financial system unraveled in 2008
and even Goldman Sachs received government support including
Federal Reserve loans, debt guarantees and $10 billion of
capital from Treasury that it later repaid.  While Morgan Stanley executives promised to reduce the
firm’s proprietary trading and principal investing and refocus
on lower-risk businesses such as wealth management, Blankfein
stuck to his strategy.  Doubling Down  “We are not forsaking our position as a pre-eminent
adviser, financier and co-investor as we pursue additional
opportunities as a bank holding company,” Blankfein told
investors in New York in November 2008. “We won’t stop doing
the things that made us a leading investment bank.”  Instead of cutting its bets, Goldman Sachs doubled down. In
the first six months of 2009, the firm’s average value-at-risk
and trading revenue soared to all-time highs. The company set
aside a record $11.4 billion to pay workers in the first half of
2009, enough to give each $386,429 for six months’ work.  “Is it just going to be business as usual with Goldman
Sachs and much of the rest of the financial industry?” Senator
Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, said at the time.  A July 2009 article in Rolling Stone by Matt Taibbi struck
a nerve when it labeled Goldman Sachs “a great vampire squid
wrapped around the face of humanity” and accused the firm of
profiting from creating asset bubbles over its history.  Blankfein has made changes. The firm reduced compensation
and increased philanthropic giving in late 2009 in response to
the negative reaction.  Viniar told analysts in March 2008 he didn’t agree with
rivals who thought the collapse and sale of Bear Stearns Cos.
meant Wall Street’s leverage had to drop. Within months, Goldman
Sachs began reducing its ratio of assets to equity. Total assets
fell to $849 billion at the end of 2009, or 12 times the firm’s
$70.7 billion in shareholder equity. That was down from $1.12
trillion, or 26.2 times the $42.8 billion in equity at the end
of November 2007.  Volcker Rule  Goldman Sachs shut two proprietary trading desks after the
Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker rule prohibited such activities. The
rule, which also limits the firm’s investment in private-equity
and hedge funds to no more than the 3 percent of the funds, will
force Goldman Sachs to pull investments like the $9 billion it
contributed to the $20 billion buyout fund raised in 2007.  Viniar downplayed the importance of proprietary trading and
investments in January 2010, after President Barack Obama
embraced the Volcker rule. He said proprietary trading that has
no connection to clients contributed an average of 10 percent to
revenue -- a figure one former partner said he never believed.  ‘Those Monstruosities’  The SEC’s lawsuit in April 2010, which came as Congress was
debating Dodd-Frank, focused attention on Goldman Sachs’s
creation of the Abacus synthetic collateralized debt obligations
that had enabled clients and Goldman Sachs to use derivatives to
wager against subprime mortgages.  E-mails included in the SEC’s complaint showed Goldman
Sachs Vice President  Fabrice Tourre , a co-defendant, e-mailing a
friend in January 2007 about “these complex, highly leveraged,
exotic trades he created without necessarily understanding all
the implications of those monstruosities!!!”  When Blankfein, Tourre and other employees and former
employees tried to defend the CDOs and trading as providing an
essential market-making service at a Senate hearing on April 27,
2010, senators said the firms’ activities looked more like
gambling and duping their own clients.  “In hindsight I wish we had not done some of those
things,” Blankfein said in a television interview with Charlie Rose three days later. He also said “the firm is guiltless.”  Kaufman ‘Appalled’  Kaufman, the former Delaware senator and a 1966 graduate of
the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business,
said he knows people who work for Goldman Sachs and had always
viewed the company as a “first-class operation.” He said he
was “appalled” by Blankfein’s testimony and the information
amassed by the subcommittee on how the firm treated customers.  “I couldn’t believe it was the same firm,” Kaufman said.
“What they basically said, which was legal -- but as a
customer, you’ve got to say I don’t want to touch these guys --
was that as a market-maker I can sell you a product at the same
time I’m betting it’s going to go south.”  Blankfein established a business-standards committee
composed of employees to investigate how it could improve its
conduct. The feedback the committee received from clients
surprised and disappointed some senior executives, including
Blankfein, said a partner at the firm. The reason: Several
investors who are clients of Goldman Sachs’s sales-and-trading
division said they didn’t feel they could trust the firm to
treat them fairly, the person said.  ‘Plain Language’  After eight months, the committee issued a  report 
containing 39 recommendations. One was to provide clients with
“plain language” explanations about how the firm manages
conflicts of interest, “including describing activities we may
continue to conduct while we are advising or financing a
particular client.” The firm also changed the way it reports
its financial results.  That change allowed investors to see for the first time how
much revenue came from principal investments, proprietary
trading and a smaller category of lending. While that so-called
Investing & Lending segment contributed just 6 percent of
revenue in 2009, it jumped to 19 percent in 2010.  Analysts and investors say that segment will shrink as
Volcker rule restrictions are phased in. The Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision will also require banks to hold more capital
against the types of illiquid investments and high-yield loans
that dominate the Investing & Lending unit’s assets, making it
harder to achieve a worthwhile return.  ‘Adversely Affected’  In its 12 years as a public company, Goldman Sachs has
promised investors a 20 percent return on tangible equity
throughout the economic cycle. The firm stopped providing such a
target late last year. In her note, RBC’s Swaffield said the
stock price was consistent with an 11.8 percent return on
tangible equity.  “Given the regulatory pressures facing investment banking,
this is more appropriate,” the note said.  Revenue from trading fixed-income, currencies and
commodities plunged 63 percent in the second quarter from the
previous three-month period, more than double the decline at
rivals like JPMorgan, Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp.
Viniar said the decline resulted from the firm’s decision to
reduce risk-taking and wasn’t a sign that clients were executing
fewer transactions with Goldman Sachs’s traders.  The company’s 2009  annual SEC filing  added an item to the
“risk factors” investors face. “We may be adversely affected
by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative
publicity,” the firm said.  Facebook Fallout  Such adverse effects were evident at the start of this
year, when Blankfein returned to the model he used in the Kinder
Morgan and ICBC investments, putting $375 million of the firm’s
own money in Facebook Inc. and pitching as much as $1.5 billion
of stock in the closely held social-networking company to
wealthy investors.  While the move was classic Blankfein, the reaction it
received after the financial crisis couldn’t have been more
different than four years earlier. After a flurry of positive
coverage, media reports focused on conflicts inherent in the
deal: Goldman Sachs’s investment had better terms than other
investors would get; one of the company’s funds had rejected the
deal; and the sale skirted securities rules forcing companies
with more than 499 investors to meet SEC reporting requirements.  “Oh, Goldman, is there any regulation’s intent you can’t
subvert?” comedian Jon Stewart said on “The Daily Show.”  ‘Intense Media Attention’  On Jan. 17, two weeks after the New York Times reported
details of the deal, Goldman Sachs stopped offering the stock to
U.S. investors. The firm said in a statement that “intense
media attention” may violate rules limiting marketing of
private securities. The company completed the sale by offering
the stock to non-U.S. clients.  “The reason that got so much attention was because they’re
Goldman, and if you just look at it from the outside it looks
like there are all sorts of conflicts,” said  Roger Freeman , an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York. “So like a lot of
things you wait until people start focusing on other stuff and
then you go back about your business.”  In their recent presentations to investors, Goldman Sachs’s
managers haven’t been emphasizing the advise-finance-invest
model. Instead, they’re touting the firm’s technology
investments and their efforts to be “Goldman Sachs in more
places,” focusing on efforts to expand in developing countries
such as  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China.  The strategy in those countries doesn’t necessarily
represent a change in the firm’s model. In Russia, for instance,
Goldman Sachs has won business by spending $1 billion buying
stakes in 15 companies since 2007, Christopher M. Barter, co-
head of the firm’s Russian business, said in a May 12 interview.  Positive Spin  Blankfein has put a positive spin on the Volcker rule,
which requires Goldman Sachs to reduce its investment in
private-equity funds to no more than 3 percent, down from 15
percent to 30 percent the firm has contributed previously.  While the bank will stop reaping the kinds of gains those
investments produced in recent years, it will also be shielded
from losses delivered in weak markets, making results less
volatile, he said at an  investor presentation  in New York on
Nov. 16. Instead of generating revenue by investing company
capital, Goldman Sachs will get fees for managing the funds,
improving the return on equity, he argued.  ‘Collateral Damage’  “These activities have more volatile revenue streams and
are subject to higher capital requirements than many of our
other businesses,” he said. “As a result, limiting these
activities will likely reduce the firm’s capital requirements
and revenue volatility.”  That means Goldman Sachs will depend more than ever on
clients’ willingness to entrust their money to funds overseen by
Goldman Sachs Asset Management, a division that has suffered
from mediocre performance and client outflows. Management has
made fixing that business a priority.  Clients pulled $15 billion from Goldman Sachs’s asset-
management division in the first six months of 2011 after taking
out $71 billion last year, company data show. Morgan Stanley’s
asset-management business took in $17.1 billion from clients in
the same period, after clients took out $5.7 billion in 2010,
the New York-based bank reported.  Asset management is the one area that has suffered
“collateral damage” from the investigations and reputational
problems at Goldman Sachs, said Barclays Capital’s Freeman. Some
pension funds are reluctant to invest in a company that’s being
investigated by the Department of Justice and the  Manhattan 
District Attorney, he said.  ‘Intellectual Capital’  Other businesses have remained strong. In addition to
regaining its No. 1 position advising on mergers this year, the
firm has also climbed to the top worldwide position in managing
equity and equity-linked offerings after dropping to second or
third place in the past four years, according to Bloomberg data.
Goldman Sachs’s strong showing in takeover advice and equity
offerings is a sign the firm has kept its status within
corporate boardrooms, Peabody noted.  “The fact that Goldman continues to do very well in those
two product areas shows that CEOs value their intellectual
capital very highly,” he said.  Still, investors may wonder whether Blankfein, who devised
a strategy that helped make Goldman Sachs the most profitable
and scrutinized firm on Wall Street, is the best leader to adapt
to a new regulatory landscape.  Aronstein, who said he doesn’t own Goldman Sachs shares or
do business with the firm because he lacks faith in its model,
doubts Blankfein and his team will change their strategy.  “When people are in a position where conflicted
relationships are extremely lucrative and have created a
monumentally nice lifestyle, they don’t just give that up,” he
said. “It’s very easy to write and it sounds great: ‘The
customer’s always right.’ Until he gets in our way.”  ‘Groupthink’ Effect  That concern was reflected in some of the questions that
Kessler, the business professor at  Pace University , asked his
students after their presentations in early June.  “You can be too cohesive, you can have too strong a
culture and that’s this concept of groupthink,” Kessler said in
an interview afterwards. “Groupthink kind of skews your
judgment a bit, but at the same time makes you more confident in
that skewed judgment.”  There was a glimmer of hope for Blankfein in the dark
conference room after the last team of Kessler’s students
finished their presentation. The five members agreed that
current management would be able to undertake the changes needed
at Goldman Sachs.  All of them said they’d love to work at Goldman Sachs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 