-- 
Gold Set for Weekly Drop as European Leaders Try to Stem Greek Debt Crisis

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-07-22T06:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/gold-set-for-weekly-drop-as-european-leaders-try-to-stem-greek-debt-crisis.html
Gold headed for the first weekly
drop in three after European leaders agreed on a multibillion-
euro rescue package for  Greece , curbing contagion concerns, and
a record rally prompted sales.  Immediate-delivery bullion dropped for a second day, losing
as much as 0.3 percent to $1,586.25 an ounce, before trading at
$1,588.25 by 2:42 p.m. in  Singapore . Spot gold, which touched a
record $1,610.10 on July 19 on debt concerns in  Europe  and the
U.S., is 0.3 percent lower this week.  Euro-area leaders announced 159 billion euro ($229 billion)
in aid for Greece late yesterday after eight hours of talks in
Brussels. They also tapped their 440-billion euro rescue fund to
buy debt across stressed euro nations, aid troubled banks and
offer credit-lines.  “The easing that we saw overnight is justified based on
the release of the new plan out of Europe,”  Ben Westmore , a
minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd.,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “ We’re fairly
bearish on the gold price. To be honest we don’t see the outlook
being as bleak as what’s being factored into the gold price.”  Gold for August delivery in  New York  was little changed at
$1,588.40 an ounce after gaining as much as 0.4 percent earlier.
Holdings in exchange-traded products were little changed near a
record at 2,121.241 metric tons yesterday, Bloomberg data show.
Spot silver shed 1 percent to $39.0275 an ounce.  For a further gold rally, “you would really need to see a
severe threat to Spain or  Italy  or more systemically important
countries,” Westmore said.  U.S. Debt  In the U.S., lawmakers remain divided over a $3.7 trillion
deficit-cutting plan that may allow policy makers to agree on
raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling before an Aug. 2
deadline.  Standard & Poor’s  yesterday reiterated there’s a 50
percent chance of a U.S. ratings downgrade within three months.  “It would be a very brave politician in the U.S. to want
their fingerprints on the economic fallout from not raising the
debt ceiling,” Westmore said. The “situation will be resolved
by the August 2 deadline,” he said.  Record gold prices have attracted sales and “scrap flow is
noticeably above normal levels” this week, UBS AG analyst  Edel Tully  wrote in a July 15 report.  “Scrap always comes back to the market in bulk when prices
are high and this week we saw a lot of it, but demand is still
strong and has been able to absorb the selling,” Gordon Cheung,
a trader at Standard Merchant Bank (Asia) Ltd, said today. The
scrapping was mainly done in  Southeast Asia , with demand being
met by investors in Greater China and North Asia, he said.  Cash platinum and palladium were little changed at $1,786
an ounce and $808.50 an ounce respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  