-- 
Google Says Oracle Lowers Request by 66% to $2 Billion in Android Dispute

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-22T03:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/google-wins-bid-to-toss-6-1-billion-oracle-damage-estimate-in-patent-suit.html
Google Inc. said  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
lowered its damages request to at least $2 billion in a patent
and copyright dispute over Android software, according to a
court filing.  A second day of settlement meetings that included Google
Chief Executive  Larry Page  and Oracle CEO Larry Ellison lasted
10 hours, concluding after 7 p.m. today in  San Jose ,  California ,
according to a federal court filing.  Lawyers for Google and Oracle will contact a judge’s
deputies tomorrow to discuss “when further discussions will
take place and whether the further attendance of Mr. Ellison and
Mr. Page will be required,” according to the filing.  Google, which said Oracle’s damages estimate includes
$1.2 billion in damages for unjust enrichment in 2012 alone,
asked a federal judge to exclude parts of the calculation that
it said aren’t supported by the evidence.  In July, U.S. District Judge William Alsup in  San Francisco 
threw out Oracle’s earlier estimate that it was entitled to as
much as $6.1 billion in damages in a lawsuit claiming Google
infringed its patents for Java technology when it created the
Android operating system, now running on more than 150 million
mobile devices.  Oracle’s new damages report “ignores governing law and the
guidelines of this court’s July 22, 2011, order,” Robert Van Nest, a lawyer for Google, said in a letter to Alsup yesterday.  Java Licensing  Alsup ruled in July that a new estimate should start as low
as $100 million, a figure that  Mountain View , California-based
Google was offered in 2006 to license Java from Sun Microsystems
Inc. Google rejected that offer by Sun, which Oracle later
acquired.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle, the largest maker of database software,
declined to comment on the Google filing.  Alsup took the unusual step in August of appointing his own
damages expert in the case, saying in a court filing that he
needs such assistance “because both sides have taken such
extreme and unreasonable positions regarding damages.”  The two companies have made little headway this week in
negotiations aimed at resolving the lawsuit, a person briefed on
the talks said. Page and Ellison, after participating in a
settlement conference that lasted as long as 10 hours on
Sept. 19, returned to federal court today for further talks with
U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal.  “It’s good to be back,” Page said as he arrived. “I look
forward to a productive session.”  Ellison declined to comment when he arrived at court.  A trial is scheduled for October.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  