-- 
Greece Faces ‘Restricted Default’ After Crisis Accord, Fitch Ratings Says

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-07-22T13:34:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/greece-faces-restricted-default-after-crisis-accord-fitch-ratings-says.html
Fitch Ratings  said Greece will be
considered a “restricted default” after the 159 billion-euro
($229 billion) European bailout unveiled yesterday, given the
plan includes getting bondholders to assume part of the cost.  “The proposed debt exchange implies a 20 percent net
present value loss for banks and other holders of Greek
government debt,” Fitch said today in an e-mailed statement.
“An exchange that offers new securities with terms that are
worse than the original contractual terms of the existing debt
and where the sovereign is subject to financial distress
constitutes a default event.”  Fitch said it will assign new post-default ratings, likely
“low speculative grade,” to Greece after new securities are
issued to bondholders. Greek two-year yields tumbled 7.5
percentage points to 26.30 percent at 2 p.m. in  London , the
lowest level in almost two months, on optimism the European
Union plan will stem the sovereign-debt crisis that has roiled
markets for almost two years.  “The event of restricted default may not be very disruptive
for the market, because it’s likely to be brief,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at Lloyds Bank Capital Markets.
“It will be a one-off process, and Greece will be given credit
ratings back soon after. In our view, that’s fairly positive.”  Today’s drop in Greek yields was the biggest since the EU
and the  International Monetary Fund  created an initial 750
billion-euro fund to backstop the region in May 2010.  EU Plan  Greece would be rated “RD” should the plan be
implemented, Fitch said. The company cut Greece by three levels
to CCC on July 13. Greece was cut to Caa1 by Moody’s Investors
Service on June 1 and CCC by  Standard & Poor’s  on June 13.  The financing package will consist of 109 billion euros
from the euro region nations and the  IMF . Financial institutions
will contribute 50 billion euros after agreeing to a series of
bond exchanges and buybacks to cut Greece’s debt load.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Greek debt
instead of German bunds fell to 11.60 percentage points from
15.5 percentage points at the start of the week.  Greece’s debts will fall by 13.5 billion euros due to the
bond exchange and “potentially much more” through buybacks to
be outlined by governments, said the  Institute of International
Finance , a Washington-based group representing banks.  ‘Life After Default’  “There is life after default,” said  Aninda Mitra , head of
Southeast Asian economics at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in  Singapore  and a former sovereign analyst at
Moody’s. “It certainly helps to have a more equitable burden-
sharing agreement, which will ease the insolvency burden that
Greece was carrying upon itself, which politically would have
been unsustainable.”  Russia , which defaulted on $40 billion of debt in August
1998 and devalued the ruble, now has an investment-grade rating
three levels above junk from Moody’s, while S&P and Fitch grade
the nation one step lower.  Argentina , which is still ranked below investment grade by
all three ratings companies, defaulted on a record $95 billion
worth of debt in 2001. After $62.3 billion was restructured in
2005, President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner last year swapped
a further $12.9 billion of securities. The debt-to-gross
domestic product ratio fell to 48 percent as of June 2010 from
as high as 166 percent in 2002.  Before yesterday’s accord, the EU forecast  Greece ’s debt
burden will rise to 158 percent of GDP this year from 143
percent in 2010.  Euro-area leaders also empowered their 440-billion euro
fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, to buy debt
across stressed euro nations after a market rout last week
sparked concern the crisis was spreading. The fund can also aid
troubled banks and offer credit-lines to repel speculators.  “For now, the imminent risk to the monetary union itself
has been significantly reduced,” Mitra said. The next step is
“the implementation and the coordination between the EFSF, the
national governments within the monetary union and the reforms
that Greece has to implement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  