-- 
Greek Banks Safe Under ‘Huge’ Guarantee Package, Venizelos Says

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 
2011-07-22T14:13:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/greek-banks-safe-under-huge-guarantee-package-venizelos-says.html
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said  Europe ’s new bailout agreement for the nation,
which includes 20 billion euros ($28.7 billion) to recapitalize
banks, will safeguard lenders’ solvency.  “The Greek banking system is perhaps now the most
guaranteed system in Europe, if not wider,” Venizelos said at a
press conference in  Athens  today. “There is a very big umbrella
of protections.”  After eight hours of talks in Brussels yesterday, European
Union leaders announced a new 159 billion-euro aid package for
Greece, including contributions from bondholders. Of the 109
billion euros coming from euro-region governments and the
 International Monetary Fund , 42 billion euros will back new
Greek  government bonds  issued as part of the private-sector
involvement in the program, Venizelos said.  The finance minister said it is still undecided whether the
maturities of 65 billion euros of loans from the EU and IMF
already disbursed under last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout
would have their maturities extended further from their current
average 7.5 years.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  rose 9.4 percent to 5.36 euros
today, the best performer among the 46 European financial stocks
in Europe.  “Our goal is not to nationalize the bank system, but for
its capital to be strong,” Venizelos said, adding that the
target for Greek banks was a core Tier 1 ratio of 10 percent.  Fitch Assessment  Fitch Ratings  said private-sector involvement in the new
Greek package “constitutes an event of ‘Restricted Default.’”
Financial institutions will contribute 50 billion euros after
agreeing to a series of bond exchanges and buybacks.  “An exchange that offers new securities with terms that
are worse than the original contractual terms of the existing
debt and where the sovereign is subject to financial distress
constitutes a default event,” Fitch said.  Greece ’s insurance funds will also participate in the
package, exchanging holdings of government bonds for new ones
with 30-year maturities guaranteed by the euro-area rescue fund,
the European Financial Stability Facility, Venizelos said. These
bonds would have the same face value as the original holdings,
he said.  “Pension funds don’t come under the same accounting rules
as the banking system, and don’t face a write down in the value
of their holdings,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 