-- 
Timberlake Ribs Harry Potter; ‘Captain’ Zaps Nazi Madman: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/timberlake-ribs-harry-potter-captain-america-zaps-madman-rick-warner.html
In “ Captain America: The First
Avenger ,” the superhero combats high-tech weapons with a
relatively low-tech device -- an impenetrable red, white and
blue circular shield that repels bullets and zaps foes when used
as a high-speed discus.  The highly entertaining action film is as old-fashioned as
the shield.  Captain America, who’s transformed from 98-pound weakling
Steve Rogers into a Nazi-fighting super-soldier after being
injected with a magic serum, is a humble comic-book icon who
wears a leather helmet and a utility belt.  Director  Joe Johnson  (“The Wolfman”) uses computer
effects and other modern moviemaking gadgets, but he and
screenwriters Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely wisely
concentrate on the human aspects of the story.  They include Captain America’s budding romance with British
military liaison Peggy Carter (Hayley Atwell), his battlefield
exploits with best friend Bucky Barnes (Sebastian Stan), his
prickly relationship with gruff Colonel Phillips (Tommy Lee Jones) and his mission to stop Red Skull (Hugo Weaving), a Nazi
madman out to dominate the world with his super weapons.  Chris Evans, who played the Human Torch in the “Fantastic
Four” films, is well cast in the title role. Along with his
bodybuilder’s physique, he exudes the boyish charm of a skinny
asthmatic who becomes an improbable hero after he’s rejected for
military induction.  Mutilated Face  The man who turns Rogers into Captain America is Dr.
Abraham Erskine (Stanley Tucci), a German scientist who fled the
Nazi regime after being pressured to use his revolutionary serum
for nefarious purposes. Now the good doctor wants to create an
extraordinary soldier to destroy Red Skull, whose face was
burned and mutilated in an early experiment with the serum.  Johnson gets fine work from the supporting cast,
particularly Weaving as the evil genius and Jones as the cynical
commander whose original doubts about Captain America are
gradually erased.  “Captain America: The First Avenger,” from  Paramount
Pictures , is playing across the U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Friends With Benefits’  Can two friends have casual sex without messing up their
relationship?  Though you probably already know, “ Friends With Benefits ”
finds a fresh, amusing way to answer the question. It aspires to
be a contemporary update on those old Spencer Tracy-Katharine Hepburn films brimming with fast-paced repartee and lighthearted
boy-girl tension.  “Friends With Benefits” is no “Adam’s Rib” or “Woman
of the Year,” but co-stars  Justin Timberlake  and Mila Kunis do
exhibit an on-screen chemistry that’s sorely lacking from most
romantic comedies these days. It doesn’t hurt that they both
have toned bodies that are on ample display in the bedroom
scenes.  Another plus is the witty, don’t-take-things-too-seriously
script by Keith Merryman, David A. Newman and director Will
Gluck, a former TV writer and producer who’s made only two other
feature films.  Dylan (Timberlake), a  Los Angeles  art director, and Jamie
(Kunis), a New York headhunter, meet when she recruits him for a
job at GQ magazine in NYC. He’s reluctant to move across the
country, but accepts the position after being wined and dined,
given a rooftop view of the city and witnessing a flash-mob
dance in Times Square.  Hollywood Sign  After becoming fast friends, they start sleeping together
with the understanding that no serious romance will ensue.
(Dylan compares the sex to tennis, where you just shake hands
after it’s over and go on with your life.)  But complications arise after Jamie visits Dylan’s
dysfunctional family in Los Angeles, where she meets his
precocious magician nephew and dementia-stricken dad (the always
wonderful Richard Jenkins), who often forgets to put his pants
on. Jamie and Dylan also find themselves sitting on one of the
O’s in the famous Hollywood sign, a scene that must have been
suggested by the Chamber of Commerce.  Woody Harrelson plays a gay sports editor and snowboarding
legend Shaun White has a couple of funny cameos spoofing his
laid-back reputation. There are also jokes about President
Barack Obama’s ears,  Harry Potter  and Scientology, which isn’t
known for its sense of humor.  “Friends With Benefits,” from Screen Gems, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 