-- 
India’s RBI May Hold Rates as Inflation Slows, Pratibhuti Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-07-22T07:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/india-s-rbi-may-hold-rates-as-inflation-slows-pratibhuti-says.html
Sunil Pachisia, vice president of
brokerage Pratibhuti Viniyog Ltd. in Mumbai, comments on the
outlook for Indian stocks. He spoke today in a phone interview.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose
1.5 percent to 18,714.01 as of 1:14 p.m. in Mumbai. India’s food
inflation rate fell to the lowest since March 2009 as grain
output surged, government data showed yesterday. The  Reserve
Bank  of India will meet on July 26 to set policy.  Global shares rallied for a fourth day today after euro-
region leaders announced 159 billion euro ($229 billion) in new
aid for Greece late yesterday.  On the outlook for stocks:  “Investors’ sentiment is getting a boost from good
monsoon, slower inflation and speculation the central bank may
defer an interest-rate hike in its policy meeting next week.
This will positive for the banking, automobile and real estate
companies. Also earnings are signaling that the real estate and
housing demand situation is higher than earlier estimated.”  “We expect some short-covering ahead of the expiry of the
futures and options series next week to drive the markets
higher.”  “The euro-zone debt issue is progressing toward resolution
and that will continue to have a positive impact on Indian
stocks.”  On the monsoon:  “Last week, the monsoon was 10 percent above normal. Good
monsoon will boost automobile sales. This will put money into
the hands of rural consumers, enhancing their purchasing powers.
It will also boost fast moving consumer-goods stocks.”  India  received 72.9 millimeters of rain in the week ended
July 20, more than the 50-year average of 67.9 millimeters for
the period, the weather office said yesterday. The monsoon is
the main source of irrigation for the nation’s 235 million
farmers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  