-- 
Indian Panel Said to Pave Way for Wal-Mart, Tesco to Open Stores

-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c a s k i l l
-- 
2011-07-22T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/india-panel-said-to-pave-way-for-wal-mart-tesco-with-investment-approval.html
A panel of Indian bureaucrats
recommended allowing foreign companies to own up to 51 percent
in multi-brand retail stores, according to a finance ministry
official with direct knowledge of the matter.  The panel has proposed a minimum investment of $100 million
by overseas retailers in the world’s second-most populous
country, the official said, requesting not to be identified
before a public announcement. “Finer details” are being worked
out and the cabinet will take a final decision after
consultations, according to the official.  The recommendations by the group that met yesterday in New
Delhi may pave the way for Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Paris-based  Carrefour SA (CA)  to open supermarkets in
the South Asian nation where Business Monitor International says
retail sales may almost double to $785 billion in 2015 from $396
billion in 2011.  “We’ll see a lot of new retailers coming in, who will be
keen on looking at  India ,” Kishore Biyani, managing director at
India’s largest listed retailer Pantaloon Retail Ltd., said in
an interview to Bloomberg-UTV. “It looks like a positive step.
The industry needs money and the industry needs to grow.”  Retailers such as Wal-Mart, Carrefour and Cheshunt,
England-based  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  have been lobbying for the chance to
sell products to India’s 1.2 billion people, arguing they will
lower prices and provide the scale that can improve local food
networks. About 40 percent of India’s fruit and vegetables rot
before they can be sold because of a lack of cold-storage
facilities and poor transport infrastructure.  Inflation,  Food Waste   “Inflation remains stubbornly high and food waste is a
major concern because of limited cold storage facilities,” said
Natalie Berg, co-global research director at Planet Retail in
 London . “A relaxation of FDI would enable the global retailers
to invest in technology and bring efficiencies to the market,
ultimately leading to lower prices for consumers.”  Wholesale-price inflation in India accelerated to an
average 9.6 percent in 2010 and 2011, from 2.4 percent in 2009,
as food and fuel prices rose. The central bank has raised its
benchmark  interest rate  10 times starting March 2010 to rein in
gains.  “We’re following closely the potential evolution of
legislation in India,” Carrefour spokeswoman Florence Baranes-
Cohen based in Paris said in an e-mailed statement on July 21.
“We are convinced that Carrefour can contribute to modernize
distribution in India, to develop partnerships with local
producers and make the supply chain more efficient.”  Arti Singh, senior vice-president for corporate affairs for
Wal-Mart’s India operations in New Delhi, declined to comment.  Cash and Carry  India currently allows 51 percent ownership in retail
outlets selling only one brand and 100 percent in cash-and-carry
stores.  Should the Cabinet agree to the proposal it may anger small
shopkeepers who say they will be forced out of business,
potentially putting millions of jobs at risk, and add to
political opposition to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s ruling
Congress party. The government doesn’t need approval from
parliament to change retail investment laws.  India was ranked fourth on U.S. consulting group AT
Kearney’s  Global Retail Development Index  for 2011. The growing
middle class, expanding economy and increasingly brand-conscious
population will help push up retail sales, the consultant said.  India’s middle class in India may grow to 267 million
people in the five years to March 2016 from 160 million people,
according to the National Council for Applied Economic Research.  The nation’s economy has expanded at an average pace of 8.7
percent in the 6 years to 2010 compared with a 1.3 percent
growth in U.S. gross domestic product.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  