-- 
ING’s Cuyegkeng Says Philippines May Raise Banks’ Reserve Ratio

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 
2011-07-22T08:31:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/ing-s-cuyegkeng-says-philippines-may-raise-banks-reserve-ratio.html
Joey Cuyegkeng, a Manila-based
economist at ING Bank NV, comments on the Philippine economy and
monetary policy. He spoke at a press briefing today.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas may keep its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged at 4.5 percent at its July 28 meeting after two
increases earlier this year, Cuyegkeng predicts. It may order
lenders to set aside more money as reserves, he said.  Cuyegkeng expects second-quarter economic growth of 4.8
percent to 4.9 percent and estimates full-year growth of 5.2
percent. Gross domestic product increased 4.9 percent from a
year earlier in the first quarter, the Southeast Asian nation’s
slowest pace of expansion since 2009 as exports eased and
government spending faltered.  On the economy:  The Philippine economy’s “fundamentals continue to be
strong. Growth is normalizing. Unfortunately, the government is
quite stringent on the spending side.  “Agriculture provided the growth in the first quarter and
will probably do so for the rest of the year. But come the
fourth quarter, the economy should find a new source of growth.  “The government’s contribution to growth is missing.
Underspending to me is a drag. The impact would have been a 1.8-
percentage-point increase in gross domestic product had
 government spending  stayed flat. That’s quite huge. Instead of
growing at 4.9 percent, we could have grown at almost 7 percent.  “One of the basic requirements for a credit rating upgrade
is an acceleration of growth.”  On monetary policy and inflation:  “I think we’re on the end phase of rate hikes. The
inflation trajectory has tapered off, but still on an uptrend.
We’re looking at an average of 4.7 percent this year and next
year at 4.6 percent, a mild downtrend. There’s more leeway for
the central bank to continue to hold policy rates steady.”  Should inflation “breach 5 percent, the central bank may do
another insurance rate hike” likely in September.  “It will likely be a pause for next week, but a reserve
requirement hike is a possibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  