-- 
Intesa Sanpaolo May Lead Europe Banks Higher on Greek Deal, Bernstein Says

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-22T07:02:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/intesa-sanpaolo-may-lead-europe-banks-higher-on-greek-deal-bernstein-says.html
Italian banks including  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  may climb after European leaders yesterday
announced a 159 billion-euro ($229 billion) aid plan for Greece,
analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said.  The agreement to swap privately-held bonds into 15 and 30-
year debt where the principal is “almost completely
collateralized” will remove the risk of the eurozone
collapsing, the analysts led by Dirk Hoffmann-Becking said in a
note to clients today.  “We expect southern European banks to bounce the most,
especially Italian banks since these measures have averted
contagion risk, which touched Italy strongly the last few weeks
via higher bond yields,” Hoffmann-Becking said.  The euro rallied yesterday after European leaders announced
new aid for Greece and cajoled bondholders into footing part of
the bill. They also allowed the EU’s 440-billion euro rescue
fund to buy debt across stressed euro nations after a market
rout last week fueled concern the crisis was spreading. The fund
can also aid troubled banks and offer credit-lines to repel
speculators.  Along with Intesa Sanpaolo,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are all rated
“outperform” by Bernstein. The banks’ core Tier 1 capital
ratios should fall by no more than 15 basis points as a result
of a writedown in Greek debt, the analysts said.  While the bailout plan does little to reduce Greece’s
overall debt burden, meaning there’s still a risk of defaults,
“this is an entirely manageable risk” for banks, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 