-- 
Iron Chef Forgione Works Hamptons Charity With Lobster, Lagasse

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-07-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/iron-chef-marc-forgione-works-hamptons-food-charity-with-lobster-lagasse.html
When Marc Forgione was 12 he helped
his father cook at a Citymeals-on-Wheels event.  This year he emerged from the shadow of his dad, New
American cuisine pioneer Larry Forgione, winning the Food
Network’s third “The Next  Iron Chef ” competition.  “Charity is an extension of what we do,” said a weary
Forgione, 32, as he took a break from taping 7 “Iron Chef”
episodes in 11 days this month. “I don’t even have to think
twice about it.”  The chef of Restaurant Marc Forgione in  Manhattan ’s TriBeCa
district is bringing his signature Mohawk haircut to help
 Feeding America , a Chicago-based nonprofit with a network of 200
food banks in the U.S. Forgione will host his first fundraising
dinner for the organization in November in Manhattan with the
help of other chefs.  Tonight, he will serve spiced lobster and Israeli couscous
to more than 850 people at the “Chefs & Champagne” tasting
event at  Wolffer Estate Vineyard  in Sagaponack,  Long Island . The
party, which seeks to raise more than $250,000 for the James
Beard Foundation and its scholarship program, will honor Emeril Lagasse.  “Chefs & Champagne” is among the most popular food events
of the Hamptons summer gala season. More than 40 chefs donate
their food and time, including  Daniel Boulud , Missy Robbins of A
Voce, Esca’s David Pasternack, Red Rooster Harlem’s Marcus
Samuelsson, Kerry Heffernan of South Gate, Aldea’s George Mendes
-- all from  New York  -- and Richard Grenamyer of the  Blue Fish
Restaurant and Oyster Bar  in Jacksonville,  Florida .  Champagne maker  Nicolas Feuillatte  will provide the bubbly
and the Wolffer vineyard will donate still wine.  Musically Giftless  Forgione began cooking in his father’s famed restaurant, An
American Place, at age 16. He also had dreams of being in a rock
and roll band.  “That didn’t work out because I’m not musically gifted in
any way, shape or form,” he said. “I can play the bongos, and
that’s about it.”  After graduating from the  University of Massachusetts  at
Amherst, he worked in several New York kitchens and helped
Laurent Tourondel expand his restaurant empire in the U.S. He
then launched his own restaurant (formerly known as Forge) in
2008. It earned its first  Michelin  star in 2010 and is a
repeater on this year’s list, making him the youngest U.S. chef
to receive the honor in consecutive years.  The Michelin honors and “Iron Chef” appearances have
helped double his restaurant’s business and attract more
requests to do charity events, he said.  “I had some guests from the taping today who flew from
British Columbia to watch the show and come to the restaurant,”
he said. “The dining room is full with people from  Rhode Island 
to  San Diego . It blows my mind.”  (Chefs & Champagne is tonight at Wolffer Estate Vineyard,
139 Sagg Rd. in Sagaponack, New York, from 5:30 to 8:30 p.m.
Tickets are $275 for the public, $200 for James Beard Foundation
members. Information:  http://www.jamesbeard.org/ 
index.php?q=chefs_and_champagne)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 