-- 
ISDA Says EU’s Aid Package ‘Shouldn’t Trigger’ Greece Credit-Default Swaps

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-07-22T14:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/isda-says-eu-s-aid-package-shouldn-t-trigger-greece-credit-default-swaps.html
The  International Swaps &
Derivatives Association  said participation of private
bondholders in the Greek rescue plan “should not trigger
credit-default swaps” on the nation because it’s “expressly
voluntary.”  Banks pledged to participate in a bond exchange and debt
buyback program as part of a rescue plan for  Greece , which will
give the country 159 billion euros ($229 billion) of new aid.
Ratings companies have signaled such a plan may result in Greece
being given a default rating, with  Fitch Ratings  saying today
that the nation faces a “restricted default” tag.  That still doesn’t satisfy ISDA’s rules for triggering
payouts on Greek debt insurance contracts. Politicians grappling
with the euro-region sovereign crisis had until yesterday
opposed any move that would be termed a default because of the
word’s stigma and concern it would spread contagion.  “Since this is expressly voluntary, it should not trigger
CDS,” David Geen, ISDA’s general counsel in  London , said in an
e-mail. “Also, since it is, at this stage, simply a proposal,
there is nothing yet to raise to the determinations committee --
though that may not stop someone trying.”  Binding Decisions  ISDA’s determinations committee makes binding decisions for
the market on whether credit swaps can be triggered. A  credit
event  can be caused by a reduction in principal or interest,
postponement or deferral of payments or a change in the ranking
or currency of obligations, according to the New York-based
trade group’s rules.  Any of these changes must result from a deterioration in
creditworthiness, apply to multiple investors and be binding on
all holders.  Moody’s Investors Service said in a statement today that
it’s “analysing the measures announced by policy makers in
Brussels and will issue a public comment on any credit
implications in due course.”  Credit-default swaps on Greece plunged 430 basis points to
a six-week low of 1,570 as of 3:30 p.m. in London, after earlier
dropping to 1,500, the biggest decline on record. That’s down
from an all-time high of 2,568 basis points on July 18 and
signals a 73 percent chance the government will default within
five years, a figure that approached 90 percent earlier this
month.  “The systemic risk coming from  Europe  has been removed for
the time being,” said Sebastian Paris Horvitz, chief market
strategist at HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA in Geneva. “Europeans
need now to deliver.”  The participation of banks, insurers and other private
investors -- insisted upon by German Chancellor Angela Merkel --
will contribute 135 billion euros of financing for Greece
through 2020, the  Institute of International Finance  said in a
statement yesterday.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  