-- 
Issuers Retreat From Selling Amid U.S. Debt Talk Volatility: Muni Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-07-22T14:38:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/issuers-retreat-from-selling-amid-u-s-debt-talk-volatility-muni-credit.html
Municipal-bond issuance scheduled
for the next 30 days is declining to the least in two weeks as
U.S. debt-ceiling negotiations approach a deadline.  “Underwriters likely are wanting to avoid extreme
volatility” caused by the ongoing discussions, said Ashton Goodfield, who oversees $26 billion in  Boston  as head of
municipal-bond trading at DWS Investments.  Issuers brought almost $9 billion to market this week, the
biggest amount this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s set to shrink in the next month to about
$5.8 billion, the lowest daily gauge since the first week of
July, according to Bloomberg’s index of 30-day visible supply.  States and municipalities may have their ratings cut in
August regardless of whether the U.S. government reaches a plan
to reduce its deficit by the Aug. 2 deadline,  Standard & Poor’s 
said yesterday. S&P outlined three ways it expects the U.S. to
resolve the stalemate over its $14.3 trillion debt limit, two of
which involve lowering the U.S. credit rating, which would
affect top-rated muni issuers backed by federal funding.  If the U.S. government is at its most proactive, raising
its debt ceiling, coming up with a plan to reduce debt and
retaining its AAA credit rating, “it could prove to be
problematic for public finance issuers because any deal would
almost inevitably reduce federal outlays that affect their
operations,” said the report by Steve Murphy, managing director
of U.S. public finance. “Any issue that moved in lockstep with
the sovereign rating could still retain its negative outlook.”  Closing Deficits  States and local governments, which avoided taking on debt
earlier this year as they enacted plans to close deficits,
returned to market with more than $8.5 billion in sales this
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with about $4 billion a week in the first half of 2011, the
lowest rate of sales since at least 2003.  Yields on 10-year top-rated tax-exempt municipal bonds were
at 2.66 percent yesterday, close to the year’s 2.56 percent low
on June 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This was a really good time to come to market,” saidTom Doe, chief executive officer and founder of Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors. “I would expect
the market to be flat with maybe a weaker bias as we move
through August,” in line with seasonal trends.  Reinvestment Declines  Bondholders had as much as $40 billion in coupon and
interest payments to reinvest as their holdings matured at the
start of this month, Chris Mauro, head of U.S. municipal
strategy at  RBC Capital Markets , has said. The amount of
reinvestment money tails off in August, and demand will drop
with it, said Fred Yosca, head of fixed-income trading at BNY
Mellon Capital Markets LLC in New York.  “It’s hard to build a case for the market doing better
here,” he said.  Democrats and Republicans have yet to agree on raising the
government’s debt limit with the deadline looming. Without the
ability to borrow, the government would have to cut about  $134
billion  of spending during August, according to a report by the
Washington-based  Bipartisan Policy Center .  More than 8 percent of the market value of securities in
benchmark municipal indices are backed by U.S. government bonds,
said J.R. Rieger, vice president of fixed income indices at S&P,
in a research note.  “If a debt ceiling resolution isn’t in place soon we could
see municipal bond yields rise, particularly on this segment of
the municipal-bond market backed directly by U.S. government
bonds,” he said.  Five States  Five of the 15 states with top bond ratings may have them
cut should U.S. debt-ceiling talks fail, because of their
dependence on federal revenue, Moody’s Investors Service said
this week.  Maryland ,  South Carolina ,  New Mexico , Tennessee and
Virginia are under review, Moody’s said.  Maryland, which leads next week’s issuance calendar with
$718 million, postponed the start of sales to individuals for
some of its bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
sales, which were scheduled to begin today, will now start July
25.  Some states have acted ahead of possible market disruption
if the U.S. fails to raise the debt ceiling. California will
seek bids for a $5 billion bridge loan by July 26, Treasurer
Bill Lockyer said yesterday. Proceeds would be used to help pay
bills until the state can sell an estimated $5 billion of so-
called revenue-anticipation notes, or RANs, scheduled for late
August.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ; 