-- 
Itau’s Kinea Plans to Invest 150 Million Reais From Equity Fund

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-07-22T18:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/itau-s-kinea-plans-to-invest-150-million-reais-from-equity-fund.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ’s Kinea
investment firm plans to invest 150 million reais ($96 million)
of its private-equity fund by the first half of 2012 as a
growing consumer market and infrastructure projects boost demand
for capital.  Kinea has used the fund with total capital of 250 million
reais to buy minority stakes in Unidas SA, a car-rental company,
and in Grupo Multi, an education group. Sao Paulo-based Kinea
aims to acquire between 30 percent and 50 percent of companies
with strong growth prospects, Kinea Chief Executive Officer
Marcio Verri said yesterday in a phone interview.  “We have a very interesting pipeline of possible deals in
sectors in which Brazil has a competitive advantage,” Verri
said.  Mid-market companies serving  Brazil ’s booming consumer
sector and supplying services and material for infrastructure
projects such as highways have benefited from an increase in
private-equity investment in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  Kinea plans to increase its team of 30 fund managers to
keep up with demand, Verri said. He declined to provide details
on the hiring plans.  Kinea, created in 2007 as an independent asset manager
focused on  hedge funds , real estate funds and private equity,
has 2.5 billion reais in total assets under management, Verri
said.  In June, through its private-equity fund and a fund created
for the deal, Kinea invested 100 million reais in Brazilian car-
rental unit Unidas SA, which is controlled by  SAG Gest-Solucoes
Automovel Globais SGPS SA (SVA) , a Portuguese distributor of
Volkswagen AG vehicles.  In November, Kinea bought a minority stake in Grupo Multi,
an education group, for 200 million reais, also through its
private equity fund and another fund specially created for the
Multi investment. Grupo Multi owns the Wizard, Skill, Alps and
Quatrum language-school brands.  On July 1, Kinea raised more than 200 million reais for a
real-estate fund, increasing the fund’s total assets to 500
million reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  