-- 
J&J Wins European Panel’s Backing of Cancer, Hepatitis Drugs

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-07-22T16:09:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/j-j-wins-backing-of-european-panel-for-incivo-zytiga-approval.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  won the backing of
a European panel today for approval of its hepatitis C treatment
Incivo and prostate-cancer drug Zytiga, each projected by
analysts to top $1 billion in worldwide sales.  The recommendations by a European Medicines Agency
committee extended a winning streak for the pharmaceutical
division at New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J. The company won
U.S. regulatory approvals earlier this year for Zytiga as well
as AIDS treatment Edurant and Xarelto, a blood thinner shared
with Bayer AG of Leverkusen,  Germany .  The cancer and hepatitis C drugs are “potential
blockbusters for J&J that, along with Xarelto and Edurant, could
contribute $5 billion-plus in sales,” said  Larry Biegelsen , a
Wells Fargo & Co. analyst in  New York , in a note to clients
today. J&J will likely introduce Zytiga and Incivo in Europe by
year’s end, after negotiating prices around the continent, he
said.  The drugs need final approvals from the European Commission
before they can be sold. Zytiga may reach peak worldwide sales
of $1.1 billion a year by 2015 while Incivo, also known as
telaprevir, may reach $1.4 billion that year, said Matthew Dodds, a Citigroup Inc. analyst in New York, in a May 27 note to
clients.  The European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use recommended the use of Incivo in
combination with pegylated-interferon and ribavirin, the current
standard of care, for patients with chronic genotype-1 hepatitis
C virus and liver disease, the London-based agency said in a
 statement  today.  Commission Ruling  The European Commission typically rules within a few months
of the committee’s decisions and the drug could be on the market
within days of an approval, said Jim Witek, the Incivo medical
leader for J&J’s Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies. Pricing
hasn’t been determined yet, he said.  About  170 million  people worldwide, including 5 million in
Western  Europe , have chronic hepatitis C, Witek said. The
bloodborne disease can lead to liver cirrhosis and cancer,
according to the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in
Atlanta. No vaccine exists for the virus, which is commonly
spread by sharing needles and can be transmitted sexually in
rare cases.  In May, the Food and Drug Administration approved sales of
telaprevir by  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  of Cambridge,
Massachusetts, which owns U.S. rights to the drug.  The European committee also backed Zytiga in combination
with prednisone or prednisolone to treat a certain type of
prostate cancer. The drug was assessed under an accelerated
timetable because it offered an alternative therapy to the
target patient population of adult men who had seen their
disease progress after chemotherapy, the agency said.  Incivo was developed by Tibotec Virco-Virology BVBA, a
Jannsen unit. It was co-developed by Vertex and  Mitsubishi
Tanabe Pharma Corp. (4508)  of Osaka,  Japan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Allison Connolly} in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  