-- 
Judge to Rule ‘Soon’ on Bid to Stop Yves Saint Laurent’s Red-Sole Shoes

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-07-22T23:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/judge-to-rule-soon-on-bid-to-stop-yves-saint-laurent-s-red-sole-shoes.html
Christian Louboutin SA , the designer
of expensive red-sole women’s shoes popularized by characters on
“Sex and the City,” will know soon whether  Yves Saint Laurent 
America Inc. must stop sales of its red-soled footwear until the
resolution of a trademark lawsuit, a judge said.  Christian Louboutin sued Yves Saint Laurent America over
claims its red-sole shoes are identical to Louboutin’s
trademarked products. U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  said in
a hearing in  Manhattan  federal court today that he will decide
on Louboutin’s motion for a preliminary injunction “as soon as
possible.”  “This is the lifeblood of this company, the red sole,”
Harley Lewin, a lawyer for Louboutin, said in an interview after
the hearing. “When people see the red sole on the street they
think Louboutin.”  On  Barneys ’ website, Louboutin red-sole high-heeled shoes
are priced from $319 to $4,645 a pair. Lewin said that sales
from the red-sole shoes in the U.S. this year are projected at
$135 million, a 20 percent increase from last year.  Paris-based fashion shoemaker Louboutin said in the lawsuit
filed April 7 that Yves Saint Laurent was selling shoes “with
red outsoles that are virtually identical” to its own.  “The use of red-sole shoes by Yves Saint Laurent goes back
long before Mr. Louboutin began using them,” David Bernstein, a
lawyer for Yves Saint Laurent, told the judge today.  Yves Saint Laurent, the company named for the designer who
died in 2008, is a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , which owns other
luxury brands including Gucci.  Red Nail Polish  Louboutin, the designer, got the idea for the red soles
when he painted red nail polish on the black soles of a pair of
women’s shoes.  Court papers state that Louboutin’s red soles were
introduced in 1992 and have been on all of its luxury shoes
since then. They have been popularized by actresses like Sarah Jessica Parker in the television show “Sex and the City.”  The judge today questioned Louboutin’s lawyer repeatedly
about design elements, including the shade of red on a sole,
that would be considered infringements of the company’s
trademark.  Yves Saint Laurent’s lawyer, Bernstein, said in court, “We
don’t know what we are and what we are not allowed to do. Even
Mr. Louboutin does not know.” He said the designer, in
testimony given in a deposition, couldn’t immediately tell
whether some shoes showed to him infringed his trademark.  Shoe Trademark  Bernstein said Yves Saint Laurent sold 1,631 pairs of red-
sole shoes in the U.S. in the 2010-2011 season, compared with
1,227 the year before. “The preliminary injunction should be
denied. There is no irreparable injury.”  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office awarded Louboutin a
trademark for the red sole in 2008, according to the complaint.  Saint Laurent has been selling red-sole shoes under brand
names such as Tribute, Palais and Woodstock at high-end fashion
stores that also sell Louboutin footwear, including  Saks Fifth
Avenue ,  Barneys New York  and  Bergdorf Goodman , according to the
complaint.  The case is Christian Louboutin SA v. Yves Saint Laurent
America Inc., 11-2381, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in Manhattan federal court
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 