-- 
Julius Baer Profit Drops 21% on Stronger Franc, German Payment

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-07-22T06:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/julius-baer-profit-drops-21-on-stronger-franc-german-payment.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the 121-
year-old Swiss wealth manager, said first-half profit declined
21 percent after the Swiss franc strengthened and the bank paid
 Germany  to end a probe over untaxed assets.  Net profit fell to 147 million francs ($180 million), from
185 million francs a year earlier, the Zurich-based bank said
today in a statement. That compares with the 132 million-franc
median forecast of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Baer is opening offices in Germany and  Italy  as attacks on
bank secrecy push European clients to repatriate assets from
 Switzerland . The Alpine country’s fifth-biggest wealth manager
is also struggling to contain costs as the franc climbed to a
record this week against the dollar and euro.  “Underlying profit was largely maintained despite the
significant headwind of the strong Swiss franc,” Baer Chief
Executive Officer Boris Collardi said in the statement. “We
intensified our drive to preserve future profitability by
stepping up our unrelenting focus on improving revenues and
enhancing the cost efficiency of our organisation and business
processes.”  Baer has dropped 18 percent in Zurich trading this year,
cutting the company’s value to about 7.3 billion francs.  Assets under management declined to 166 billion francs by
June 30, from 173 billion francs two months earlier.  The franc’s 6.4 percent advance against the euro this year
has put pressure on earnings at Baer, which has two-thirds of
its costs in the Swiss currency and just 17 percent of client
assets.  Net new money was 5 billion francs with a “significant
contribution from the growth markets,” Baer said.  Baer’s profit was also crimped after the bank agreed in
April to pay German authorities 50 million euros ($72 million)
to end an investigation over undeclared client assets.  Baer’s gross margin was 105 basis points in the first half.
A basis point is one hundredth of a percent.  Baer reported a cost-to-income ratio of 67.6 percent,
missing its target of between 60 and 64 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  