-- 
Justice in Balkans Has Not Deterred Crimes Elsewhere: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-22T03:40:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/justice-in-balkans-has-not-deterred-crimes-elsewhere-view.html
Until his July 20 arrest by the
Serbian government, Goran Hadzic was the last person indicted
for  war crimes  by the  International Criminal Court for the
former Yugoslavia  to have escaped capture. Hadzic was charged
for his alleged role in the murder of Croatian civilians. This
arrest is a welcome milestone for international law and for
peace and prosperity in southeastern  Europe .  Along with the May 26 capture of Ratko Mladic, who was
indicted for war crimes committed in Bosnia, the news indicates
that Serbia has broken decisively with the virulent nationalism
that was the primary cause of the Balkan wars of the 1990s.
Serbian President Boris Tadic deserves much credit for this
transformation.  Serbia now is a strong candidate for membership in both the
 European Union  and  NATO . The prospect of joining those
organizations surely spurred Belgrade’s action. Both now have a
duty to respond by expeditiously welcoming a new  Serbia  into
these crucial European institutions.  Credit also is due to the court, which focused on
individual responsibility rather than collective guilt. This
helped foster reconciliation among Serbs, Croats and Muslims in
the former  Yugoslavia .  But beyond the Balkans, it would be a mistake to exaggerate
the court’s relevance as a deterrent to other would-be war
criminals. The court was successful because its jurisdiction was
limited and a broad consensus existed that these were the most
heinous human rights violations in Europe since World War II.  The genocide in Darfur, Charles Taylor’s crimes in western
 Africa , the slaughter of civilians in Sri Lanka, and Muammar Qaddafi’s willingness to wage war against his own people in
 Libya  all demonstrate a larger truth. International law, for all
its good intentions, is no substitute for international action.  Read more Bloomberg View editorials.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 