-- 
K1 Hedge Fund Founder Kiener Is Jailed for 10 Years in Ponzi-Scheme Fraud

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-07-22T10:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/k1-hedge-fund-founder-kiener-is-jailed-for-10-years-in-ponzi-scheme-fraud.html
K1 Group founder Helmut Kiener was
convicted of defrauding investors with a 345-million euro ($497
million)  Ponzi scheme  and sentenced to 10 years and eight months
in prison.  Kiener, 52, was found guilty of fraud, forgery and  tax
evasion  by a court in Wuerzburg,  Germany . Kiener in April
confessed to using new investors’ money to make up for losses in
the wake of the financial crisis and to having manipulated some
account statements.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA lost a combined 223 million
euros and private investors lost about 122 million euros,
prosecutors said. Dieter Frerichs, the former managing director
of two K1 funds in the British Virgin Islands, killed himself
last year to avoid being arrested on the Spanish island of
 Mallorca .  “Kiener’s system only worked as long as he managed to
acquire fresh funds,” the court said in a statement. “His
investors’ chance to earn any return was almost zero. This case
is extraordinary because of its size and the number of cheated
investors.”  The fund’s accountant, who can only be identified as Claus
Z, was convicted of aiding Kiener and was sentenced to three
years and 9 months in prison.  Prosecutor Request  Achim Groepper, Kiener’s lawyer, said he was satisfied with
the sentence because it was less than the 12 years and nine
months sought by prosecutors. He won’t appeal the verdict.  “My problem was that I didn’t have the courage to end it
all earlier,’’ Kiener said after the verdict. “Now I have to
pay for it.’’  Kiener used funds from BNP to acquire luxury real estate in
 Florida  and his German hometown of Aschaffenburg that he planned
to use for himself, prosecutors said.  Through a network of companies and people, he also bought
Mercedes, Bentley, and Maybach cars, two boats, and jet skis
with BNP money, while telling the bank the money would be
invested in various  hedge funds  and real estate, according to
the prosecutor. The lender lost about 52 million euros,
according to the indictment.  K1 Invest Ltd. and K1 Global Ltd. were the two main funds
he operated and which took the losses that prompted the trial.  Forged Account Statements  Kiener told the court in May that he began forging account
statements for K1 Invest immediately after it was set up. Banks
that gave him money had to approve his investment proposals and
the funds in which he invested and “could have protested
against the investment,” Kiener said in a statement read by his
lawyers.  Kiener started K1 in 1995 while still working as an
advertising salesman. The firm claimed returns of 825 percent
from 1996 through June 2009, according to its website, which was
taken down after the disparities came to light. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained 49 percent over the same period. The
charges in the trial relate to actions between 2006 and 2009.  Kiener halted his Germany-based operations after the
national regulator Bafin investigated them in 2001. He bought a
company in the British Virgin Islands which had Bafin operating
clearance and renamed it K1 Global Ltd., he told the judges.  A year later he set up K1 Invest Ltd., in the Virgin
Islands, Kiener said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 