-- 
Keystone Pipeline Impact Statement to Be Issued in August

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-07-22T19:35:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/keystone-pipeline-impact-statement-to-be-issued-in-august-1-.html
The U.S. State Department will issue
a final environmental-impact statement next month on  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline as Republicans in Congress push for
swift approval of the project.  Release of the statement will begin 90 days of review and
comment by the Energy Department and the Environmental
Protection Agency, Daniel Clune, a deputy assistant secretary
for State’s Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and
Scientific Affairs, said today on a conference call.  Public hearings will be held in September in the six states
the proposed $7 billion pipeline would cross, and the State
Department plans to make a final decision by the end of the
year, Clune said.  “The final environmental-impact statement will have a
discussion of alternative routes for the pipeline,” Clune told
reporters. “That part of the final EIS is still in the drafting
process.”  Keystone XL would deliver 700,000 barrels of crude a day
from Alberta’s oil sands in Western Canada across Montana,  South
Dakota ,  Nebraska , Kansas, Oklahoma and  Texas  to U.S. refineries
on the  Gulf of Mexico  coast. The pipeline might pollute 450
miles (724 kilometers) of rivers that provide drinking water in
the U.S. Midwest, according to a University of Nebraska study
released on July 11.  Environmental groups have urged Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to reject the pipeline project, which requires approval
from the State Department because it crosses an international
border. TransCanada, based in Calgary, said it expects a
decision from the department this year. In October, Clinton said
she was “inclined” to approve Keystone XL.  The U.S. House may vote next week on a  bill  that sets a
Nov. 1 deadline for the administration’s pipeline decision.  “We think it’s unnecessary since we’ve already committed
publicly to finishing this process by the end of the year,”
Clune said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  