-- 
NBA Owners Must Pay Locked-Out Players’ Union $37 Million Licensing Fees

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-22T14:29:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/nba-owners-must-pay-locked-out-players-union-37-million-licensing-fees.html
National Basketball Association
owners must pay the players they locked out $37 million even if
the season is canceled.  Team owners owe the players the money under marketing
agreements that allow the NBA and its sponsors to use the
players’ likenesses in advertising. It also precludes the union
from using its own logo in commerce.  The group license ends after the 2012-13 season and is
separate from the labor contract, which expired July 1. NBA
spokesman  Mike Bass  confirmed that the league is required to
make the payments.  Owners locked out players when the previous collective
bargaining  agreement  expired. They and the players can’t agree
on how to share revenue from a league that generated about $4.3
billion last season. The NBA says its teams lost a collective
$300 million last season, a figure disputed by the players.  The payments will help fund the union’s lockout war chest,
according to National Basketball Players Association spokesman
 Dan Wasserman .  According to the union’s 2010  LM-2  filing with the U.S.
Department of Labor, the league made four licensing payments of
about $7 million each. The first was in August, followed by
others in November, February and May. A separate logo payment of
$9 million was made in September, according to the filing.  Union’s War Chest  The license money usually is distributed evenly to the
league’s 450 players, or about $62,000 each. The player
representatives the past two years, however, voted to put the
licensing payment into a fund to be used in the event of a
lockout, Wasserman said in a telephone interview. In past work
stoppages, the player representatives have chosen to put the
payments into the war chest.  NBA owners receive broadcast rights-fee payments from their
television partners even if games aren’t played. The money, more
than $900 million, would have to be repaid to Walt Disney Co.’s
ABC and ESPN and Time Warner Inc.’s TNT, Commissioner  David Stern  has said.  The league and teams removed player images from their Web
sites when the lockout began. Bass said at the time that NBA
officials didn’t think it was appropriate to be using the
images.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at +1-=212-617-4753 or
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  