-- 
Networks May Lose for Years Without NFL, NBA: Chart of the Day

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/networks-may-lose-for-years-without-nfl-nba-chart-of-the-day.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , Walt Disney Co. and  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX)  may see years of ratings declines for professional
sports programming if the  National Football League  or National
Basketball Association season is canceled, analysts say.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows television ratings for  Major
League Baseball ’s World Series have never recovered since the
baseball strike in 1994. Ratings for the NFL’s Super Bowl have
increased over the same period, culminating in record highs in
2010 and again in 2011, while NBA Finals viewership has climbed
since 2007. A delayed or canceled season could destroy the
momentum for both leagues, said  David Bank , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York.  “Everyone’s playing with fire with these lockouts,” said
Bank. “It’s a risk for all of the leagues. They run the risk of
the viewers not coming back, and I don’t think they want to take
that risk.”  The potential harm of missed games is greater to the
networks -- Disney’s ABC, CBS, Comcast Corp.’s NBC and News
Corp.’s Fox -- than Disney’s ESPN, said Paul Sweeney, an analyst
at Bloomberg Industries. That’s because networks use highly
rated sporting events as promotional tools for new programming,
particularly early NFL games that air during the launch of the
fall season. The result could be lower ratings for all shows,
which affects advertising revenue.  ESPN doesn’t have the scripted dramas and comedies that
networks rely on for advertising dollars, and the cable station
can replace lost games with other sports, including college
athletics, Sweeney said. ESPN collects its distribution fee,
which analysts estimate is about $4.50 per cable subscriber,
even without the pro games.  The NFL and NBA owners locked out their league’s players,
threatening both seasons. Though NFL owners voted 31-0 for a new
10-year labor agreement yesterday, players declined to vote on
whether to accept the deal and it was unclear when the players
would meet again. The NBA’s lockout began June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  