-- 
New Zealand Defeats Fiji 60-14 in Season Opening Rugby Test in Dunedin

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-22T10:20:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/new-zealand-defeats-fiji-60-14-in-season-opening-rugby-test-in-dunedin.html
Colin Slade scored 19 points in his
starting debut as 2011 Rugby  World Cup  favorite  New Zealand  beat
Fiji 60-14 in its season-opening Test.  Slade, picked at fly-half ahead of first-choice  Dan Carter ,
scored a try and kicked four conversions and two penalties at
Carisbrook Stadium in Dunedin. The top-ranked All Blacks
outscored the Fijians by eight tries to two.  The points tally was the All Blacks’ lowest in five Tests
against Fiji as they opened an international campaign that will
culminate at the World Cup on home soil in September and October.
New Zealand next faces  South Africa  home and away in the
southern hemisphere’s Tri-Nations tournament.  “There’s definitely some work to do,” All Blacks captain
Richie McCaw said in a televised interview. “It’s a start. We
may not have got all the detail dead right but you can see it’s
going to come.”  The All Blacks, who won 91-0 when they last played Fiji six
years ago, took a 32-0 half-time lead as winger Sitiveni Sivivatu, Slade, hooker Andrew Hore and flanker Adam Thomson
touched down.  Fiji got its first try in the 53rd minute when flanker
Dominiko Waqaniburotu stole the ball, burst 50 meters (55 yards)
down the left touchline and passed inside for scrum-half Nemia
Serelevu to score. Fly-half Seremaia Bai added the extra points.  The All Blacks scored their first points of the second half
when replacement scrum-half  Piri Weepu  put a kick through and
Conrad Smith beat midfield partner  Ma’a Nonu  to touch down.
Slade kicked the conversion before making way for Carter.  Missed Tackle  Weepu was the beneficiary of his own kick ahead with 12
minutes remaining as winger  Ben Smith  offloaded for him to run
clear. Vereniki Goneva added Fiji’s second try in the 71st
minute with a chip and chase after Conrad Smith missed a tackle
and Bai converted to make it 46-14.  Referee Stuart Dickinson awarded the All Blacks a penalty
try with three minutes left before full-back Mils Muliaina
scored his 33rd Test try. Carter kicked both conversions to lift
New Zealand’s score to 60.  Australia , which was upset 32-23 by Samoa five days ago,
hosts South Africa in the Tri-Nations opener tomorrow in Sydney.
The Springboks then travel to Wellington to face the All Blacks
on July 30.  “We’ve got something to work on now,’ McCaw added. “We’ve
got a few days to get it right. At least we’ve got that under
our belt. We’ve got a big game coming up next week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 