-- 
New York Fed Failed to Amend Conflict Rules After Dudley Waiver, GAO Says

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-07-22T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/new-york-fed-fails-to-amend-conflict-rules-after-dudley-waiver.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
failed to revise conflict-of-interest rules to reflect its
responsibility for a broader array of financial firms under the
Dodd-Frank Act passed a year ago, the Government Accountability
Office said yesterday.  The New York Fed hasn’t changed its “policies and
procedures to more fully reflect potential conflicts that could
arise with this expanded role,” the GAO said in a report. It
showed that a New York Fed official, separately identified as
William C. Dudley, now the bank’s president, received a waiver
in 2008 to keep shares of insurer American International Group
Inc. after it was bailed out by the central bank.  Fed staff will be involved in overseeing a wider range of
companies after Dodd-Frank gave it authority over non-bank
firms, such as insurers, whose failure could pose a risk to the
financial system. That may give rise to potential conflicts like
the one involving the ownership of AIG shares by Dudley, who was
head of the New York Fed’s markets group in 2008.  “They should simply say that staff -- at least senior
staff -- must sell stock in all financial services firms,” said
Richard Painter, former White House ethics lawyer for President
 George W. Bush . “If one waits until a crisis arises, insider-
trading law may make it impossible to sell. And recusal may not
be a good option for the most senior officials. Waiver of the
conflict looks bad -- very bad.”  Stability Council  The Dodd-Frank Act created the Financial Stability
Oversight Council, which must designate systemically important
firms, and the Fed could require those firms to raise capital
and reduce risky practices. General Electric Co. has said it
expects its finance units, which include GE Capital Corp., to be
subject to Fed regulation. The act was named for its principal
authors, Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts  and former
Senator  Christopher Dodd  of  Connecticut , both Democrats.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has also broadened financial
stability responsibility across more divisions inside the
central bank. The Fed board’s economic division directors, for
example, now have a seat on the Large Institution Supervision
Coordinating Committee, which oversees banks such as  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   New York Fed employees are “not permitted to own or
control investments in  depository institutions  or affiliates of
depository institutions,” according to the Fed bank’s website.
Members of the markets group, which buys and sells securities to
carry out monetary policy, are also forbidden to own stock in
so-called primary dealers. The 20 primary dealers are
counterparties to the central bank’s transactions and include
Morgan Stanley and MF Global Holdings Ltd.  Not Expanded  Investment restrictions “continue to focus on traditional
Reserve Bank counterparties -- depository institutions or their
affiliates and primary dealers,” the GAO said. They “have not
been expanded to further restrict employees’ financial interests
in certain nonbank institutions that have participated in FRBNY
emergency programs and could become eligible for future ones.”  Complying with this recommendation by “expanding the list
of restricted investments to address all potential conflicts
would be difficult,” Fed Board staff told the GAO.  Still,  Scott Alvarez , the Fed Board’s general counsel, said
in a letter accompanying the  report  that the Washington-based
Federal Reserve Board and its 12 regional banks will give the
GAO’s recommendations “serious attention.” The GAO also said
Fed staffers plan “to review and update the Reserve Banks’
Codes of Conduct as needed.”  Identified by Sanders  Dudley, who wasn’t named in the GAO report, was identified
by Senator  Bernard Sanders , an independent from  Vermont . Warren
Gunnels, a senior policy adviser for Sanders, said in a
telephone interview from Washington that he reviewed the GAO
audit before its publication and asked the agency to name the
official “to make sure the American people had the most
transparent information possible about this report.”  “The Fed has no comprehensive system in place to mitigate
the tremendous conflicts of interest that exist,” Gunnels said.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to
comment on the institution’s policies.  Dudley’s holdings predated his employment at the New York
Fed, and he sold his shares after becoming president in January
2009, which was about four months after AIG’s rescue, Gutt said
in an e-mailed statement. He received a waiver in part because
“had he sold these shares immediately after the interventions
it would have the appearance of a conflict,” Gutt said.  The waiver allowed Dudley to keep investments in AIG and
General Electric, whose combined value comprised “less than 5
percent of the official’s total financial holdings,” the GAO
said. The agency “did not assess the appropriateness” of the
decisions to grant waivers and said that “these decisions are
case-specific and necessarily require subjective judgments.”  Focus on New York  The GAO said its review of conflict of interest issues for
employees focused on the New York Fed, which carried out most of
the central bank’s emergency lending programs.  New York Fed ethics lawyers should have ordered Dudley to
dispose of his shares before joining the bank, said Painter, a
law professor at the  University of Minnesota  in Minneapolis who
advised the  Bush administration  on then-Treasury Secretary Henry
Paulson’s sale of stock in his previous employer,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)   The Fed on Sept. 16, 2008, authorized an $85 billion loan
to New York-based AIG to avert the company’s collapse, one day
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed the largest bankruptcy
in U.S. history. The bailout later was expanded to include $182
billion in aid from the  U.S. Treasury  and the Fed.  The GAO said the Dudley example “highlights the potential
for appearance concerns” even if the stake is a small
percentage of the person’s total holdings. New York Fed
employees who requested permission to retain holdings in
companies receiving assistance were “generally allowed” to
keep the investments, the GAO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net 
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  