-- 
New York Times Stabilizes on Web Growth, Evercore’s Arthur Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-22T17:47:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/new-york-times-stabilizes-on-web-growth-evercore-s-arthur-says-tom-keene.html
New York Times Co. (NYT)  is beginning to
stabilize as more people sign up to pay for its online news than
expected, according to Evercore Partners Inc.’s Douglas Arthur.  “Because they’ve been free for a long time, they’ve built
up this huge audience, they know from years of study and
analysis that there is a large group or a subgroup of those
unique visitors who are high frequency, dedicated, loyal
visitors to the site,” Arthur, an analyst at the investment
firm, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene.  New York Times Co.’s third-quarter earnings, released
yesterday, exceeded analysts’ estimates as customers signed onto
the online subscription model and digital advertising sales
increased. The company’s stock, which fell below $4 in February
2009, traded at $8.95 today in  New York .  The company said July 13 it’s repaying a $250 million loan
from billionaire  Carlos Slim  earlier than planned.  The newspaper publisher attempted to cut costs without
lowering its journalistic quality, and the success of its effort
to charge for access to its website is the true test of whether
it can accomplish that, New York-based Arthur said.  New York Times Co. introduced in March the Web-based
subscription model, which requires online readers who view more
than 20 articles per month to pay for access to the site’s
content. It said it had 224,000 subscribers for the service at
the end of the quarter.  “There’s been so much media focus on the New York Times
effort, really drawing a line in the sand that they can continue
to invest big dollars into high-quality journalism and get paid
online,” Arthur said. “You’re seeing a slow but inexorable
paradigm shift on the Web as to who is going to pay for what.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  