-- 
New York Bomb-Plotter’s Father Guilty of Obstructing Justice

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-07-22T19:53:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/new-york-bomb-plotter-s-father-found-guilty-by-jury-of-obstructing-justice.html
A U.S. citizen from  Afghanistan  was
convicted of destroying evidence and conspiring to lie to
investigators in the case of his son, who pleaded guilty to
plotting to bomb  New York City ’s subways.  Mohammed Wali Zazi, 55, was convicted today by a federal
jury in Brooklyn, New York, on its second day of deliberations.
Prosecutors said he directed family members to destroy bomb-
making materials, including liquid chemicals, that were part of
the probe into his son, and that he conspired with family
members to lie to agents looking into the subway plot in 2009.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson set a Dec. 2 sentencing
date. Zazi faces as long as 40 years in prison.  “The evidence has shown that the defendant did everything
he could to manipulate the system to get what he wanted,” which
was to protect his son, his family and himself, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Melissa Marrus said in her closing argument on July 20.  Justine Harris, one of Zazi’s lawyers, declined to
immediately comment on the verdict.  Zazi’s son, Najibullah Zazi, pleaded guilty in February
2010 to supporting al-Qaeda and conspiring to use a weapon of
mass destruction in a 2009 plot to detonate bombs on  New York 
subways around the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks.  Co-Conspirator  A co-conspirator, Zarien Ahmedzay, pleaded guilty to his
role in the foiled subway plot in April 2010. Ahmedzay and
Najibullah Zazi face life in prison.  A third man, Adis Medunjanin, pleaded not guilty in August
2010 to participating in the subway plot.  The elder Zazi, a former New York City taxi driver who
lives in the Denver area, was convicted of obstruction of
justice and conspiracy to obstruct justice.  Deborah A. Colson, another of Zazi’s lawyers, told jurors
during the trial that Zazi’s nephew and brother-in-law, who
pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice under cooperation
agreements and testified for the government, were responsible
for the wrongdoing.  “We are very disappointed in the verdict,” Colson said in
an e-mailed statement today. “We plan to appeal. We will keep
fighting for Mr. Zazi. This is not over yet.”  The trial began July 18.  Naqib Jaji, the brother-in-law, testified that in July 2009
Najibullah Zazi left chemicals, including bleach and nail-polish
remover, in the garage of Jaji’s house in Aurora,  Colorado ,
where Najibullah was living. Najibullah told Jaji he planned to
use them to make a fertility drug, Jaji testified.  Police Informant  Amanullah Zazi, the nephew, testified that he went to
Jaji’s house to participate in a cover-up of bomb-making
materials, acting under orders of the elder Zazi.  Prosecutors said Mohammed Wali Zazi lied to investigators
when he said he didn’t speak with a Queens, New York, imam, who
was also a police informant, about a trip Najibullah Zazi took
to New York. The jurors heard evidence of four phone
conversations Mohammed Wali Zazi and the imam had in September
2009.  The defendant also lied when he said his nephew, who
investigators were looking into, was his adopted son, the
government said.  “This defendant sought to conceal one of the most serious
terror plots in recent times,” U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
 Brooklyn  said in a statement after the verdict. “He also
enlisted others to help him spin his web of lies and to destroy
key evidence.”  Mohammed Wali Zazi will also be prosecuted separately for
visa fraud, according to Lynch’s statement.  The case is U.S. v. Zazi, 1:10-cr-60, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 