-- 
News of the World Workers Are Offered Jobs in Siberia, Dow Jones Outposts

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-22T12:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/news-of-the-world-workers-are-offered-jobs-in-siberia-dow-jones-outposts.html
Employees of News of the World, the
now-defunct  News Corp. (NWSA)  Sunday tabloid, have been invited to
apply for positions across the media company’s businesses,
including a posting in Siberia, three people with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  Openings presented to the more than 200 News of the World
employees who discussed their severance terms with human
resources this week included a materials manager for  Fox News ’s
theatrical departments in Siberia and 74 positions globally at
Dow Jones & Co., said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks were private.  News Corp. closed the 168-year-old tabloid after publishing
its final edition on July 10 in response to escalating
allegations of phone hacking. The scandal and its political
backlash has also forced New York-based News Corp. to drop its
7.8 billion-pound ($12.7 billion) bid for all of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  At least 10 people have been arrested,
including former News International Chief Executive Officer
Rebekah Brooks and ex-News of the World editor  Andy Coulson .  Other positions employees were invited to apply for include
30 posts at publisher HarperCollins and about 30 at Fox. News
International, the U.K. publisher arm of News Corp., has 50
openings, the people said.  Miranda Higham, a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment.  Severance Terms  Brooks, a former editor of the News of the World, said July
8 that News Corp would work to find jobs for the 200 employees
and that they’ll be paid for the next three months. She stepped
down as News International CEO a week later.  The severance terms weren’t discussed because staff
representatives are still negotiating with management. Employees
are pushing for a bigger payoff because of the way the newspaper
was suddenly shuttered, the people said.  Including non-editorial positions, the total number of
employees so far dismissed is more than 280, according to
another person with knowledge of the matter.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  