-- 
NFL Players Delay Vote While Examining Labor Agreement Approved by Owners

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-07-23T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/nfl-owners-vote-31-0-to-approve-10-year-labor-deal-await-players-action.html
National Football League players
reviewed the proposed 10-year labor agreement already approved
by owners and said they will meet again in two days to discuss
the package.  Player representatives sent a letter to the NFL’s 1,900
players yesterday telling them to “keep doing what you are
doing where you are doing it” while the NFL Players
Association studies the proposed settlement.  “We will meet again on Monday to discuss our options and
the direction we want to go,” said the letter, which was
obtained by  ESPN .  Owners approved the deal two days ago. If players also
support the package, it would allow the U.S.’s richest and most
watched sports league to reopen for business next week after a
four-month shutdown.  Owners voted 31-0 for the deal at a meeting in Atlanta,
saying that if players re-establish their union and approve the
agreement, clubs can start signing free agents on July 27.  “It is time to get back to football, that is what
everyone here wants to do,” NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell 
said at a news conference in Atlanta.  Kevin Mawae , the head of the NFLPA, said in a statement
yesterday that his group was reviewing the owners’ settlement
terms and the process for union recertification.  Owners approved a deal that caps team payrolls at about
$120 million this season, with players receiving another $22
million or so in benefits. The players must receive at least 47
percent of the league’s revenue, projected at a record $9.3
billion in 2011, throughout the 10 years of the package.  Rookie Pay System  The agreement also would include a new rookie pay system
that limits how much teams can spend on first-year players.
Current players may stay in the league’s medical plan for life
and will have more days off, with fewer offseason practices.
The deal also would provide between $900 million and $1 billion
for retiree benefits.  The NFL in March locked out players, who dissolved their
union and sued in federal court, claiming antitrust violations
and wage fixing, led by Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees .  The work stoppage ended 24 years of labor peace, about
five weeks after the Super Bowl title game between the  Green
Bay Packers  and Pittsburgh Steelers drew the largest television
audience in U.S. history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  