-- 
NFL Owners Vote to End Four-Month Lockout, Pending Players’ Ratification

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-07-22T02:58:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/nfl-owners-vote-to-end-four-month-lockout-pending-players-ratification.html
National Football League owners
voted 31-0 for a new 10-year labor agreement and now await
players’ approval so the league can reopen for business
next week after a four-month shutdown.  The vote, taken today in Atlanta, moved the NFL closer
toward ensuring that the regular season of the richest and
most-watched U.S. sport will begin on time on Sept. 8.  “It is time to get back to football, that is what
everyone here wants to do,” NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell 
said at a news conference.  Player representatives declined to vote on whether to
accept the deal during a two-hour conference call tonight.
It was unclear when the players would meet again to discuss
the package.  “No vote took place on the call tonight,” Buffalo
Bills player representative George Wilson said in a
televised interview.  Goodell said the owners agreed on a 10-year deal that
would cap payrolls at $120.4 million a team this season.
Players would average at least 47 percent of NFL revenue
during the contract, the NFL said in a release. The
league’s projected revenue is $9.3 billion this year.  The contract approved by owners, with only the Oakland
Raiders abstaining among the 32 NFL teams, also includes
changes in player health and safety as well as to the  NFL
Draft .  “There obviously was a tremendous amount of give and
take to get this agreement with the players,” Dallas
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said in a televised interview.  Preseason Game Canceled  Goodell said the Hall of Fame game between the St.
Louis Rams and the  Chicago Bears  in Canton,  Ohio , scheduled
for Aug. 7, has been canceled. The league said the 16-game
regular-season schedule would remain in effect until at
least 2013.  If the deal is approved by players, the NFL said
training camps could begin in two days and that teams could
begin negotiating with their own players on July 23. Free
agency would begin July 27, which would mark the official
start of the NFL year.  The NFL locked out players in March, after owners said
the previous deal didn’t account for costs such as those of
building stadiums. The players, led by Super Bowl-winning
quarterbacks Tom Brady, Peyton Manning and Drew Brees, sued
in federal court claiming antitrust violations and wage-
fixing.  The work stoppage ended 24 years of labor peace, about
five weeks after the Super Bowl title game between the
 Green Bay Packers  and Pittsburgh Steelers drew the biggest
television audience in U.S. history.  It also threatened to empty stadiums financed with a
combined $7 billion in taxpayer money, disrupt the
schedules of the largest U.S. broadcasters and leave fans
without a sport that, during the 2010 regular season, was
watched by a record 207.7 million people, according to
Neilsen Co. data.  Labor Deal Canceled  Owners voted in 2008 to end the labor deal two years
early, after the 2010 season, saying it didn’t account for
costs such as those of building stadiums and developing
other new sources of revenue. Talks before the Federal
Mediation and Conciliation Service in  Washington  broke down
March 11, concluding two years of discussions aimed at
avoiding a work stoppage.  At least seven teams cut pay or furloughed employees
during the lockout, including the  Arizona Cardinals ,
 Buffalo Bills ,  Detroit Lions ,  Kansas City Chiefs ,  Miami
Dolphins ,  New York Jets  and Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The NFL
cut league employees’ pay by 12 percent in April, and
Goodell and  Jeff Pash , the league’s chief negotiator,
dropped their own to $1 while the lockout persisted. Union
leader  DeMaurice Smith  said he wouldn’t accept any money
until the sides reached a new deal.  NFL Publicity  The NFL gained publicity and attention during the
lockout, according to Eric Wright, vice president for
research and development at Ann Arbor, Michigan-based Joyce
Julius, which measures the value of media exposure and
sponsorships.  The number of references to the NFL appearing in news
publications doubled in May and June to 37,000 from 18,300
a year ago, Wright said. The league would have needed to
spend $40 million to buy all the print, television and
internet exposure it received in those two months, Wright
said.  “That’s absolutely huge,” he said. “So yeah, the
coverage probably skewed toward the negative. But our point
is that there was a whole bunch of it.”  Steve Rosner, co-founder of  East Rutherford , New
Jersey-based 16W Marketing LLC, said he doesn’t believe
that all publicity is good publicity.  “I’m not sure the increased numbers in May and June
when the NFL isn’t selling its product really matters,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  