-- 
North, South Korea Will Hold Talks at Asean, First Meeting Since February

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-22T13:47:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/north-south-korea-will-hold-talks-at-asean-first-meeting-since-february.html
North Korea and  South Korea  agreed
today to try to revive multinational talks on the North’s
nuclear-weapons program, signaling an easing of tension between
the two rivals that has been an irritant to U.S.-China ties over
the past year.  South Korea’s chief nuclear envoy, Wi Sung-lac, said his
two-hour discussion with North Korean counterpart Ri Yong-ho was
“very constructive.” Both men confirmed the agreement to kick-
start the six-party talks, which stalled in 2008.  The meeting, at a  regional security forum  on the Indonesian
island of Bali, was the first on the nuclear program since North
Korea walked out of talks with South Korea, the U.S., China,
Japan and Russia. Tensions between the two Koreas flared last
year after 50 South Koreans were killed in two attacks, spurring
the U.S. to come to the defense of its treaty ally and pressure
 China  to rein in Kim Jong-Il’s regime.  “China and the  United States  and other members of the six-
party talks need to work together to promote a better atmosphere
and good dialogue among the parties concerned,” Chinese Foreign
Minister  Yang Jiechi  said in a joint appearance with U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in Bali. The world’s two
biggest economies share a “mutual desire for peace and
stability on the Korean peninsula,” Clinton said.  ‘Need’ for Talks  While the North has called for discussions to reopen, South
Korea has said Pyongyang first had to apologize for the sinking
of a warship in March 2010 and the shelling of an island in
November. The Koreas remain technically at war after their
1950-1953 conflict -- in which the U.S. and China fought on
opposite sides -- ended in a cease-fire.  Both Koreas need the talks, regional analysts said. The
North is looking to boost its economy, while South Korean
President Lee Myung-bak is seeking to boost his domestic
political popularity, said Paik Hak-Soon, director of inter-
Korean relations at the Sejong Institute outside  Seoul .  The U.S. also applied “huge pressure” on the South so it
would hold its own dialogue with the North, he said.  “This is a very positive step,” Paik said in a telephone
interview. “From this time on, we’ll see more gestures from the
North to show it is positively cooperating with the South.”  A dialogue between the two Koreas needed to take place
first before the six-party talks can resume, Japanese Foreign
Ministry spokesman Satoru Satoh told reporters yesterday. Japan,
South Korea and the U.S. have taken a unified position toward
the North and are pushing for China to take more action, he
said. China is Kim’s biggest ally and the main source of the
trade and aid that sustains his grip on power.  Limited ‘Leverage’  “Our leverage is very limited -- but if China tried to
stop the supply of fuel and food, it would really affect  North
Korea ,” Satoh said. “We have to continue to pressure North
Korea using the framework of the six-party talks.”  China accounted for 83 percent of North Korea’s $4.2
billion of international commerce in 2010, the Korea Trade-
Investment Promotion Agency said in May. China made up 79
percent of trade in 2009 and 53 percent in 2005, according to
the Seoul-based organization.  During meetings today between Clinton and Chinese Foreign
Minister Yang Jiechi, the U.S. told Chinese officials it was
imperative that they tell North Korea to avoid provocative acts
and engage productively, according to a State Department
official who was not authorized to speak on the record.  The official said that South Korea may retaliate if
provoked again. The primary U.S. expectation is a display of
determination on the part of the North Koreans to address issues
related to their nuclear program, the official said.  Japan ’s Input  Tomorrow, the U.S., South Korea and Japan will have
extensive talks about whether to go forward with North Korea,
the official said. None of the parties felt the need to rush
into anything, the official said.  Officials at the meeting applauded news of the potential
breakthrough. Indonesian Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa, who
met earlier with North Korean Foreign Minister Pak Ui Chun, said
the meeting between the Koreas can “create fresh momentum” for
a resolution on the peninsula.  “Communication at any level is indeed significant
progress,” he said. “There has been an ice breaking.”  North Korea “believes this is a positive first step
towards the fuller six party talks,” said Surin Pitsuwan,
secretary-general of the Association of South East Asian
Nations, who met North Korea’s Pak after the talks with South
Korea. “His impression from his side was it went well and he
was satisfied.”  Walked Out  North Korean military officials walked out of talks with
South Korea in February after refusing to accept any involvement
in the March 2010 sinking of a South Korean warship that killed
46 sailors. That attack, along with the deaths of four people in
the November shelling, raised tensions on the peninsula. North
Korea says it shelled Yeonpyeong Island, near a western sea
border it doesn’t recognize, to protect what is part of its own
territory.  The six-party forum involving North Korea, South Korea, the
U.S., China, Japan and  Russia  last convened in December 2008.
The Asean Regional Forum this week is one of the only annual
events attended by diplomats from all the countries involved.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Bali at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  