-- 
Boehner Says Debt Deal ‘Not Close’

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-07-22T19:50:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/obama-boehner-press-for-broad-u-s-deficit-agreement-amid-internal-strife.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  said he
and the White House are “not close to an agreement” on raising
the U.S. debt ceiling following a meeting with House Republicans
in which Boehner’s mood was described as gloomy.  “The speaker was the most sort of melancholy I’ve seen
him,” said Ohio Representative Steve LaTourette, a long-time
Boehner ally. “He wanted to, I think, report to the conference
that substantial progress was being made, we’re moving in the
right direction, and he couldn’t give that report.”  President Barack Obama and Boehner face strife within their
ranks and dwindling time to avert a U.S. default as they press
for a broad agreement to boost the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt
limit. The two leaders have discussed cutting spending by
trillions of dollars and overhauling the  tax code .  Republicans and Democrats are staking out political
territory. The Democratic-led Senate today voted 51-46 to kill a
Republican proposal that would provide a $2.4 trillion debt-
limit boost only in return for spending curbs and a
constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget. Obama had
said he would veto the measure.  “This piece of legislation is about as weak and senseless
as anything that has ever come on this Senate floor,” Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid said yesterday.  Secret Meetings  Republicans said it’s the only way to tackle the debt.  “We don’t need any more behind-closed-doors, secret
meetings where the president’s trying to tell America what we
believe and what he believes and nothing ever ends up in
writing,” said Senator  Jim DeMint  of  South Carolina .  As frustration over the negotiations built, rank-and-file
Republicans expressed support for a short-term extension of the
debt ceiling with spending cuts and no tax increases while
leaders continue to negotiate a larger deal in the coming
months. That would challenge a threat from the president to veto
a debt-limit increase that didn’t take the country through the
next election.  “The votes are there for something like that, particularly
if the leadership came in and said we want to buy an extra six
months,” said Representative Tom Cole, a Republican from
 Oklahoma .  Fallback Options  Republican leaders are discussing fallback options, said a
House Republican leadership aide. The aide wouldn’t disclose
what is under consideration for a shorter-term deal.  As of mid-afternoon, Boehner and Obama hadn’t scheduled any
meetings, the aide said. House Republican leaders are working
under a timeline that assumes they have until early next week to
decide whether to move to a fallback plan, the aide said.  Obama said at a town-hall meeting at the  University of
Maryland  in College Park that most Americans and many in
Congress agree with the approach of mixing spending cuts and tax
increases to deal with the long-term deficit.  “The only people we have left to convince are some folks
in the  House of Representatives ,” he said. The president said
lawmakers must raise the debt ceiling before Aug. 2. The U.S.
“doesn’t run out without paying the tab,” he said.  Investors remained optimistic a deal would be reached even
as  Standard & Poor’s  warned yesterday that a debt-limit increase
that didn’t address long-term budget deficits would risk a
downgrade of  U.S. government debt . Benchmark 10-year yields,
which fell below 3 percent today, are about 1 percentage point
lower than the average for the past decade.  Two-Year Yields  Two-year yields declined one basis point to 0.39 percent at
2:51 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasuries fell five basis
points to 2.96 percent. The average yield for the past decade is
4.06 percent.  Senate Democratic leaders professed ignorance of what would
come next in the debt drama, saying they had been left out of
talks with the White House and weren’t sure what legislation
they might consider in the coming days.  “A lot of what’s going on we don’t know,” Reid of  Nevada 
said on the Senate floor before announcing there would be no
votes over the weekend. “I haven’t been in the day-to-day
negotiations.”  “I wish them well,” he said of Obama and Boehner.  Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat who has been in the
Senate for 18 years, said she has “never seen frustration
higher” over the inability to get a straight answer from the
administration on negotiations.  ‘That’s Not Good’  “I’ve been through the  Bush administration , the Clinton
administration, we always knew, we always had a way to find out
so that you could look at it, adjust your thinking, figure out
how does that affect the people I represent,” Feinstein said.
“None of that is available to us now, and that’s not good.”  Obama summoned top Democrats to the White House last night
after Democrats balked at word of a potential deal between the
president and Boehner that would reduce the long-term deficit by
about $3 trillion over 10 years through deep spending cuts
without an immediate increase in taxes. Democratic lawmakers
said they feared the president was moving toward an agreement
that undermined their party’s priorities.  “We are very volcanic at this moment,” Senator Barbara Mikulski, a  Maryland  Democrat, said as she left a session at the
Capitol yesterday with White House budget director Jack Lew.
“The clock is running, the Republicans are running from a real
solution. I don’t want the president to be an enabler of that.”  Grand Bargain  Many Republicans are resisting the kind of grand bargain
that Boehner has sought, refusing to accept tax increases as
part of any  deficit-reduction  deal.  Two congressional officials said the White House told
Democratic leaders it was pursuing a deal to cut spending,
including on Social Security and Medicare, and a tax overhaul
that could raise $1 trillion. That provoked an angry reaction
yesterday from Senate Democrats, who said they feared they might
be asked to swallow steep reductions in programs and trims to
entitlement benefits with no assurance of higher  tax revenue .  The administration and  House Republicans  are divided over
the fate of the tax cuts for top earners that were passed during
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, and how much revenue
would be raised to curb the long-term federal debt, according to
two Democratic officials familiar with the negotiations.  Debt-Reduction Targets  Negotiators are discussing setting debt-reduction targets
to be achieved through entitlement changes and a tax overhaul,
then enforcing those goals by setting up consequences to be
triggered if they aren’t reached.  Obama wants those to include a tax increase on higher-
income earners in 2013, while Republicans want to roll back
portions of the health-care law Obama pushed through over their
opposition in 2010, such as scrapping the mandate that every
person have insurance or pay a penalty, according to a
congressional official familiar with the talks.  Obama wants spending cuts to be gradual, with the fullest
effects not felt until 2014 and beyond, to avoid shaking the
economic recovery, the officials said, briefing reporters on
condition of anonymity to discuss the closed-door talks.  While discretionary spending cuts could be immediate,
changes in the tax code and entitlement programs would be worked
out over the next year and wouldn’t take effect until 2013, the
officials said. That doesn’t include a possible extension of the
two-percentage-point cut in the  payroll tax  that’s due to expire
at the end of the year, they said.  Fallback Plan  The two sides also have yet to agree on a way to ensure
that deficit-cutting targets are met, the officials said.  Senate leaders have discussed a fallback plan by Reid and
Republican leader Mitch McConnell to give Obama $2.4 trillion in
borrowing authority. It could be combined with spending cuts and
a committee charged with pushing through longer-term deficit
reduction in coming months. That, too, faced mounting obstacles,
with 86 House Republicans signing a letter dubbing the measure
the “cut, run and hide” plan and vowing to block it.  Standard & Poor’s warned there is a 50 percent chance it
will lower the U.S. government’s AAA credit rating by one or
more levels within three months. S&P said yesterday that even if
Congress raises the debt limit in time to avert a default it
might lower the U.S. sovereign rating to AA+ with a negative
outlook if it isn’t accompanied by a “credible solution” on
the debt level.  Such a ratings change, which could come as soon as early
August, would “modestly raise” the federal government’s
borrowing costs, S&P said. If the U.S. defaults on some
obligations after Aug. 2, even if it pays bondholders, S&P
forecast short-term  interest rates  would rise by 0.50 percentage
points and long-term interest rates by 1 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  