-- 
Republicans, Democrats Push Dueling Plans

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-25T01:07:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/obama-says-republicans-walking-away-from-fair-deal-in-debt-ceiling-talks.html
Republicans and Democrats pushed
dueling plans for raising the U.S. debt ceiling, unable to break
a partisan stalemate over how to tackle the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt even as worries of a threatened default Aug. 2
unsettled financial markets.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, prepared to
force action on a shorter-term extension of the U.S. debt limit
than President  Barack Obama  has requested, defying a veto threat
and the administration’s warnings of dire economic consequences.  The Senate’s top Democrat  Harry Reid , meanwhile, readied
his own proposal, which would hand Obama the full $2.4 trillion
in additional borrowing authority he has requested -- enough to
last through the 2012 elections -- tied to a $2.7 trillion
package of spending cuts that would leave Medicare and Medicaid
untouched, according to a Senate Democratic aide.  Obama met in the Oval Office with Reid, of  Nevada , and
House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , as
negotiations to find a viable plan to avert default intensified.
They reaffirmed their opposition to a short-term debt-limit
increase, according to a White House official who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  U.S. stock futures slid, indicating the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index will slump after rallying within 1.4 percent of a
three-year high as the lack of an agreement to raise the federal
debt limit intensified concern of a default.  Treasuries Fall  Treasuries fell after Mohamed A. El-Erian, whose Pacific
Investment Management Co. runs the world’s biggest bond fund,
said the U.S. may lose its AAA debt rating even if lawmakers
reach a plan to avoid a default.  The rate on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note climbed
three basis points to 2.99 percent as of 9:22 a.m. in Tokyo,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader pricing. The 3.125 percent
note due in May 2021 declined 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 1/8.  The yield increased six basis points last week. It is still
below the 10-year average of 4.06 percent.  “In most likelihood, a last-minute political compromise
will avoid a default but will leave the AAA rating extremely
vulnerable,” El-Erian, the  Newport Beach , California-based
chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer at
Pimco, wrote in an e-mail.  No Clear Path  The collapse July 22 of a politically challenging quest by
Obama and Boehner for a deal to slice as much as $4 trillion
from the long-term debt through overhauls of entitlement
programs and the  tax code  left all sides staring at a crisis
with no clear path forward and little time to spare.  Boehner told Republicans in a conference call today that no
one is willing to default on the full faith and credit of the
U.S., according to a person familiar with the conversation who
described it on condition of anonymity.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said there was no other
option than raising the debt ceiling. “The only way to limit
the damage to the American people that would come from Congress
failing to act is for Congress to act to raise the debt limit,”
Geithner said on ABC’s “This Week.”  Congress is “going to
pass the debt limit increase. That’s what they’re going to do.”  Battling the Calendar  Congressional leaders were battling the calendar to do so.
Boehner has told Republicans privately that the House would
probably need to act on a debt-ceiling measure by July 27 in
order to allow time to pass it and send it to the Senate, where
procedural tactics could stall it for days, and get it cleared
for Obama’s signature in time to meet the Aug. 2 deadline. That
would mean introducing a bill tomorrow to comply with House
rules that require legislation to be publicly available for
three days before it comes up for a vote.  Reid said talks broke down “over Republicans’ continued
insistence on a short-term raise of the debt ceiling.”  Such a measure wouldn’t provide certainty for financial
markets “and is therefore a non-starter in the Senate and with
the president,” Reid said in a statement.  The conflict carried political peril for both parties.
Boehner is laying the groundwork for the task of corralling
Republicans -- including the Tea Party-supported freshmen who
swept him into power in campaigns that spotlighted their zeal
for spending cuts -- to back a debt-ceiling increase that is
likely to contain far smaller reductions than they favor.  He urged rank-and-file Republicans during today’s afternoon
conference call to stick together to maximize their leverage
against Obama, even though the plan might require some of them
to make sacrifices.  ‘Some Leeway’  “It’s not a game of chicken,” Representative Bill Huizenga, a Michigan Republican, said in an interview following
the call. “People are looking for the speaker to come back with
something significant. There is an agreement to be found, we
just haven’t found it yet. People are willing to give the
speaker some leeway.”  Obama was consigned largely to the sidelines as Boehner,
Reid and their counterparts in the opposing parties struggled to
assess what could pass the House and Senate.  Boehner told Republicans on the conference call that they
needed to pull together as a team to block the president from
obtaining the $2.4 trillion debt-ceiling increase all at once,
without any guarantees of spending cuts. He is considering a
plan that would provide an immediate, stopgap borrowing boost of
about $1 trillion tied to the same amount of spending cuts, and
future votes on further spending reductions tied to the
remainder of the debt-limit increase.  Market Reactions  Obama would veto such a measure, White House Chief of Staff
Bill Daley said in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press,”
warning that “markets around the world” would react
negatively.  “We’ve got to get past this debt-ceiling vote,” Daley
said. “It’s time to get some certainty.”  Boehner said on  Fox News  that while he’d prefer a
compromise package, his party was “prepared to move on our
own” if that proved impossible.  “There will be a two-stage process,” Boehner said on Fox.
“This is about what is doable at the 11th hour.”  Boehner had said he was aiming to show progress on a plan
for increasing the debt ceiling -- bipartisan or not -- today to
try to minimize uncertainty before Asian markets opened.  The dollar weakened against the euro, yen and Swiss franc
in early Asia-Pacific trading.  “From the markets’ point of view, a two-stage plan is a
non-starter because we now know it is amateur hour on  Capitol
Hill  and we don’t want to be painted in this corner again,”
said Christian Cooper, head of U.S. dollar derivatives trading
in New York at Jefferies & Co.  “There is significant risk of a downgrade with a deal that
ties further cuts to another vote only a few months down the
road given the significant resistance to do the right thing
now,” Cooper said.  Against the euro, the dollar declined to $1.4384 in early
trading, from $1.4360 late on July 22. It fell to 78.13 yen from
78.54. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in September
lost 0.9 percent to 1,329.40 at 9:19 a.m. in  Tokyo . Dow Jones
Industrial Average futures lost 108 points, or 0.9 percent, to
12,513.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington 
at   or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  