-- 
Obstacle Course Awaits Congress in Quest for Simpler Tax Code

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-07-23T04:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/obstacle-course-awaits-congress-in-quest-for-simpler-tax-code.html
The allure of a simpler, more
efficient  tax code  that could fuel economic growth presents a
tantalizing possibility for U.S. lawmakers. The path to that
goal is littered with political and legislative obstacles.  Even if President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  had agreed to pursue a tax code overhaul as part of a
deal to raise the debt ceiling, completing such an effort would
require sustained bipartisan cooperation on an issue that deeply
divides Republicans and Democrats.  Congress hasn’t rewritten the U.S. tax code since 1986, and
that isn’t for lack of trying. The problem extends beyond
disagreements about the proper size of government and the role
of government in fighting  income inequality . The difficulty is
that the clearest track to a simpler code with lower rates would
require eliminating or curtailing cherished tax breaks such as
those for home mortgage interest, charitable contributions,
domestic manufacturing and capital gains.  “A lot of these groups are pretty well-organized, so I
think this battle within the business community of who’s going
to win and who’s going to lose is the big issue,” said David
Kautter, managing director of the Kogod Tax Center at American
University in Washington. “That’s what makes it hard.”  Negotiators had been discussing an agreement that would set
a short timeline for rewriting the tax code with parameters for
revenue and an enforcement mechanism that would trigger
consequences if Congress doesn’t act. Boehner said yesterday
that he was ending discussions with the White House.  ‘Incredibly Difficult’  The outlines of an agreement could have made it difficult
for lawmakers to agree on the details of a tax rewrite, said
Melissa Mueller, a former Democratic tax counsel for the Ways
and Means and Senate Finance committees.  “They’ve sort of gotten whipped up in the frenzy of  tax
reform  and how easy it might be in the abstract,” said Mueller,
now a partner at the Washington lobbying firm Capitol Tax
Partners. “But when you actually get in and see the specific
ways of doing it, it’s incredibly difficult.”  The arithmetic required to trade tax breaks for lower
rates, it’s much simpler than the politics, said Representative
Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican on the Ways and Means Committee.  “On paper, yeah, it’s very easy to make the adjustments
and changes,” he said in an interview yesterday. “In real
life, to seriously dial down the tax rates, you have to
seriously eliminate some very popular, very politically
sensitive exemptions, credits and incentives.”  Higher Revenue  Additionally, if an agreement included higher revenue
through a tax code overhaul as a condition of obtaining spending
cuts, Republicans would have to write a bill that violates some
of their core principles.  “The higher revenues make it harder to get the kind of tax
reform that we need to grow our economy,” Ways and Means
Chairman  Dave Camp  said yesterday in an interview on “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing on Bloomberg Television this
weekend. “And also, I really believe it will make it harder for
us to create jobs.”  Camp said in an interview after the televised taping that
such a revenue target wouldn’t necessarily make it impossible to
overhaul the tax code, and he didn’t rule out advancing tax
changes with a higher revenue target as part of a broader
bipartisan deficit-reduction package.  In 1986, during the last major tax code overhaul, Congress
stuck to a revenue-neutral framework, which created a zero-sum
environment. In that law, Congress shifted tax benefits from
businesses to individuals. A framework this year that raised
revenue would tip the balance so that politically vocal losers
would outweigh the winners, Kautter said.  “When you don’t have a reduction for most people,” he
said, “then I think the dynamic changes dramatically.”  Advancing a Rewrite  The Ways and Means chairman said he is trying to write a
corporate tax overhaul bill this year. Because many businesses
are taxed through the individual tax code, Camp has long said he
wants to address both parts of the tax system together.  Camp, a Michigan Republican, and Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, have been holding
hearings this year on the tax code. Next week, Camp’s panel will
consider consumption taxes and Baucus’s committee will hear
about the tax code’s effect on  job creation  from chief executive
officers of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , PMC-
Sierra Inc., and  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)   The hearings haven’t focused on a particular proposal. The
Treasury Department may release a corporate tax overhaul
framework after the debt ceiling debate is concluded, Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said.  “There is nothing really specific, no proposal to point at
to say, this works and this doesn’t,” Mueller said. “Once you
really have a proposal, then you can really have a serious
conversation. How long that takes? I don’t know.”  Ultimate Goals  While Camp and Baucus talk regularly and on July 13 held
their committees’ first joint hearing on tax policy in more than
70 years, they don’t necessarily agree on the ultimate goals of
 tax policy . The gaps between them mirror the philosophical gaps
between their parties.  Camp wants to lower the top individual and corporate tax
rates to 25 percent and collect the same amount of revenue as if
all of the expiring tax cuts were extended and the tax increases
in last year’s health-care law were repealed.  Baucus, in contrast, wrote major portions of the health-
care law and has supported Democratic efforts to extend tax cuts
for individuals earning less than $200,000 a year and married
couples earning less than $250,000 without also extending the
cuts for high-income taxpayers.  Political Calendar  One additional complication is the political calendar. Any
tax-code rewrite would have to occur in the months leading up to
the 2012 election, while Obama is running for re-election and
while the House and Senate minorities seek control of their
respective chambers.  “It absolutely makes it more challenging,” said Arshi
Siddiqui, a partner at Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld in
 Washington  who was a tax adviser to Representative  Nancy Pelosi 
when she was House speaker. “It will take a while to do kind of
a reasoned approach to this.”  Even without a total rewrite of the tax code, Congress
likely will pass significant tax legislation before it adjourns
at the end of 2012. Extensions of the income and estate tax cuts
expire at the end of 2012. Popular business tax breaks such as
the research and development tax credit expire at the end of
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  