-- 
Oil Heads for Fourth Week of Gains on Optimism Over European, U.S. Debt

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-22T12:46:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/oil-heads-for-fourth-week-of-gains-on-optimism-over-european-u-s-debt.html
Oil headed for a fourth week of
gains in  New York  as signs Europe and the U.S. will contain
their debt crises eased speculation that demand for raw
materials may falter.  Futures have advanced nearly 2 percent this week. Euro-area
leaders announced 159 billion euros ($229 billion) in new aid
for Greece late yesterday. Prices also rose amid speculation
U.S. President Barack Obama may agree a deal to raise the
country’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling before an Aug. 2 deadline.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, led by  Saudi
Arabia , will boost supply this month, the  International Energy
Agency  predicted yesterday.  Crude for September delivery traded for $98.95 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  as of
1:44 p.m. London time. Brent for September settlement rose 10
cents, or 0.1 percent, to $117.61 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  “The market has been boosted by Greek bail-out euphoria,
but even that was insufficient to move Brent above $120,” said
 Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in
London. “Slight production increases by the Saudis, added to
continuing worries about demand, have prevented prices running
away to the upside.”  The European benchmark contract traded at a premium of
$18.69 a barrel to U.S. futures, compared with a record close of
$22.63 on July 14.  Greek Aid  European leaders empowered their 440 billion-euro rescue
fund to buy debt across stressed nations, helping to erect a
firewall around Spain and  Italy  even as they risked temporary
default to lighten the Greek debt burden.  “There’s more relief over debt measures so there’s this
feel-good sense to the equity markets and that’s dragging up the
price of oil,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who predicts oil in
New York will average $100 a barrel this year. A resolution in
the U.S. “will add to this optimism, which should push crude
oil through $100 a barrel, even up to $102,” he said.  U.S. President Barack Obama and House Speaker John Boehner
have pressed for a broad agreement to boost the U.S. debt limit
while cutting spending by trillions of dollars and overhauling
the tax code.  IEA Supplies  Crude in New York settled yesterday at its highest since
June 14 after the IEA said it won’t extend a release of
emergency oil supplies.  The organization said that while it’s prepared to
“augment” the sale of 60 million barrels of emergency oil
stockpiles first announced on June 23, this intervention and
higher output from OPEC will for now “substantially cover” the
loss of exports caused by an armed conflict in  Libya .  The Libyan revolt, which began in February, has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. The country’s output fell 50,000 barrels, or 25
percent, to 150,000 barrels a day last month, a Bloomberg News
survey showed, the lowest amount in yearly data since 1962. It
pumped 1.59 million barrels in January, before the uprising.  The IEA’s action was the third time the agency has
coordinated the use of emergency stockpiles since it was founded
in 1974. The first was during the 1991 Persian Gulf War and the
second in 2005 when Hurricane Katrina struck the  Gulf of Mexico .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  