-- 
Crude Oil Futures Advance in New York on U.S., Europe Debt Talk Optimism

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-07-22T20:03:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/oil-slips-as-euro-falls-on-concerns-european-measures-won-t-be-adequate.html
Crude oil climbed to a six-week high
on optimism that the U.S. will increase its debt ceiling and as
euro-region leaders worked to convince investors that plans to
contain the debt crisis will be adequate.  Oil increased for a fourth week as President Barack Obama
and House Speaker  John Boehner , seeking to avert a U.S. default,
are pursuing a broad agreement to boost the debt limit. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said government chiefs had widened the
scope of their bailout fund to allow it to buy the bonds of
debt-laden nations.  “The Europeans came to a deal to bail out Greece,"  said
 Kyle Cooper , director of research for IAF Advisors in Houston.
"At the same time they are moving toward a consensus to raise
the debt ceiling here in the U.S. Those are being used as
somewhat positive news for oil.”  Crude for September delivery rose 74 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to $99.87 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since June 9. Prices, which have gained 9.3
percent this year, rose 2.7 percent this week.  Brent for September settlement rose $1.16 to settle at
$118.67 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.4365 in New York, its first
decline in four days. The Standard & Poor’s index gained 0.1
percent to 1,345.03.  Oslo Bomb  Oil also gained after a bomb blast in central Oslo
shattered windows at the prime minister’s office and nearby
buildings. At least seven people were killed and several others
injured, according to the Associated Press.  “The attack in Oslo is supportive because of the
uncertainty it created,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst with
PFGBest in Chicago. “More than anything, the U.S. debt showdown
is really dominating everything.”  Obama and Boehner, each facing strife within his own ranks
and dwindling time to avert a U.S. default, pressed for a broad
agreement to boost the debt limit while cutting spending by
trillions of dollars and overhauling the tax code. Negotiators
aren’t close to an agreement, the speaker told reporters after
meeting with rank-and-file House Republicans.  Euro-area leaders announced 159 billion euros ($229
billion) in new aid for Greece yesterday. Merkel said government
chiefs had learned from “systemic effects” in the single-
currency area and widened the scope of their bailout fund to
allow it to buy the bonds of debt-laden nations, support banks
and offer credit lines.  ‘Back From Brink’  European leaders brought the region “back from the brink”
as they agreed to support the new bailout package for  Greece  and
to give new powers to the euro area’s rescue fund, said  Fitch
Ratings ’  David Riley .  “The market has been boosted by Greek bailout euphoria,
but even that was insufficient to move Brent above $120,” said
 Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in
 London .  U.S. fuel demand rose in June as consumption of diesel by
truckers reached a record high, according to the  American
Petroleum Institute .  Total deliveries of petroleum products, a measure of
demand, climbed 2.9 percent to 22.2 million barrels a day last
month from a year earlier, the industry-funded group said today
in a report. Gasoline usage was almost unchanged from the year
before, with all of the increase coming from other fuels.  U.S. crude stockpiles fell 3.73 million barrels to 351.7
million in the week ended July 15, according to the Energy
Department.  No New Release  The U.S. and 27 allies said yesterday that they don’t plan
to extend the release of emergency oil stockpiles announced
through the  International Energy Agency  last month.  The Paris-based agency said that while it’s prepared to
“augment” the sale of 60 million barrels first announced on
June 23, this intervention combined with higher output from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will for now
“substantially cover” the loss of exports caused by an armed
conflict in  Libya .  The Libyan revolt, which began in February, has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. The country’s output fell 50,000 barrels, or 25
percent, to 150,000 barrels a day last month, a Bloomberg News
survey showed, the lowest amount in yearly data since 1962. It
pumped 1.59 million barrels in January, before the uprising.  The IEA’s action was the third time the agency has
coordinated the use of emergency stockpiles since it was founded
in 1974. The first was during the 1991 Persian Gulf War and the
second in 2005 when  Hurricane Katrina  struck the  Gulf of Mexico .  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 422,173
contracts as of 4:01 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 549,531
contracts yesterday, 19 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.49 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 