-- 
TomTom Posts Surprise Second-Quarter Loss on Writedown, Navigation Market

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-07-22T10:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/tomtom-posts-surprise-second-quarter-loss-on-writedown-navigation-market.html
TomTom NV (TOM2) ,  Europe ’s largest maker of
portable navigation devices, reported an unexpected second-
quarter loss after writing down goodwill from the acquisition of
Tele Atlas NV in 2008.  The net loss was 489 million euros ($705 million) compared
with net income of 34 million euros a year earlier, the
Amsterdam-based company said in a statement today. The average
forecast of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit
of 10.7 million euros.  The company took an impairment charge of 512 million euros
in the quarter on a reduced outlook for the portable navigation
device market. Of the charge, 473 million euros related to
goodwill from the acquisition of Tele Atlas, which represents
the map database, Chief Financial Officer Marina Wyatt said in a
conference call. Map sales are hurt if demand falls for portable
navigation devices, she said.  The impairment in the second quarter “does raise questions
about the value of the map database,” said Martijn den Drijver,
an Amsterdam-based analyst at SNS Securities, who added that the
second quarter was “weak.” He retains his “hold” rating for
the company’s stock.  Profit Forecast  Sales decreased 13 percent to 314 million euros. On June
27, the company predicted revenue of 300 million euros to 310
million euros for the quarter.  TomTom also slashed its full-year profit and sales
forecasts on June 27, saying U.S. demand for its devices had
declined faster than predicted and consumers were opting for
cheaper navigation systems. The stock declined 27 percent the
day after the announcement.  The company will announce costs cuts in the third quarter,
”to maintain a healthy cashflow,” Chief Executive Officer
Harold Goddijn said today, declining to give more details.  ”Our cost base increased in the first half, we will have
to bring that down in the second half,” the CEO said in an
interview.  TomTom, which also competes with Google Inc., aims to get
more revenue from maps, services and built-in systems in cars
amid a slowdown in sales of portable navigation devices.  The company’s automotive revenue climbed 34 percent to 60
million euros in the quarter. The company is talking with
carmakers “across the globe” about possible contracts for
built-in navigation systems, Goddijn said.  Earnings per share will be in a range of 25 euro cents to
30 cents in 2011, excluding the goodwill impairment, TomTom
said. The company in April predicted “broadly flat” earnings
per share compared with 49 cents in 2010.  Shares Fall  TomTom shares traded 2.3 percent higher at 3.745 euros as
of 12.02 p.m. in Amsterdam after falling as much as 7.1 percent
earlier in the day. The stock has lost 52 percent this year,
paring the company’s market value to 830 million euros. U.S.
rival  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  has gained 5.6 percent in the period.  “It doesn’t make sense that shares are up, when you look
at the company’s performance,” said  Tom Muller , an analyst at
Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers, referring to TomTom. “With such a
low valuation it could however mean takeover speculation is back
in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net  