-- 
Hong Kong Bourse May Be Seeking LSE Takeover, Standard Says

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-07-22T04:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/hong-kong-bourse-may-be-seeking-lse-takeover-standard-says-1-.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.
may be seeking to merge with  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ,
the Standard  reported  today, citing a story from Britain’s The
Independent newspaper.  Hong Kong Exchanges could offer more than 1,500 pence per
share for the London bourse, according to the U.K.  publication 
that cited unnamed “market gossips” as the source of its
information. LSE shares closed yesterday at 1,024 pence.
Lorraine Chan, a spokeswoman for Hong Kong Exchanges, and the
LSE’s Jonny Blostone declined to comment.  “The possibility is low,” said  Alex Au , the Hong Kong
based managing director of Richland Capital Management Ltd.,
which oversees $300 million. “There are political issues. I
don’t think the U.K. government will let its exchange be
controlled by them.”  LSE’s Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  said this week
that the company will “look both West and East” as it seeks
growth after it withdrew its bid to take over Canada’s TMX Group
Inc. after failing to wine support from enough shareholders.
Hong Kong Exchanges, the world’s largest bourse operator by
market value, has no immediate plans to buy a rival, said
Romnesh Lamba, an executive vice president at a brokerage
conference last month.  There have been $37 billion of exchange merger
announcements since  Singapore Exchange  announced its bid for
 Australia ’s ASX Ltd. in October, according to Bloomberg data
that include planned, unsolicited and terminated bids.  The Hong Kong bourse trades at 34.3 times reported profit,
making it the second-most expensive company in the industry
after Philippine Stock Exchange Inc. The LSE is valued at a
price-earnings multiple of 18.1, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  