-- 
Ongoing Strategy CEO to Invest 350 Million Euros, Expand in Brazil, Africa

-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-07-22T10:44:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/ongoing-strategy-ceo-to-invest-350-million-euros-expand-in-brazil-africa.html
Ongoing Strategy Investments SGPS
SA, a Portuguese investment company, plans to spend 350 million
euros ($505 million) over three years to expand its business and
make acquisitions outside  Portugal .  Ongoing Strategy, whose biggest holding is a 10.1 percent
stake in  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC) , is also looking for
opportunities in Portugal and is paying “close attention” to
the planned privatization of Portuguese state-owned broadcaster
RTP, Chief Executive Officer Nuno Vasconcellos said.  “Our goal is to create a big technology, media and
telecommunications group in Portugal, Brazil and the Portuguese-
speaking African countries,” Vasconcellos said in an interview
yesterday from his company headquarters in Lisbon.  The investments would be financed through the sale of non-
strategic assets and a possible capital increase, said
Vasconcellos. Ongoing is the second-biggest shareholder in
Portuguese broadcaster and publisher  Impresa SGPS SA. (IPR) 
Vasconcellos said he hasn’t decided yet whether to keep
Ongoing’s 23 percent stake, adding that he is very
“uncomfortable” with the current management.  “Something has to change,” said Vasconcellos. “Shares in
Impresa have been falling for years.”  Impresa’s stock has dropped 56 percent this year, heading
for the sixth annual decline in seven years.  Ongoing was set up in 2004 to manage the Rocha dos Santos
family fortune. The company publishes daily newspapers Diario
Economico in Portugal and Brasil Economico in  Brazil , and has a
stake of more than 3 percent in cable television company Zon
Multimedia SGPS SA.  Ongoing’s stake in Portugal Telecom is a strategic, long-
term investment, the CEO said.  The investment company’s revenue increased 11 percent to
620.2 million euros last year, and net income rose more than
fivefold to 236 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  