-- 
Longueuil Seeks Term Below 46 to 57 Months Sought by U.S.

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-22T23:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/longueuil-asks-for-term-below-46-to-57-months-sought-by-u-s-prosecutors.html
Former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager Donald Longueuil asked a federal judge to
impose a sentence of less than the 46 to 57 months sought by the
U.S. for his role in an  insider-trading  scheme.  Craig Carpenito, a lawyer for Longueuil, 35, said his
client was seeking leniency from the court saying his client,
“not the caricature of a greedy yuppie portrayed by the
Government.” He is scheduled to be sentenced by U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff on July 29.  Prosecutors filed papers yesterday, arguing a term of more
than more 4 1/2 years was warranted because it would deter other
Wall Street professionals from engaging in similar crimes.  Longueuil pleaded guilty April 28 to conspiracy to commit
securities and wire fraud and to  securities fraud  in a case that
is part of a U.S. crackdown of insider trading at  hedge funds 
involving so-called expert networks and insiders at technology
companies.  The insider-trading investigation ensnared two other fund
managers and an analyst, former SAC portfolio manager, Noah Freeman, and Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management,
and Jason Pflaum, who worked as an analyst for Barai.  Trading Edge  Prosecutors said Longueuil, Barai and Freeman were friends
who pooled their illegal information to get a trading edge with
Pflaum assisting Barai in the scheme. All four men have pleaded
guilty to federal charges.  One of the sources the three used for inside information,
Winifred Jiau, a former consultant at expert-network firm
Primary Global Research LLC, was convicted after a trial in New
York last month.  As part of the conspiracy, which prosecutors said ran from
2006 to 2010, Longueuil and his co-defendants conspired to
obtain inside information about companies including  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) ,  Fairchild Semiconductor International
Inc. (FCS) ,  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,  Actel Corp. (ACTL)  and  Cypress
Semiconductor Corp. (CY) , the U.S. said.  Longueuil didn’t personally profit from any tips he
received on Marvell, said Carpenito, who said his client has
already been punished as a result of having pleaded guilty and
the publicity surrounding the case.  “Living in the Google-age, Internet searches will always
identify him first and foremost as an ‘insider trader,’ a
convicted felon, and associate him with greed, selfishness and
criminality,” Carpenito said.  ‘Life Sentence’  “As a result, regardless of what the court determines to
be adequate, Don has already imposed upon himself a ‘life’
sentence of sorts.”  The U.S. said Longueuil, who worked in SAC Capital’s CR
Intrinsic unit in New York from July 2008 to July 2010, gave
information to Freeman, who in exchange, passed non-public
information to Longueuil, which he had obtained from sources
including Jiau.  During his plea Longueuil also admitted that after reading
a newspaper article about a federal probe of  Mountain View ,
California-based Primary Global, he took pliers to two drives on
his office computer, destroying them. Prosecutors said he walked
20 blocks, dumping the parts in four separate garbage trucks.  Longueuil has also agreed to forfeit more than $1.25
million in profits from the scheme.  ‘Conduct Was Wrong’  Carpenito argued Longueuil shouldn’t be more harshly
punished because of the destruction, saying, “His conduct was
wrong and he admits that.”  Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined comment about Longueuil’s memo.  SAC Capital, based in Stamford,  Connecticut , has said it
cooperated with the investigation. Jonathan Gasthalter, a
spokesman for SAC Capital, has said Freeman and Longueuil were
both dismissed from SAC in 2010 because of poor performance.  Of the 14 people charged by Bharara’s office since November
in the investigation, 12 have pleaded guilty. James Fleishman, a
Primary Global sales executive, has pleaded not guilty and is
scheduled to go on trial Aug. 29.  The case is U.S. v. Longueuil, 11-CR-00161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  