-- 
Longueuil Deserves 46- to 57-Month Prison Term, U.S. Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-22T00:21:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/longueuil-deserves-46-to-57-month-prison-term-u-s-says-1-.html
Former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager Donald Longueuil deserves a prison term of 46
to 57 months for his role in a hedge-fund  insider-trading  ring,
U.S. prosecutors said.  That sentence “is needed to deter Wall St. professionals
like Longueuil from engaging in similar offenses and to restore
integrity to the capital markets by reassuring the investing
public that when those who commit insider trading are caught
red-handed, they will face fair and equitable justice,”
prosecutors said in a memo filed today in Manhattan federal
court.  Longueuil, 35, pleaded guilty April 28 to conspiracy to
commit securities and wire fraud and to  securities fraud  in a
case that was part of a U.S. crackdown of insider trading at
 hedge funds  involving so-called expert networks and insiders at
technology companies.  Longueuil, who remains free on bond, is scheduled to be
sentenced by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff on July 29. His
lawyer, Craig Carpenito, declined to comment on the government’s
memo and said he would file a sentencing memorandum with the
court tomorrow.  The insider-trading investigation targeted another former
SAC portfolio manager, Noah Freeman, as well as Samir Barai,
founder of Barai Capital Management, and Jason Pflaum, who
worked for Barai. Prosecutors said Longueuil, Barai and Freeman
were friends who pooled their illegal information to get a
trading edge.  Guilty Pleas  Freeman, Barai and Pflaum have all pleaded guilty. One of
the sources the three used for inside information, Winifred Jiau, a former consultant at expert-network firm Primary Global
Research LLC, was convicted after a trial in  New York  last
month. James Fleishman, a Primary Global sales executive, has
pleaded not guilty and is scheduled to go on trial Aug. 29.  SAC Capital, based in Stamford, Connecticut, has said it
cooperated with the investigation. Jonathan Gasthalter, a
spokesman for SAC Capital, said Freeman and Longueuil were both
dismissed from SAC in 2010 because of poor performance.  Of the 14 people charged by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara’s office since November in the investigation, 12 have
pleaded guilty.  Technology Companies  As part of the conspiracy, which prosecutors said ran from
2006 to 2010, Longueuil and his co-defendants conspired to
obtain inside information about companies including  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) ,  Fairchild Semiconductor International
Inc. (FCS) ,  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,  Actel Corp. (ACTL)  and  Cypress
Semiconductor Corp. (CY) , the U.S. said.  Longueuil, who worked in SAC Capital’s CR Intrinsic unit in
New York from July 2008 to July 2010, was accused of giving
information to Freeman. Freemen, in exchange, passed material
non-public information to Longueuil that he had obtained from
sources including Jiau, according to prosecutors.  Longueuil admitted that after reading a newspaper article
about a federal probe of Mountain View, California-based Primary
Global, he went to his office and took pliers to two drives on
his computer, destroying them. Prosecutors said he walked 20
blocks, dumping the parts in four separate garbage trucks.  At the time of his plea, Longueuil agreed to forfeit more
than $1.25 million in profits from the scheme.  The case is U.S. v. Longueuil, 11-CR-00161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  