-- 
Man Charged in Deadly Norway Attacks

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r ,   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   T o b y   A l d e r
-- 
2011-07-23T18:36:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/oslo-blast-shatters-windows-at-prime-minister-s-office-nearby-buildings.html
Twin attacks in  Norway , the
deadliest since World War II, left at least 92 people dead after
a gunman fatally shot 85 at a political youth camp near Oslo and
a bomb in the capital’s government quarter killed seven.  A 32-year-old Norwegian man, a former member of the anti-
immigrant Progress Party, was arrested in the attacks, police
said in Oslo today. Authorities declined to confirm local media
reports identifying the suspect as Anders Behring Breivik, upon
the request of his defense lawyer, who has not been named.  “He has been charged in both” incidents, Deputy Oslo
Police Chief Roger Andresen told reporters. The two counts of
“dangerous crimes to society” mean the perpetrator could
receive 21 years in prison, Norway’s toughest punishment,
Andresen said.  The Oslo blast yesterday shattered windows at the office of
Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and other government buildings.
About 600 people were on the island of Utoeya, 40 kilometers (25
miles) from Oslo, attending the annual camp organized by the
youth wing of Stoltenberg’s  Labor Party  when the shootings took
place, Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere said. The suspect, who
was wearing a fake police uniform when arrested on the island,
was not a police officer, authorities said.  “I heard a shot and someone came and said, ‘there’s a man
with a weapon, just run,’ so I ran through the forest,” said
17-year-old Ahmed Rasooli, who was on the island. “When I came
back I saw a policeman and I thought he could help us, so we
went toward him. There was a girl in front of me and he shot
her. She screamed, and then she died.”  Dozens Injured  Along with those who were killed, dozens more were hurt in
the shooting and nine others were seriously injured in the
bombing, Gahr Stoere said. Police roped off streets surrounding
the bomb site, while the army blocked access to the area from
onlookers.  The rampage on the island lasted 90 minutes, Acting Police
Chief Sveinung Sponheim told a press briefing in Oslo today.
Breivik, who was using a pistol and an automatic machinegun,
surrendered without any resistance when he was finally
approached by a special police force, Sponheim said. He said he
didn’t know if the suspect had acted alone. The death toll may
rise, he said, as four to five people are still missing from the
gathering at Utoeya.  The attacks were the deadliest in  Europe  since about 350
people were massacred at a school in Beslan,  Russia , in 2004.  6 Tons Fertilizer  The suspect owned a farm in the small eastern town of Rena,
which is listed as Breivik Geofarm on a Facebook page bearing
his name and image. He bought 6 tons of fertilizer in May, said
Jan Kollsgaard, a director at agricultural supply company
Felleskjoepet.  Breivik became a member of the Progress Party, Norway’s
second biggest, in 1999 and paid his membership fees until 2004,
party spokesman Mazyar Keshvari said in an e-mail today. He was
also a member of the party’s youth movement from 1997 to 2007,
acting as deputy chairman for one of the local Oslo chapters.  On a Twitter account bearing his name, Breivik made only
one posting, on July 17, paraphrasing English economist and
philosopher John Stuart Mill: “One person with a belief is
equal to the force of 100,000 who have only interests.”  He’s a Christian fundamentalist with no previous record of
criminal offences, Andresen, the deputy police chief, said.
Interrogations could last several days, police said today.  Crisis Centers  Two policemen stood outside the 4-story brick apartment
building listed as Breivik’s Oslo address in a quiet residential
area in the capital’s west. Hemen Noaman, a 27-year-old
accounting consultant living in the building, said Breivik’s
mother resided in the apartment and that her son would often
visit her. Sponheim said police had interrogated Breivik’s
mother and that she not been aware of her son’s plans.  Municipalities and cities throughout Norway were setting up
crisis centers to aid relatives of the victims. From Tromsoe in
the far north of the rugged Nordic country with 4.9 million
inhabitants to Oslo in the south, flags were flown at half-mast
in remembrance of the victims. The annual youth camp, which
began July 19, was set to conclude tomorrow.  “Not since World War II has our country experienced a
greater tragedy,” Stoltenberg said. “For me, Utoeya was the
paradise island of my youth that was transformed into hell.”  Police, who would not speculate about a motive, “see a
connection between the attack in the Oslo center and the attack
on the island because both are at political sites,” Anders
Frydenberg, an Oslo police spokesman, said by telephone. Police
do not know whether the suspect was acting alone, Sponheim said.  Progress Party  The Progress Party, which posted its best result in
Norway’s last parliamentary elections since it was formed as an
anti-tax movement in 1973, is preparing to contest local
elections on Sept. 12. A poll conducted by Norfakta earlier this
month showed the opposition Conservative and Progress parties
combined would obtain a majority in parliament, beating the
ruling center-left coalition government.  “The parties on the right have had strong loyalty recently
while parties on the left have had less,” Frank Aarebrot, a
University of Bergen political science professor, said today.
After these attacks, “Labor supporters will rally to the flag.
Progress Party supporters could become a little less certain.”  Like other Nordic countries, Norway has a high rate of gun
ownership, mostly semi-automatic and bolt-action rifles and
shotguns, due to the popularity of hunting. As of January 1,
2010, 439,000 Norwegians were recognized by the Norwegian
Register of Hunters, or about one in every 10 citizens.  Scared Children  Neighboring Sweden had a brush with what police treated as
a possible terrorist attack in December when a suicide bomber
injured two people in central  Stockholm .  “The attacks that were carried out in Oslo and at Utoeya
were an attack on the Norwegian society we value so highly,”
Norway’s King Harald said in an address to the nation today.
“Across the entire country people have lost loved ones. There
are many young people and children who are scared today. We need
to take especially good care of them.”  Danish Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen sent a
statement conveying his “deepest sympathy and solidarity” with
the Norwegian people. U.S. President  Barack Obama  said the
attacks showed that “no country large or small” is immune to
such violence. U.N Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he was
“shocked” by the attacks, which NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen classified as a “heinous act.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net ;
Toby Alder in Oslo via the Stockholm bureau at 
 talder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  