-- 
Most Brazil Stocks Rise as Aid to Greece Overshadows U.S. Debt

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-07-22T14:58:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/most-brazil-stocks-rise-as-aid-to-greece-overshadows-u-s-debt.html
Most Brazilian stocks advanced, with
the Bovespa index heading to a weekly gain, as a new aid plan
for  Greece  eased concern that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
will spread, overshadowing speculation that U.S. lawmakers won’t
reach an agreement to lift the country’s debt ceiling.  The Bovespa rose 0.1 percent to 60,314.88 at 10:46 a.m. New
York time after earlier falling as much as 0.3 percent. Thirty-
eight stocks gained on the index, while 26 fell. The gauge is up
1.4 percent this week. The real weakened 0.2 percent to 1.5550
per  U.S. dollar .  “Things in Europe seem to be improving, but on the other
hand there’s still concern about the U.S. debt ceiling,”  Pedro
Galdi , head strategist at SLW Corretora in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview.  After eight hours of talks in Brussels, euro-area leaders
announced 159 billion euros ($229 billion) in new aid for Greece
yesterday, with bondholders agreeing to contribute to the
package. They also empowered their 440 billion-euro rescue fund
to buy debt across distressed euro nations, to aid troubled
banks and to offer credit lines.  In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John
Boehner , each facing strife within his own ranks and dwindling
time to avert a U.S. default, pressed for a broad agreement to
boost the debt limit while cutting spending by trillions of
dollars and overhauling the  tax code .  Obama summoned top Democrats to the White House last night
after party members balked at word of a potential deal between
the president and Boehner that would reduce the long-term debt
by about $3 trillion over 10 years through deep spending cuts
without an immediate increase in taxes.  Bovespa Decline  Weeks of negotiations have yielded no final deal to raise
the $14.3 trillion borrowing limit before an Aug. 2 deadline.  Brazil ’s benchmark equity gauge has fallen 17 percent from
a November high through yesterday on concern that rising
inflation may hurt domestic demand as a slowdown in global
economic growth could cut into the appetite for commodities.  The Bovespa trades at 9.5 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, the lowest since March 2009, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 12.8 for the
Shanghai Composite Index, 6.6 for Russia’s Micex and 14.8 for
India’s Sensex.  Traders moved 5.66 billion reais in stocks yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a daily average
this year of 6.42 billion reais through July 6, according to
data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  