-- 
Pakistan Protests Arrest of American on Illegal Kashmir Lobbying Charges

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-07-22T04:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/pakistan-protests-arrest-of-american-citizen-on-illegal-lobbying-charges.html
Pakistan  protested the arrest of an
American citizen charged with funneling money to members of
Congress to influence U.S. policy on Kashmir, linking it to
efforts to “defame the just cause” of the region’s people.  Syed Ghulam Nabi Fai, 62, and Zaheer Ahmad, 63, were
charged on July 19 in federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia ,
with conspiracy to violate the Foreign Agents Registration Act
and lying to federal agents. Prosecutors said the two moved
about $4 million from Pakistan’s government through the
Washington-based  Kashmiri American Council  to sway U.S.
lawmakers with campaign contributions and other lobbying
activities while illegally hiding their foreign connections.  “We appreciate the contributions made by the Kashmiri-
American Council and Dr. Ghulam Nabi Fai for the cause of  Jammu
and Kashmir ,” Pakistan’s  Foreign Ministry  said in a statement
last night. “A demarche was made to the U.S. embassy in
Islamabad today to register our concerns, in particular the
slander campaign against Pakistan.”  Control of Kashmir, a disputed territory between  India  and
Pakistan, is divided between the two countries. India accuses
Pakistan of funding separatist groups that took up arms against
 New Delhi ’s rule in part of the Himalayan region in 1989.
Pakistan denies the charges, saying it supports Kashmiris’ right
to self-determination. The two nations are scheduled to hold
peace talks at foreign minister level next week.  The council, headed by Fai, is “actually run” by elements
of the Pakistani government, including Pakistan’s military
intelligence service, the Inter-Services Intelligence Agency, or
ISI, the U.S. Justice Department said in a statement.  The pair failed to disclose their affiliation with
Pakistan’s government as required by law, and Fai gave false
answers in 2007 when asked about the links by the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation , the government charged.  The case is U.S. v. Fai, 11-mj-00558, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  