-- 
States Losing Jobs Almost Equal to Those Gaining, Showing Labor Weakness

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-07-22T14:43:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/payroll-declines-gains-show-wash-as-u-s-labor-market-struggles-for-jobs.html
Payrolls dropped in 24 U.S. states
in June and climbed in 26, indicating the labor market is
struggling across much of the world’s largest economy.  Tennessee  led the nation with a 16,900 decrease in
payrolls, followed by Missouri with a 15,700 drop, figures from
the Labor Department showed today in Washington.  Texas  and
 California  had the biggest employment gains. The jobless rate
rose in 28 states.  The report is consistent with nationwide figures released
July 8 that showed employers added 18,000 workers in June, the
fewest in nine months, and unemployment rose to 9.2 percent, the
third straight monthly gain. Hiring needs to accelerate to
ensure consumers keep spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy.  “We’re yet to see broad-based gains across the U.S,”
Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto, said before the report. “We’re in a job market that’s
still far from normal or healthy,”  Virginia and  North Carolina  rounded out four states with
the biggest job losses last month, the report showed.  Payrolls increased by 32,000 in Texas and by 28,800 in
California. Michigan and  Minnesota  were also among the biggest
job gainers.  The jobless rate jumped by 0.5 percentage point in  South
Carolina , the biggest single-month increase, to 10.5 percent.
Unemployment climbed by 0.3 point in Alabama, Arkansas and
 Illinois .  Unemployment in Nevada  Nevada continued to hold the highest jobless rate in the
nation at 12.4 percent. Nonetheless, the rate was down 2.5
percentage points from June 2010, the biggest decrease over the
past year. California had the second-highest jobless rate at
11.8 percent.  North Dakota had the lowest unemployment in the nation,
holding at 3.2 percent rate in June.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last
week that the central bank is prepared to take additional steps,
including buying more  government bonds , if the economy appears
to be at risk of stalling. Even so, he said policy makers aren’t
yet ready to embark on a third round of asset purchases.  Some companies are still slashing jobs. Lockheed Martin
Corp., the world’s largest defense contractor, on July 19 said
it’s offering a voluntary separation plan to 6,500 employees.
The workers represent all of Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed’s
salaried U.S. corporate staff. Also this week, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said it expects to cut headcount by about 1,000
globally, and Cisco Systems Inc. said it plans to shed about
6,500 jobs, or 9 percent of its full-time workforce.  New York,  New Jersey   New York state’s unemployment rate rose to 8 percent in
June from 7.8 percent in the prior month, even as it gained
8,900 jobs. In New York City, the jobless rate increased to 8.7
percent from 8.6 percent.  New Jersey’s unemployment rate climbed to 9.5 percent last
month from 9.4 percent, according to the report.  Cutbacks in employment are expected as state and local
governments try to cope with budget restraints.  In  Alabama , Jefferson County commissioners were to meet
yesterday with lawyers to discuss bankruptcy, according to
a county staff member with direct knowledge of the talks. The
county, home to Birmingham, the state’s largest city, has spent
more than three years in fiscal distress after a $3 billion
sewer-bond refinancing collapsed during the credit crisis.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  