-- 
Pentagon Approves Army’s $1.35 Billion Armored Vehicle Plan

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-07-22T18:30:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/pentagon-approves-army-s-1-35-billion-armored-vehicle-plan.html
U.S. Defense Department officials
have approved the Army’s plan to move ahead with development of
a new class of armored vehicles valued at as much as $1.35
billion, officials said.  The decision came yesterday after a Defense Acquisition
Board met and supported the Army’s proposal to begin the
technology development phase of the Ground Combat Vehicle
program. The Army plans to buy as many as 1,874 vehicles to
replace the fleet of Bradley infantry fighting vehicles.  Ashton Carter , the Pentagon’s top weapons buyer, agreed
with the Army’s proposed strategy, Pentagon spokeswoman Cheryl
Irwin said in an interview. A formal notice from Carter
authorizing the Army to begin development is expected soon, she
said.  The Ground Combat Vehicle is a successor to the manned-
vehicle portion of the $159 billion Future Combat Systems
program, which was canceled in 2009 by then-Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates .  The Army issued a revised request for proposals for the
program in November. The service plans to pick three winners for
the development phase and ultimately one for a production
contract.  A previous request drew interest from Chicago-based  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and its partners Science Applications International Corp.,
and Germany’s Krauss-Maffei Wegmann Gmbh & Co. and  Rheinmetall
AG (RHM) ;  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , London, and its partner  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC) ; and a team including  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , of Falls
Church, Virginia; Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ; Waltham, Massachusetts-based  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and MTU Detroit
Diesel.  ‘Affordable Solution’  Army leaders have described the Ground Combat Vehicle as an
acquisition priority and plan to field the vehicle within seven
years of starting development.  “The Army is committed to delivering a vehicle that
provides soldiers with protected mobility in modern combat
environments,” Lieutenant Colonel David Gercken said in an e-
mail. “The Army’s proposed program builds upon refined
requirements and a strategy to achieve an affordable solution.”  Yesterday’s Defense Acquisition Board meeting came the same
day the Army released a report that found the service since 1995
has spent at least $32 billion on developing, testing and
evaluating 22 weapons systems that were later canceled -- almost
a third of its budget for creating new weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  