-- 
Pheim Asset, Tan Lose Bid to Overturn Singapore Stock Manipulation Ruling

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-07-22T15:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/pheim-asset-tan-lose-bid-to-overturn-singapore-stock-manipulation-ruling.html
Tan Chong Koay and Pheim Asset
Management Sdn, ordered to pay S$250,000 ($207,000) each in
Singapore’s first civil lawsuit for market manipulation, failed
in their bid to overturn the ruling.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore, which sued Tan and
his asset manager Pheim, said the  fund manager  intended to
create a “false and misleading appearance” in the city’s stock
market by buying shares of  United Envirotech Ltd. (UENV)  in the last
three trading days of 2004.  The “pattern of trading was not consistent with either the
actions of an investor who genuinely believed that UET shares
were undervalued or those of a ‘contrarian’ investor,” a panel
of three judges including Chief Justice Chan Sek Keong wrote in
a 45-page ruling today. Reducing the penalties “would set back
MAS’s efforts and objective to promote Singapore as a well-
regulated and trusted fund management hub.”  Singapore’s central bank, which has tightened the rules for
financial misconduct after the global credit crisis in 2008, has
said it won’t tolerate “window dressing” and allow fund
managers to think they can get away lightly.  Pheim bought almost 90 percent of the traded shares of
United Envirotech from Dec. 29 to Dec. 31, 2004, according to
the ruling. The shares climbed 17 percent over the three trading
days, triggering bonuses of about S$50,000 and boosting the net
value of Pheim’s accounts, allowing them to beat their
benchmarks.  Denied Claims  Pheim started selling the shares in March 2005 and
completely sold them by 2007, according to the ruling.  The Pheim Group, including its  Singapore  operations,
manages about $1.8 billion.  Pheim and Tan, named one of five successful Singapore-based
boutique fund managers by the Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. in 2002, had denied the stock-rigging claims and said they
wouldn’t have risked their livelihood and business. They had a
“genuine commercial intent to buy the shares,” Vinodh Coomaraswamy, their lawyer had argued.  The authority was represented by Cavinder Bull.  The case is Tan Chong Koay v. Monetary Authority of
Singapore, CA186/2010 in the Singapore Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at   atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   Dwong19@bloomberg.net  