-- 
Poland May Need to Increase Benchmark Interest Rate Twice, Zielinska Says

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-07-22T12:43:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/poland-may-need-to-increase-benchmark-interest-rate-twice-zielinska-says.html
Poland ’s central bank may need to
raise interest rates once or twice in the next three quarters as
tightening so far this year may not be enough to slow inflation
to its goal, policy maker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka said.  Restrictive monetary policy shouldn’t be dropped as long as
the core inflation rate, which was unchanged at 2.4 percent in
June, remains above 2 percent, Zielinska-Glebocka said yesterday
in an interview in Gdansk, Poland. That level is “high and
alarming,” showing that inflation pressure persists, she said.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  left the seven-day interest rate at
4.5 percent this month after raising borrowing costs by 1
percentage point this year to tame inflation that has stayed
above its 2.5 percent target since October. Policy makers, who
didn’t rule out further tightening, said they were pausing to
evaluate the effect of higher interest rates.  “I’m not sure the tightening to date is enough to bring
inflation to the target,” Zielinska-Glebocka said. “The
current level of interest rates is still inadequate to the
present economic situation, and the trends we are observing now
justify one or two hikes within the next two to three quarters,
although I wouldn’t set the timing.”  The zloty fell 0.7 percent against the euro in the past
three months, the sixth-worst performance among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Investors on
the derivative market dropped expectations for interest rate
increases this year, with six-month forward rate agreements
trading 23 basis points above the three-month Warsaw interbank
offered rate, compared with 31 basis points on July 1.  ‘Stronger Measures’  The difference between the two-year interest swap rate, a
gauge of short-term rates in the next two years, and the central
bank’s rate is at the narrowest since March 2009, showing that
traders in the market don’t expect monetary tightening.  The inflation rate fell to 4.2 percent in June, dropping
more than economists forecast after rising to 5 percent in May,
the highest in almost a decade. The central bank projects the
 consumer price index  will rise 4 percent this year, 2.7 percent
in 2012 and 2.4 percent in 2013.  “We can’t allow the inflation rate to stabilize at an
elevated level. Even if it stops rising and hovers above 3.5
percent, that would still be an important reason to act,”
Zielinska-Glebocka said. “Perhaps it’s worth taking stronger
measures now to secure the economy against future price
growth.”  Growth Concern  Policy makers including Elzbieta Chojna-Duch have said
borrowing costs should be left unchanged because further
tightening may stall Poland’s recovery.  Industrial-output growth unexpectedly slowed to 2 percent
in June, the lowest in 20 months. The central bank’s quarterly
report on business confidence showed companies plan less new
investment in the third quarter than in previous three months.  Zielinska-Glebocka said she sees no threat to this year’s
growth forecast of 4 percent.  “Real interest rates are very low, so I’m not concerned
that we’ll hurt economic activity,” she said. “The output
slowdown and reluctance to invest we can see now may be a
temporary reaction to the euro area’s problems and ensuing
exchange-rate volatility. We’re more likely to see a classic
cyclical slowdown in the first half of 2012.”  The risk that high inflation may trigger wage demands adds
to the argument for further  interest rate  increases,
Zielinska-Glebocka said. Average corporate wages increased 5.8
percent in June from a year earlier, beating expectations.  “We can’t neglect the potential inflation risks posed by
the labor market,” she said. “Persistent high inflation can
spark wage pressure. That’s another reason to extend this
tightening cycle for a little while.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net . 