-- 
Preparing Americans for Death Lets Hospices Neglect End of Life

-- B y   P e t e r   W a l d m a n
-- 
2011-07-22T04:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/preparing-americans-for-death-lets-for-profit-hospices-neglect-end-of-life.html
With his mother wheezing and losing
consciousness in a  California  nursing home, Robert Rogers wanted
her moved to a hospital. Vitas Healthcare, her hospice provider,
said that wasn’t in the plan.  “Our job is not to prepare them to live,” a Vitas nurse
told Rogers on the phone, according to a deposition he gave in
April. “Our job is to prepare them to die.”  Rogers called 911. At the hospital, an emergency-room
doctor removed 11 maggots from an open wound on his mother’s big
toe. Five days later, in September 2008, 91-year-old Thelma
Covington died of a sepsis infection brought on by gangrene in
her toe and poor circulation, her death certificate said.  Rogers is suing Vitas, a unit of Cincinnati-based  Chemed
Corp. (CHE) , in a California court for alleged elder abuse and
wrongful death. Vitas, the biggest company in hospice care, has
denied negligence and said that Covington and Rogers knew the
risk involved in entering hospice. Ninety-five percent of Vitas
care gets positive family ratings in surveys, said Kal Mistry, a
company spokeswoman.  As hospice care has evolved from its charitable roots into
a $14 billion business run mostly for profit, patients like
Covington and their families have paid a steep price, according
to lawsuits and federal investigations. Providers have been
accused of boosting their revenues with patients who aren’t near
death and not eligible for hospice -- people healthy enough to
live a long time with traditional medical care. In hospices,
patients give up their rights to “curative” measures because
they are presumed to be futile.  Widespread Neglect  “By admitting these folks to hospice, they are denied
access to routine medical and rehabilitative care that they need
to extend and improve their lives,” said Cristen Krebs,
executive director of  Catholic Hospice of Pittsburgh , a non-
profit. “A vulnerable and voiceless population is preyed upon
for money.”  At the same time, patients are being neglected, according
to the claims in the lawsuits, government court filings and
interviews with more than 30 people who have worked in the
industry or had relatives in hospice. In 2009, a Medicare
oversight report found nearly a third of hospice patients were
not getting services in care plans that describe the treatment
and visits providers promise to give them.  More than four in 10 Americans now meet their end in
 hospice care , drawn by its promise of palliation and pain
alleviation instead of extreme measures in their waning days.
Medicare’s hospice rolls doubled to 1.1 million patients from
2000 to 2009, the last year of available data.  ‘So Caring’  The expansion “has been excellent for patients,”
improving care for a large underserved population, said J.
Donald Schumacher, president of the  National Hospice &
Palliative Care Organization , an Alexandria, Virginia-based
trade group. Studies by Brown University researchers and others
have found families whose relatives died in hospice are more
satisfied with care than those whose loved ones passed away
under conventional care.  William Susdorf of Rancho Mirage, California, suffered from
inoperable intestinal cancer and received home hospice care from
Vitas for six months before he died in May, said his wife
Dorothy. Susdorf, 85, a retired auto-leasing executive,
developed a strong bond with his nurses and his Vitas chaplain,
whom he asked to deliver his funeral eulogy, his widow said.
Vitas “couldn’t have been nicer to us; they were just so
caring,” she said.  Whistleblower Suits  The government is investigating whether Vitas “engaged in
an extensive scheme” to “defraud the Medicare and Medicaid
programs of potentially hundreds of millions of dollars” by
falsifying records and hospice certifications, and billing for
services it didn’t deliver, the U.S. Attorney in Dallas said in
a federal court filing that drew little attention last November.
The company, which expects $1 billion in revenue this year, is
following Medicare and Medicaid rules, according to its
regulatory filings.  New federal hospice investigations rose 50 percent between
2008 and 2010, according to  Gerald Roy , deputy inspector general
at the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services, which
oversees Medicare spending. More than 30 cases were opened last
year on the heels of whistleblower suits by former hospice
workers and others alleging Medicare fraud, according to federal
officials who asked not to be named because many of the cases
are sealed.  Facing Investigations  An executive of a hospice owned by Harden Healthcare LLC
emailed managers in 2008 urging them to “stop all these live
discharges” of patients to keep enrollments high, according to
a civil fraud complaint by the  Justice Department  in federal
court in  Kansas City ,  Kansas . Company spokeswoman Meg Meo said
the alleged events occurred before Austin, Texas-based Harden
owned the hospice.  A whistleblower lawsuit brought by a former social worker
for hospices run by Atlanta-based  Gentiva Health Services Inc. (GTIV) 
said her job was to talk people who weren’t dying into believing
that they were. The allegations predated Gentiva’s ownership of
the chain, spokesman Scott Cianciulli said.  Gentiva’s Odyssey hospice unit faces investigations by
HHS’s Office of Inspector General and the state of  Georgia ,
according to regulatory filings. The company, which is the
second-largest hospice provider, is cooperating with
investigators, Cianciulli said.  Unconditional Resistance  Hospice got its start in the 1960s as a social movement.
Volunteers, often meeting in schools and church basements,
organized care so patients could die at home with loved ones,
instead of at the hospital laced with tubes. Dame Cicely
Saunders, the pioneering English physician who opened St.
Christopher’s Hospice in  London  in 1967, fought traditional
methods of unconditional resistance to death, and brought the
concept to U.S. shores.  The government’s  suspicions  about providers have been
fueled by rising costs and lengthier patient stays. During the
2000-2009 period when Medicare patients doubled, the
government’s bill quadrupled to $12 billion.  The average for-profit patient costs the government
$12,609, 29 percent more than a non-profit patient, because the
for-profits find people who live longer, frequently at nursing
homes, the  OIG reported  on Tuesday. Of the hospices with two-
thirds or more of their patients in nursing homes, 72 percent
are for-profits. A majority of patients receive their hospice
care at home.  Longer Stays  Two-thirds of patients in hospices run for profit have
general diagnoses like “failure to thrive” and “debility”
compared to half in non-profits, which cater more to faster-
killing conditions like cancer, a Harvard University  study  found
earlier this year. Patients stay an average of 98 days in for-
profit hospices versus 68 days at non-profits, which have a 0.2
percent profit margin, according to Medicare. The margin at for-
profits is 50 times higher at 10 percent.  “Long stays on hospice subvert the intent of the program
and suggest a pattern of behavior that needs to be
investigated,” said Robert Berenson, a fellow at the  Urban
Institute  in  Washington  and vice chairman of the  Medicare
Payment Advisory Commission , or Medpac, which advises Congress
on health care policy.  Robert Stone , assistant medical director at Indiana
University’s Bloomington Hospital Hospice, sees an “inherent
conflict” between the profit motive and providing the best
hospice services.  “Hospice is undergoing a radical change in its soul to a
for-profit business,” he said.  Bonuses, Kickbacks  To be eligible for Medicare hospice coverage, a person must
have a prognosis of six months or less to live, certified by two
doctors. Yet 20 percent of hospice patients live beyond that
term, with their providers receiving government checks via
recertifications that can go on indefinitely.  Enrolling patients, retaining them as long as possible, and
controlling costs are the top priorities at for-profit hospices,
according to former and current employees interviewed by
Bloomberg News. To increase revenues, hospices tie employee
bonuses to enrollment, pay kickbacks to patients and referral
sources, and use false diagnoses to admit ineligible patients,
according to whistleblower, or qui tam, suits against three
chains filed under the  False Claims Act , which allows plaintiffs
to share in any financial recovery for the government.  One of the suits was filed by  Misty Wall , a former social
worker at Gentiva’s VistaCare hospice unit who said she was
fired in 2005. Wall was assigned to convince people who weren’t
dying that they were, she said in an interview.  ‘Selling Feature’  Wall, now an assistant professor of social work at  Boise
State University  in  Idaho , said one woman broke down in tears
when Wall suggested her father was dying from renal failure. The
man’s own doctor had declined to recommend hospice, prescribing
dialysis instead. Wall said VistaCare sent her to the daughter
to change the family’s mind.  “I gave her this huge emotional blow, then sat there and
soothed her,” Wall said. “Of course she signed.”  Wall’s lawyer, Loren Jacobson, said, “It wasn’t her idea.
She did it because that was what was expected of her as part of
her job, and when she refused to do it anymore and complained,
she was fired.” Jacobsen called her client “an extremely good
soul stuck in a bad situation.”  Wall’s lawsuit, filed in federal court in  Dallas , accuses
VistaCare of paying illegal kickbacks to patients and nursing-
home employees who referred residents to hospice. It also
accuses VistaCare of doctor shopping to get patients certified.  As part of its sales pitch, the hospice told prospects,
“The  VistaCare Foundation  is here to make all your dreams come
true,” Wall said. “We used it as a selling feature.”  ‘Lay Opinion’  VistaCare gave hospice patients cash and gift cards for
groceries, household bills and a wheelchair ramp, the suit
alleges. Wall said she sent patients on gambling and beach
holidays with VistaCare funds, and paid for a furloughed prison
inmate to visit his mother in hospice care.  Weight gain by patients with diagnoses like “debility”
and “failure to thrive” is a red flag to Medicare auditors
checking eligibility for hospice, she said, so VistaCare would
reduce visits to these patients by staffers who fed them “to
see if the weight would come back off to keep them on hospice.”  Federal law leaves hospice certification “solely to the
discretion” of doctors, so Wall’s “lay opinion” that admitted
patients were ineligible is irrelevant, VistaCare said in a
motion to dismiss her claims in March. The motion said there was
nothing wrong with giving hospice patients money or goods.  Roto-Rooter  The judge allowed Wall’s kickback claim to go forward,
dismissed 11 other claims and allowed three of them, including
the ineligibility and undelivered care accusations, to be
resubmitted in an amended complaint, which the company is also
seeking to dismiss.  VistaCare is a unit of Odyssey Healthcare, which runs
hospices in 30 states and was bought by Gentiva last year for
$1.09 billion. Gentiva, the second-largest hospice provider, had
net income of $52.7 million on revenue of $1.45 billion in 2010.
Vitas’s average patient stay is 79 days; Gentiva’s is 92 days.  Kevin J. McNamara, the CEO of Chemed, told analysts in
January the key to making money in hospice is minimizing labor
costs and increasing back-office efficiency. Vitas expects to
boost profitability without affecting “the care we provide at
the bedside,” he said.  Vitas’s arc to the top of the industry began when its
purchase by Chemed was completed in 2004. The prospects in
hospice quickly overshadowed the company’s other operating unit
-- the Roto-Rooter drain-cleaning and plumbing chain. With
Chemed in command, Vitas acquired hospices in Atlanta,
Pittsburgh, the Philadelphia area and Birmingham, and opened new
branches in 11 states.  No Overtime  Chemed earned $81.8 million  last year  on $1.28 billion in
revenue, with Vitas and its 58,000 patients responsible for 98
percent of profits. The company’s 5.5 weekly visits to patients
tops the industry average by 20 percent, according to Mistry.  Vitas’s efforts to save money on labor has hurt patients,
former employees and patients’ relatives said. In 2006, the
company paid $19 million to settle a class-action suit filed by
nurses, home-health aides and social workers in  Southern
California . They claimed Vitas refused to pay overtime for the
hours needed to visit scheduled patients and didn’t allow lunch
or rest breaks. After the settlement, in which the company
admitted no wrongdoing, Vitas started new policies for employees
to document hours worked, according to Mistry.  ‘Terminal Agitation’  Employees still can’t meet care obligations because of
overtime restrictions, said Mark Wasley, a former Vitas nurse in
Palm Springs, California. Wasley, in an interview, gave an
account of events on a late shift in 2010 when Vitas dispatched
him to a patient in “terminal agitation,” a state of
restlessness that grips some people just before death.  After driving 75 minutes across the desert, he found the
woman ripping off her nightclothes and her husband and son
arguing about what to do. He settled her with morphine. At 3:30
a.m., his shift nearly over, Wasley said he asked for permission
to stay until the woman died.  Vitas ordered him home and turned down his request for a
chaplain or social worker to replace him at the bedside, Wasley
said, because the company didn’t want to pay him the overtime
rate of $76 an hour. Wasley said Vitas also nixed his offer to
stay for free. He said he learned the patient died an hour or
two later.  “They talk about one-on-one care, but they don’t really
want it,” according to Wasley, who said he quit last year,
upset with the company’s practices.  Left Alone  Vitas immediately addresses “unsafe, unfair or
unprofessional” situations identified by employees internally,
said Mistry, the Vitas spokeswoman. She declined to address the
specifics of Wasley’s account.  The night before his father died last year in hospice care,
Barry Burdick said a nurse told him his dad, who had prostate
cancer, was comfortable, so Burdick went home. The next morning
he learned his father had died while his mother, who has
 Parkinson’s disease , was lying beside him calling her husband’s
name, Burdick said.  Vitas, which was providing hospice care for the couple, had
left her alone with the body, Burdick said he was told by
nursing home employees.  Sharon Hill, a former Vitas team manager, said she
remembers the angry call from the nursing home asking why no one
from Vitas had attended the death, listed among the standards of
care of the industry trade group. At the time, one Vitas nurse
was on vacation and another was out sick while a substitute had
eight patients to see, Hill said.  Seeking Help  “It was a horrific situation because hospice promises it
will be there at a time of death,” said Hill, now working for
another hospice in Palm Springs.  Mistry said Burdick’s account was inaccurate and declined
to elaborate.  Burdick, a fifth-grade teacher in Delhi, California, said
he revoked Vitas’s care for his mother and moved her to another
facility without hospice, where she has gained 12 pounds in the
past 14 months and is thriving.  In 2009, Vitas settled a lawsuit brought by survivors of
Frank Todd, a retired banker who stayed at the Sunrise at Canyon
Crest assisted-living home in Riverside, California. Vitas
admitted him without consent and caused his death by giving him
an inappropriate drug, according to the plaintiffs, including
Todd’s stepdaughter Susan Freeman.  Vitas saleswoman Lori Scott said she heard about Todd from
a Sunrise official who told her Freeman, Todd’s designee for
making his medical decisions, was seeking more help for her dad.
Scott said in a deposition she visited Todd’s doctor and
obtained a prescription for a hospice evaluation.  Scopolamine Patch  Within 48 hours, he was enrolled in hospice care with a
diagnosis of terminal “cerebral degeneration,” the plaintiffs
said. Freeman said she never gave her consent, and Scott’s
deposition acknowledged she didn’t notify Freeman of the
admission. Vitas’s legal responses said a nurse obtained oral
consent from Freeman.  On Todd’s first day in hospice, a Vitas nurse gave him a
Scopolamine patch to treat his drooling. Three days later, he
was hospitalized after several falls “with an altered level of
consciousness,” Vitas court filings said. The  label  for
Scopolamine, used often to control nausea, warns that elderly
patients may suffer neurological side effects that can cause
psychosis, confusion, agitation and delusions.  Crossword Puzzles  Freeman withdrew her stepfather from Vitas’s care and said
the company had behaved like a “used car salesman,” according
to an internal Vitas memo submitted to the court. Todd’s health
spiraled downward and he died three weeks later.  Vitas’s court filings denied Scopolamine caused his demise
and said the drug is commonly given to hospice patients to keep
them from choking on their saliva.  Vitas admitted Thelma Covington to hospice in November
2007, taking over her medical care at Willow Pass Healthcare
Center in Concord, California. Her son, Robert Rogers, who had
Covington’s power of attorney, said a Vitas salesperson called
him and offered help so he wouldn’t have to be there so much.  Rogers said he didn’t know he was giving up rights to
curative care when he signed his mother up for hospice, and
wouldn’t have done so if he did. He said he “didn’t read the
fine print” and gave his consent because he was told there
would be more people looking after her, taking a load off him.  He described her as alert on his visits, doing crossword
puzzles, discussing movies and enjoying the Kentucky Fried
Chicken he brought her.  Ointment Treatment  The Vitas admission assessment for Covington said she was
terminally ill with “debility, unspecified” and had various
other conditions, including dementia, congestive heart failure
and diabetes. Two doctors certified that she had less than six
months to live.  “She didn’t have no dementia,” Rogers said.  No one said anything about his mother’s life expectancy,
according to Rogers, 75, a retired longshoreman and Covington’s
only child. For 10 months, Medicare paid Vitas $199 a day to
provide palliative care for her at Willow Pass, bills show.  On July 9, 2008, two months before her death, a Vitas
doctor ordered a two-week cleansing and ointment treatment for
an open wound on Covington’s toe, medical records show. The
treatment was never carried out because the plan wasn’t placed
in the “treatment administrative record” that the nursing home
used to implement orders, according to a deposition by Jennifer
Bernal, one of Covington’s Willow Pass nurses. She called it “a
serious nursing error.”  In Agony  Nevertheless, Vitas “discontinued” the toe treatment on
July 28, according to notes written by one of its nurses, who
added “course complete.”  Two days later, Covington was in agony from the wound; a
Vitas nurse assessed her pain at level 10 on a 10-point severity
index, records show. She was given morphine and a sedative.  On Aug. 25, a nursing home employee noted in a “skin
condition report” that the toe was scabrous, swollen, contained
pus and had developed black “eschar” -- dead tissue that’s a
sign of gangrene. “Hospice notified,” the report said.  Vitas’s notes on the toe for Aug. 25 and Aug. 27 again said
“interventions effective, continue plan.” On Sept. 5, a Vitas
nurse described “soft black eschar” on the toe. By then,
Covington was in such pain from the wound that she lay moaning,
“Lo[r]d have mercy,” a Vitas nurse noted.  On the morning of Sept. 7, a Vitas nurse discovered the
gangrene and maggots, conferred with a Vitas doctor, washed the
toe and wrapped it in plastic, according to nursing notes.  ‘Comfort Care’  Rogers said in his deposition that he learned of the
maggots later that day from the emergency-room doctor.  When Covington regained consciousness, “I told her, ‘When
you get better, I’m taking you home with me,” Rogers testified.
She died two days later.  In its court filings, Vitas has yet to address all of
Rogers’s neglect allegations.  “The purpose of hospice care is not curative care. It is
comfort care,” it argued in an unsuccessful effort to dismiss
some of his claims in March. “Accordingly, the fact that
[Covington] had conditions which were not ‘cured’ or in fact
worsened and she died is not unexpected or unanticipated in a
hospice situation. It is not reckless elder abuse.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Peter Waldman in  San Francisco  at 
 pwaldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  