-- 
MTR Hires New York Transport Boss Walder as Chief Executive in Hong Kong

-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-07-22T01:36:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/mtr-hires-new-york-transport-boss-walder-as-new-chief-executive-officer.html
MTR Corp. (66) , Hong Kong’s urban rail
operator, hired  Jay Walder , chairman of  New York ’s  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority , as its new chief executive officer.  Walder, 52, will join MTR as CEO-designate on Nov. 1 and
head the company on Jan. 1, according to a Hong Kong stock
exchange filing today. MTR, 76.7 percent owned by the government,
will pay him HK$7.2 million ($924,000) a year, an undisclosed
discretionary bonus and interest in shares.  Walder will take charge of a company that’s building new
lines at home and expanding overseas, and running subways and
commuter railways in  China , the U.K., Australia and  Sweden . MTR,
which also gets revenue from sales of apartments above its
stations, have seen its earnings boosted by the more than 70
percent surge in  Hong Kong  home prices since the start of 2009.  “Much of the company’s business plan in the near future
has been in place for a while,” said Jonas Kan, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets. “The hiring
of a new CEO is unlikely to change that. It’ll be a while before
we can assess what impact he can bring to the company.”  As MTA’s chief executive officer, Walder slashed 3,500 jobs
and curbed overtime pay over 18 months to cut costs by $525
million  The MTR began a search for a new leader after chief
executive officer Chow Chung-Kong, 60, said in December he will
retire at the end of 2011. MTR has risen about 150 percent since
Chow took over in December 2003, against a 78 percent increase
in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The stock rose 0.8 percent to HK$26.85 as of 9:34 a.m.
local time in Hong Kong. Walder was appointed as chief executive
officer for 30 months.  Railway Merger  During Chow’s tenure, the company merged with a Hong Kong
railway operator and started work on a HK$66.9 billion line
connecting the city to China’s high-speed-rail network.  MTR’s full-year underlying profit, which excludes property
valuation gains or losses, climbed 19 percent to HK$8.7 billion,
the company said in March.  Sales were boosted by the properties it owns around its
stations. MTR is one of the biggest owners of the city’s
unoccupied residential sites.  Walder, who grew up in the Rockaways section of Queens,
worked for the MTA for 12 years starting in 1983. He was
executive director and chief financial officer from 1993 to 1995
before leaving to head  London’s transit system , where he was
credited with spearheading its largest investment since World
War II. He returned to the MTA in 2009.  The MTA said Walder’s efficiency measures will yield $3.8
billion in cumulative savings by 2014. In a July 20 report on
the five-year capital program, Walder announced more cuts and
changes that will generate $4 billion in savings.  “He set a new course for the MTA during an extremely
difficult period when the agency was not given the resources
required to meet the city’s needs,” New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said in a statement.  The New York mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent, Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  