-- 
Treasuries Decline as Boehner Walks Out of Deficit-Reduction Negotiations

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-22T22:46:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/treasuries-advance-on-speculation-spending-cuts-will-damp-economic-growth.html
Treasuries fell for the first week
in three as talks collapsed between President  Barack Obama  and
House Speaker  John Boehner  over a deficit-reduction package as
part of an agreement that would lift the nation’s debt ceiling.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes increased six basis
points from July 15. Boehner said after markets closed today
that he will instead talk with Senate leaders on a way to avoid
a U.S. default. Obama said he summoned Congressional leaders to
the White House tomorrow.  “This is on balance negative for the Treasury market,”
said Amitabh Arora, an interest-rate strategist in New York at
Citigroup Global Markets, one of 20 primary dealers that trade
with the  Federal Reserve . “It suggests that not only is a deal
off the table right now, it’s probably going to be off the table
for a long time.”  Yields on 10-year notes fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.96 percent today in New York, according
to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 3.125 percent
securities due in May 2021 rose 14/32, or $4.38 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 11/32.  Obama and Boehner have confronted strife within their ranks
and dwindling time to avert a default as they pressed for a plan
to boost the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit. The two leaders
had discussed cutting spending by trillions of dollars and
overhauling the  tax code .  ‘Wait And See’  “I’m reluctant to conclude that this is the end of the
story,” David Beers, Standard & Poor’s global head of sovereign
and international public finance said today in a telephone
interview from  Washington . “There was always the possibility
that it might not be possible for the parties to find some
common ground, but let’s wait and see what the weekend brings.”  S&P reiterated yesterday the U.S. may lose its AAA  credit
rating  as soon as August as the risk of a default escalates amid
political wrangling to lift the debt limit.  S&P said in a report that even if Congress raises the limit
in time to avert a default, it might lower the U.S. sovereign
rating to AA+ with a negative outlook if a deal isn’t
accompanied by a “credible solution” on the debt burden.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which manages $3.7 trillion in assets, said
the U.S. risks losing its top credit rating because the nation’s
debt is “so significant,” according to Rick Rieder, chief
investment officer for fixed income.  Debt Burden  “The debt load in the U.S. is so large,” Rieder said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” with
Deirdre Bolton and Erik Schatzker. Part of the reason the U.S.
risks losing “the AAA, it’s not necessarily the debt ceiling,
it’s the fact that our debt in this country is so significant.”  The Fed bought $869 million of Treasuries today due from
August 2021 to February 2041, according to its  web site . The
central bank is investing the principal payments from its debt
holdings in Treasuries to help spur the economy.  Treasuries tumbled yesterday as European leaders redoubled
efforts to end the 21-month sovereign-debt crisis.  Officials announced 159 billion euros ($229 billion) in new
aid for  Greece  with lower  interest rates  and longer repayment
times. They empowered their 440-billion euro rescue fund to buy
debt across stressed nations, helping erect a firewall around
Spain and  Italy  even as they risked temporary default to lighten
Greece’s debt burden. They also cajoled bondholders into footing
part of the bill.  Ten-year swap spreads narrowed to 10 basis points today,
the lowest since May 30 based on closing levels. In a swap,
investors exchange fixed and floating interest rates. The spread
is the difference between the fixed component and the yield on
similar-maturity Treasuries.  Refuge Demand  Treasuries returned 2.8 percent over the past three months,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show, as  Europe ’s debt crisis
spurred demand for the safest securities. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index gained 1.1 percent.  Economists have cut their forecasts for Treasury yields as
U.S. gross domestic product growth slowed.  The pace of economic expansion slipped to 1.8 percent in
the second quarter, a Bloomberg News survey showed before a
Commerce Department report July 29. Growth slowed from 3.1
percent in the final three months of 2010 to 1.9 percent in the
first quarter of 2011.  The 10-year yield will rise to 3.54 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings. The median
projection in June was for 3.65 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  