-- 
Republican Camp Predicts Debt Ceiling Increase, Urges Overhaul of Tax Code

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-07-22T14:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/republican-camp-predicts-debt-ceiling-increase-urges-overhaul-of-tax-code.html
House Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp  said Congress will raise the $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling before the government runs out of cash Aug. 2.  “I think it’ll have to have the spending reductions and
some of the structural reforms that we’ve been looking for,”
Camp said in an interview today on “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing on Bloomberg Television this weekend.  Camp, a Michigan Republican, also said he opposed an
overhaul of the tax code that would set a revenue target that
included a tax increase.  “The higher revenues make it harder to get the kind of  tax
reform  that we need to grow our economy,” said Camp, who became
Ways and Means chairman in January after Republicans took
control of the  House of Representatives . “And also, I really
believe it will make it harder for us to create jobs.”  Camp, 58, added in an interview after the televised taping
that such a revenue target wouldn’t necessarily make it
impossible to overhaul the tax code, and he didn’t rule out
advancing tax changes with a higher revenue target as part of a
broader bipartisan deficit-reduction package.  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  have
been negotiating a deficit-reduction agreement that could be
paired with an increase in the debt ceiling. Democrats have
insisted that higher revenue be part of the deal, and one path
to that end could be a tax-code overhaul that would yield more
revenue than the current one produces.  Negotiating Targets  Negotiators have been discussing setting deficit-reduction
targets to be achieved through entitlement changes and a tax
overhaul, and then enforcing those goals by setting up
consequences to be triggered if they aren’t reached.  Boehner said today in  Washington  that he and Obama haven’t
reached a deal.  “There is no agreement, there is no deal in private,” he
said.  The House-passed budget that Camp supported sets a revenue
level about equal to what the U.S. government would collect if
the tax cuts expiring at the end of 2012 were extended and the
tax increases in last year’s health-care law were repealed.  Camp, whose committee has jurisdiction over Medicare and
Social Security, said changes to the eligibility and retirement
ages for those programs should be accomplished through an
agreement between Republicans and Democrats.  “Anything we do with Social Security has to be done
together in a bipartisan way,” he said. “But clearly, the
current path we’re on with Social Security is not sustainable.”  Repatriation Holiday  Camp, first elected to Congress in 1990, said he doesn’t
favor a stand-alone tax break for U.S. multinational companies
trying to repatriate offshore profits. Companies such as
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  have been lobbying for such a
tax holiday.  “I think repatriation is best not done as a one-off,” he
said.  Instead, he wants to consider repatriation as part of a
broader overhaul of the corporate tax code, and said he is
trying to produce a bill this year. Without the more expansive
overhaul, he said, “then in a few short years, you have money
stranded overseas that’s being invested there, not here. We want
that money invested here so those plans and those high-value
jobs that go with those factories and plans and structures are
in the  United States , not overseas.”  25% Top Rate  Camp has set a 25 percent top rate as his target for both
the individual and corporate tax codes, and said today that
every deduction and so-called tax expenditure will be reviewed.
He said he didn’t want to “prejudge” what his committee might
do on tax breaks that include the home mortgage interest
deduction and the exclusion for employer-sponsored health
insurance.  “The home mortgage deduction is obviously a very critical
part of many people’s investment, so that is something that
we’re going to look at very carefully, but do it in a way that
understands just how important that is,” Camp said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  