-- 
Romania Delays Petrom Sale Plan as Euro-Debt Crisis Makes Investors Wary

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-07-22T13:54:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/romania-delays-petrom-sale-plan-as-euro-debt-crisis-makes-investors-wary.html
Romania  delayed selling a minority
stake in  OMV Petrom SA (SNP)  as the euro-debt crisis made investors
wary of bidding during a two-week offer period that ended today.  The country, which wants at least 2.07 billion lei ($701
million) from the sale of 9.8 percent of the country’s largest
oil company, will set a new timetable because valid
subscriptions didn’t reach at least 80 percent of the offer, the
 Economy Ministry  said in an e-mail today. The government will
choose a new time for the sale depending on market conditions,
it said.  “The transaction was difficult to achieve in these
challenging market conditions, which deteriorated further during
the marketing period,” said John Porter, a managing director at
 Renaissance Capital , one of the sale managers, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We continue to work with the government and
we remain confident that a Petrom offer can be completed as soon
as the market conditions will stabilize.”  Companies around east  Europe , including Romania to Ukraine,
are backing away from planned share sales as demand shrinks
during Europe’s widening debt crisis. Euro-area leaders
announced 159 billion euros ($229 billion) in new aid for Greece
and cajoled bondholders to foot part of the bill. They also
empowered their 440-billion euro rescue fund to buy debt across
stressed euro nations after a market rout last week sparked
concern the crisis was spreading.  “Romania is not desperate to sell the Petrom stake at any
price and in any conditions,” Prime Minister Emil Boc said,
according to local media before the sales results were made
public.  Risky Region  Southeast Europe, including Romania,  Bulgaria  and  Serbia ,
is most at risk, because of its proximity to  Greece , and an
escalation of the crisis would hurt more western European banks,
Erik Berglof, chief economist at the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, said on July 14.  Almost a third of Bulgaria’s banks and 17 percent of
Romania’s are owned by Greek parents including Piraeus Bank SA,
Alpha Bank SA and EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA. Greek lenders own 15
percent to 25 percent of the banks in the non-EU states of
Macedonia, Serbia and Albania.  The cost of insuring Romania’s bonds against non-payment
stood at 247 basis points yesterday, below higher-rated  Italy ’s
252 basis points,  Spain ’s 308 and  Hungary ’s 295 basis points,
according to data from CMA. CDS prices rise as investor
perceptions of the borrower’s creditworthiness deteriorate.  “Investors’ risk appetite towards an equity market they
are not familiar with is limited,” according to Porter.  Minimum Price  The government set a minimum price of 0.3708 lei per share
on the Petrom offering and a maximum price of 0.46 lei per
share.  Petrom shares fell 1.9 percent to 0.3762 lei per share at
3:17 p.m., before they were suspended from trading on the
Bucharest Stock Exchange. Shares in Austrian oil company OMV AV,
which has majority control of Petrom, lost 1.75 percent by 3:52
p.m. in Vienna.  The leu fell 0.05 percent to 4.2419 per euro in Bucharest
today, after gaining 0.5 percent before the sale announcement.
Romania’s benchmark BET stock index rose 1.1 percent to close
at 5415.43, as Romanian Property Fund SA and Banca Transilvania
advanced.  ‘Extremely Volatile’  “The capital markets were extremely volatile,” said Rares
Nilas, the chief executive officer at BT Securities SA, part of
the sale management consortium. “This fact was visible on the
Romanian capital market too. Despite the interest for Petrom
secondary public offering, the reminded context has made
investors more prudent, has reduced their exposures on the
capital market as well as the level of investment.”  EFG Securities Romania SA and Romcapital SA helped manage
the sale.  Petrom is majority owned by  OMV AG (OMV)  of  Austria . The Romanian
government holds 20.6 percent. Fondul Proprietatea SA, Romania’s
4 billion-euro ($5.8 billion) property-restitution fund, owns
20.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  