-- 
Alwaleed Backs Murdochs While Demanding Tighter Controls at News Corp.

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-22T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/saudi-prince-alwaleed-says-news-corp-needs-better-controls-1-.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
should strengthen corporate governance rules and tighten
internal controls after a U.K. phone-hacking scandal, Saudi
Prince Alwaleed bin Talal al Saud said in a CNN interview.  “All of this is in motion already,” Alwaleed, whose
 Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM)  owns about 7 percent of News Corp.’s voting
shares, said in an interview yesterday on “Piers Morgan
Tonight.” He said he wasn’t worried about the fallout from the
hacking scandal at the now-defunct News of the World newspaper.  Alwaleed’s backing has helped Murdoch weather the
controversy around investigations into phone-hacking and alleged
police bribery at News Corp.’s U.K. unit. He is News Corp.’s
second-largest holder of voting shares after the Murdoch family.
The Saudi prince, 56, issued a statement of support for Murdoch
and his son, James, on July 20, the day after they gave three
hours of testimony in the U.K.’s Parliament.  “At the end of the day we have to let the investigation
take its procedure and we have to see where this ends,”
Alwaleed said. “Let’s not anticipate what the investigation
might come up with.”  While he has consistently voiced confidence in Murdoch, who
is also chief executive officer, Alwaleed also has urged New
York-based News Corp. to cooperate with government inquiries. He
called for the resignation of Rebekah Brooks, the former News of
the World editor who was CEO of News Corp.’s News International
unit, while Rupert and  James Murdoch  still backed her publicly.
Brooks resigned a day after Alwaleed said in a BBC interview she
should step down.  Supports Murdochs  Alwaleed remains “both supportive and confident in the
leadership of Rupert and James Murdoch,” he said in the July 20
statement.  The Murdochs answered “all questions” at the July 19
hearing with “full honesty and integrity,” said Alwaleed. He
also said he supports the inquiry as “part of a necessary
process to address the unacceptable practices that developed at
the now closed News of the World.”  When asked last night whether his support for James Murdoch
had weakened in light of claims by ex-News Corp. employees that
some of his testimony was inaccurate, Alwaleed said he went
public with his support for the Murdochs because “I know them
very well.”  The Murdochs have shown high integrity and honesty,
Alwaleed said, before adding that the investigation should take
its course.  James Murdoch, 38, who is News Corp.’s deputy chief
operating officer and chairman of the News International unit,
said in a statement yesterday that he stood by his testimony.  Tom Crone, a former legal manager for News International,
and  Colin Myler , editor of the News of the World tabloid until
this month, said Murdoch was “mistaken” in his testimony about
information he received before authorizing a settlement to one
of the victims of phone-hacking.  Management ‘Depth’  News Corp. is much bigger than its U.S., U.K. and
Australian newspaper business, Alwaleed told Morgan, a former
News of the World editor who has defended Murdoch and News Corp.
in Twitter posts.  “For a company like that to function, clearly it doesn’t
depend only on Rupert Murdoch or James Murdoch,” Alwaleed said.
“I interact a lot with News Corp. and I see a lot of depth at
the managerial levels.”  News Corp. gained 55 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $16.48
yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, its highest close in
almost two weeks. The Class A shares have declined 8.7 percent
since the  Guardian newspaper  reported on July 4 that News of the
World accessed the voicemail of murdered teenager Milly Dowler.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  