-- 
Schlumberger Profit Rises 64% on U.S. Oil Boom

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-07-22T10:57:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/schlumberger-second-quarter-net-rises-as-u-s-onshore-oil-drilling-booms.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield-services provider, said second-quarter profit
rose 64 percent as increasing crude prices drove more U.S.
onshore drilling.  Net income rose to $1.34 billion, or 98 cents a share, from
$818 million, or 68 cents, a year earlier, Schlumberger, based
in Houston and Paris, said in a statement today. Excluding a
gain from selling a business unit and merger costs, the company
earned 2 cents a share more than the average of 33 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 62 percent to
$9.62 billion.  The average number of active oil and gas rigs around the
world rose to 3,163 in the second quarter, up 15 percent from
2,762 a year earlier, according to Baker Hughes Inc. Crude
prices on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  averaged $102.34 a
barrel in the quarter, a 31 percent gain from the $78.05 average
a year earlier.  “Relative to last year, they’ve had huge revenue growth,”
Scott Burk, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity in New York, who
rates the shares a “hold” and owns none, said before the
earnings were released. “They’ve seen margin contraction
internationally while margins have actually risen pretty
dramatically in the U.S.”  The company said bad weather in the northwestern U.S. and
 Canada  was offset by increased drilling on land and in deep
waters, including renewed interest in the  Gulf of Mexico .  ‘Considerable Strain’  “The continued strength in drilling liquid-rich plays in
 North America , coupled with an acceleration in drilling both in
exploration and development internationally, will put
considerable strain on the ability of the service industry to
meet activity levels,” Andrew Gould, Schlumberger’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  Gould, 64, will retire Aug. 1 and be replaced by Chief
Operating Officer Paal Kibsgaard, 44, the company said
yesterday.  The earnings statement was released before the start of
regular trading on U.S. markets. Schlumberger rose 4 cents to
$91 at 6:18 a.m. in  New York . The shares, which have 33 buy and
six hold ratings from analysts, have risen 8.9 percent this
year.  (Schlumberger will hold an earnings conference call
starting at 9 a.m. New York time accessible at EVTS .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  