-- 
SEC Watchdog Probes Agency’s Oversight of Stanford Receiver

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-07-22T16:28:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/sec-watchdog-probes-agency-s-oversight-of-stanford-receiver.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s internal watchdog is investigating the agency’s
dealings with the man hired to recover funds for victims of R.
Allen Stanford’s alleged fraud amid claims the court-appointed
receiver has taken too much money for himself.  Inspector General H. David Kotz said today he is reviewing
the SEC’s oversight of the receiver, Ralph Janvey, after getting
a complaint that the bulk of recovered funds has been used to
cover legal bills.  Janvey was appointed in 2009 after the SEC sued Stanford
and a federal grand jury indicted him on 21 criminal counts
alleging that he used his Houston-based  Stanford Financial Group 
and an Antigua-based banking unit to defraud clients through the
sale of certificates of deposit. Stanford, who has denied the
allegations, is being held without bail while awaiting trial.  Kachroo Legal Services P.C. of Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
released a statement yesterday accusing Janvey of “malfeasance
and waste” in his management of collected assets and claiming
there was an “inside deal” between Janvey and the Stanford
investor committee to approve high fees.  Kevin Sadler, Janvey’s attorney, said that the allegations
are “patently false and completely irresponsible.” Janvey, who
hasn’t been contacted by Kotz, will respond “promptly and
appropriately” to any request, Sadler said in a statement.  SEC spokesman  Kevin Callahan  declined to comment.  Stanford investors and lawmakers have pressed the SEC for
more than two years demanding more help in recouping money lost
in the alleged fraud. Last month, the SEC said some investors
should be eligible for payouts from the Securities Investor
Protection Corp., an industry-backed fund that protects
customers when a brokerage fails.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  