-- 
Sesa Goa Cuts Sales Forecast on Karnataka Ore Ban, Shares Dip

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-07-22T07:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/sesa-goa-cuts-sales-forecast-on-karnataka-ore-ban-shares-dip.html
Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) ,  India ’s largest  iron
ore  exporter, slashed its sales growth forecast for this fiscal
year after shipments from Karnataka remained halted as the
provincial government delayed implementing a court order.  Sales from the  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  unit are expected to
increase 17 percent in the year ending March 31, instead of an
earlier forecast of 25 percent, Managing Director Prasun Kumar Mukherjee said in a conference call today with reporters and
analysts. Production from the mines in Goa state will probably
remain little changed as some projects await environmental
clearances, he said.  Karnataka, among the largest producers of iron ore in India,
sought to ban exports in July last year to curb illegal mining
and encourage steelmakers, including  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and  Posco (005490) , to
set up mills in the state. India exports almost half of its iron
ore output, mostly to  China .  Sesa Goa sold 18.1 million metric tons of iron ore in the
year ended March 31, compared with 18.4 million tons the
previous year, according to its annual report.  Shares of Sesa Goa reversed an early decline in Mumbai
trading after the company yesterday reported a drop in first-
quarter profit. The stock gained 0.2 percent to 278.60 rupees as
of 12:38 p.m. local time. The benchmark Sensitive Index of the
Bombay Stock Exchange gained 1.4 percent.  Falling Shipments  Iron ore shipments from India, the world’s third-largest
exporter of the commodity, will probably decline to 64 million
tons in the year ending March 31, according to the Federation of
Indian Mineral Industries.  The  Supreme Court  in April asked the Karnataka government
to allow exports of the steelmaking ingredient. Still, overseas
shipments from the province have yet to begin, Mukherjee said.  The company aims to spend $300 million this year on
expansion and working capital, Finance Director Sushil Gupta
said today in the conference call. The company is studying about
six iron ore assets for acquisition, Mukherjee said.  Sesa Goa’s  group  net income fell 35 percent to 8.4 billion
rupees ($189 million) in the three months ended June 30 from a
year earlier, the Panaji, Goa-based company said. The average
profit estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 10.5
billion rupees. Sales dropped 16 percent to 22.6 billion rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in Mumbai at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  