-- 
SIPC Opposes Mets Owners’ Bid for Dismissal of Madoff Trustee’s Complaint

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-22T23:15:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/sipc-opposes-mets-owners-bid-for-dismissal-of-madoff-trustee-s-complaint.html
The Securities Investor Protection
Corp. opposed a bid by the owners of the  New York  Mets baseball
team to dismiss a $1 billion lawsuit by the trustee liquidating
Bernard L. Madoff’s firm, in a court filing today.  In a brief filed to address questions raised by the judge
at a hearing July 1, the SIPC said the Securities Investor
Protection Act doesn’t change the bankruptcy law requirement
that money transferred out of a  Ponzi scheme  may be recovered
unless the investor withdrew it “in good faith.”  Irving Picard , the trustee in the Madoff case, claims  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz and their firm, Sterling Equities, ignored
red flags warning of possible fraud and therefore didn’t
withdraw money in good faith. He is seeking to recover $300
million in so-called fictitious profit and $700 million in
principal invested with the con man, SIPC said in the brief,
filed in  Manhattan  federal court.  “These are garden variety avoidable bankruptcy transfers”
that are “stolen customer property,” it said in the filing.  Picard sued the Mets owners in  bankruptcy court  in
December. Rakoff agreed earlier this month to review the case.  Katz and Wilpon have argued that they aren’t liable to
return either the profit or the principal. According to Picard,
the Sterling partners, their families and related entities held
about 300 accounts with Madoff, making them one of the biggest
beneficiaries of the fraud.  The SIPC, which hired Picard, is a government-chartered
agency that charges fees to brokerages.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty to orchestrating the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history and is serving a 150-year sentence in a
North Carolina federal prison.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  