-- 
South Africa Bonds Rise as Traders Pare Rate Bets; Rand Gains on Debt Deal

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-22T16:44:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/south-africa-bonds-rise-as-traders-pare-rate-bets-rand-gains-on-debt-deal.html
The rand was set for its biggest
weekly gain in three versus the dollar after European leaders
agreed on a second bail-out plan for Greece. Bonds rose as
investors pared bets on an  interest-rate  increase this year.  The rand strengthened as much as 0.7 percent to 6.7334 per
dollar, and traded at 6.7777 as of 5:17 p.m. in Johannesburg,
bringing its advance this week to 1.5 percent, the most since
the week ended July 1.  Emerging-market stocks rose for a fourth day and commodity
prices rallied after European leaders pledged more aid for
Greece and persuaded bondholders to shoulder some of the debt,
bolstering demand for riskier, emerging-market assets.  “Investors can once again focus on extracting yield from
riskier assets,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a report. “This
becomes the kind of environment where the rand holds the
potential to rally.”  The rand pared its advance on concern the Greek debt plan
may not be enough to prevent the sovereign-debt crisis from
spreading to other countries.  The agreement “doesn’t resolve  Greece ’s longer-term
solvency problem” or that of  Portugal , Ireland,  Italy  and
 Spain , though it reduced “the immediate risk of a full-blown
European crisis,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a
research note. “A lot of commentators remain skeptical of the
deal.”  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 added 5 cents to
89.96 rand, driving the yield down one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 8.28 percent, the lowest since June 9.  Rates  The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank yesterday left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged, citing a fragile recovery in
Africa’s biggest economy, even as it predicted inflation will
breach its 6 percent target this year. Forward-rate agreements
starting in January have declined seven basis points to 5.81
percent in the past two days as traders reduce bets on a rate
increase at the November Monetary Policy Committee meeting, the
last for 2011.  “Foreign investors will continue to find value in bidding
local bonds with the view that the  Reserve Bank  will shy away
from tightening soon,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note.  Foreign investors bought 1.05 billion rand ($155 million)
of South African bonds yesterday, adding to 40.6 billion rand of
bond purchases this year, according to data from JSE Ltd., which
runs the country’s bond exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  