-- 
Spain Restricts Romanians Job-Market Access to Ease Pressure

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-07-22T15:35:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/spain-restricts-romanians-job-market-access-to-ease-pressure-1-.html
The Spanish government will
temporarily restrict Romanian immigration to those who can show
a job contract as the country seeks to ease pressure on its
labor market, which has the highest jobless rate in  Europe .  “The job market has completely changed since 2008, so the
government decided to adopt a mechanism that enables it to
require that Romanians coming to Spain to work apply for
authorization,” Development Minister Jose Blanco told
journalists in  Madrid  today. Approval will only be given to
those who have a contract, he said.  Spain’s Socialist minority government is battling with a 21
percent unemployment rate that threatens the country’s fragile
recovery and its ability to rein in the euro area’s third-
largest deficit. Exports drove growth in the first half as the
most drastic austerity measures in the last three decades
weighed on demand.  “The measure is a negative sign for the free-labor
movement in Europe,” said  Raffaella Tenconi , an economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research in  London . “It
will reduce competition in a country where the rigidity of the
job market is already a structural weakness.”  About 800,000 Romanians work in Spain, representing 14
percent of the country’s foreign workforce, Tenconi said.  Adjustment  The right to restrict immigration from the most recent
European Union members was designed to enable other EU countries
to adjust during a transition period, not to change the rules
depending on internal growth while targeting a specific country,
according to Tenconi.  The restriction is temporary and may be suspended,
depending on how employment evolves in Spain, Blanco said.  Spain can enforce the rule until 2014, after which
Romanians will be able to move as freely as other EU citizens.  Blanco said the new rules won’t affect Romanians who are
already working in  Spain  but didn’t specify what would happen to
those whose contracts had ended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Brussels at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  