-- 
States Fight U.S. Housing Awards That Gave Akron NYC’s Projects

-- B y   L e a h   N y l e n
-- 
2011-07-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/states-fight-u-s-housing-contracts-that-let-city-of-akron-run-nyc-program.html
The U.S. government has decided that
the housing authority of Akron,  Ohio , should administer  New
York ’s federal rental-assistance program.  Idaho will manage programs in Arizona, Hawaii and Utah,
according to the U.S. Department of Housing and Development,
which stands to save $100 million a year in the shakeup,
officials said.  More than a dozen state and local agencies will lose
lucrative HUD contracts valued at $220 million a year to run
low-income housing programs after the first full competition
since 2000.  The new contracts, awarded July 1, may be held up as
agencies challenge them at the Government Accountability Office,
which adjudicates such disputes. So far, 12 losing agencies
including New York have filed protests against 22 of the 53
awards.  The losing agencies may lose revenue, lay off employees or
cut other low-income programs as a result of HUD’s decision,
officials said.  Oregon  Housing and Community Services, which lost its
contract to a unit of the Bremerton, Washington housing
authority, may need to lay off as many as 24 employees if its
protest doesn’t succeed.  “The loss of this contract is going to significantly
change the agency,” Lisa Joyce, a spokeswoman for Oregon
Housing and Community Services, said July 20. “We’re going to
have to restructure the way we’re organized because of the loss
of revenue” if Oregon’s protest isn’t successful, she said.  $20 Million in Fees  The agencies selected by HUD, called performance-based
contract administrators, or PBCAs, process housing assistance
payments and conduct management and occupancy reviews of public
housing in their own and other states’ project-based rental
assistance under Section 8, the primary federal low-income
housing program.  Only public housing agencies or state and local government
organizations focused on low-income housing can compete to be
PBCAs, which can hire companies as subcontractors to help
perform the work.  Each contractor is paid a percentage of the fair market
rent of all the units it administers. Under the previous
contracts, awarded in 2000 and 2004, agencies could receive 3
percent of the rent of the units. Those fees can vary from
several hundred thousand dollars to as much as $20 million,
according to HUD.  Private Subcontractor  New York’s Housing Trust Fund Corp. received $40.2 million
in the 12-month period that ended Nov. 2010, Christopher Browne,
a spokesman for the agency, said in an e-mail. About $13.7
million of that went to a private sector subcontractor, a unit
of  CGI Group Inc. (GIB/A) , and the agency used the rest to cover the
program’s costs and underwrite other affordable housing
programs, he said.  Some state agencies used the revenue to fund other
programs. Southwest Housing Compliance Corp., a non-profit
associated with the Housing Authority of the City of Austin,
lost the contract for  Texas , which it had held since 2000. Its
other five contracts won’t make up for that loss of revenue, and
the agency may need to cut programs it runs, such as
scholarships for low-income students, said Michael Cunningham, a
vice president for the non-profit, in an interview yesterday.  CGI, which said in January it had $40.3 million this year
in management services subcontracts with five states,
stands to lose because not all of its partners won new
contracts.  $100 Million Savings  By holding a new competition, the agency will save more
than $100 million a year, or about 30 percent of the costs,
Carol Galante, the acting assistant secretary for HUD’s Office
of Housing, said in a July 14 interview.  “This is the first time HUD took a serious look at how to
do this more cost efficiently while maintaining quality of
service,” Galante said. “Certainly, the budget environment
gave added impetus,” she said, though changes already were in
the works.  Under the new contracts, the maximum fee was 2.5 percent.
Successful bidders averaged 1.7 percent, Galante said.  To determine the winners, HUD scored agencies’ proposals
and then divided by the percentage fee the agency had bid,
according to several people briefed by HUD on the competition.
The Oregon agency bid 2.45 percent and the Bremerton unit bid
about 1.88 percent, Oregon Housing’s acting director Rick Crager
said at a public meeting on July 15.  Summit Multi-Family Housing Corp., a unit of the Akron
Housing Authority, beat out New York for the new contract, and
won the contracts for  New Jersey  and  Maryland .  New York’s application scored a higher technical rating
than the winner, Darryl C. Towns, the agency’s commissioner,
said in a July 11 letter to HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan.  “HUD failed to disclose the relative importance that it
would give to the price,” Towns wrote. New York’s application
“was materially prejudiced by HUD’s failure” to reveal how
much importance it placed on price.  State agencies in  Arizona ,  Delaware ,  Kansas , Maryland,
 Massachusetts , New Jersey, and Rhode Island, as well as New York
and Oregon, filed protests at GAO.  Other organizations associated with local housing
authorities also protested: Columbus, Ohio; Oakland,  California ;
and National Housing Compliance, an association of several
authorities in  Georgia . GAO has to decide on the protests by
mid-October.  Largest Provider  In 2009, the CGI unit was one of the largest providers of
PBCA services, working with agencies in California,  Florida , New
York, Ohio, and Washington, D.C., to administer about 25 percent
of the projects involved. In January, the company signed
contract renewals valued at $40.3 million to continue performing
the services through Sept. 30.  All five agencies that CGI partnered with failed to win
contracts in their home state, though the Florida agency won
awards in Georgia and the Virgin Islands. Linda Odorisio, a
spokeswoman for CGI, declined to comment.  Quadel Consulting Corp., a closely held company in
 Washington , D.C., was the biggest private sector winner,
partnering with successful bidders in eight jurisdictions
including Indiana,  North Carolina , Ohio, Washington, D.C.,
 Illinois ,  Virginia , Texas, and Washington state. Six of those
contracts are under protest at GAO. Al Hardy, a spokesman for
Quadel, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Southwest of Austin and Jefferson County Assisted Housing
Corp., a non-profit associated with the Jefferson County Housing
Authority in Birmingham,  Alabama , won the most contracts at five
each. Three of the Jefferson County contracts and one of
Southwest’s are facing protests.  The Idaho Housing and Finance Association won three new
contracts and will provide services to more than 18,000 units in
Arizona,  Hawaii , Idaho and Utah, said Sheryl Putnam, housing
compliance and program support manager for the association, in a
July 20 phone interview. One of Idaho’s awards is under protest.  Spokespersons for agencies in Massachusetts, Kansas, Rhode
Island, and Georgia declined to comment, citing the protests.  Agencies in New Jersey, Akron, Ohio, Birmingham, Alabama
and Oakland, California didn’t respond to requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leah Nylen in Washington at 
 lnylen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anne Laurent at 
 Alaurent7@bloomberg.net  