-- 
Syngenta Plans 2012 Pricing Offensive, Bracing for Higher Costs

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-07-22T07:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/syngenta-to-raise-prices-in-2012-to-counter-raw-material-costs.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest
maker of agricultural chemicals, plans to raise prices in the
“mid-single-digit” range for the 2012 season to counter
soaring raw-material costs.  The increases would more than compensate for higher
expected costs, Chief Financial Officer John Ramsay said today
in a telephone interview. The company reported first-half
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of $2.15 billion. JPMorgan analysts Neil Tyler and Martin Evans
had predicted $2.35 billion.  “We are looking at opportunities considering the positive
price environment, Ramsay said. ‘‘We have committed to targets
across the group. This isn’t something we’ve pulled out of the
air, it’s backed up by quite a lot of work.”  Ramsay said there are “real prospects of inflation” for
the coming season. Rising costs led to a deterioration in crop
protection margins to 29.3 percent from 31.5 percent. Syngenta
said today that it is ahead of schedule in integrating its crop
protection and seeds business, a move that should enhance sales
and cut costs.  The maker of Revus fungicide is little changed this year in
Zurich trading for a market value of 25.7 billion Swiss francs
($31.3 billion). The stock fell 1.7 percent to 269.5 Swiss
francs as of 9:18 a.m., as the wider Swiss market climbed.
Monsanto has advanced 8.8 percent this year, a similar gain to
DuPont Co.  ‘Significant Threats’  "The rising cost of expanding into new markets, increasing
generic competition and lack of industry pricing power remain
significant threats,’’ Tyler, Evans and colleague Hella Zouiten
said in a note.  Chief Executive Officer Mike Mack aims to save about $650
million by 2015 by improving procurement and supply chain
efficiency as well as bundling together marketing costs. Earlier
this year, he embarked on a complete redesign of the company,
aligning operations under specific crops to offer farmers of
soya and corn a total package of products from the relevant
seeds to pesticides.  Syngenta’s launch of its Agrisure Artesian corn trait,
genetically modified to require less water, is coinciding with
the worst drought in a century in parts of the U.S. The company
sold out of an initial batch, and plans are to increase
production to face off competition from  Monsanto Co. (MON) , Ramsay
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 