-- 
Syrian Forces Kill Eight Protesters as 1 Million Demonstrate Nationwide

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-22T16:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/syria-forces-kill-5-at-aleppo-homs-protests-activist-says-1-.html
Syrian forces killed at least eight
people at anti-government rallies today as more than 1 million
demonstrators across the country defied stepped-up security,
human-rights activists said.  Those killed were in Damascus, Aleppo, Homs and Idlib,
while one protester died from wounds sustained earlier in the
week,  Ammar Qurabi , of the National Organization for Human
Rights in  Syria , and Mahmoud Merhi, of the Arab Organization for
Human Rights, said in phone interviews.  Gunfire was also heard in Qamishli and Daraa, leaving some
people wounded, Qurabi said. Protesters gathered in the cities
of Hama in the west, Homs in central Syria and Latakia on the
Mediterranean, as well as the northern city of Qamishli, home to
the Kurdish minority, the activists said. There were also
rallies in the southern province of Daraa, where the uprising
against President Bashar al-Assad’s government began, they said.  Syrian government forces stepped up security around
Damascus late yesterday ahead of the Muslim Friday prayers,
which have been followed by protests for the past four months.
Security was “tight” in the Qaboun, Harasta, Douma, Zabadani,
Rukneddine and Midan districts of the capital, Merhi said. Raids
and the arrest of dissidents preceded the deployment yesterday.  The protests are part of the wave of unrest across the
 Middle East  and North Africa this year that has unseated the
leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia . Assad has blamed the dissent in
Syria on a foreign conspiracy while saying demonstrators’
demands “have merit” and that changes are needed.  Killed by Military  The military killed at least three people in Homs
yesterday, one person in Idlib in the north and another in
Qaboun, Qurabi said. On July 15, more than a million protesters
took to the streets nationwide after Friday prayers, according
to Merhi and Qurabi.  Syrian security forces have killed more than 1,900 people
since the uprising began and jailed thousands, the two activists
said. Their groups have compiled the names of those killed,
injured or detained. Thousands of Syrians have also fled to
 Turkey , Lebanon and Jordan.  The government has stepped up arrests even as it engages in
a so-called national dialogue with opponents,  Human Rights Watch 
said in a report this week. “President Assad talks reform but
continues to practice repression, not only through the
widespread killings of demonstrators but also through mass
arrests,” said Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East director at
 Human Rights Watch .  A committee of Syrian intellectuals and academics convened
by Assad under the national dialogue called for a review of the
constitution, the creation of a human-rights council and the
release of political prisoners.  Protests are likely to gain momentum during the Muslim holy
month of Ramadan, which begins in August, and authorities are
probably trying to quell the unrest before then, Merhi and
Qurabi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 