-- 
U.S. Condemns Crackdown on Protests in Malawi That Left 18 People Dead

-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-07-22T11:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/u-s-condemns-crackdown-on-protests-in-malawi-that-left-18-people-dead.html
The U.S. condemned the use of force
by Malawi’s police to break up anti-government protests in the
past two days, and warned the government against a crackdown on
the free press.  Eighteen people were killed when security forces confronted
protesters in the towns of Blantyre, Lilongwe and Mzuzu, Henry
Chimbali, the spokesman for the health ministry, said by phone
today. At least 44 people are being treated for gunshot wounds
in Mzuzu,  Amnesty International  said, calling for an
investigation into the police response.  The Malawi Communications Regulatory Authority switched off
three private  radio stations  -- MIJ FM Radio, Joy FM Radio and
Capital Radio -- to stop them from reporting on the protests,
according to the Media Institute of Southern Africa, Malawi
Chapter.  “The government’s attempt to prohibit its citizens from
marching, and the Communications Regulatory Authority’s ban on
independent media coverage undermine democracy and the rule of
law that Malawians cherish,” U.S. Department of State
spokeswoman Heide Bronke Fulton said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. is among foreign donors that provide as much as 40
percent of Malawi’s annual national budget. The U.K. also
expressed its concern “about the state of democratic governance
and human rights in Malawi,” according to an e-mailed statement
by the minister for  Africa , Henry Bellingham, yesterday. “The
situation is extremely worrying,” he said.  Leaked Cable  The U.K. cut aid and announced in May it is reviewing
relations with the country after President Bingu wa Mutharika
expelled its envoy for criticizing him in a leaked cable. Other
countries are holding back on giving aid until Malawi completes
the second review of its program with the  International Monetary
Fund , which is overdue.  Protests, organized by civil-society groups and opposition
parties, started on July 20 with tens of thousands of people
marching in the main cities against government policies and
shortages of fuel and foreign currency. Declining tobacco
exports have reduced foreign exchange receipts, making it more
difficult to pay for motor fuel imports. Malawi is the world’s
biggest producer of the burley variety of tobacco.  Amnesty said in an e-mailed report that it had recorded
“increasing intolerance of dissent, and vilification of human
rights activists by senior members of the government” in recent
months.  Amassed Wealth  Mutharika said yesterday that he is prepared to hold talks
with civil-society groups and opposition parties to end the
disturbances. He didn’t respond to a list of demands from the
protesters and warned that the government will act against the
leaders of the protests if there is looting.  The groups, including the Institute of Policy Interaction,
the Malawi Law Society and the Council of Churches, have
demanded an improvement in the lives of poor Malawians and an
end to fuel and currency shortages. They also want an
explanation from Mutharika on how he could afford to buy the
land he owns, according to the petition handed to officials on
July 20.  “The current president appears to have amassed significant
wealth that does not tally with his salary,” groups said in the
petition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  