-- 
U.S. Said to Decide on Lockheed F-16 Jets to Taiwan by October

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-07-22T00:15:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/u-s-said-to-decide-on-lockheed-f-16-jets-to-taiwan-by-october.html
The Obama administration has
committed to deciding by Oct. 1 whether to allow the sale of 66
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16 jets to  Taiwan , according to an aide
to Sen.  John Cornyn .  Cornyn, a Republican from Texas and member of the Senate
Armed Services Committee, has been pressing the administration
for a decision by blocking Senate confirmation of  William Burns 
to become U.S. deputy secretary of state. Cornyn has agreed to
allow the nomination to proceed in exchange for the commitment
from Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , said the Cornyn aide,
who was not authorized to speak publicly.  Taiwan’s request for F-16 C/D model jets has been pending
since 2006 and upgrades of its older F-16 A/B models have been
on hold. The jets are assembled at Lockheed’s  Fort Worth , Texas
plant.  China opposes U.S. arms sales to Taiwan, which it considers
a renegade province, and has tried to block sales of the F-16
airplanes to the island. Taiwan President Ma Ying-Jeou has
pressed the U.S. to speed up decision on the jets.  The U.S.-Taiwan Business Council, a trade group, said the
timing of the decision “suggests that the Obama administration
has no intention” of approving the sale of new jets. The date
is sandwiched between Vice President Joe Biden’s trip to China
in August and Chinese President Hu’s expected trip to Hawaii,
the group said.  “It doesn’t seem plausible that the Obama administration
would stand up for Taiwan policy in the face of two such senior
visits from  China ,” the group said in a news release.  The last significant U.S. arms sale to Taiwan was in
October 2008 when President George W. Bush’s administration
proposed a $6.46 billion package including Patriot anti-missile
systems and Apache helicopters, to help the country bring its
military up to date.  Clinton also committed to a delivering to Congress a report
on Taiwan’s airpower requirements originally due March 1, 2010,
according to the Cornyn aide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  