-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Beef Prices Seen Rising to Record

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-22T12:20:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-beef-prices-seen-rising-to-record.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Beef Prices Seen Rising to Record as U.S. Cattle Herd Shrinks  The U.S. cattle herd as of July 1 probably shrunk to the
smallest on record, signaling tightening beef supplies and
higher costs for shoppers and companies from Tyson Foods Inc. to
Wendy’s Co.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Burrup Fertilisers Bids Due Today; Yara Awaits Final Price (2)  Final bids for Burrup Fertilisers Pty, an Australian
ammonia producer under receivership, are due today, said PPB
Advisory. Yara International ASA, which has the right to match
any offers, said it will first assess the price.  RCMA Buys Rubber Trading Companies to Expand in U.S., Europe  RCMA Commodities Asia Pte Ltd., a Singapore-based rubber
merchant, bought two companies in the U.S. and Europe as it
expands its supply-chain management.  Mechel Said to Pick Banks for $2 Billion IPO of Mining Unit (1)  OAO Mechel,  Russia ’s largest miner of steelmaking coal,
picked JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG to manage
the initial public offering of its mining unit, said two people
familiar with the process.  Hulamin Says It Can Meet Raw Material Needs If BHP Stops Supply  Hulamin Ltd., Africa’s biggest maker of fabricated aluminum
products, said it will be able to provide for its own raw
material needs even if BHP Billiton Ltd. halts its supply of so-
called rolling-slabs in June next year.  Rice Set to Rally on Thai Plan, Demand, Thai Group Predicts (2)  Rice prices may advance as global demand increases and a
new government in  Thailand , the largest shipper, pays farmers
above-market rates for supplies and pushes up export costs, the
Thai Rice Exporters Association said.  BHP’s Escondida Workers Strike as Coal Miners Down Tools (1)  Workers at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida copper mine, the
world’s biggest, began striking as coal miners at the company’s
Australian operations prepared to escalate industrial action.  Repsol Bucks Refinery Trend in $7.5 Billion Diesel Output Plan  Repsol YPF SA will ramp up engineering work at its
Tarragona refinery next year as it prepares for the next step in
a 5.3 billion-euro ($7.5 billion) investment plan that is
transforming its downstream operations.  Wine Never Cheaper as Bidders Circle Foster’s Spinoff: Real M&A  Buying Napa Valley wine has never been so cheap with
Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. selling at less than 80 cents on the
dollar.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Rise on Reduced European Debt Concern, Mine Strike  Copper may rise in London for the first day in three as an
agreement on new aid for Greece eases concern about  Europe ’s
debt crisis and a strike fuels speculation supply might fall
short of demand.  Copper Inventories in Shanghai Advance to Two-Month High (1)  Copper stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange increased for a second week, while aluminum inventories
declined to a 23-month low.  MINING:  Norilsk Nickel Full-Year Profit Rises 27%, Missing Estimates (2)  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s largest mining company,
said full-year profit climbed 27 percent as rising demand for
the metal drove prices higher.  Xstrata, Anglo Coal Miners to Strike in S. Africa, Sapa Says  Coal miners at companies including Anglo American Plc,
Xstrata Plc and Exxaro Resources Plc will strike over pay in
South  Africa  from the night shift of July 24, the South African
Press Association said, citing Frans Barker, a negotiatior at
the Chamber of Mines.  Namibia  Plans Higher Taxes For Mines Other Than Gem Operations  Namibia plans to raise corporate tax on mining companies
other than diamond producers in the next financial year, Finance
Minister Saara Kuugongelwa-Amadhila, said on state-owned radio
today.  Norilsk Nickel Net Reaches $3.3 Billion, Missing Estimates (1)  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s largest mining company,
said full-year profit rose 27 percent to $3.3 billion, missing
the $5.12 billion mean estimate of 15 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Petrohawk Bid by BHP Sparks Bondholder Envy: Corporate Finance  Petrohawk Energy Corp. bondholders are betting that they’ll
be next in line to be rewarded by BHP Billiton Ltd. after the
world’s biggest miner buys the oil and gas producer’s stock for
a 61 percent premium to market value.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Advances in  London  on Concern About Europe’s Debt Crisis  Gold gained in London as concern that measures announced by
European officials won’t be sufficient to contain the region’s
sovereign debt crisis spurred demand for a protection of wealth.  Silver May Jump to $100, Citigroup Says:  Technical Analysis   Silver may more than double to $100 an ounce if the current
 bull market  follows similar patterns seen between 1971 and 1980,
according to technical analysis by Citigroup Global Markets Inc.  Gold May Gain on U.S., European Debt Concerns, Survey Shows  Gold may extend its climb to a record as debt concerns in
the U.S. and Europe spur demand for the metal as a protection of
wealth, a survey found.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Little Changed, May Rise as Hot, Dry Weather Curbs Yields  Corn futures, little changed in  Chicago , may rise on
concern that hot, dry weather in parts of the U.S. may hurt
yields in the world’s largest producer and exporter of the
grain.  Vietnam’s Coffee Exports Fall 38% as Farmers Run Down Holdings  Shipments of coffee from Vietnam, the world’s second-
biggest exporter after  Brazil , may have fallen 38 percent to
55,000 metric tons in July from a year earlier after farmers ran
down stockpiles in previous months.  Palm Oil Advances as Drought May Have Lagged Effect on Output  Palm oil gained for a third week, the longest streak in
almost two months, amid concern that the after-effects of a
drought may curb output in  Indonesia  and Malaysia, the biggest
producers.  Sugar Heads for Fourth Weekly Gain on Tight Supply; Coffee Rises  White sugar rose in London, heading for a fourth weekly
gain amid concern that supplies are tight. Coffee in London also
advanced.  Indonesia Buys Rice From Vietnam to Build State Reserves (1)  Indonesia, the world’s third-largest rice grower, bought
500,000 metric tons of rice from Vietnam to rebuild stockpiles
and cool domestic prices, state-owned food company Bulog said.  Vietnam July Coffee Exports Forecast at 55,000 Tons  Vietnam, the world’s biggest producer of robusta coffee,
may export 55,000 metric tons this month, according to figures
released today by the General Statistics Office in Hanoi.  ECONOMIES:  Consumer Bonds Beat Banks on Spending as Taxes Cut:  China  Credit  Consumer bonds in China are handing investors the best
returns among 14 industry groups in the nation amid policies
designed to spur domestic demand in the world’s second-biggest
economy.  Pain in Spain May Stay ECB’s Hand on Rate Rise: Euro Credit  The  European Central Bank ’s willingness to drive up
borrowing costs in the midst of a debt crisis threatens to widen
the gaps between the region’s economies in an echo of the
divergence seen in bond yields.  Obama, Boehner Press for Broad Debt Deal Amid Internal Strife  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker John Boehner, each
facing strife within his own ranks and dwindling time to avert a
U.S. default, pressed for a broad agreement to boost the debt
limit while cutting spending by trillions of dollars and
overhauling the tax code.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Greek Bonds Rally on Europe Aid as Swiss Franc Weakens  Stocks rose for a fourth day while Greek, Irish and Spanish
bonds rallied as European officials agreed to a $229 billion
bailout to contain the debt crisis. The Swiss franc weakened and
oil advanced for a fourth day.  Euro Rises Versus Swiss Franc as Debt Crisis Eases; Yen Weakens  The euro rose against the Swiss franc and the yen as stocks
advanced on optimism measures announced by European officials
yesterday will contain the region’s debt crisis, damping demand
for haven assets.  European Stocks Advance for a Fourth Day; Vodafone, Volvo Climb  European stocks rose for a fourth straight day after euro-
area leaders announced a new aid package for  Greece  and measures
to prevent bond yields rising further in Spain and  Italy . U.S.
index futures and Asian shares gained.  Asian Stocks Rise, Erasing Year’s Loss, on Europe Debt Agreement  Asian stocks rose, with the regional benchmark index
erasing its loss for the year, as a new aid plan for Greece
eased concern Europe’s debt crisis will spread, reducing
uncertainty over earnings at financial companies.  Oil Heads for Fourth Week of Gains on Europe, U.S. Debt Optimism  Oil headed for a fourth week of gains in  New York  as signs
Europe and the U.S. will contain their debt crises eased
speculation that demand for raw materials may falter.  Berlusconi’s Majority Looks Wobbly as Ally Gets Sent to Jail  Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s majority looks
increasingly wobbly after his key coalition partner backed the
arrest of a ruling party lawmaker, the latest to be investigated
for alleged corruption.  NATO Allies Opens to Possibility Qaddafi Could Stay in  Libya   The U.S., the U.K., Italy and  France  now say they’re
willing to accept an outcome in Libya that would allow  Muammar
Qaddafi  to avoid exile or a trial on war crimes charges.  SPORTS:  All Blacks Open 2011 Rugby Season With 60-14 Victory Over Fiji  Colin Slade scored 19 points in his starting debut as 2011
Rugby World Cup favorite New Zealand beat Fiji 60-14 in its
season-opening Test.  Mancini Wants City to Increase Spending, Sun Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  