-- 
Short Seller Muddy Waters Says Blackmailer Sought $2 Million From Contact

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-07-22T20:47:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/muddy-waters-suit-says-blackmailer-sought-2-million-to-suppress-research.html
Carson Block, the short seller who
targeted Chinese timber company  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  last month,
said in a lawsuit that a person falsely claiming to be his
employee sought $2 million to withhold a research report.  Somebody also posted a statement last month on the Web
falsely saying that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
had sued Block and his firm,  Muddy Waters  LLC, for stock
manipulation, Block said in a defamation complaint filed July 20
in Los Angeles Superior Court against “John Doe” defendants.
The statement was posted on BriefingWire.com and picked up by
websites including Benzinga.com, according to the complaint.  Block said he was told that a person calling himself
“Shaun Coffey from Muddy Waters” left a telephone message with
a third party in  Hong Kong  and offered to suppress a research
report in exchange for $2 million. The complaint doesn’t say who
the third party was or what the report was supposed to be about.  The “message was false and defamatory and no such
individual worked for Muddy Waters,” according to the
complaint. The lawsuit seeks general damages of at least $25,000
plus punitive damages and a court order prohibiting further
publication of the statement.  Reuters reported the lawsuit earlier today.  Kevin Callahan , a spokesman for the SEC, said the statement
was fake.  No one immediately responded to an e-mail sent through the
BriefingWire website seeking comment. A telephone number for
BriefingWire couldn’t immediately be found.  Sino-Forest Report  “We’re good friends with Carson Block and we have nothing
to do with BriefingWire,” Jason Raznick, editor of Benzinga,
said in a telephone interview from Bingham Farms,  Michigan .
“Carson has no issues with us.”  Block and Muddy Waters didn’t immediately respond to
separate e-mail requests from Bloomberg News seeking comment.  Muddy Waters published a June 2 report alleging Sino-Forest
overstated timberland holdings. The report on BriefingWire
claiming Muddy Waters had been sued for market manipulation
appeared June 21, according to the complaint.  Sino-Forest plunged 83 percent last month in Toronto
trading, losing C$3.9 billion ($4.16 billion) of market value.
The Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based company has denied
the allegations in the Muddy Waters report and commissioned an
independent report to examine the findings.  Short-sellers sell borrowed securities and realize profits
by repurchasing them if their prices subsequently decline.
Block, 35, is looking at “a number of suspicious” Chinese
companies that have accounting irregularities, he said in a July
1 interview with Bloomberg Television.  The case is Muddy Waters LLC v. Doe, BC465824, Superior
Court of the State of  California , County of  Los Angeles  (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 