-- 
Ukraine’s Credit Rating May Be Raised on IMF Loan, Economy

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-07-22T13:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/ukraine-s-credit-rating-may-be-raised-on-imf-loan-economy.html
Ukraine ’s credit rating may be
increased this year as disbursements from a $15.6 billion
International Monetary Fund bailout resume and the former Soviet
republic’s economy rebounds.  Fitch Ratings  raised its outlook for Ukraine’s sovereign
debt rating to “positive” from “stable” yesterday, citing
progress in reducing the budget deficit. It reaffirmed the
nation’s B rating, five levels below investment grade,
comparable to the country’s rating from Moody’s Investors
Service and one step below that of Standard and Poor’s.  “There’s great potential for further positive rating
developments in Ukraine as the economy rebounds, supported by
healthy pricing in metals,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-market
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said today. “One
important issue is the country’s relationship with the IMF. It
should continue reasonably on track for the ratings cycle to
remain positive.”  Ukraine was granted an IMF bailout last July, its second in
two years, after the economy shrank by almost 15 percent in 2009
amid the global financial crisis. It received $3.4 billion in
two tranches after trimming its  budget deficit , while a third
installment, which was due in March, was frozen as the
government failed to approve a pension overhaul and raise
household natural-gas prices, two conditions set by the
Washington-based lender.  Parliament backed an increase in the  retirement age  for
women to 60 from 55 on July 8 and Ukraine is seeking to lower
the cost of gas imports from  Russia , rather than raise prices
for consumers. The state energy company, NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy,
has run up deficits because customers pay less than the import
price.  Prospects Improve  An IMF mission may visit Kiev in August and disburse the
next installment of the loan by the end of September, Deputy
Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said last month.  “Approval of the pension reform significantly improved
Ukraine’s prospects of receiving the next tranche of the lending
package,”  Olena Bilan , chief economist at Kiev-based Dragon
Capital, said today. “Cooperation under the IMF program is
factored into Ukraine’s current credit ratings, but given the
substantial delay in IMF financing, its resumption may prompt
other agencies to raise their outlook.”  Ukraine’s 6.25 percent government bonds maturing 2016 rose,
pushing the yield down by 28 basis points to 6.314 percent, the
biggest drop since the bonds were issued last month, Bloomberg
data show. The move comes amid a wider rally in asset prices
across the region after the European Union agreed to a new aid
package for  Greece .  “Should Ukraine resume cooperation with the IMF, and if
economic growth speeds up, credit agencies will have grounds to
change their ratings,” said Vitaliy Vavryshchuk, an analyst at
investment bank BG Capital.  Economy May Accelerate  The economy grew 4.4 percent from a year earlier in the
first half, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said yesterday. Gross
domestic product may expand 4 percent to 5 percent this year and
in 2012, according to Fitch.  Global prices for steel, a key export from Ukraine, will
probably stabilize after dropping more than 20 percent from
their two-year highs of almost $1,000 a metric ton in March,
Moscow-based VTB Capital said yesterday in a research note.  After the pension bill won approval, Vavryshchuk expects
the government to raise gas prices to satisfy the IMF. “There’s
not much sense in the authorities stopping half way with these
unpopular decisions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  