-- 
Austar Falls Most Since 2001 on Concern Murdoch-Backed Bid Will Be Blocked

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-22T09:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/murdoch-backed-foxtel-s-austar-bid-to-reduce-competition-regulator-says.html
Austar United Communications Ltd. (AUN) ,
 Australia ’s second-biggest pay TV network, slumped the most in
almost a decade in Sydney trading on concern a bid by Rupert Murdoch-backed Foxtel will be blocked by the antitrust watchdog.  The stock fell 16 percent, the biggest decline since
October 2001, to close at A$1.085 in Sydney. Australia’s
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 1 percent.  The A$1.9 billion ($2.1 billion), or A$1.52 a share, bid to
unite the nation’s two biggest pay-TV operators would
“substantially” cut competition, the Australian Competition &
Consumer Commission said on its  website  today. The regulator
will seek more information before making a ruling Sept. 8.  “There is a lot of expectation now that this deal won’t go
ahead,” said  Mark McDonnell , an analyst at BBY Ltd. in Sydney.
“While I still think the deal can go ahead, that is not the way
the market is thinking about this.”  A failed bid would make Foxtel’s offer the second Murdoch-
backed pay-TV deal to collapse this year after News Corp.
scrapped a 7.8 billion-pound ($12.7 billion) bid for British Sky
Broadcasting Plc this month amid a phone hacking scandal. News
Corp. and  Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. (CMJ)  each own 25 percent
of Foxtel, while Telstra Corp., Australia’s largest phone
company, owns the rest.  “Austar will continue to work with the ACCC to resolve
issues identified,” the company said in a stock exhange filing.
“Austar remains commited to effecting the transaction.”  Australian Division  Sydney-based Austar is controlled by billionaire  John Malone  and agreed to the cash offer on July 11.  News Corp. (NWS) ’s
Australian shares fell 1.8 percent to A$15.20, while Telstra
closed unchanged at A$3.06.  News Ltd., the Sydney-based Australian division of News
Corp., owns 120 metropolitan, regional and rural newspapers,
including the Australian, the Daily and Sunday Telegraph.
Murdoch, 80, who got his start in 1953 when he inherited a daily
newspaper in Adelaide, went on to build a global media empire of
newspapers, satellite television and movie studios.  Commission Chairman  Graeme Samuel  said the regulator is
focused on competition concerns in the pay television and
telecommunications markets -- not News Corp.’s issues in the
U.K., where the hacking scandal prompted Murdoch to shut his
News of the World tabloid.  “There is not the slightest scintilla of connection
between what happened at the News of the World,” Samuels said
in a phone interview today. “We are purely focused on whether
there is a substantial lessening of competition.”  Boosting Audience  Foxtel, which focuses on metropolitan areas, bid for Austar
to increase its audience by gaining viewers in smaller centers
such as Ballarat and Albury.  Foxtel serves 1.63 million households and has about 6
million viewers through retail and wholesale distribution of its
services. Austar has 760,000 customers, according to the
regulator.  The regulator’s ruling had been due yesterday and the bid
may be blocked if the regulator can’t be satisfied on the
competition issues, according to Samuels.  Australia, where Murdoch started his media empire, may
toughen privacy laws following the hacking scandal with the
government to release a paper shortly on whether there should be
statutory right to sue for invasion of privacy, Home Affairs and
Justice Minister Brendan O’Connor said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The government will seek a public discussion on the
regulatory change, O’Connor said, arguing any change would need
to strike a balance between freedom of expression and the right
to privacy.  News Corp. (NWSA)  last week said it will review all editorial
expenses at its Australian operations over the past three years
to check whether payments to contributors and other third
parties were for legitimate services.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Sydney at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  