-- 
Lira Resumes Four-Day Decline, Bond Yields Climb After Bank Cancels Sales

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-07-25T14:54:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/turkish-lira-extends-two-year-low-on-deficit-monetary-policy.html
The lira, the world’s worst-
performing currency this month, weakened for a fourth day on
speculation that the central bank’s cancellation of dollar
purchases is not enough to halt the currency’s retreat. Yields
on Turkish bonds soared by the most in four months.  Turkey ’s currency weakened 1.9 percent to 1.7290 per dollar
as of 4:19 p.m. in Istanbul. In earlier trading, the lira pared
losses to 0.6 percent from as much as 2.2 percent after the
central bank ended daily purchases of $30 million and cut the
reserve requirement for banks on foreign-currency deposits of
more than a year by as much as 2 percentage points to 9 percent.  The lira has weakened 4 percent in the past four trading
days after  Fitch Ratings  said an upgrade of Turkey’s credit
rating is “uncertain” because of the current-account deficit,
and after Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci said on July 22 a
free-floating currency helps economic growth. Basci’s comments
were “almost a green light” for further lira weakness, the
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said last week.  “The lira has probably seen its trough for today but the
pressure will continue in the coming days,” Antero Atilla, an
emerging-market analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said
in e-mailed comments. “Turkey’s external-deficit problem is not
going to disappear on its own and cancelling foreign-exchange
auctions will provide only a temporary solution.”  Yields on benchmark two-year bonds jumped as much as 27
basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 8.95 percent, the
biggest intraday increase since March 23, and were last up 20
basis points at 8.88 perent, according to a Royal Bank of
Scotland index.  Fleeting Effect  BNP Paribas SA said in a note before the central bank’s
steps were announced that cancellation of dollar purchases would
probably boost the lira for “a few hours but it would also be
largely symbolic.” Policy makers’ other options include raising
the borrow rate, it said.  The central bank said in a statement its step today would
give $590 million of liquidity to the market.  “The measures announced today do nothing to change the
basic fact that Turkey is running an extremely large current-
account deficit and that the bulk of the shortfall is financed
via short-term inflows of capital,”  Neil Shearing , an economist
at  Capital Economics , wrote in a note to clients.  The current-account deficit more than doubled to $7.8
billion in May as the bank’s efforts to slow domestic demand
failed to trim imports, the statistics office said July 11.  1.80 Per Dollar  “Even in a risk-on mode, market participants still don’t
want to go long lira,” said  Benoit Anne , head of global
emerging-market strategy at Societe Generale SA said, said in e-
mailed comments today. “In the hedge-fund community, the lira
is the favorite currency to be short of.” The lira won’t
stabilize at current levels and may be “attractive” when it
reaches 1.8 per dollar, the French bank said.  The lira’s record low is 1.8066 per dollar, reached in
March 2009. It has lost more than 10 percent against the dollar
so far this year, the biggest depreciation of more than 20
developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  In July, the lira has declined 5.9 percent against the
dollar, more than any of 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank left  interest rates  at a record low of
6.25 percent for a sixth month last week. Instead of raising
rates, the bank has increased  reserve requirements  for the
banking industry in an effort to stem the consumer borrowing
that’s swelling demand for imports.  The central bank needs to raise the benchmark one-week repo
rate to stop a sell-off in the lira, as other steps such as
ending daily buying of dollars may even prompt “panic selling,”
 Murat Toprak , a currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
 London , said in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  