-- 
Dora Weakens to Tropical Storm Off Coast of Baja California

-- B y   C h a r l o t t e   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-07-23T00:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/hurricane-dora-weakens-in-pacific-bret-dissipates-in-atlantic.html
Hurricane Dora weakened to a
tropical storm on a track moving almost parallel to the west
coast of  Baja California , while Tropical Storm Cindy moved into
colder Atlantic waters that sapped its strength, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said.  Dora’s top winds fell to 70 miles (100 kilometers) per hour
from a peak of 155 mph yesterday, the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said in  an advisory  at 8 p.m. East Coast time. It’s
likely to become a tropical depression in the next two days, the
center said.  The storm is about 195 miles south of  Cabo San Lucas ,
 Mexico , and heading northwest at 8 mph, the center said. A
tropical storm warning is in place from Agua Blanca to
Buenavista, including Cabo San Lucas, although Dora is forecast
to remain well offshore on the western coast of the peninsula.  Cindy was about 590 miles north-northwest of the Azores and
is likely to dissipate tomorrow,  the center said  in a weather
outlook. The system has maximum winds of 45 mph and it poses no
threat to land.  A tropical wave causing rain and thunderstorms about 200
miles east of the Lesser Antilles has a 30 percent chance of
becoming a tropical cyclone during the next two days,  the center 
said. It’s moving toward the west-northwest at 15 to 20 mph.  A disturbance becomes tropical when it develops cyclonic
characteristics and becomes a named storm when sustained winds
reach 39 mph. It reaches hurricane status when winds strengthen
to 74 mph.  There are five levels of hurricane strength on the  Saffir-
Simpson  scale, with Category 1 the lowest and Category 5, a
storm with winds greater than 155 mph, the highest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlotte Porter at 
 cporter11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  