-- 
Verizon’s New CEO Brings ‘Entrepreneurial Culture’ From Wireless

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-07-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/verizon-profit-tops-estimates-on-iphone-4g.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, must adopt a more
“entrepreneurial culture” in its shrinking land-line business,
incoming Chief Executive Officer Lowell McAdam said.  A former chief of Verizon Wireless and current president of
Verizon, McAdam takes over next month for CEO  Ivan Seidenberg ,
who remains chairman, Verizon said yesterday. The company posted
a second-quarter profit of $1.61 billion as customers snapped up
the iPhone, helping make up for a fixed-line revenue decline.  McAdam, 57, will aim to keep New York-based Verizon’s
wireless-customer gains ahead of those of rival  AT&T Inc. (T) , which
is set to become the dominant mobile carrier after acquiring
T-Mobile USA Inc. He also needs to manage a loss of traditional
phone users, while challenging cable-TV companies with the FiOS
fiber-optic TV and Internet service.  “We will definitely try to bring that entrepreneurial
culture from the wireless side into the wireline side,” McAdam
said yesterday in a phone interview.  Seidenberg assembled the network assets and infrastructure
that Verizon can now use to sell services such as wireless video
and so-called cloud computing, in which companies hire Verizon
to host their data remotely, McAdam said.  “You’ll see an acceleration of applications and services,”
he said.  Second-quarter profit was 57 cents a share, after a loss a
year earlier, Verizon said yesterday, topping the 55-cent
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Well-Orchestrated Handoff’  “They’re going to continue to go after wireless growth and
grow the fiber part of the business,” said Todd Rosenbluth, an
equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in New York, who advises
holding the stock. “This is a well-orchestrated handoff. Given
that he’s been chief operating officer for the past year, we
don’t expect much change in strategy.”  In a bid to outdo rivals’ data speeds,  Verizon Wireless  is
building a new high-speed network over three years. The 4G
technology, along with the introduction of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone,
helped Verizon add 1.3 million contract subscribers last
quarter, compared with the 948,000 estimate of six analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. That beat gains at Dallas-based AT&T, the
largest U.S. phone company, which has had the iPhone since 2007.  “Verizon still has enjoyed the perception of having a
better network,” said Jonathan Atkin, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in  San Francisco . He projects the shares will outperform
others in the industry in the next year. “The playing field has
been leveled, with both companies having a similar array of
devices.”  McAdam’s Career  Verizon, which co-owns its mobile unit with  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , fell 83 cents to $36.74 yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange. The stock has added 2.7 percent this year.  McAdam will be CEO effective Aug. 1, while Seidenberg, 64,
will remain chairman. McAdam had run Verizon Wireless, the most
profitable part of Verizon, for more than three years, before
his appointment as president last year. By boosting sales at the
wireless unit, he helped the parent company grow even as it lost
home-phone customers.  McAdam helped build Verizon Wireless into the biggest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier, serving as the division’s operating chief
after its inception in 2000. He previously ran wireless provider
PrimeCo Personal Communications as CEO, worked as vice president
of international operations at AirTouch Communications and held
various roles at Pacific Bell.  The Credo  After his promotion to president last year, McAdam brought
with him a code of conduct, called the Credo, that the mobile
unit had introduced in 2002. “We know our best was good for
today. Tomorrow we’ll do better,” one part of the Credo reads.  “It’s a rallying cry for our business about what we think
is important and how we conduct ourselves,” he said. “It’s
been very well embraced, and we’ve got a journey here to learn
to live it out.”  On an internal webcast yesterday, executives praised three
employees who they said lived up to the Credo. One woman in the
finance department took the initiative to redesign how Verizon
activates accounts, saving the company $60 million, McAdam said.  McAdam is also reworking labor contracts in the landline
unit. Verizon is proposing to put union members on the same
health-care plan as management and wireless employees to cut
costs, he said.  The company has also proposed changing work rules it argues
no longer make sense. One rule from 1963 requires the company to
send two workers for service calls in  Manhattan ’s Upper East
Side, a formerly dangerous neighborhood that’s now one of  New
York ’s safest, McAdam said.  ‘Radical Change’  “They understand that the business has changed and our
relationship needs to evolve,” McAdam said. “It will give us a
brighter future from a growth perspective, instead of being kind
of an antiquated phone company that slowly loses business and
eventually goes out of business.”  Verizon’s union contract is scheduled to expire Aug. 6,
said Ron Collins, chief of staff at the  Communications Workers
of America .  “We’re not as optimistic as Lowell is,” he said. “Things
are moving very slowly in negotiations.”  Verizon is seeking hundreds of concessions and hasn’t
withdrawn any, Collins said. While the union is willing to make
reasonable changes in work rules, the health-care proposal is a
“radical change” that will increase co-payments and deductibles
for workers, he said. Verizon is a profitable company that
isn’t in danger of going out of business, he said.  ‘Balanced Growth’  Verizon will lose its title as the No. 1 mobile carrier if
AT&T completes its $39 billion T-Mobile purchase, announced in
March. AT&T said this week it expects to complete the deal,
which combines the No. 2 and No. 4 carriers, in the first
quarter of next year. The takeover is being reviewed by the  U.S.
Federal Communications Commission  and the  Justice Department .  McAdam, who started his private-sector career in 1983 as
the old Ma Bell was being broken into pieces, will also need to
help Verizon succeed in an industry in which Apple and  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  are gaining more power.  The iPhone and phones running Google’s Android operating
system represent the fastest-growing part of the mobile-device
market, with Apple and Google being both rivals and partners to
Verizon. Apple and Google market mobile applications that
compete with Verizon’s products, even as the iPhone and Android
phones operate on Verizon Wireless’s network.  Verizon Wireless gained 2.3 million iPhone customers last
quarter, the first full period it carried the device. AT&T won
3.6 million iPhone users in the period. AT&T cut the price of
the older 3GS model to $49 to entice customers to stay, while
the latest iPhone version costs $199 at both AT&T and Verizon.  AT&T’s four-year U.S. exclusivity deal for the iPhone ended
in February when Verizon began selling the device. AT&T, which
trails Verizon in mobile-phone subscribers, said it added
331,000 contract customers last quarter and 1.1 million total
wireless users, half of Verizon’s 2.2 million additions.  “Doubling up AT&T is very strong performance,” McAdam said.
“We’re showing really balanced growth across the portfolio.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  