-- 
Verizon, Motorola, Fake Apple Stores, Kardashian: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-22T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/verizon-teva-motorola-kardashian-intellectual-property.html
A U.S. trade agency said it will let
stand a judge’s finding that  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  infringed
a patent owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and said it will
considering banning imports of Cablevision set-top boxes.  Verizon filed the patent-infringement complaint last year
at the U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington ,
seeking an order that would block imports of set-top boxes by
Bethpage, New York-based Cablevision. The ITC’s decision was
posted on its website yesterday.  Teva Settles Litigation With Novartis Over Generic Lotrel  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  settled patent
litigation related to its generic versions of  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
Lotrel blood-pressure drug.  Financial terms of the settlement are confidential, Petach
Tikva, Israel-based Teva said yesterday in a regulatory filing.
U.S. District Judge Garrett E. Brown Jr. in  Newark , New Jersey,
approved the dismissal of the litigation in an order signed
yesterday, according to a court filing.  “Novartis strongly believes in defending the intellectual
property rights and patents of all our products and will
continue to vigorously defend the validity of our patents,” the
 Basel , Switzerland-based company said in an e-mailed statement.
“Under the agreement, Teva admits to the validity of the
Novartis patents and that they have been infringed and has
agreed to all claims for patent infringement and damages.”  Novartis, based in Basel,  Switzerland , sued Teva in
September 2004 to stop the world’s largest maker of generic
drugs from selling a copycat version of Lotrel, which Novartis
said was covered by a patent until December 2017.  Teva, which denied its product infringed the patent, was
cleared to resume selling its version of Lotrel in June 2007
after U.S. District Judge Harold Ackerman in Newark lifted a ban
imposed the month before.  The cases are Novartis Corp. vs. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA
Inc., 04-cv-4473 and 08-cv-0686, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Newark).  Icahn Urges Motorola Mobility to Explore Options for Patents  Billionaire Carl Icahn urged Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. to explore alternatives for its patents after Nortel
Networks Corp. sold a portfolio of wireless patents for $4.5
billion.  Motorola Mobility’s “patent portfolio, which is
substantially larger than Nortel Networks’ and includes numerous
patents concerning 4G technologies, has significant value,”
Icahn said in a securities filing yesterday. “There may be
multiple ways to realize such value given the current heightened
market demand for intellectual property in the mobile
telecommunications industry.”  Nortel, which filed for bankruptcy in 2009, said on June 30
it would sell more than 6,000 patents to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Microsoft
Corp., Research In Motion Ltd. and three other companies. The
bid was five times the $900 million offered before an auction by
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , which makes the Android software used by Motorola
and other mobile-phone makers.  Google and Apple are also among companies weighing possible
bids for InterDigital Inc., a mobile-phone technology designer,
a person with knowledge of the situation said this week.  Vostu Fires Back at Zynga in Computer-Games Copyright Suit  Vostu USA Inc.  responded to a copyright lawsuit brought by
Zynga Inc. by alleging that the San Francisco-based game company
is the actual infringer.  Zynga sued Vostu in federal court in San Jose,  California ,
on June 16, accusing the company of infringing its Café World,
PetVille, Zynga Poker and FarmVille games. That complaint
contained color images of many elements in Vostu’s games that
Zynga claims infringed its copyrights.  In its July 20 response to the complaint, New York-based
Vostu said Zynga’s allegations “are at their foundation a
vicious effort to malign Vostu for competing.” Vostu’s games
are popular in Latin America, particularly  Brazil , where the
company released a soccer-oriented social game in 2009.  Vostu claims Zynga’s suit was motivated by the San
Francisco company’s entry into Brazil; Vostu’s arrival on
Facebook Inc.’s social media site, “which Zynga claims as its
exclusive turf;” and Zynga’s initial public offering. Zynga
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission July 1,
seeking to raise as much as $1 billion in its initial public
offering.  Zynga’s infringement claims against Vostu “are not just
deeply cynical. They also mask a fatal flaw in Zynga’s case:
Zynga cannot claim copyright protection over material that Zynga
did not originally create,” Vostu said in its pleadings.  Many of the elements Zynga claimed were infringed by Vostu
were in fact present in other companies’ games, Vostu said in
court papers.  Vostu asked the court to declare it doesn’t infringe
Zynga’s copyrights, and for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The company is represented by  Andrew P. Bridges  and
 Jennifer A. Golinveaux  of  Chicago ’s Winston & Strawn LLP.  The case is Zynga Inc., v. Vostu USA Inc., 5:11-cv-02959-
EJD, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California ( San
Jose ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Blogger Who Discovered Fake Apple Stores Seeks Photos  The expatriate American blogger who discovered fake  Apple
Inc.  stores in  China  invited readers  to submit photos of other
such stores they consider counterfeits.  In a July 21 posting, the blogger -- who uses
“BirdAbroad” as her online name -- said she will post
submitted photos on her blog. She cautioned readers to check the
Cupertino, California-based company’s website first to make sure
the store in question isn’t on Apple’s list of authorized
resellers.  She  found and photographed  what initially appeared to be an
Apple store in Kumming, China. She said she then walked around a
few blocks and discovered two more faux Apple outlets.  The
blogger wrote that, “Apple’s own website will tell you that
they only have a few stores in Beijing and  Shanghai , opened only
recently; Apple famously opens new stores painstakingly,
presumably to assure impeccable standards and lots of customer
demand.”  A few tell-tale signs alerted her that something wasn’t
quite right with the store, she said. The signs said, “Apple
Store,” something Apple doesn’t do. And she noted that the
employees’ nametags said “staff,” instead of giving the
employee’s name.  She “ struck up some conversation with these salespeople
who, hand to God, all genuinely think they work for Apple.” The
Wall Street Journal  reported  that one employee acknowledged it
wasn’t an authorized outlet.  According to her website , the blogger is a 27-year-old who
works in Kumming for an international public health
organization.  Kim Kardashian  Sues Gap Over Lookalike Used in Commercial  Kim Kardashian , daughter of the  late Robert Kardashian ,
sued  Gap Inc. (GPS)  for infringing her intellectual-property rights.  She is one of three daughters of the lawyer, who was a
member of O.J. Simpson’s legal team when the ex-football star
was tried for the murder of his wife in 1995. Kim Kardashian won
fame, together with her siblings and mother, for their
participation in the “ Keeping up With the Kardashians”  reality
television program.  In her complaint filed July 20 in federal court in  Los
Angeles , Kardashian accused the San Francisco-based clothing
company’s Old Navy unit of infringing her rights by using a
celebrity lookalike in a  commercial . After the Old Navy
commercial aired, the public was confused about whether she was
associated with the chain, she said.  Kardashian said she was never contacted by Gap about its
use of her image and claims she was damaged by the
misappropriation of her name and likeness.  She asked the court to bar further infringement, and for
awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.
Kardashian also requested that Gap be assessed extra damages to
punish the company for its actions.  Kardashian is represented by  Gary A. Hecker  and  James M.
Slominski  of  The Hecker Law Group  of Los Angeles.  Gap didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  The case is Kim Kardashian v. The Gap, 2:11-cv-05960, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Latham Adds Paul Hastings Patent Specialist to IP Practice  Latham & Watkins LLP hired Mark Koehn for its intellectual-
property practice, the Los Angeles-based firm said in an e-
mailed statement.  Koehn, who does patent litigation work, has worked for
clients whose technologies included medical devices,
pharmaceuticals, software and electronics. He has represented
clients in federal courts and before the U.S. International
Trade Commission.  He previously practiced at Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker
LLP of Los Angeles and at San Francisco’s Pillsbury Winthrop
Shaw Pittman LLC, according to Bloomberg data.  Before he was a lawyer, Koehn was an information technology
consultant to a predecessor to  Accenture Plc. (ACN)   Koehn has an undergraduate degree in operations research
and industrial engineering from Cornell University and a law
degree from Georgetown University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 