-- 
Vietnam Says Monthly Trade Deficit Is $200 Million in July

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-22T09:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/vietnam-says-monthly-trade-deficit-is-200-million-in-july.html
Vietnam  recorded a trade deficit of
$200 million or less for the second straight month, after the
government devalued the nation’s currency in February by the
most since at least 1993 to help reduce the gap.  The trade deficit was $200 million in July, up from a
revised shortfall of $160 million in June, based on preliminary
figures released by the General Statistics Office in Hanoi today.
For the seven months through July, the deficit reached $6.64
billion.  Vietnam devalued the dong for the fourth time in 15 months
on Feb. 11, by about 7 percent, to try and curb the shortfall.
The  State Bank  of Vietnam has added $4 billion to its foreign
reserves, the government said yesterday, as officials strive to
ensure sufficient funds to cover the  trade gap  and pay creditors.  “What you look at from a balance of payments point of view
is the extent to which foreign-exchange reserves cover imports,
and at the moment in Vietnam’s case it’s around or less than two
months of imports, which is too low,” said  Thomas Harr , the
Singapore-based head of Asian foreign exchange strategy at
Standard Chartered Plc.  The benchmark VN Index of stocks fell 0.9 percent today,
while the dong weakened 0.1 percent as of 3:04 p.m. Hanoi time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vietnam’s “large” trade deficit has weakened its foreign
reserves, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. said in June. Still, the
risk of a balance-of-payments crisis is “fairly low” because
the deficit is funded by steady inflows such as foreign direct
investment and remittances, Goldman Sachs said.  Industrial Imports  The Southeast Asian nation mostly exports agricultural and
low-cost manufactured products, such as garments and footwear,
and imports higher value-added industrial and manufacturing
items, partly explaining the size of the trade deficit,
 Singapore ’s  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  said last month.  The State Bank of Vietnam has added $4 billion to its
foreign reserves, according to a document released by Deputy
Prime Minister Nguyen Sinh Hung on July 21 in Hanoi. It did not
specify the period for the increase.  The reserves climbed by $900 million in May to $13.5
billion, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Exports fell to $8.4 billion in July from a revised $8.46
billion in June, today’s report showed. For the seven months
through July, they climbed 33.5 percent to $51.46 billion.  Imports fell to $8.6 billion in July from a revised $8.62
billion in June. For the seven months through July, they
advanced 26.2 percent to $58.1 billion.  Vietnam is struggling to contain the highest inflation in
 Asia  and prevent a further credit-rating downgrade. The VN Index
has declined about 18 percent in the past year, the world’s
third-worst slide, on concern price gains will hurt economic
growth.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Sunil Jagtiani,
K. Oanh Ha  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  