-- 
Vodafone Quarterly Service Growth Beats Estimates on Data Revenue Surge

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-22T07:14:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/vodafone-reports-slowing-service-sales-growth-on-spain-italy.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone company, reported better-than-expected
service revenue growth for the fiscal first quarter as demand
for phones that can surf the Web bolstered data sales.  Service revenue excluding currency swings and acquisitions
in the three months through June rose 1.5 percent, the company
said today. Analysts estimated growth of 1.4 percent. Data
revenue grew by 25 percent as more consumers used so-called
smartphones. Service sales include voice, data, messaging and
broadband services. It excludes handsets and accessories.  “It’s a robust set of numbers, if anything slightly ahead
of what people were looking for,” said Morten Singleton, an
analyst at Investec Securities in London.  Vodafone, based in Newbury,  England , has sought to drive
data sales from smartphones including Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
handsets running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software to counter
declining European service revenue. Total sales rose 3.5 percent
to 11.7 billion pounds ($19.1 billion) in the fiscal first
quarter, the company said today.  The stock rose as much as 2 percent to 164.50 pence in
London trading and was up 1.5 percent as of 8:07 a.m. Before
today, the shares declined 2.7 percent this year, while the FTSE
100 benchmark index was unchanged.  “We have made a good start to the year, reporting robust
results despite challenging macroeconomic conditions across
southern European economies and the impact of cuts to mobile
termination rates,” Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao said
today in the statement.  Spanish Woes  Organic service revenue growth still slowed from a 2.5
percent increase in the prior quarter because of a decline in
southern European markets and a cut in U.K. mobile-phone fees.
In  Spain , where the company recently replaced its top manager,
Vodafone is struggling to boost sales amid the highest
 unemployment rate  in Europe.  In Spain, service revenue declined by 9.9 percent. Colao
said today the company decided to cut prices in the country to
be more competitive, adding that Vodafone isn’t considering
reducing its workforce.  The decline in Spain compares with growth of 32 percent in
Turkey, 17 percent in  India , 1.7 percent in the U.K. and 0.2
percent in  Germany , the company’s biggest market.  Under Colao, annual sales from mobile data have climbed to
more than 5 billion pounds since he took control of the company
in 2008.  Smartphone Sales Boom  The British operator has said it plans to increase the
percentage of sales from smartphones in  Europe  to about 70
percent in the fiscal year ending March 2013 from 30 percent
last year. The company is switching to tiered pricing plans
based on the amount of data used and quality of service.  Vodafone said in May it will write down the value of its
businesses in Spain,  Greece , Portugal, Italy and Ireland by 6.1
billion pounds, following higher discount rates. Italy and Spain
are the second- and third-biggest markets for the company after
Germany.  The company reiterated its full-year forecast. Vodafone is
also seeking a dividend from its 45 percent stake in  Verizon
Wireless , the largest U.S. wireless provider. Chief Financial
Officer Andy Halford said in June the company could potentially
get an annual payment of as much as $5.5 billion.  Minority Asset Sales  Colao this month completed his plan to unwind some of his
predecessors’ takeovers with the sale of Vodafone’s 24 percent
holding in Poland’s Polkomtel SA for about 920 million euros
($1.3 billion). Arun Sarin pushed Vodafone into markets such as
Ghana and  Turkey . Christopher Gent led Vodafone through a six-
year $300 billion acquisition spree.  Colao, who became deputy CEO in October 2006 and was
promoted to the top job in July 2008, has generated 12 percent
in annualized returns for Vodafone shareholders under his watch,
according to Bloomberg data. That compares with a 7 percent
increase under Sarin and a 26 percent slump under Gent.  Under Colao, Vodafone has sold a minority stake in China
Mobile Ltd. and reduced its interests in  Japan ’s Softbank Corp.
It completed the sale of its 44 percent holding in French
wireless operator SFR for 7.95 billion euros in June.  While selling minority assets, Colao is consolidating the
company’s operations in existing markets. The company said March
31 it will acquire an additional stake in its Indian venture
after partner Essar Group exercised an option to sell down its
holding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  