-- 
Wheat May Decline on Cheaper Russian Exports, Rabobank Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-07-22T16:44:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/wheat-may-decline-on-cheaper-russian-exports-rabobank-says-1-.html
Wheat futures may fall in the next
three months as Russian grain that’s less expensive than U.S.
and European supplies becomes available, and corn prices will be
determined by weather, Rabobank International said.  Wheat futures will average $7.05 a bushel in the third
quarter this year and $7 a bushel in the fourth quarter, down
from $7.53 a bushel from April through June, Rabobank said. Corn
prices will probably decline from second-quarter average price
of $7.33 a bushel, averaging $7 in the third quarter and $6.80
in the fourth, according to the report.  Russia on July 1 ended an export ban on grains after the
worst drought in 50 years curbed production last year. Importers
will turn to cheaper supplies of wheat, cutting exports from the
U.S. and  Europe  and bringing down prices, Rabobank said. Corn
prices may be underpinned by hot, dry weather, the report said.  “Russian export prices have eased considerably and are
undercutting those of other exporters,” Rabobank analysts Luke
Chandler, Erin FitzPatrick and Keith Flury said in the report.
“In line with our previous forecasts, we continue to expect an
easing in wheat values over the second half of 2011 and 2012.”  Wheat futures have fallen 15 percent this year on
speculation that the availability of Russian wheat would cut
exports from the U.S. The grain may average $7 a bushel in the
first quarter of 2012 and $6.50 in the second quarter, according
to Rabobank.  U.S. Corn  Hot, dry weather in the U.S., which followed excessive
rainfall that slowed planting, could underpin corn prices,
according to the report. Corn may still decline, Rabobank said.  “We maintain our view as indicated last month that lower
corn prices are more likely over the second half of 2011 than we
have seen in the first half of the year but with less confidence
due to increasing yield risk in the U.S. caused by adverse
weather developments,” according to the report.  Soybeans will outperform corn in the second half of 2011 as
the U.S. crop may decline, Rabobank said. The price may average
$13.75 a bushel in the third quarter this year, up from $13.63 a
bushel in the second quarter, according to the report.  “We raise our nearby soybean price forecast as
fundamentals turn increasingly bullish due to lower-than-
expected U.S. production,” Rabobank said. “U.S. soybean is
likely to drop to a three-year low due to lower harvested area
and poor weather.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony C. Dreibus at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net  