-- 
Winnie, Tigger Search for Donkey’s Tail, Made-Up Monster: Film

-- B y   J a c o b   H e n k o f f
-- 
2011-07-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/winnie-tigger-search-for-donkey-s-tail-made-up-monster-film.html
Winnie the Pooh is out of honey and
Eeyore has lost his tail.  Never fear, though. Disney turns the dire situation into an
enchanting tale featuring a mysterious monster, a playful score
and charming narration by John Cleese.  “ Winnie the Pooh ” marks the hive-raiding bear’s fifth
feature-film appearance and first since 2005’s “Poof Heffalump
Movie.” Cleverly directed by Stephen Anderson and Don Hall,
it’s a joyous experience that should appeal to children and
adults alike.  Several times, the movie literally connects to its roots --
the classic children’s books about Winnie and his animal friends
written by A.A. Milne in the 1920s. Pooh uses the letters of the
book as a ladder, and he and Eeyore the gloomy donkey stroll on
a walkway made of words from the books.  While searching for Eeyore’s tail, Winnie and the other
residents of Hundred Acre Wood attempt to trap Backson, an
imaginary monster they think has kidnapped Christopher Robin
(Jack Boulter). In a sparkling sequence animated through Owl’s
chalkboard, the creatures imagine that Backson has the power to
stop clocks, put holes in socks and scribble in their books.  Songwriter Robert Lopez, who showed his raunchier side in
“The Book of Mormon” and “Avenue Q,” penned all but one of
the catchy original tunes with his wife, Kristen Anderson-Lopez.
My favorite was “The Tummy Song,” in which Winnie is
accompanied by his growling belly (hummed by Lopez).  Double-Duty  Actress/musician Zooey Deschanel sings the uplifting
opening and closing songs, “A Very Important Thing to Do” and
“So Long,” which she also wrote.  Jim Cummings does double-duty as well, voicing Winnie and
the irrepressible Tigger. Though he’s been doing Winnie for
decades, Cummings manages to make the character fresh.  Other animal voices include Anderson-Lopez (Kanga), Craig Ferguson (Owl), Bud Luckey (Eeyore), Travis Oates (Piglet),
Wyatt Dean Hall (Roo) and Tom Kenny (Rabbit).  “Winnie the Pooh” lasts only 68 minutes, but it packs
more punch than a lot of bloated summer movies. And make sure
you stick around until the very end. After the credits roll,
there’s a witty postscript featuring an unexpected visitor from
Hundred Acre Wood.  “Winnie the Pooh,” from  Walt Disney Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ***1/2  (Jacob Henkoff writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jacob Henkoff in  New York  at 
 jhenkoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 