-- 
Twitter Is Said to Buy Employee Stock With Half of $800 Million in Funding

-- B y   J o n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-07-22T19:39:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/twitter-is-said-to-buy-employee-stock-with-half-of-800-million-in-funding.html
Twitter Inc. is close to raising
$800 million in funding and will use half the money to buy back
shares from its employees and backers, according to two people
with knowledge of the plan.  The investment, which values Twitter at $8 billion, is
being led by Digital Sky Technologies and may be completed in
the next two weeks, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the funding hasn’t been made public.  Twitter’s staff of about 600 workers will get the chance to
capitalize on their shares through private investors, rather
than having to wait for an initial public offering. The company
has remained on the sidelines during this year’s resurgence in
IPOs. LinkedIn Corp., a professional-networking site, went
public in May. Since then, Pandora Media Inc. sold shares, and
Groupon Inc. and Zynga Inc. have filed for their own offerings.  Twitter’s worth has more than doubled since December, when
it received a $200 million investment led by Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers that gave it a $3.7 billion valuation. It was
pegged at about $1 billion in 2009, a person familiar with the
matter said at the time. SharesPost Inc., an exchange for shares
of closely held companies, has assessed  Twitter’s current worth 
at $7 billion.  Investors are enticed by the popularity of Twitter’s
service, which lets users share 140-character messages. Its
members include celebrities, executives and President  Barack
Obama , who together send more than  200 million messages  a day.
The company is working to make money from those users by selling
advertising.  Sean Garrett , a spokesman for San Francisco-based Twitter,
declined to comment.  The fundraising was previously reported by technology blog
AllThingsDigital and the New York Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jon Erlichman in New York at 
 Jerlichman1@bloomberg.net @bloomberg.net  Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  