-- 
Xerox Profit Increases 41% on Cost Cutting, Services Revenue

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-07-22T13:49:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/xerox-profit-increases-41-on-cost-cutting-services-revenue-1-.html
Xerox Corp. (XRX) , the provider of
printers and business services, reported a 41 percent increase
in second-quarter profit after reducing costs and boosting
revenue from services.  Net income rose to $319 million, or 22 cents a share, from
$227 million, or 16 cents, a year earlier, Norwalk, Connecticut-
based Xerox said today in a statement. Profit, excluding some
costs, rose to 27 cents a share. Analysts had estimated 24 cents
on average, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Chief Executive Officer Ursula Burns has said the
earthquake that struck  Japan  in March, which hurt the company’s
suppliers, will affect Xerox in the second and third quarters.
Burns is also trying to cut costs after last year’s $6 billion
purchase of Affiliated Computer Services Inc., Xerox’s largest
ever.  “We continue to believe Xerox is best positioned within
the copier industry following the Japanese earthquake,” said
 Shannon Cross , an analyst at Cross Research who rates the stock
“buy” and doesn’t own it. “Recent discussions we have had
with Fuji Xerox point to strength in Xerox’s end markets.”  The company may save more than $375 million in three years
as a result of the ACS takeover, Xerox has said.  Revenue climbed 1.9 percent to $5.61 billion, compared with
the average analyst estimate of $5.64 billion.  Xerox said it plans to resume its stock buyback program
this quarter and purchase about $700 million in stock through
the second half of the year. Chief Financial Officer Luca Maestri said in May at an investor briefing that Xerox will
spend at least 70 percent of its available cash this year on
share buybacks, starting in the third quarter.  Xerox fell 6 cents to $10.24 at 9:44 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange trading and had dropped 11 percent this year before
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 