-- 
Euro Falls on Greece Bailout Concern; Krone Drops on Bomb Blast, Shooting

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-07-22T22:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/yen-falls-as-easing-concern-over-europe-s-crisis-damps-demand-for-safety.html
The euro dropped for the first time
in four days against the dollar on concern measures announced by
European Union officials yesterday to contain Greece’s debt
crisis won’t be enough to quell regional turmoil.  The dollar rose from a four-month low against the yen
before House Speaker  John Boehner  withdrew from negotiations
with the White House on a broad deficit-reduction package and
said he will instead talk with Senate leaders on a way to avoid
a U.S. default. Norway’s krone fell versus the dollar after a
deadly bomb blast in Oslo. The 17-nation euro pared its weekly
gain as  Fitch Ratings  said Greece faces “restricted default”
after euro-area leaders agreed on a new bailout for the nation
that would involve contributions from bondholders.  “Right now you have a bit of relief that they were able to
come up with a viable plan, but it doesn’t address some of the
longer-term structural issues,” said Carl Forcheski, a director
on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in
New York. “The euro came down a little bit, had a reaction to
yesterday’s run-up.”  The euro fell 0.5 percent to $1.4360 at 5 p.m. in New York,
from $1.4425 yesterday, after reaching $1.4439, the highest
level since July 6. The shared currency still gained 1.4 percent
this week. The dollar climbed 0.3 percent to 78.54 yen after
touching 78.22, the lowest level since the day before the Group
of Seven intervened to weaken  Japan ’s currency following the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Oslo Blast  Norway’s krone dropped after the bomb blast in Oslo killed
seven people and shattered windows at the office of Prime
Minister Jens Stoltenberg, who was reported safe. The blast was
followed by a shooting at a Labor Party youth gathering that
left four dead, the Varden newspaper reported. The krone slid
0.3 percent to 5.4144 versus the dollar.  The Canadian dollar fell from almost a three-year high
after a government report showed the nation’s inflation rate
slowed last month more than economists forecast. The loonie
depreciated 0.5 percent to 94.80 U.S. cents after reaching 94.23
yesterday, the strongest level since November 2007.  Consumer prices advanced 3.1 percent in June from a year
earlier after a 3.7 percent gain in the previous month,
 Statistics Canada  said. The median forecast of 24 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey was for a 3.6 percent rate of increase.  U.S. Debt Talks  President Barack Obama and Boehner have confronted strife
within their ranks and dwindling time to avert a default as they
pressed for a plan to boost the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt
limit. The two leaders had discussed cutting spending by
trillions of dollars and overhauling the  tax code .  “A deal was never reached, and was never really close,”
Boehner said in a letter prepared for distribution to House
colleagues. “In the end, we couldn’t connect.”  Europe ’s shared currency was little changed at 1.1762 Swiss
francs, after falling as much as 0.5 percent, and slid 0.2
percent to 112.77 yen on revised demand for a refuge following
the European debt agreement.  Greece  would be cut to “RD,” or “restricted default,”
if the plan is implemented, Fitch said today in an e-mailed
statement. The ratings company lowered Greece by three levels to
“CCC” on July 13.  Europe Plan  “The proposed debt exchange implies a 20 percent net
present value loss for banks and other holders of Greek
government debt,” the statement said. “An exchange that offers
new securities with terms that are worse than the original
contractual terms of the existing debt and where the sovereign
is subject to financial distress constitutes a default event
under Fitch’s ‘coercive debt-exchange criteria.’”  Euro-area leaders announced yesterday after eight hours of
talks in Brussels 159 billion euro ($229 billion) in new aid for
Greece, with bondholders agreeing to contribute to the package.
They also expanded the role of the 440-billion euro rescue fund
to buy debt across distressed nations, assist troubled banks and
offer credit lines.  “It represents a positive step forward in easing fiscal
adjustment for the periphery, but crucially fails to
significantly reduce solvency concerns,”  Lee Hardman , a
currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
 London , wrote in a research note to clients. “A continuation of
solvency concerns will leave the door open for contagion fears
to rebuild.”  A gauge of Asian currencies touched a 14-year high as the
pledge of more assistance for Greece supported demand for
emerging-market assets. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar
Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-traded currencies
excluding the yen, reached the highest level since August 1997.  South Korea ’s won touched 1,050.05 per dollar, the
strongest level since August 2008, before trading at 1,051.98.
 China ’s yuan rose to a 17-year high.  Greek two-year notes rallied, pushing the yield down as
much as 8.15 percentage points to 25.66 percent in the biggest
decrease on a closing basis since May 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  