-- 
Zielinska Says Polish Rates May Rise With Core Inflation Over 2%

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 
2011-07-22T12:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-22/zielinska-says-polish-rates-may-rise-with-core-inflation-over-2-.html
The Polish central bank should
continue tightening monetary policy as long as  core inflation 
rate stays above 2 percent, which indicates “sustained
inflation pressure,” said Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, a member of
the rate-setting Monetary Policy Council.  Zielinska-Glebocka spoke in a July 21 interview in Gdansk.  On core inflation:  “The core inflation rate is also high, which means we’re
dealing with price-growth spillover. It’s too early to say core
inflation has stabilized. I don’t know if we will see further
growth, but any level above 2 percent is high and alarming,
because it shows sustained inflation pressure. As long as core
inflation stays above this level, I don’t see any possibility of
announcing that we’re done with monetary tightening and that the
inflation threat is over.  “If the core inflation rate keeps rising, that would be an
argument for further interest rate increases, but I don’t want
to speculate whether this should happen in the autumn or is
better delayed until next year. We have two options: act now to
adjust  interest rates  and observe the results, or pause until
the beginning of next year and react as the circumstances
warrant.”  On monetary policy:  “The current level of interest rates is still inadequate
to the present economic situation, and it seems to me that at
least one rate adjustment is needed, although I can’t say
whether it should be 25 basis points or perhaps 50 basis points.  “Besides core inflation, one important signal will be wage
demands. While they’ve been moderate so far and there’s no
evidence of second-round effects appearing, persistent high
inflation can spark wage pressure. That’s another reason to
extend this tightening cycle for a little while.  “Also, please remember that we have to stay ahead of the
curve to nip wage pressures in the bud and avoid an inflation
spiral. If we act now, we can stabilize prices in the future.
With that outlook in mind, perhaps it’s worth taking stronger
measures now to secure the economy against future price growth.  “Real interest rates are very low, so I’m not concerned
that we’ll hurt economic activity. Economic growth, particularly
in the short and medium term, is driven by demand and especially
by consumer demand. If there’s high inflation, consumers will
put off spending.  “I’m not sure the tightening to date is enough to bring
inflation to the target. It’s too early to see the effects, as
three or four quarters are usually required for that. The key
will be what happens in the first half of 2012. It’s certainly
too early to announce the end of monetary restrictiveness.  “The trends we’re observing now justify one or two hikes
within the next two to three quarters, although I wouldn’t set
the timing now. I wouldn’t prejudge the scope, either, because I
don’t expect the economy to overheat.  “Right now we’re coping with market turmoil and a lot of
uncertainty in the global economy, with strong inflation
pressure coming on top of that. Price growth will gradually
abate, but we can’t allow the inflation rate to stabilize at an
elevated level. Even if it stops rising and hovers above 3.5
percent, that would still be an important reason to act.”  On the labor market:  “We can’t neglect the potential inflation risks posed by
the labor market. If we want to avoid second-round effects, we
can’t stop tightening monetary policy. We need to at least
signal that we’re vigilant and won’t allow any serious
disruption of wage-price equilibrium.  “Evident wage growth -- for example, at the pace we saw in
June -- could be an argument for increasing rates, especially if
it develops that big companies are caving in to wage demands,
because it could encourage others to follow. Some industries are
already experiencing shortages of skilled labor.  “Of course, one has to take  labor productivity  into
account, because if the latter accelerates, then unit labor
costs won’t increase. But in our case unit labor costs have
begun to rise, and if this growth increases, it would be a
signal of possible second-round effects. Unit labor costs are
one of the most important indicators of what’s happening with
real wages.”  On economic growth:  “We still have a demand gap, but it’s not big. The current
pace of economic growth is relatively safe for inflation. We’re
not yet dealing with an overheated economy.”  “I’m not sure whether the output slowdown and reluctance
to invest we see now may be a temporary reaction to the euro
area’s problems and ensuing  exchange-rate  volatility, or whether
it’s the beginning of the trend indicated by many forecasts
pointing to slower economic growth. While we’ve anticipated a
slowdown, it seems to me that what we’re now dealing with
temporary, seasonal phenomena.  “We’re more likely to see a classic cyclical slowdown in
the first half of 2012. I think we can probably sustain the
recovery this year and even if the pace of growth falls off a
bit, it will still average more than 4 percent in the second
half. In my view, there’s no risk to the 4 percent growth
forecast.”  On the zloty:  “The current exchange rate is neutral for monetary policy.
It hasn’t been a major irritant because we’re dealing with
typical short-term fluctuations. There’s no desire on the part
of the Monetary Policy Council to use the exchange rate to curb
inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net . 