-- ‘Rebecca’ Struggles Back to Life After Day in Court
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-10-10T18:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/-rebecca-struggles-back-to-life-after-day-in-court.html
“Rebecca,” the cash-starved
musical-in-development that has struggled toward Broadway for
almost two action-packed years, had another day in court.  On Monday,  New York  Supreme Court Judge Jeffrey Oing
dismissed one of three counts of a lawsuit that producers Ben
Sprecher and Louise Forlenza filed against Marc Thibodeau, the
production’s former press agent.  Thibodeau has admitted to writing pseudonymous e-mails
warning a potential investor in the show that “the walls are
about to cave in” on the production.  Oing dismissed a count that Thibodeau “breached his
fiduciary duty” to the producers, said one of Thibodeau’s
lawyers,  Marco Santori .  Defamation and breach of contract counts remain.  “Rebecca” never made it to Broadway when the funding
went poof just like Manderlay, the over-sized house infested
with her spirit.  On July 29, Mark Hotton, a former Oppenheimer & Co.
broker, pleaded guilty to two counts of  wire fraud  and admitted
he was involved in a scheme to defraud the producers. He said he
had secured $4.5 million from overseas investors to meet a
budget shortfall. Desperate for funds, the producer proved easy
to fool.  See You  In further developments, Sprecher has received a reprieve
from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. After
subpoenaing all of the production’s files, the SEC sent notice
that its investigation was complete and it’s taking no action,
said Ronald Russo, a lawyer for Sprecher.  “Obviously I’m relieved,” Russo said in an interview.  Bloomberg News  reported on the SEC investigation in April.  Sprecher, who didn’t immediately return a call today, said
earlier this year that the show’s budget had grown to as much as
$16 million, of which he had raised $5.7 million.  “We hope to see you in 2014!” Sprecher and Forlenza 
recently wrote on a “Rebecca” Facebook page, after plans were 
scuttled to open it in 2012 and 2013. Sprecher said he also has 
$2 million in escrow, which is contingent on raising enough to 
stage the show.  The civil case is Rebecca Broadway Limited Partnership v.
Hotton, 653659/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 