-- Macau’s Casino Boom Lifts Chow Sang Sang, Luk Fook Holiday Sales
-- B y   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 2013-10-10T07:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/macau-s-casino-boom-lifts-chow-sang-sang-luk-fook-holiday-sales.html
Luk Fook Holdings International Ltd. (590) 
and  Chow Sang Sang Holdings International Ltd. (116)  said jewelry
sales during the week-long Chinese holiday were boosted by
 Macau , where growth continued to outpace Hong Kong’s.  While sales in Hong Kong probably increased by more than 10
percent during the Oct. 1 to Oct. 7 Chinese holiday, Macau
stores posted gains three to five percentage points higher, Lau
Hak Bun, Chow Sang Sang’s sales operations director, said in an
interview.  Macau, the world’s biggest gaming strip, is pulling in more
tourists as casino operators add shopping malls, spas and shows
to woo family-oriented visitors. The former Portuguese colony
posted economic growth exceeding 10 percent in the second
quarter, compared with Hong Kong’s 3.3 percent.  “We have seen increasing purchases by visitors traveling
with their families in Macau during this holiday,” Lau said.  Chow Sang Sang and Luk Fook are the biggest jewelry store
operators in Hong Kong after  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929) 
The October week-long holiday is known as the Golden Week.  More than 28 million people visited Macau last year, with
60 percent of them from China. Arrivals from the mainland to the
gaming city jumped 12.1 percent to 722,746 during the holiday,
the Macau Government Tourism Office said.  Tourism Boom  “Golden Week jewelry sales growth in Macau have surpassed
Hong Kong for the past two to three years, thanks to the tourism
boom along with the development of the gambling industry,” Wong Wai Sheung, chief executive officer of Luk Fook, said in an
interview. The company owns 37 jewelry store outlets in Hong
Kong and nine in Macau, according to its interim statement in
March.  Jewelry buyers in Macau are also more likely to buy
diamonds and gemstones, giving store operators a higher profit
margin, Chow Sang Sang’s Lau said. The company has four outlets
in the gaming city, and 55 in Hong Kong, according to its
website.  Luk Fook and Chow Sang Sang are benefiting from Macau’s
attempt to become China’s top leisure spot, with casino
operators increasing hotel room supplies.  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the Macau casino operator controlled by
billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , said in a statement this week that
visitors during the holiday jumped 23 percent to a record 1.5
million people. Its hotels were fully occupied on three days.  MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282)  broke ground on a $2.6 billion
resort in Cotai, Macau, in February.  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  plans to
develop a hotel with Italian fashion house Gianni Versace SpA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Grant Clark at 
 gclark@bloomberg.net  