-- Activision Stock Deal Allowed to Proceed by Court
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-10-11T07:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/activision-stock-deal-allowed-to-proceed-by-court.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the
largest U.S. video-game publisher, may proceed with a $5.83
billion share buyback and the management-led purchase of $2.34
billion in company stock, a Delaware court ruled.  The Delaware Supreme Court issued its oral ruling following
arguments yesterday, sending Activision shares up 4.7 percent.
Activision had appealed Delaware Chancery Court Judge J. Travis Laster’s Sept. 18 decision that it must hold a shareholder vote
on the sale of the $8.2 billion in stock -- all of it by parent
 Vivendi SA. (VIV)   “There is no reasonable possibility of success on the
merits,” Chief Justice Myron Steele wrote for the court in a
one-page order. “The stock purchase agreement here contested is
not a merger, business combination or similar transaction.”  The court’s decision ensures independence for Activision,
the largest U.S. video-game company, through the $8.2 billion
transaction announced in July and led by Chief Executive Officer
Bobby Kotick. Activision will use cash and take on debt to
purchase shares held by Vivendi for $13.60 each, or $5.83
billion. Kotick and his partners, who include co-Chairman  Brian Kelly , Chinese video-game publisher  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , Davis
Advisors and Leonard Green & Partners, will pay $2.34 billion
for about a 25 percent stake.  Activision rose 77 cents to $17.05 in  New York  yesterday,
taking its gains this year to 61 percent. Vivendi added 1.1
percent to 18.34 euros at 9:24 a.m. in Paris.  Last Obstacle  The ruling clears what may be the last obstacle to the
Activision buyback, which will put the games maker “in a
position to be more financially flexible,”  Michael Pachter , an
analyst at Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles , wrote in a
research note.  “The company communicates clearly, executes well, and its
management appears to truly understand how to make money,” said
Pachter, who has a “buy” rating on the shares and a target
price of $22.  An Activision shareholder sued Sept. 11 in Chancery Court,
arguing the transaction would allow Kotick’s and Kelly’s group
to exercise control of the company. Lawyers for the shareholder
alleged the stock-purchase agreement was a merger involving
Activision and Vivendi and required approval by a majority vote
of investors outside Vivendi.  ‘Widespread Affirmation’  William Savitt, an attorney for Activision, countered
yesterday that the transaction creates future value for
shareholders.  “This transaction has received widespread affirmation from
every corner of the market,” Savitt told the five justices at
the hearing in Dover. “There is no reason to think this
wouldn’t be widely approved by any faction of shareholders.”  Plaintiff attorney Michael Hanrahan said that shareholders,
and not market reception, should decide what’s in their best
interest.  “It’s a huge transaction,” he said. “$5.83 billion is
flowing out of Activision to a controlling stockholder.”  Hanrahan declined to comment on the ruling.  Completion of the deal would end five years of control by
the French media and telecommunications company and give Kotick
the freedom to pursue overseas expansion or new digital ventures
without oversight. Activision, the maker of “Call of Duty” and
“Skylanders,” has increased revenue every year since Vivendi
purchased a controlling stake, yet it hasn’t actively pursued
new digital ventures with the same fervor as  Electronic Arts
Inc. (EA)  and  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) , two of its largest
competitors.  Reduce Stake  Last year, Vivendi canvassed possible buyers for its 61
percent Activision stake. Microsoft Corp. and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) 
were among those that demurred, people with knowledge of the
matter said at the time. Kotick and his buyout group finally
struck a deal after Activision shares rose enough to allow
Vivendi to get cash, while Activision still was able to buy out
the stock at a discount.  The sale would reduce Vivendi’s stake to 12 percent and
make the investor group the largest shareholder, with 25 percent
of the stock. Vivendi plans to complete the sale of the stake on
or about Oct. 15, the company said in an e-mail.  Justices asked numerous questions yesterday about the
structure of the deal, how it differed from a business
combination and its value to shareholders.  ‘Good Deal’  “There is almost universal belief that this is a good deal
for the stockholders,” Steele said.  Justices took issue with Laster’s conversion of a temporary
restraining order to a more punitive preliminary injunction. The
customary length of a restraining order is 10 days to maintain
the status quo in a case after a lawsuit has been filed, Steele
said.  “Should they have anticipated the vice chancellor would do
that?” Steele asked Hanrahan. “While you thought you were
brought to a knife fight, it’s actually a gunfight at the end of
the day.”  In his Sept. 18 ruling, Laster told lawyers that Activision
was barred from proceeding with the transactions until there was
either a trial on the merits, receipt of a favorable stockholder
vote or modification of an injunction by the court.  ‘Zero Notice’  Had Laster issued only a temporary restraining order, the
parties would have been in court in about a week, Justice Jack B. Jacobs said.  Activision “had zero notice of the conversion,” Savitt
said.  “The vice chancellor said, ‘if you don’t like my ruling go
to the  Supreme Court ,’” Savitt told the justices.  Activision’s minority shareholders stood to lose a total of
$1 billion if the deal remained blocked, Edward P. Welch, an
attorney for the company, said in a Sept. 30 court filing.  Debra Dynabursky, an assistant to the chief public policy
officer at Activision, didn’t return phone messages seeking
comment on the ruling, nor did Cassandra Bujarski, a spokeswoman
for Activision with Sard Verbinnen & Co.  The case is Hayes v. Activision, CA8885, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington). The Supreme Court case is Activision v.
Hayes, 497,2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  