-- Aeroflot to Open Low-Cost Unit After EasyJet, Wizz Enter Russia
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-10-10T14:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/aeroflot-to-open-low-cost-unit-after-easyjet-wizz-enter-russia.html
OAO Aeroflot,  Russia ’s largest
airline, plans to establish a discount division at a cost of
$100 million over two years after specialist no-frills operators
 EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  and Wizz Air Ltd. targeted its home market.  The Dobrolet unit will commence domestic services next
spring using eight  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-800 planes -- the same model
employed by Ryanair Holdings Plc -- Aeroflot Chief Executive
Officer Vitaly Savelyev told reporters in Moscow today.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  last year backed plans for
low-cost flights, which will require legal changes to permit
non-refundable tickets, charging for meals and the hiring of
foreign pilots. The Aeroflot proposal comes after the failure of
previous discount startups SkyExpress and Avianova, which closed
in 2011 despite being backed by billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s
Alfa Group and U.S. private equity firm Indigo Partners.  Dobrolet -- which means “good flier” in Russian -- may
carry 1 million passengers next year and as many as 10 million
in five years, Savelyev said. State-owned Aeroflot attracted
17.7 million people last year and had sales of $8.1 billion.  Costs at the new unit will be cut by 40 percent through
direct ticket sales and a capacity boost achieved through a
reduction in seat pitch, Aeroflot said. Dobrolet, which will be
based “in the Moscow region” and initially serve the most
popular destinations in European Russia, will also charge for
checked bags, more comfortable berths and priority boarding, as
well as inflight food, its parent company said.  Luton, England-based EasyJet, Europe’s second-largest low-cost carrier after Ireland’s  Ryanair (RYA) , commenced flights from
London Gatwick airport to Moscow Domededovo on March 18 and
began serving the Russian capital from Manchester 10 days later.  Wizz, based in Hungary, added flights to Moscow Vnukovo
airport on Sept. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net  