-- Alitalia Gets Lifeline From Postal Service as Letta Seeks Rescue
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-10-10T20:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/alitalia-gets-lifeline-from-postal-service-as-letta-seeks-rescue.html
Italy ’s postal service agreed to
participate in a capital increase for  Alitalia  SpA that is part
of a rescue package brokered by the government to revive the
airline pummeled by a shrinking business and years of losses.  Poste Italiane  SpA’s contribution would help “guarantee
the resources to reach the capital increase needed to ensure the
current service,” Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s government said
in a statement today. It didn’t specify the size of the postal
service’s offering toward the refinancing, which trade unions
estimate as high as 500 million euros ($676 million).  Alitalia needs “renewal, stable shareholders and a
significant restructuring through a new business plan - Poste’s
entry is based on these conditions,” Letta’s office said.  Enlisting the support of the  postal service  follows Letta’s
push for a state-owned entity to aid the ailing airline, which
risks running out of business within days, according to the
Italian civil aviation authority. Pairing Alitalia and Poste
Italiane will offer business links ranging from Poste’s charter
company Mistral Air to cargo services, the government said.  The measures discussed by the carrier and the government
include the proposed capital increase, which is three times the
amount the carrier had sought earlier, and a bank loan of about
200 million euros, union officials said yesterday after meeting
the carrier’s CEO. Alitalia’s unions have called the company
“on the verge of bankruptcy,” and no longer self sufficient.  History Repeating  Alitalia has faced financial ruin before. The airline was
put into bankruptcy in 2008 after political and labor opposition
thwarted attempts to sell the company, which was almost 50
percent state-owned.  A group of investors, including  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,
Italy’s second-biggest bank, and  Atlantia SpA (ATL) , its No. 1 toll-road company, bought the carrier’s main assets and combined them
with smaller competitor Air One SpA before selling the stake to
 Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, which now owns about 25 percent.  Letta spent days discussing a rescue plan for Alitalia with
key management, shareholders and banks. Air France-KLM, the
largest shareholder, has said it needs more information on the
Italian airline’s finances before exploring a larger stake, and
today’s accord will help attract a partner, the government said.  “Now the integration with the foreign partner can be dealt
with from a position of equal basis,” Transport Minister
Maurizio Lupi said in a release after the government announced
the accord with the postal service.  Postal Contribution  Poste may contribute 75 million euros ($102 million) to a
300 million-euro capital increase, a person familiar with the
matter said earlier, asking not to be identified because the
talks are private. Spokesmen for Alitalia and the postal service
declined to comment.  Alitalia’s resources have been depleted by mounting losses
and competition from low-cost carriers including  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ) 
Compounding Alitalia’s woes is a threat by energy company  Eni
SpA (ENI)  to halt fuel supplies in two days unless Alitalia shows it
is able to continue operations.  Losses at the Rome-based carrier swelled to 294 million
euros in the first half and reserves fell to 128 million euros
from 159 million euros at the end of the first quarter.  Alitalia’s board, originally scheduled to meet in Rome
today, will instead convene tomorrow. The company’s priority is
to first resolve the cash shortage through new financing and a
capital increase before combining with an international player,
people familiar with the proposed rescue plan have said.  “The government expects that the shareholders take their 
responsibilities” by contributing to the carrier’s
recapitalization, Letta’s office said, adding that banks also
need to make a contribution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  