-- Alk-Abello Falls on Pollen Season Sales Risk: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-10T08:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/alk-abello-falls-on-pollen-season-sales-risk-copenhagen-mover.html
Alk-Abello A/S (ALKB) , the Danish maker of
allergy vaccines, fell in Copenhagen trading after Nordea
Markets said the U.S. government shutdown may hurt sales during
next year’s grass pollen season.  Alk-Abello fell as much as 2.1 percent, a fifth day of
declines, giving the stock its longest losing streak since the
end of March. The shares retreated 1 percent to 475 kroner at
10:03 a.m. in the Danish capital with trading volume at 137
percent of the three-month daily average.  Alk-Abello said Oct. 8 the government shutdown has forced
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to postpone a Nov. 6
meeting on its tablet-based grass pollen vaccine Grastek, which
the Hoersholm, Denmark-based drugmaker is developing with U.S.
partner Merck & Co. The meeting could be delayed until early
2014, which jeopardizes the tablet’s introduction in time for
next year’s U.S. pollen season, Nordea today said.  “As this is a seasonal product for which sell-in must take
place in March/April at the latest in order to not miss out on
the 2014 grass pollen season, there is a clear risk of a delay
to sales,” Michael Novod, an analyst at Nordea in Copenhagen,
said in a note to clients. “We believe that profit taking in
the stock is warranted and looks set to materialize in the near
term.”  Alk-Abello has said it targets 2015 sales of 3 billion
kroner with a margin on earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization above 25 percent. The average
estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of nine analysts is 2015 sales of
2.66 billion kroner and Ebitda of 494 million kroner.  The potential delay of Grastek “further cast doubts over
ALK’s ability to achieve its long-term 2015 guidance,” Novod
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  