-- John Malone Doesn’t See Cablevision as Cable-Merger Target
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-10-10T20:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/malone-doesn-t-see-cablevision-as-target-in-cable-merger-push.html
John Malone , the billionaire aiming
to consolidate the U.S. cable industry, said he doesn’t see
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  as an appealing target because it’s
entrenched in the  New York  market, giving it less room to grow.  “Part of the problem is they’ve done such a good job,”
Malone said in an interview today at an investor conference for
his holding company,  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)   Most pay-TV households in Cablevision’s market have already
bought service from the company, making future growth more
difficult. Malone, Liberty’s chairman, also pointed to
competition from Verizon Communications Inc.’s FiOS. The fiber-optic service, a provider of TV, phone and broadband access, has
been making inroads in the New York area.  “FiOS isn’t going away,” Malone said. “You just have a
tough environment there to do a lot better. Consolidation of the
entire New York market is a big advertising opportunity that
doesn’t exist today, but I don’t think that’s a big enough
number to get me really excited.”  In contrast, Malone said last month that a deal with  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest cable company, makes
sense. Cablevision, based in the New York suburb of Bethpage, is
No. 5 in the industry with about 3 million TV customers. Charlie Schueler, a company spokesman, declined to comment.  Cablevision shares have climbed 10 percent this year,
driven in part by takeover speculation. The stock rose 1.3
percent to $16.43 at the close today in New York.  Joint Ventures  Malone told attendees of the event that the U.S. cable
industry needs more consolidation and joint ventures to reduce
costs and gain scale. Liberty became the largest shareholder in
 Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)  when it acquired a 27 percent stake
in May, and Malone sees that company as the linchpin of his
consolidation efforts.  “We have the financial flexibility to chase a few more
rabbits,” he said.  The joint ventures could include building a uniform user
interface -- something like the Comcast Corp.’s Xfinity, Malone
said. The industry also could start using the Hulu LLC  service 
as its preferred platform for customers to watch TV online, he
said. Hulu is jointly owned by Comcast Corp., Walt Disney Co.
and 21st Century Fox Inc.  National Brand  Moreover, there’s potential to create a national brand for
cable companies’ business services, letting them gain pricing
power and market share, Malone said.  “The history of the business is replete with the industry
solving its balkanization and scale problem through joint
effort,” said Malone, who turned Tele-Communications Inc. into
one of the largest U.S. cable companies from 1973 to 1999 before
merging with AT&T Corp. “I think that can be done again.”  The most pressing reason for cooperation is to control
programming costs, which have increased about 10 percent this
year for the largest U.S. pay-TV operators, Malone said.  The satellite-TV industry, meanwhile, is unlikely to
undergo similar consolidation soon, he said.  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  probably won’t be able to merge in an Obama
administration because of regulatory scrutiny, Malone said. The
billionaire owns about 5 percent of DirecTV shares, making him
the largest individual holder.  Liberty Media also said today that it was purchasing a 5.2
percent stake of its own stock from Comcast and plans to sell
$500 million of Sirius XM Radio Inc. shares to the satellite-radio company. Liberty will still own more than 52 percent of
Sirius after the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  