-- Large Loan Quality at U.S. Banks Unchanged in 2013, Fed Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-10-10T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/large-loan-quality-at-u-s-banks-unchanged-in-2013-fed-says.html
The quality of large loans that are
shared by financial institutions was “relatively unchanged”
this year after three years of gains, according to a report by
bank regulators including the  Federal Reserve .  “The stagnation in  credit quality  follows three
consecutive years of improvements,” the Fed, Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. said in a report on credit risk released today in
Washington. The report is an annual review of shared national
credits, or loans of $20 million or more held by three or more
financial institutions.  The total volume of shared loans increased by $219 billion
to $3.01 trillion. About 10 percent were “criticized assets,”
or loans having some deficiency or likelihood of resulting in
loss, compared with 11 percent last year. The analysis was
prepared in the second quarter of 2013 using data as of December
31, 2012, and March 31, 2013.  The report underscores the slow healing of the financial
system following the 2008 financial crisis that led to the
collapse of some of the largest banking institutions, including
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. The share of
loans with problems remains “approximately twice the percentage
of pre-crisis levels,” the report said.  Most of the problem loans were leveraged loans, a type of
high-yield, high-risk loans that are used for everything from
mergers and acquisitions and buyouts to recapitalizations.
Leveraged loans accounted for $227 billion, or 75 percent, of
criticized loans.  “After declining during the financial crisis, the volume
of leveraged lending has since increased and underwriting
standards have deteriorated,” the report said. Banking
regulators also issued guidance to financial institutions in
March on how to better manage such lending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  