-- Masdar Secures $424 Million for Largest Offshore Wind Farm
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-10T12:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/masdar-obtains-266-million-pound-loan-for-london-wind-farm.html
Masdar Energy U.K., a unit of  Abu
Dhabi ’s state renewable energy developer, secured 266 million
pounds ($424 million) in loans to finance its share of London
Array, the world’s largest offshore wind farm.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., KFW-IPEX Bank, Siemens
Bank GmbH, and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. contributed to the
refinancing, Masdar said today in a statement. The U.K. Green
Investment Bank Plc also provided a 58.6 million-pound loan.  The deal may boost Britain’s efforts to lure investors to
its offshore wind industry as it seeks to attract 110 billion
pounds to replace aging power plants and upgrade the grid. The
U.K. must get about 30 percent of its power from renewables by
the end of the decade to meet a European Union goal. It
generated 15.5 percent from clean energy in the second quarter.  “While the London Array financing is a great success, it
is critical to the future of the renewable  energy industry  that
we see a deepening level of engagement from the financial
sector,” said Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, Masdar chief executive
officer. “We need increased collaboration between institutional
investors and the renewable energy industry to drive down cost
and accelerate adoption.”  Refinancing Plan  London Array, in the outer Thames Estuary off the Kent
coast southeast of London, supplies enough power for 500,000
U.K. homes a year after its final turbine was connected in
March. The 12-year loan announced today refinances Masdar’s 20
percent share in the 630-megawatt venture. It will reinvest the
freed capital into U.K. offshore wind.  Dong Energy A/S of Denmark owns 50 percent and  Germany ’s
EON SE has the remaining 30 percent share in the 2.2 billion-euro ($2.98 billion) project.  “The U.K. Government has ambitions to go further and to
see the development of new projects,” Green Investment Bank
chief executive officer Shaun Kingsbury said in a statement.
“For that to happen it is important that those best placed to
take early stage development and construction risk can get their
money out of operating assets and reinvest it.”  Britain plans to install about 18 gigawatts of offshore
wind by 2030, according to a scenario released by the government
in July. The U.K. has been at the forefront of the world’s
offshore wind industry since 2008 and has 3,653 megawatts of
turbines installed around its shores.  Further terms were not immediately available when Masdar
was contacted by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  