-- Asean Leaders Approve Joint Monitoring System to Prevent Haze
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-10-10T04:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/asean-leaders-approve-joint-monitoring-system-to-prevent-haze.html
Leaders from the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations approved a joint haze monitoring system
to identify fires such as those in Indonesia which led to
hazardous pollution levels in  Singapore  and  Malaysia  this year.  The system will involve the sharing of digitized land-use
maps and concession maps of fire-prone areas that cause haze,
according to a Singapore government statement yesterday. The
data will be shared among the governments of Singapore,
Malaysia, Indonesia,  Brunei  and  Thailand .  Singapore and Malaysia have been plagued for decades by
periodic smog caused by clouds of ash drifting from Sumatra,
with regular spats over responsibility. Indonesia said in July
it agreed to provide the governments of haze-hit neighbors with
maps of plantation concessions in fire-prone areas, though only
on condition that they’re not made public.  Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong suggested the city
state along with Malaysia and Indonesia “explore new areas for
trilateral cooperation which would help to address the root
causes of the fires which cause the haze,” the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and Ministry of the Environment and Water
Resources said in a statement yesterday.  Indonesia ’s presidential adviser on climate change Agus
Purnomo said before yesterday’s Asean leaders summit that he
supports the release of concession maps showing only the burnt
areas, the Straits Times newspaper said today. “Secrecy is not
an option,” the paper quoted him as saying.  Indonesia Ratification  Asean “welcomed Indonesia’s commitment to ratify a
regional haze agreement” and looked forward to its ratification
at the earliest time, according to a statement released at the
summit in Brunei today.  Singapore’s Environment and Water Resources Minister Vivian Balakrishnan had said maps of plantation concessions should be
made public so that companies owning land can be punished.  There were 17 timber firms and 15 palm oil firms, including
Singapore-listed  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , Kuala Lumpur-based
 Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  and Singapore-based Asia Pacific Resources
International Ltd., with land in areas affected by fires, T.
Nirarta Samadhi, an Indonesian government spokesman, said June
21, citing data from the non-government World Resources
Institute.  Both firms have said they have zero-burning policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  