-- Asian Stocks Rise Third Day on Health Care, Weaker Yen
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-10-10T10:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/asia-stocks-drop-snapping-two-day-gain-as-materials-firms-fall.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a third day,
with the regional benchmark index posting the longest winning
streak in four weeks, as health care shares rose and a weaker
yen boosted Japanese shares.  Taisho Pharmaceutical Holdings Co. jumped 4.2 percent in
 Tokyo  as health care stocks led gains among the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index’s 10 subsectors. Honda Motor Co., a carmaker that
gets almost half its sales in North America, added 2.5 percent
as the yen slid for a third day on optimism the U.S. government
will avoid default. Sa Sa International Holdings Ltd. dropped
5.9 percent in Hong Kong after Credit Suisse Group AG said the
cosmetic retailer’s sales during  China ’s week-long holiday
missed estimates.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.1 percent to 139.2 as of
9:19 p.m. in Tokyo after falling as much as 0.3 percent. U.S.
House Republican and Senate Democratic leaders are open to a
short-term increase in the debt limit, said congressional aides
of both parties who spoke on condition of anonymity.  “The market obviously is expecting the gridlock to be
resolved,” said  Donald Williams , Sydney-based chief investment
officer at Platypus Asset Management Ltd., which oversees about
A$1.6 billion ($1.5 billion). “But having said that, I think
the market is uncertain until this is resolved, and so we’ve got
choppy trading conditions ahead for the next week or so.”  Japan ’s  Topix index  added 1 percent after yesterday rising
the most since Sept. 19. The nation’s machinery orders rose more
than expected in August, data showed today. The MSCI Asia
Pacific ex-Japan Index was little changed at 466.31.  Then yen fell 0.4 percent to 97.76 against the dollar
today. Honda gained 2.5 percent to 3,885 yen. Mazda Motor Corp.,
an automaker that  gets  30 percent of sales in  North America ,
added 2.4 percent to 425 yen.  Regional Gauges  South Korea ’s Kospi index fell 0.1 percent after rising as
much as 0.4 percent after the central bank cut its 2014 growth
forecast to 3.8 percent from 4 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index gained 0.1 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.1
percent even as data showed the nation’s unemployment rate
expectedly dropped in September.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  declined 0.4 percent, while the
Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.9 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits
Times Index climbed 0.5 percent. Taiwan’s markets were closed
for a holiday.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.9
percent. The U.S. equity gauge rose 0.1 percent yesterday amid
signs that lawmakers could raise the debt ceiling and on
optimism  Janet Yellen  won’t rush to withdraw stimulus if she
becomes Federal Reserve chief.  Yellen Nomination  President  Barack Obama  nominated Yellen, the current Fed
vice chairman and an architect of its stimulus program, to
succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as central bank chairman. Most Fed
policy makers said they were likely to reduce the pace of bond
purchases this year, according to minutes released yesterday of
their last meeting, which took place before the partial U.S.
government shutdown started.  The MSCI AC Asia Pacific Health Care Index gained 1.1
percent. Taisho Pharmaceutical added 4.2 percent to 6,640 yen.
Astellas Pharma Inc. gained 4.1 percent to 4,970 yen.  Sa Sa International lost 5.9 percent to HK$8.20 in  Hong
Kong  after Credit Suisse said its same-store sales growth of 6
percent during China’s National Day holidays missed the
brokerage’s estimates as well as the company’s forecast.  Rakuten Inc. fell 2.6 percent to 1,153 yen after its equity
rating was cut at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which said the
Japanese e-commerce company’s monthly tenant fees may come under
pressure after Yahoo Japan Corp. cut fees for online stores.
Yahoo Japan was unchanged at 515 yen after Goldman raised its
price target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  