-- Australian Dollar Touches 3-Week High Before China Report
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-10-11T05:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/australian-dollar-set-for-2-week-gain-before-china-trade-report.html
Australia ’s dollar touched a three-week high before a report tomorrow that may show a gain in
imports by  China , the nation’s biggest trading partner.  The Aussie gained versus most of its 16 major counterparts
this week as U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Republican
lawmakers continued discussions on increasing the nation’s debt
limit and ending a partial government shutdown. The kiwi dollar
rebounded as Asian stocks headed for their biggest one-day gain
in three weeks and before a report that may show New Zealand’s
inflation accelerated to a 1 1/2-year high.  “The momentum has picked up and a lot of the fears have
waned over Chinese growth,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “There’s no
doubt that’s been one of the reasons the Aussie dollar has been
more resilient than in the past.”  The Australian dollar gained 0.2 percent to 94.70 U.S.
cents as of 4:40 p.m. in Sydney after earlier touching 94.85,
the strongest since Sept. 19. It has risen 0.4 percent since
Oct. 4. New Zealand’s currency climbed 0.3 percent to 83.08 U.S.
cents after falling 0.3 percent yesterday. It’s weakened 0.1
percent this week.  Australia’s 10-year yield was down three basis points to
4.13 percent from yesterday, when it  offered  148 basis points
more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, the most since June
24. The yield on the the South Pacific nation’s three-year debt
declined two basis points to 3.10 percent.  Chinese  imports  probably rose 7 percent in September from a
year earlier after increasing by the same amount the previous
month, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by  Bloomberg News  before tomorrow’s report. Exports climbed 5.5
percent after a 7.2 percent advance in August, analysts
projected.  Best Performer  Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes show the Aussie was
the best performer in the past week, rising 0.9 percent against
a basket of nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by
the gauges. The kiwi gained 0.4 percent.  In the U.S., Obama didn’t accept or reject House
Republicans’ plan to increase the debt limit as the two sides
pledged to continue talks. The government of the world’s biggest
economy will run out of borrowing authority on Oct. 17.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares climbed 1.1 percent,
poised for the largest advance since Sept. 19.  New Zealand ’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, rose one basis point to 3.52 percent,
set for a closing level unseen since Sept. 17.  Inflation Gain  Statistics New Zealand  may say the nation’s  consumer price
index  climbed 1.2 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before the Oct. 16 release. If confirmed, that
would be the fastest pace since the three months through March
2012.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 77 percent chance the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand will
raise borrowing costs from a record-low 2.5 percent to 2.75
percent or higher by April.  “Risks for the  New Zealand dollar  stemming from the CPI
are probably weighted to the upside,” Citigroup Inc. analysts
including Richard Cochinos, head of Americas Group of 10
foreign-exchange strategy, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients
today. “A stronger-than-expected reading would point to
somewhat less scope for RBNZ patience in raising  interest
rates .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  