-- Australia’s Abbott Aims to Complete Asian FTA’s Within 12 Months
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-10-10T04:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/australia-s-abbott-aims-to-complete-asian-fta-s-within-12-months.html
Australian Prime Minister  Tony Abbott , whose Liberal-National coalition won government last
month, said he wants to conclude  free-trade agreements  with
countries including China,  Japan  and  South Korea  within a year.  “The working target I’ve got for these free-trade
agreements is 12 months,” Abbott told reporters at the East
Asia Summit in Brunei today. “It would be better to get them in
18 months than not to get them at all. Nevertheless, if you
don’t set some kind of target you don’t have the incentive to
get things done.”  Abbott announced in his Sept. 7 victory speech that
 Australia , the world’s 12th-largest economy, was again “open
for business” after promoting his party’s financial-management
credentials during the election campaign. He’s since met with
global counterparts at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
leaders summit in Bali before arriving for further trade talks
in  Brunei .  The Rhodes Scholar has appointed Trade Minister Andrew Robb
to make headway on free-trade deals with countries such as India
and Indonesia, alongside the broader Trans-Pacific Partnership
agreement. He’s said bilateral talks had stalled under the
previous Labor government.  Negotiators still aim to complete the 12-nation TPP trade
talks this year, leaders of the countries said in a statement
Oct. 8. That agreement would link an area with about $28
trillion in annual economic output.  The success of regional bilateral trade deals was giving
momentum to the TPP talks, Abbott said, while stressing his
nation’s focus to conclude agreements with other nations was
also important.  “In the case of the China agreement, that’s been
meandering along since 2005,” Abbott said. “It’s very
important that we accelerate it and bring it to a conclusion.
The Japan and South Korea free-trade agreements have similarly
been in train but aren’t resolved for a similar length of
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  