-- BAE Systems Renegotiating U.K. Aircraft Carrier Contract Terms
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-10T06:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/bae-systems-renegotiating-u-k-aircraft-carrier-contract-terms.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  said it is
renegotiating contract terms with the U.K. over a 5.3 billion
pound ($8.4 billion) effort to building two aircraft carriers,
whose costs have already risen more than 50 percent since 2005.  The defense company,  Europe ’s biggest, is considering
contract changes to reflect “increased maturity” of the
program, London-based BAE Systems said in a statement today. The
first of two carriers is nearing completion.  The company said it’s also in talks with the U.K.
government over how to bring shipbuilding capacity in line with
demand. The U.K. is not buying enough vessels to sustain three
surface shipyards once work on the carriers winds down.  BAE said trading was in-line with expectations and that the
full-year earnings target will be met assuming successful
conclusion of talks with  Saudi Arabia  over the pricing of
Typhoon combat jets. Delays in talks over the so-called Salam
program, which the company was aiming to complete last year,
could decrease earnings per share by as much as 7 pence.  The shutdown of the U.S. government since Oct. 1 in the
absence of a fiscal 2014 budget has not yet had a material
impact on BAE, where about 1,2000 employees temporarily could
not report for work, the company said.  BAE, which began a three-year, 1 billion pound share
repurchase in February, has so far bought 34 million shares for
134 million pounds. The transactions have helped boost the
stock, which has advanced 65 percent this year, valuing the
company at 38 billion pounds.  The company also said it has agreed to make a 340 million
pound cash contribution to its pension system during the share
repurchase period, accelerating a plan to make up shortfalls.  BAE is undergoing several management changes, with  Roger Carr , now chairman at British Gas parent  Centrica Plc (CNA) , joining
the board this month before replacing chairman Dick Olver next
year. The company also is seeking a replacement for Linda Hudson, who announced Aug. 20 she would leave her post as head
of the BAE’s U.S. operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  