-- Bank of Korea Stays on Hold for 5th Month to Support Rebound
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-10-10T01:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/bank-of-korea-stays-on-hold-for-5th-month-to-support-rebound.html
The  Bank of Korea  kept its benchmark
interest rate unchanged for a fifth month, seeking to bolster a
rebound that the  International Monetary Fund  said this week will
be slower than previously forecast.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the  seven-day
repurchase rate  at 2.5 percent after a cut in May, the central
bank said in a statement in  Seoul  today. All 18 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the outcome.  With the lowest inflation since 1999, the BOK can afford to
support growth by holding off from raising interest rates. While
indicators including industrial output show momentum, a U.S.
budget standoff is creating uncertainty for South  Korea ’s
economy, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said this week.  “Governor Kim will likely retire next March with the rate
at the current level of 2.5 percent and it may take some time
for his successor to raise it,” Park Sang Hyun, chief economist
at HI Investment and Securities Co. in Seoul, said before the
announcement.  President Park Geun Hye introduced a 17.3 trillion won ($16
billion) extra budget in May, the same month Governor Kim
delivered a surprise  interest rate  cut, seeking to revive an
economy that grew 2 percent in 2012, the slowest in three years.  Growth Risks  The won was little changed after the decision, and was up
0.1 percent at 1076.20 per the dollar at 10:30 a.m. in Seoul.
The Kospi index gained 0.2 percent.  The economy expanded 1.1 percent in the second quarter from
the preceding three months, the most in more than two years.
Inflation eased to 0.8 percent last month, staying below the
BOK’s target range of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent for more than a
year.  The BOK’s decision to stay on hold was expected given that
growth remains below the economy’s potential, said Ronald Man,
Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. With a gradual
recovery likely to be maintained, the next move will be a 25
basis point rate increase in the third quarter next year, even
as record  household debt  and sluggish property prices pose risks
to domestic demand, Man said.  “Eyes will be on economic data from key export partners
such as  China , as Korea’s recovery will likely be export-led,”
said Man.  In July, the BOK forecast 4 percent growth next year after
2.8 percent expansion this year.  The IMF this week kept its estimate for a 2.8 percent
expansion this year in  South Korea ’s economy, while lowering its
growth forecast for next year to 3.7 percent from 3.9 percent,
as it cut its global outlook and warned that a U.S. government
default could “seriously damage” the world economy.  The BOK will increase its benchmark rate to 2.75 percent in
the third quarter of next year, according to the median forecast
in a survey of 22 economists by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  