-- Baum on Money: Enter Paul Ryan
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-10-10T14:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/baum-on-money-enter-paul-ryan-correct-.html

(Corrects spelling of Mark Thoma in final item)  Good morning. Here’s a selection of
stories I’m reading today on subjects ranging from the  Federal
Reserve ’s thinking to the government shutdown. And yes, the two
are related.  Talking their way to the  status-quo ante   The only surprise from the minutes of the Fed’s no-taper
meeting in September was that there were no real surprises.
Policy makers took the U.S. economy’s temperature, found that it
was still below normal, and decided to delay the onset of
tapering until later this year. Policy makers were concerned the
decision would be viewed as a sign they were pessimistic on the
economic outlook. Well, duh. Both the rise in long-term  interest
rates  and fiscal “uncertainty” -- the potential for a government
shutdown and debt-ceiling impasse -- figured prominently in the
decision to stand pat last month. Most members of the policy
committee said the time would be right for tapering later this
year, but with fiscal policy in limbo and no economic data, that
plan has been put on hold.  The  adults  are in the room, maybe  Congressman  Paul Ryan , Republican of Wisconsin, has been
pretty much MIA while some of his colleagues were digging
themselves into a hole. Now Ryan, chairman of the House Budget
Committee, has a plan to pair a short-term debt-limit increase
with a “framework for broader budget reduction talks,” according
to the Wall Street Journal. ( Ryan’s op-ed  in Wednesday’s Journal
laid out sound ideas, many with bipartisan support, for
structural budget reform.)  House Republicans  are meeting with
President Obama today. Let’s hope the president, not to mention
Ryan’s House colleagues, are listening.  Yellen understands the  downside of rules , regulations  Much of the debate over the choice of the next Fed chairman
centered on the attitudes of the candidates to bank regulation,
rather than monetary policy.  Janet Yellen , now nominated to
succeed  Ben Bernanke , was part of the biggest regulatory
overhaul since the 1930s. “As chairman, she will lead the drive
for those policies, while monitoring their costs for borrowers
and banks,” write  Bloomberg News ’ Craig Torres and Josh Zumbrum.
Yellen is expected to be tough in areas such as systemic risk
and capital adequacy, but she’s well aware of the adverse effect
rules can have on economic development.  Go  West , young man  If you are looking for a state conducive to business, the
 Tax Foundation ’s 2014 State Business Tax Climate Index finds
Wyoming to be No. 1, followed by  South Dakota , Nevada, Alaska
and Florida. And what makes these the best states for business?
The absence of one or more of the major taxes: corporate,
individual income and sales tax. Two states -- Indiana and Utah
-- make the Top-10 list even though they impose the three major
taxes, because they “levy them with low rates on broad bases,”
according to the study. Tied for last place are…you’ll have to
read the study to find out. (Hint: both states begin with the
word “New.”)  Economic  Haiku   Marc Thoma shares something on the shutdown from economist
Stephen Ziliak, the founder of “Haiku Economics.” News to me.
I’ll have to read up on this art form and report back.  ( Caroline Baum  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  her on
Twitter.)  #<878201.8740485.3.7.1.0.2902>#
 