-- Belgian Firefighters Join Budget-Cut Protests as EU Reviews Loom
-- B y   I a n   W i s h a r t
-- 2013-10-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/belgian-firefighters-join-budget-cut-protests-as-eu-reviews-loom.html
Firefighters this week followed rail
workers, factory employees and bureaucrats to protest deepening
austerity in  Belgium .  Red engines, razor wire and burning tires put downtown
Brussels off limits for about 12 hours on Oct. 7, as the
firefighters -- mostly volunteers -- made a straightforward
demand: spend more to improve their equipment.  For the Belgian government, struggling for consensus in the
linguistically divided nation, the issue is more vexing. Prime
Minister Elio Di Rupo is enacting some of the deepest deficit
cuts among euro-area nations not in a bailout program, aiming to
reduce a debt load that exceeds annual economic output.
Meantime, the gap between the country’s wealthier Dutch-speaking
northern region and the French-speaking South is widening.  “You have to shut down the flow of increasing debt,”
Xavier Timbeau, director of analysis and forecasting at French
economic research institute OFCE in Paris, said in an interview.
“You can do it through fiscal consolidation. You can do it also
by a recovery, a  strong recovery . They are not compatible.”  Belgium, along with the other 16 euro countries, must
submit its national budget for the first time to the European
Commission for review by Oct. 15, part of a stepped-up
enforcement effort to head off another crisis like the one
spawned by  Greece ’s 2009 deficit blowout.  “This is no time to shout that the crisis is over,” EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on
Sept. 13 in Vilnius,  Lithuania . “That is clearly premature, and
I see that the key risk to this recovery is complacency.
Complacency in policy and complacency in terms of reforms.”  Regional Budgets  For its part, Belgium’s federal government has committed to
cutting its  nominal deficit  from 4 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012 to 2.5 percent this year. Balanced regional
budgets and a surplus at the level of municipalities should help
bring the deficit to about 2.2 percent of GDP in 2014,Di Rupo
told reporters on Oct. 8.  The  deficit reduction  would represent a larger decrease
than the cut to 3.1 percent of GDP in 2014 forecast by the EU in
May, before Belgium’s adjustment of its 2013 budget and the deal
on the draft 2014 plan. The EU told Belgium on May 29 that the
government had not taken effective action to correct its
excessive deficit and told it to take further measures.  Belgian gross public debt was 99.6 percent of GDP in 2012,
EU figures showed, and the Belgian government estimated that its
debt load would be at 100.5 percent of GDP at the end of 2013
and 100.7 percent at the end of 2014, indicating how  sluggish
growth  has undermined the aim of austerity.  Welfare Benefits  In the 2014 budget accord reached by the six-party
coalition this week, total revenue is projected to rise by about
2.3 percent and primary spending by the federal government,
including welfare benefits and health-care expenses, and
excluding debt-servicing costs, will increase by about 2.6
percent. The final figures will depend on regional and municipal
budgets.  “With the first sign of a recovery, I think there is a
clear shift in the priorities and the problem now is to try to
correct or to promote the competitiveness of the Belgian
economy, which is, in a small and very open economy, the roots
of growth,” Henri Bogaert, director of Belgium’s Federal
Planning Bureau, a public agency whose economic forecasts help
the government draw up its budget, said in an e-mail from
Brussels.  Di Rupo said talks about toughening the Competition Act,
designed in 1996 to keep Belgian  labor costs  from rising faster
than those in neighboring countries would continue.  And the day after the firefighter protest, Di Rupo wrote on
Twitter that he was promising Brussels’ firefighters 20 million
euros ($27 million) in the 2014 budget. Earlier in the day they
had returned to work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Wishart in Brussels at 
 iwishart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  