-- Bill Gross Favors Short Treasuries as Yellen to Hold Rates
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-10-10T06:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/bill-gross-favors-short-treasuries-as-yellen-to-keep-rates-low.html
Bill Gross , who has been telling
investors to favor short-term Treasuries, is following through
on his own advice as longer-maturity bonds suffer their biggest
losses in four years.  Gross cut the duration of holdings in the $250 billion
Pimco Total Return Fund, the world’s biggest bond fund, to  4.42
years  as of Sept. 30 from  5.06 years  a month earlier, according
to a report yesterday on Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
website. Bonds due in one to five years made up 70 percent of
holdings, the Newport Beach,  California , company reported.  Short-term Treasuries are little changed in 2013 on
speculation the Federal Reserve under Janet Yellen will keep
interest rates at a record low to spur the economy. Longer-term
securities have plunged as investors push forward forecasts for
when the Fed will raise its overnight benchmark, while betting
the policy will spur inflation. President  Barack Obama  nominated
Fed Vice Chairman Yellen yesterday to succeed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke when his term ends on Jan. 31.  “It’s front-end friendly,” Gross said yesterday in an
interview with Bloomberg, referring to the shorter-term
securities among the spectrum of Treasury maturities. “Anything
that is anchored to the policy rate -- and the policy rate being
something that probably is going to be 25 basis points for at
least the next several years -- anything that’s anchored to that
will do well and had done well.”  Shorter Securities  Treasuries due in a decade and longer have tumbled 10
percent in 2013, the first loss since 2009, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index. Two-year notes gained 0.1
percent, the data show.  “Perhaps 10- and 30-year Treasuries, which are subject to
inflation and reflation, which is basically what this policy of
Janet Yellen’s is going to attempt to do, those particular
maturities are probably negatively affected,” Gross said,
speaking yesterday with  Trish Regan  and Adam Johnson on
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.” Pimco, a unit of the
Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  managed  $1.97 trillion as of
June 30.  Investors saw a 30 percent chance that policy makers will
increase the key interest-rate target to 0.5 percent or more by
January 2015, based on data compiled by Bloomberg from futures
contracts yesterday. The odds have declined from 64 percent a
month earlier. The Fed has kept the rate at zero to 0.25 percent
since 2008.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was
at 2.22 percentage points. Annual consumer-price inflation was
1.5 percent in August.  Benchmark Yield  Benchmark U.S. 10-year yields rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.70 percent as of 7:13 a.m. in
 London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of
the 2.5 percent note maturing in August 2023 fell 9/32, or $2.81
per $1,000 face amount, to 98 10/32. While yields have climbed
from a record low of 1.379 percent in July 2012, they are below
the average of about 6.40 percent since September 1981, the
start of the three-decade bull market in bonds.  Gross, the co-chief investment officer at Pimco, also
recommended short-term Treasuries in his monthly investment
outlook report Sept. 5.  Duration, which can be controlled by adjusting the maturity
of debt holdings, measures sensitivity to changes in bond
yields. A shorter duration is a more bearish position, because
it will provide protection if yields rise.  Debt Limit  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has said the U.S. may not
be able to make its debt payments starting Oct. 17 unless
lawmakers and President Barack Obama agree to raise the federal
borrowing limit, sending some bill yields higher.  Rates on bills due on Oct. 17 climbed to 0.49 percent
yesterday. The yield was negative as recently as Sept. 26.  “We have avoided maturities in the time period toward the
end of October,” Nancy Prior, the president of money markets at
Boston-based Fidelity Investments, said in an interview
yesterday. Fidelity is the largest manager of U.S. money funds
with $427 billion in assets as of Aug. 31, according to Crane
Data LLC in Westborough,  Massachusetts .  As Fidelity has sought to avoid Treasury bills maturing
near the deadline, Pimco has been buying as their yields have
risen, according to Gross.  “Their selling begets opportunistic buying on the part of
Pimco,” he said yesterday on Bloomberg Television. “We’re
picking up pennies on the street. This is a particular penny
that we think is risk-free.”  Pimco Holdings  Gross kept holdings of Treasuries and other U.S.
government-related debt unchanged at 35 percent of assets in his
September, the report on the Pimco website yesterday showed.
Mortgage securities declined to 35 percent from 36 percent.  Over the past five years, the  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  has
returned 7.88 percent annually on average, outperforming 84
percent of competitors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It lost investors 1.84 percent this year, outperforming just 44
percent of its peers, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  