-- Billionaire’s Metro Builder Downgraded in Crunch: India Credit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-10-11T06:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/billionaire-s-metro-builder-downgraded-in-crunch-india-credit.html
Indian corporate debt ratings are
deteriorating at the fastest pace since 2010 amid a cash crunch
created to buoy the rupee and a deepening economic slowdown.  Billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance  Infrastructure Ltd.,
which holds 69 percent in a venture building a metro network in
Mumbai, and Apollo Tyres Ltd., which plans India’s largest
acquisition in  North America , were among 478 companies that had
their rankings cut in the last six months at Crisil Ltd., the
local unit of  Standard & Poor’s . Only 417 firms were upgraded, a
ratio of 0.87 against downgrades that was the lowest since
September 2010.  Corporate bond sales fell to a five-year low last quarter
as the  Reserve Bank  of India boosted  interest rates  and curbed
funding for banks to arrest a currency slide, even as economists
predicted the slowest growth in a decade will worsen. The yield
on five-year top-rated company  notes  rose 97 basis points in the
first half of the fiscal year that started April 1 to 9.94
percent. Similar rates climbed 48 basis points to 5.28 percent
in  China .  “These are unsustainable times and companies are looking
for ways to ease the pressure,” Ajeet Agarwal, finance director
in  New Delhi  at Rural Electrification Corp., the No. 3 issuer of
rupee bonds in 2013, said in an Oct. 8 interview. “Persistently
high funding costs along with a slowdown in the economy are
pressuring cash flows across industries.”  Downgrades will continue to outnumber upgrades in the
“near term,” Crisil said in an Oct. 7 statement.  Yield Surge  Yields on local corporate notes surged to the highest since
the 2008 global credit crisis last quarter after the RBI boosted
two rates at which it supplies cash to banks by 200 basis points
in July, triggering a funding squeeze and boosting the risk of
defaults. The five-year rate rose as high as 10.75 percent in
August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has declined
since then as Governor  Raghuram Rajan  cut those rates by 125
basis points.  The jump in borrowing costs, combined with heightened rupee
volatility, prompted banks from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
 Standard Chartered  Plc to predict growth in  Asia ’s third-largest
economy will slow from the last fiscal year’s 5 percent, which
was the least in a decade. Goldman now sees a 4 percent gain in
gross domestic product in the current period, while Standard
Chartered predicts a 4.7 percent increase.  “As much as 86 percent of the downgrades were due to the
demand slowdown and stretch in liquidity conditions,” Ramraj Pai, Mumbai-based president of ratings at Crisil, said in an
interview on Oct. 8. “These problems, along with high interest
rates, mean credit quality of corporates will remain weak.”  Reliance, Apollo  Indian businesses’ credit quality has declined to a five-year low after their total liabilities rose almost threefold
since 2007-2008 and interest expenses rose 226 percent, the
local unit of  Fitch Ratings  said last quarter.  Crisil cut its rating on  Reliance Infrastructure’s (RELI)  rupee
bonds by one level to A+, or the fifth-highest investment grade,
according to a statement dated Sept. 28 on its website.  “The rating revision reflects lower revenue visibility in
its engineering, procurement and construction business coupled
with higher than expected exposure to group companies,” the
credit assessor said in the statement.  Reliance Infrastructure  didn’t respond to an e-mail
requesting comment on the downgrade. The company’s partners in
the Mumbai metro  venture  include the Mumbai Metropolitan Region
Development Authority and Veolia Transport RATP Asia.  Apollo Tyres was  downgraded  in June after announcing a plan
to acquire U.S.-based Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. for $2.5 billion,
almost five times the Indian company’s market value, and saying
that it seeks to borrow the entire amount. The firm’s ranking
was lowered by three levels to A.  iPad Distributor  The long-term rating on the bank loans of Redington  India 
Ltd., the local distributor of Apple Inc.’s iPads and iPhones,
was  lowered  to A+ from AA- in April. Muthoot Fincorp Ltd., a
unit of the nation’s biggest lender against gold,  was cut  to A
from A+ in August.  Cash at Indian companies may fall short of repayment
obligations by a third in the year through March 2014, Crisil
said in a report in July. Local businesses face 1.1 trillion
rupees ($18 billion) in debt maturities this financial year,
according to the credit assessor. Rising payment defaults will
boost bad loans at Indian banks to 4.4 percent of total advances
by March 31 from 3.3 percent 12 months earlier, it predicts.  Rising Risk  The funds crunch engineered by the RBI pushed short-term
corporate debt costs above 12 percent last quarter. Three-month
commercial-paper  yields  were at 9.27 percent yesterday, up 85
basis points in the second half, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The  10-year (GIND10YR)  sovereign yields climbed 97 basis points since
June 30 to 8.41 percent. The rupee, which touched a record-low
68.845 per dollar in August, has rebounded since then to 61.18.  Bond risk for Indian companies is rising. The average cost
of five-year credit-default swaps insuring against non-payment
by seven local issuers has climbed 120 basis points from this
year’s low in May to 339, according to data provider CMA.  With the pace of  consumer-price  gains staying close to 10
percent, India has little room to ease monetary policy and that
means the pressure on corporate finances will continue, said
Rupa Rege Nitsure, an economist in Mumbai at  Bank of Baroda .  RBI Governor Rajan said last month countering inflation was
his top policy priority. He raised the policy-setting repurchase
rate by 25 basis points to 7.5 percent on Sept. 20. The gauge
will be boosted to 8.5 percent by March, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. predicts.  “The inflation conditions are going to offer little
respite to the economy and for policy makers to be dovish in the
short term,” Nitsure said in an Oct. 8 phone interview. “The
corporate sector’s difficulties are going to prevail. The threat
of downgrades accelerating won’t recede in the short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  