-- BNP to Macquarie Scrap Record Sensex Forecasts: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-10-11T11:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/bnp-to-macquarie-scrap-record-sensex-forecasts-corporate-india.html
India’s equity strategists are
abandoning predictions for a record high in the S&P BSE Sensex
 Index (SENSEX)  as rising interest rates curb earnings growth.  The benchmark stock gauge will  slip  5.5 percent to 19,409
by year-end, according to the average of 11 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Just three months ago, forecasters said
the Sensex would climb to an all-time high of 21,150. The
measure has rallied 15 percent from this year’s low on Aug. 21,
versus a 11 percent gain in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  BNP Paribas Securities (Asia) Ltd., Macquarie Capital
Securities (India) Pvt. and Ambit Capital Pvt. cut their Sensex
targets as the Reserve Bank of India unexpectedly increased its
benchmark interest  rate  to stem a record decline in the rupee
and curb consumer prices in the world’s second-most populous
nation. Strategists reduced their average  profit  estimate by 4.5
percent as higher borrowing costs threaten to worsen the slowest
economic expansion since 2009.  “What we had not anticipated was the extent and pace of
rupee depreciation, which has not only raised the cost of
capital but also portends sharper earnings cuts than we had
foreseen,” Manishi Raychaudhuri, the head of Indian equity
research at BNP, said in a phone interview on Oct. 8. He cut his
Sensex target to 17,000 from 21,300 on Sept. 4.  Expensive Valuations  Some of this year’s best-performing stocks in the Sensex
have climbed to record valuations.  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (SUNP) , India’s largest drugmaker by market value, surged 70
percent to 27 times estimated profit for the next 12 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hindustan Unilever
Ltd. (HUVR) , a Mumbai-based maker of consumer products, is valued at 35
times after a 15 percent gain.  The Sensex is the second-most  expensive  benchmark equity
gauge among the four-largest emerging markets, trading at 14
times estimated earnings. That compares with 19 for  Brazil ’s
Ibovespa, 8.8 for  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index and 4.5 for
the Micex Index in  Russia , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The market has run up quite sharply,” said Mahesh Nandurkar, a Mumbai-based analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets,
which predicts the Sensex will fall to 19,500 by year-end. “You
will see more earnings downgrades as we go ahead and that will
cause some downside on the markets.”  Deutsche Bank AG is maintaining its forecast that the
Sensex will climb to 21,000 by year-end, a 3.6 percent gain from
yesterday’s level and near the record close of 21,004.96 reached
in November 2010.  Rajan Policy  Investor sentiment improved after the Reserve Bank of  India 
took steps to stabilize the rupee and the U.S. Federal Reserve
unexpectedly maintained its bond-purchase program last month,
Deutsche Bank strategists Abhay Laijawala and Abhishek Saraf
said in a report dated Oct. 3.  The rupee has strengthened 13 percent from its record low
on Aug. 28 as foreign investors bought a net $2.6 billion of
stocks, giving RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan scope to roll back
liquidity-tightening measures that were aimed at boosting the
currency. The central bank cut its marginal standing facility
rate for the second time in a month on Oct. 7, to 9 percent from
9.5 percent.  Higher exports have bolstered the outlook for India’s
economy, Rajan said in an interview by Mint newspaper aired on
Bloomberg TV India on Oct. 8. Overseas shipments increased 11
percent in September after a 13 percent gain the previous month,
government data showed this week. Sun Pharmaceuticals got 72
percent of its sales abroad in the year ended March 31.  Reduced Forecasts  While the RBI eased cash curbs earlier than investors had
anticipated, policy makers will probably increase the benchmark
repurchase rate 1 percentage point to 8.5 percent by the end of
March to fight inflation, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts
Tushar Poddar and Vishal Vaibhaw wrote in an Oct. 8 report.  The RBI raised the rate by 0.25 percentage point on Sept.
20. Consumer prices in the country of 1.2 billion people rose
9.52 percent in August from a year earlier, the fastest pace
among 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg. Inflation
will remain at 9.5 percent in September, according to the median
estimate of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  India’s 2014 economic growth forecast was cut to 3.8
percent from 5.6 percent by the Washington-based International
Monetary Fund on Oct. 8. Gross domestic product expanded 4.4
percent in the three months to June, the  weakest  pace since the
global financial crisis in the first quarter of 2009.  “It will not be a run-away market,” Gaurav Mehta, a
strategist at Ambit Capital, said by phone on Oct. 9. Ambit cut
its Sensex target to 21,000 from 23,000 on Sept. 5.  ‘Not Favorable’  Strategists cut their average per-share earnings estimate
for the Sensex to 1,284 rupees for the fiscal year to March 31,
from a previous estimate of 1,345 rupees.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , kicking
off the earnings season for the September quarter, today raised
its annual sales forecast even as profit missed estimates. The
stock closed at its highest level since April 2011.  “Markets move in line with earnings and as of now there’s
nothing to suggest there will be a pick up,” said Pankaj Pandey, the head of research at ICICIdirect.com, a unit of
India’s second-biggest lender. He has a year-end target of
18,600 for the Sensex. “The risk-reward is not favorable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  