-- BOE Sticks to Guidance Plan With Key Rate Kept at 0.5%
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-10T11:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/boe-sticks-to-guidance-plan-with-key-rate-kept-at-0-5-.html
The  Bank of England  left its
benchmark  interest rate  and bond-buying plan unchanged today as
Britain’s economic recovery showed signs of building momentum.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
 Mark Carney  kept the  key interest rate  at a record-low 0.5
percent and its bond-buying program on hold at 375 billion
pounds ($598 billion), as forecast in two Bloomberg News surveys
of economists. The BOE introduced forward guidance in August,
saying it will keep borrowing costs on hold until late 2016.  The panel was unanimous on the policy stance last month and
its position may be further cemented by  recent surveys  pointing
to accelerating growth in the third quarter. Signs of a pickup
have prompted officials to set aside concerns expressed in
August, when Carney introduced forward guidance, that the
recovery may need further aid.  “The recent data have been buoyant but it’s a marathon,
not a sprint,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at Scotiabank in
 London . “They’ll probably bring forward their projection for
unemployment to reach the 7 percent threshold at next month’s
forecasting round.”  The MPC met Oct. 8 and 9, a day earlier than normal, to
allow Carney to travel to  Washington  to join global counterparts
at International Monetary Fund meetings.  ECB Decision  The pound was little changed versus the dollar after the
decisions. It traded at $1.5946 as of 12:21 p.m. London time
after earlier falling to $1.5914, the lowest since Sept. 18. The
yield on the 10-year gilt rose 4 basis points from yesterday to
2.72 percent.  The BOE decision follows the  European Central Bank ’s
announcement last week that it would leave its  main refinancing
rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent. The ECB has also
implemented guidance, pledging in July to keep borrowing costs
low for an extended period, without specifying a time frame.  In Bloomberg surveys published today, a majority of
economists said the ECB’s next monetary-policy move will be a
non-standard one. While almost three quarters of economists
predict it will unveil new liquidity measures such as longer-term refinancing operations, a majority say interest rates will
remain unchanged through the first half of 2015.  BOE Guidance  Under the BOE’s guidance policy, the MPC said it won’t
consider raising its key rate at least until  unemployment  falls
to 7 percent from 7.7 percent, which it forecasts may not happen
until late 2016. The policy has three caveats linked to
inflation expectations and financial stability.  Carney said in an interview last month that he doesn’t see
an argument for expanding quantitative easing again, and minutes
of the MPC’s September meeting showed all nine members agreed
that the current policy setting was appropriate. Minutes of this
week’s meeting will be published Oct. 23.  Policy maker  Paul Fisher  said on Oct. 2 that guidance is
supporting the real economy, and market expectations that the
BOE will increase rates sooner than projected don’t suggest it
has failed. His colleague  David Miles  said the recent
strengthening of the economy doesn’t signal an early tightening.  “It would be spectacularly misguided to think that some
signs of more normal growth mean that the economy is back to
normal,” Miles said Sept. 24. Both officials had been voting
for more stimulus until July, when Carney joined the BOE.  “Policy is on autopilot,” said  David Tinsley , an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in London and a former central bank
official. “Inflation could conceivably be a concern in a year’s
time or so if consumption growth continues to strengthen, but
right now that’s not a worry either.”  IMF Forecasts  The IMF raised its forecast for U.K. growth this week, and
now sees expansion of 1.4 percent in 2013 and 1.9 percent next
year. The National Institute for Economic and Social Research
estimates third-quarter growth of 0.8 percent, up from 0.7
percent in the April-June period.  As the economy has strengthened so too has the  property
market , helped in part by government measures. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  bought forward to this month a program to help
boost mortgage lending. Help to Buy provides government
guarantees allowing house purchases with smaller deposits,
raising criticism that the plan will stoke a bubble.  While most reports have pointed to a strengthening
recovery, there are signs it remains uneven. Data yesterday
showed  industrial output  unexpectedly dropped 1.1 percent in
August, with factory production falling 1.2 percent.  The MPC are also having to consider the potential risks
from the U.S. budget impasse. The government shutdown resulting
from the fiscal standoff between President  Barack Obama  and the
Republicans has lingered into a second week and the Treasury
Department has set an Oct. 17 deadline for Congress to raise the
country’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling.  Also in the U.S., minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s Sept.
17-18 policy meeting showed most officials said the central bank
was likely to taper its bond purchases this year. The Fed
unexpectedly refrained from such a move in September, and the
minutes, published yesterday, said the decision was a
“relatively close call” for several policy makers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  