-- BP Wins Toxic Refinery-Emissions Test Trial in Texas
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-10-10T19:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/bp-wins-toxic-refinery-emissions-test-jury-trial-in-texas.html
BP Plc (BP/)  isn’t liable for pollution-related injuries claimed by the first of almost 48,000 people
who sued over tons of cancer-causing gases spewed by a  Texas 
refinery in 2010, a jury said.  Neighbors of the Texas City plant were seeking billions of
dollars in punitive damages. The jury in Galveston, Texas, today
found BP negligent, while rejecting the residents’ claims that
the fumes caused any injuries.  The residents claimed London-based BP intentionally vented
more than 500,000 pounds of toxic chemicals to a refinery flare
that the company knew was incapable of destroying them. BP said
the flare destroyed virtually all of the toxic chemicals
released by a malfunctioning production unit during the 45-day
emission incident in 2010.  “Today’s verdict affirms BP’s view that no one suffered
any injury as a result of the flaring of the BP Ultracracker
flare during April and May 2010,”  Geoff Morrell , a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Armed with the knowledge gleaned
from this case and this important jury verdict, the company will
immediately begin to prepare for any additional proceedings
involving other plaintiffs.”  Tony Buzbee, attorney for the plaintiffs, said he was
surprised by the verdict.  ‘First One’  “But I respect juries,” he said in an interview. “This
was only the first one. We learned some things. We will gear up
and try another one in a couple of months.”  Ground-level concentrations of harmful chemicals detected
by air-quality monitors in the community and on BP’s property
were “far, far, far below” levels needed to cause health
effects, Damond Mace, the company’s lawyer, told the jury Oct 7.  “The critical question is what, if anything, made it down
to ground level where these people were,” Mace said during
closing arguments. “But even if we look at what came out of the
top of the stack,” the amounts of chemicals released by BP
during the incident “did not exceed their permit,” he said.  Kenneth Tekell, another of BP’s lawyers, told jurors the
three plaintiffs had relatively minor injuries and urged the
panel to exonerate BP of harming anyone.  “If the pieces don’t fit, you must acquit, and the pieces
don’t fit in this puzzle to convict BP,” Tekell said during
closing arguments.  Key Equipment  Residents of the neighborhoods surrounding the refinery
said BP exposed them to the chemicals for weeks without warning
to avoid idling the refinery when a key piece of equipment
malfunctioned. Buzbee told the jury BP would have lost more than
$20 million had it shut the unit down during repairs.  Buzbee asked jurors to make an example of BP with a
multibillion-dollar damages award that would force the company
to clean up practices and policies at its remaining U.S.
refineries. BP sold the Texas City facility to  Marathon
Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  in a deal announced last year.  “This ain’t an accident, it’s a corporate policy,” Buzbee
told jurors. BP had 193 emissions incidents -- 73 of them
classified by state regulators as excessive -- and would
continue to pollute unless confronted with a damages award that
made it “too expensive for them to ever do it again,” he told
the jury.  For the jury of eight women and four men, it all came down
to “whether or not anyone was harmed” by the emissions,
according to juror Robert Pierce, 67, chief of the Port of
Galveston police department.  ‘All Sick’  “These people were all sick and would’ve probably needed
medical treatment anyway,” Pierce said in an interview after
the verdict. “There was no direct relationship” between their
ailments and the refinery incident, he said.  All 12 jurors found BP had negligently caused the toxic-gas
release “because they knew what was going to happen, and they
went ahead and did it anyway,” Pierce said. The lack of
provable injuries to the three plaintiffs at trial prevented
jurors from finding BP grossly negligent, which would have
triggered punitive damages, he said.  Stephanie Beall, a 47-year-old Galveston pharmacist, said
the question of whether BP’s actions created a public nuisance
“was one of the tougher” ones the jury discussed in 2 1/2 days
of deliberations. Jurors weren’t aware they were trying test
cases until after they rendered their verdict, she said.  “We had no inclination that our decision would impact
47,000 cases,” Beall said in an interview outside of court.  Oil Spill  The Texas City emissions incident overlapped the start of
the 2010 Gulf of Mexico  oil spill , which began when a rig
exploded while drilling a BP well off the Louisiana coast. BP,
 Europe ’s second-biggest oil company, has spent more than
$26 billion over the spill, including cleanup and claims, BP
said on its website.  BP’s Texas plant was also the scene of a 2005 explosion
that killed 15 petrochemical workers and resulted in payments of
$2.1 billion to more than 3,000 local residents and businesses
harmed by the blast.  The company agreed in 2011 to pay Texas $50 million to
settle air-pollution violations at the plant from 2005 through
2011, which included the release of about 500,000 pounds of
harmful chemicals during the 2010 flaring incident.  The case is In re MDL Litigation Regarding Texas City
Refinery Ultracracker Emission Event Litigation, 10-UC-0001,
Texas 56th Judicial District Court (Galveston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in court in Galveston, Texas,
at  laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 