-- Brevan Howard Said to Start Fund With Ex-Deutsche Bankers
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-10-11T10:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/brevan-howard-said-to-start-fund-with-ex-deutsche-bankers.html
Brevan Howard  Capital Management LP
has started an investment fund run by a team of former  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  market strategists in New York, as Europe’s second-biggest hedge-fund firm expands its presence in the U.S.  The Brevan Howard Strategic Macro Fund is managed by Vinay Pande, a former chief  investment adviser  at Deutsche Bank who
joined the firm a year ago, said two people with knowledge of
the matter who asked not to be identified because the hedge fund
isn’t yet raising money from clients. It seeks to combine
Pande’s research of what assets should outperform with Jersey-based Brevan Howard’s ability to structure trades and manage
risk, according to the people.  Regulatory filings show Brevan Howard, which manages about
$40 billion, has boosted staff at its U.S. unit to 28 people
from two in June 2012. It has also been adding new hedge funds
after the main fund, which has underperformed its historical
returns over the past 21 months, restricted client investments.  “You need to come up with new products if you want to keep
growing the business,” said  Jacob Schmidt , founder of London-based Schmidt Research Partners Ltd., which assesses hedge funds
for investors. “The big firms also have big sales staffs that
they want to keep happy by giving them new things to sell.”  JPMorgan, Goldman  Max Hilton, a spokesman for Brevan Howard at Peregrine
Communications in  London , declined to comment on the new fund,
while Pande, 56, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  Pande is a partner at Brevan Howard’s U.S. unit, a senior
trader at the firm and the co-manager of the Strategic fund,
according to  biographies  posted online earlier this year for
speaking engagements at conferences. He worked at Caxton
Associates LLC, a New York-based hedge-fund firm, JPMorgan Chase
& Co.,  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
before joining Deutsche Bank, the biographies show.  His team on the Brevan Howard fund includes Gerald Lucas, a
former Deutsche Bank senior investment strategist, Yang Tang and
Miguel Costa, who also worked at the Frankfurt-based bank, the
people said. The fund’s investments will include stocks, credit,
 interest rates , foreign exchange and commodities, according to
the people. Lucas, Costa and Tang declined to comment.  Master Fund  The fund is trading with capital provided by Brevan
Howard’s $27.9 billion Master fund, which primarily makes bets
on derivatives tied to interest rates and currencies based on
global macro-economic trends. The Master fund gained less than 2
percent in the nine months through September after rising 3.9
percent in 2012, trailing the average annual return of about
11.4 percent since it started trading in April 2003, according
to company reports obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The Master fund made profits this year betting Japanese
equities would rise on policy makers’ championing of monetary
stimulus, according to a Brevan Howard statement released in
August. Brevan Howard suffered losses wagering that the  European
Central Bank  would cut interest rates, a trade that went against
the firm when U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
triggered a rise in global bond yields by signaling in May that
the Fed may start curtailing its fixed-income purchases.  Macro funds  fell 2.1 percent in the first nine months of
2013, while  hedge funds  broadly rose 5.6 percent, according to
data compiled by Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Alan Howard , 50, who’s based in Geneva, started Brevan
Howard in 2002 with four-other members of a proprietary fixed-income trading desk at Credit Suisse.  ‘Ideal Portfolio’  At Deutsche Bank, Pande’s duties included advising clients
on the “ideal portfolio” in research reports the bank
published at the start of a given year. He recommended buying
 emerging-market stocks  and bonds, gold and commodities at the
beginning of 2012. Emerging-market equities outperformed U.S.
stocks last year, while gold rose 7 percent and commodities, as
tracked by the S&P GSCI Spot Index,  gained  0.3 percent.  Brevan Howard started a hedge fund managed out of  New York 
in 2012 that invests in mortgage-backed securities and other
securitized debt, while locking up client funds for as long as
two years. The firm formed a separate fund last year with
backing from the Pennsylvania Public School Employees’
Retirement System that buys commercial-mortgage backed
securities issued before a real estate collapse last decade.  -- Editors: Simone Meier, Jon Menon  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  