-- Bulgaria’s Minority Cabinet Faces Second No-Confidence Vote
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-10-10T12:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/bulgaria-s-minority-cabinet-faces-second-no-confidence-vote.html
Bulgaria’s main opposition party
proposed a no-confidence vote against Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski, the second in two weeks, over his government’s
regional development policy in the poorest European Union state.  The Gerb party, led by former Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, introduced the motion to parliament, Gerb lawmaker
Liliana Pavlova told reporters in Sofia today. The proposal,
backed by 97 lawmakers in the 240-seat assembly, will be voted
on next week. Oresharski survived a similar no-confidence vote
over his administration’s investment policies on Oct. 2.  Political leaders are working to shore up public confidence
after weeks of on-and-off rallies by demonstrators who say they
are fed up with what they consider a corrupt political system in
the country of 7.5 million people. Oresharski came to power on
May 29 after anti-austerity protests forced out his predecessor
and triggered a snap vote.  “Our motives for the vote are based on our perception of
failure of the regional and infrastructure development
policies,” said Pavlova, who was regional development minister
in Borissov’s administration. “The two ministries in charge of
these issues aren’t working.”  Oresharski’s government set up a new Investments Ministry
to oversee infrastructure projects, which was previously done by
the Ministry of Regional Development. The two ministries manage
EU aid for modernizing the Balkan state’s roads, railways,
ports, water supply and sewage systems.  Socialists Ahead  President Rosen Plevneliev has said a new election may be
needed. Some 50 protesters blocked Oresharski’s car on Oct. 8 in
a central Sofia street demanding his resignation. Police
arrested six of the demonstrators.  Borissov’s Gerb party failed to win an outright majority in
May 12 elections and couldn’t form a cabinet. A minority
government supported by the Socialists and the Movement for
Rights and Freedoms, which represents ethnic Turks, later took
power.  The two parties control 120 seats in the assembly, one
short of a majority, and they rely on support from the radical
nationalist Attack party to push through laws.  The Socialists lead in support from potential voters with
18.5 percent, according to an opinion poll published today. Gerb
was second with 16.6 percent, according to the Sept. 21-28
survey of 1,192 people conducted by the Modern Policies
Institute. It gave no margin of error. The Socialists came
second in the elections with 27.6 percent, after Gerb’s 30.5
percent.  Oresharski has said he wouldn’t resign because doing so
would further destabilize the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  