-- Caesars Woos Gamblers With Wheel Taller Than London Eye
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-10T20:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/caesars-woos-gamblers-with-wheel-taller-than-london-eye.html
With $23 billion in debt, the most
of any U.S. hotel or casino company,  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) 
wanted to spruce up its stretch of the  Las Vegas Strip  without
dropping a bundle or adding to a glut of rooms in the city.  So the owner of Caesars Palace and  Planet Hollywood  bet its
tight expansion budget on a 550-foot Ferris wheel and “party
district” right in the middle of the Strip, where 20 million
people amble past its eight properties each year.  The High Roller, set to debut in 2014, and the surrounding
 Linq  entertainment area that opens in stages starting in
December, represent Las Vegas’ latest bid to reinvent itself for
low-rolling tourists who have grown stingy at the blackjack
tables. The $550 million project is transforming the
neighborhood into a pedestrian friendly dining, gambling and
shopping experience, anchored by an observation wheel that may
outdraw the London Eye or Empire State Building, Caesars said.  “This is the new model in  Las Vegas ,” said Brent Pirosch,
a gambling consultant for the commercial property broker Newmark
Grubb Knight Frank and one-time Caesars adviser. “Ten or 20
years ago these projects would have been considered competition
for the bread-and-butter gaming business.”  The High Roller, already visible on the Las Vegas skyline,
is the world’s tallest observation wheel. It could carry 4
million riders a year, Las Vegas-based Caesars said in a Sept.
24 regulatory  filing . That’s more than the city’s five busiest
attractions combined, including the top of Stratosphere Casino,
Madame Tussauds wax museum and the Eiffel Tower replica at the
company’s own Paris Las Vegas hotel.  Desert Vistas  Caesars, will charge riders an average of $16.50 to $21.50
each, the company told investors in connection with a recent
debt refinancing. For that sum, tourists will get a 30-minute
round trip in a glassed-in pod, offering panoramic views of the
city’s famous neon skyline and surrounding desert.  Burdened by debt from a 2008 buyout, Caesars has been
refinancing loans and extending maturities while looking for
ways to boost profit. The company is also trying to raise $1.18
billion through the sale of stock in a unit that will partly own
its online gambling business. Its bonds have fallen on
speculation creditors may be hurt in a debt restructuring.  The company’s $3.31 billion of second-lien, 10 percent
 notes  due 2018, which traded as high as 96.25 cents on the
dollar in February 2011, dropped to a record-low 49.75 cents
yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ‘Chained’ Gamblers  The Linq project, which doesn’t risk a dime on more casinos
or rooms, marks a contrast to where Las Vegas was headed a few
years ago. In 2009,  MGM Resorts (MGM)  International opened the gaming
Mecca’s last big resort with CityCenter, an $8.5 billion
labyrinth of hotels, casinos, dining and shopping down the
street. The goal then was to draw tourists in and keep them.  MGM Resorts, the biggest casino operator on the Strip,
announced plans in April to build its own pedestrian-friendly
entertainment district between its New York- New York  and Monte
Carlo casinos. The facades of both will be redone and the space
converted to an outdoor plaza, and an arena for concerts and
sports will be added at a total cost of $450 million. MGM has
about $13 billion in  debt .  “People no longer want to be chained to a slot stool or a
theater seat,” Jim Murren, chairman and chief executive officer
of MGM Resorts, said on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop
With  Betty Liu .” “They go in and out of environments and they
like to be outside, they like to walk around. I think the
Caesars project is going to be very successful.”  Tilted Kilt  Caesars, controlled by TPG Capital and  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) , and MGM are adjusting to a drop in gambling by
Las Vegas tourists. The average guest spent $485 per trip at the
slots and tables last year, down from $652 in 2006, according to
the Las Vegas Convention & Visitors Authority. The amount spent
on food, shopping and shows rose 1 percent to $457.  Eventually, Caesars will have a pedestrian-friendly
environment along almost a mile long on the Strip, running from
its Planet Hollywood to Harrah’s properties. Along the way,
tourists will pass the company’s soon-to-be renamed and
remodeled Bill’s Gambling Hall & Saloon, its Imperial Palace,
now called The Quad, and the Linq, a 250,000-square-foot dining
and shopping area with the Brooklyn Bowl bowling alley and
concert venue, and the Tilted Kilt pub.  Both the Quad and Caesars’ Flamingo casinos will be open to
the Linq plaza, said Rick Caruso, the  Los Angeles  shopping
center developer who consulted on the project. The area was
designed with fountains and trees to cool pedestrians in the
desert heat. The mall, on the “50-yard-line” of Las Vegas,
dispenses with the idea that casinos need to keep people inside.  Natural Order  “There’s a natural way people want to live their lives,”
Caruso said. “They want to be out in the street, having a sense
of being in a place that’s much more organic.”  The High Roller, with 150 employees, could take in $86
million in annual revenue and produce earnings of $60 million
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to Caesars.  The London Eye, a similar observation wheel in the U.K.,
draws 3.9 million riders at the equivalent of $32.25, while the
Empire State Building in New York welcomes 3.5 million to its
observation deck for $25 a piece, according to Caesars.  Room Glut  In a road show for a $4.92 billion mortgage and bond
refinancing last month, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Gary Loveman said Caesars originally planned to build a new
casino hotel on the land now devoted to the High Roller and
Linq. Hotels completed since the 2008 financial crisis have
depressed room rates, he said.  “It’s since become clear what you don’t need is additional
casino-hotel space,” Loveman said.  Loveman wasn’t available for comment, according to a
company spokesman.  About 84 percent of Las Vegas’s visitors are returning
customers, according to the visitor authority, suggesting
Caesars’ High Roller ride will have to count on repeat fans
after the initial excitement wears off.  The Linq could generate $14.3 million in  cash flow , while
nearby Caesars casinos could pick up 1 million more customers
spending as much as $15 each on average, the company said.  North of the Strip, downtown Las Vegas is also going
through a transformation, driven by Zappos.com founder Tony Hsieh. His  Downtown Project  is investing $350 million to make
the area more community-focused for residents and small
businesses. He turned the old  city hall  into the headquarters
for his online shoe store, now owned by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , and
moved into a high-rise himself.  The Las Vegas Strip ranks as the world’s fourth-busiest
tourist spot, with 29.5 million visitors, behind Times Square
and  Central Park  in New York and Union Station in  Washington ,
Travel + Leisure magazine reported in October 2011.  Stock Surge  Caesars, the largest owner of U.S. casinos, rose 1.2
percent to $21.34 at the close in New York. The shares have more
than tripled this year,  outpacing  the Russell 2000 Index’s 26
percent gain, as the company refinanced debt and offered
existing investors the option to buy stock in its online gaming.  The company is working hard to get more out of visitors.
Caesars has annual interest expense topping $2 billion, and the
High Roller/Linq investment equals almost all the money it
earmarks for improvements in any given year.  “The only way they can really stay afloat is to get an
incrementally bigger share of the spending,” said  David
Schwartz , director of the Center for Gaming Research at the
University of Nevada Las Vegas. “The secret is not to build
more beds, it’s to get more people in your restaurants and
clubs. It’s a smart strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  