-- California Republicans See Opportunity in Sex Scandal
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/california-republicans-see-opportunity-in-sex-scandal.html
California  Republicans, who have
surrendered the governor’s office, a majority of the legislature
and every other statewide post, are looking to begin a comeback
in  San Diego , where the mayor’s office has been thrown open by a
sex scandal.  Democratic Mayor Bob Filner’s resignation from office amid
charges of sexual harassment may give Republicans a beachhead in
the state’s second most-populous city, where it can build a
return to influence in the world’s ninth-largest economy.  The race will help gauge whether Republicans can attract
the support of independent voters and the growing Hispanic
population ahead of the 2016 presidential race. San Diego is
more than one-quarter Latino, and 28 percent of voters aren’t
members of any party,  according  to the city clerk.  “San Diego is a test market for Republicans if they want
to be viable in a fast-changing America,” said  Carl Luna , who
teaches politics at San Diego Mesa College. “This election for
mayor is significant. If they lose this race, it could be a long
time before Republicans ever hold the mayor’s office again.”  With 1.3 million people and an estimated 302,000  jobs  tied
to the military, San Diego has stood apart from California’s
other large cities politically.  San Francisco  issued marriage
licenses to same-sex couples in 2004.  Los Angeles  severed
business ties to  Arizona  in 2010 over immigration policies. San
Diego  stripped  its workers of guaranteed pensions and cracked
down on medical-marijuana clinics.  Democratic Advantage  While Democrats have a 3-to-2 edge in voter  registration ,
San Diego elected Republican mayors in six straight elections
over two decades ending with Filner’s victory last year.  Filner, a 10-term Democratic congressman, swept into office
with support from unions and Latinos, who accounted for 29
percent of San Diego’s population in 2010, up from 25 percent in
2000, U.S. Census Bureau figures show.  Nine months into his term, Filner resigned following public
accusations by at least 18 women who said he made unwanted
sexual advances.  A special election to replace him is set for Nov. 19. Three
Democrats and a Republican are running, though their party
labels won’t appear on the ballot. Municipal elections in
California are officially nonpartisan.  None of the candidates mustered a majority of likely voters
in a poll by SurveyUSA released Sept. 23. If no one receives 50
percent of the vote, the top two will face each other in a
runoff.  Republican Rebuilding  With the theme “Rebuilding from the ground up,”
California Republicans held their annual convention earlier this
month in Anaheim, between Los Angeles and San Diego. The party
holds mayoral offices in just two of the 10 largest cities, 12
of 40 Senate seats and 25 of 80 Assembly districts.  “The future of the party is in the local offices,” said
Tony Krvaric, chairman of the San Diego County Republican Party.
His office is festooned with souvenirs of  Ronald Reagan , who was
California’s governor before becoming President. “That’s where
the future statewide officeholders are going to come from. San
Diego is the biggest springboard that’s available.”  Krvaric handed out fliers at the convention urging
activists to “make history in San Diego” by coming to the city
Oct. 18-20 for a get-out-the-vote drive for City Councilman
Kevin Faulconer. “San Diego is ground zero for California
Republicans,” the flier says.  ‘Right Mix’  Faulconer supports same-sex marriage and touts his work on
environmental issues in a council  district  hugging the Pacific
coast. In an interview in Balboa Park, where a cluster of
museums, gardens and the internationally acclaimed municipal zoo
form the city’s cultural heart, Faulconer described himself as a
social moderate and a fiscal conservative, “the right mix for
San Diego.”  He said he backed pension roll-backs for city workers and
opening departmental functions to competition from independent
contractors. Faulconer voted against a proposal to require that
union-backed prevailing wages be paid by contractors on projects
valued at more than $25,000.  “It’s not necessarily about unions versus the private
sector,” Faulconer said. “It’s about doing the job as
efficiently as possible.”  The local  Democratic Party  and a  group  of 135 unions, the
San Diego and Imperial Counties Labor Council, with 200,000
members, are behind first-term Councilman David Alvarez.  Alvarez’s challenge is to reassemble the coalition of
Latinos and African-Americans concentrated south of Interstate 8
that carried Filner into office, said Richard Barrera, who heads
the labor council.  South of 8  “Politics in San Diego ultimately will be decided by the
growing number of families south of 8 -- blue-collar,
immigrants, working families -- as they get more and more
involved in the political system,” Barrera said in his office
overlooking the highway. “Politics in San Diego historically
has been dominated by a small number of downtown business
people.”  Alvarez, whose council district lies south of I-8 and
extends to the Mexican border, calls himself a progressive and
said the city’s “establishment” hand-picked Faulconer. In an
interview at a coffee shop in Barrio Logan, a predominately
Latino neighborhood in his district, Alvarez said Republicans
coalesced around Faulconer after a meeting at the La Jolla home
of developer Thomas Sudberry, and urged former councilman Carl DeMaio, who lost to Filner last year, not to run again.  Establishment Power  “The establishment is very clearly out there,” Alvarez
said. “They definitely want to come back into power.”  Sudberry said more than 40 professional organizations were
represented at the meeting, held to help choose an electable
candidate. In a telephone interview from Toronto, where he was
vacationing, Sudberry said entrepreneurs are looking for
stability in the city after business regulations became
unpredictable during Filner’s time in office.  “It was about promoting the candidacy that had the best
chance of winning, the best chance of promoting free enterprise
and growing the economy in San Diego,” he said.  DeMaio, who is running for congress, declined to comment.  In addition to party-endorsed Faulconer and Alvarez,
candidates include a pair of former officeholders: Mike Aguirre,
a Democrat who was the elected city attorney from 2004 to 2008,
and Nathan Fletcher, a former Republican assemblyman who ran for
mayor as an independent last year before becoming a Democrat
this year.  Alienating Unions  Aguirre said he’s not afraid of alienating unions by
keeping a focus on the city’s unfunded pension liabilities.  “There’s three political parties in San Diego: the
Republican Party, the Democratic Party and the pension party,”
he said in an interview. “And the pension party is the most
powerful.”  As a Republican, Fletcher joined Democratic California
Governor  Jerry Brown  in September 2011 in supporting a bill to
eliminate an option for some out-of-state businesses to lower
their tax rates. The bill was favored by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the
telecommunications company that is San Diego’s second-largest
nongovernment  employer , which later hired Fletcher as senior
director of corporate development. Republicans in the Senate
blocked the bill.  Fletcher, in an interview after a campaign event, said
Republican resistance to the deal with Brown helped nudge him
from the party.  Bipartisan Focus  “I’ve never been really great at partisan politics, but
that’s not the job of mayor,” he said. “Political parties
change and so do people. I’ve always been about getting the job
done in a bipartisan fashion.”  Fletcher was backed by 30 percent of likely voters in the
SurveyUSA  poll . Faulconer was second at 22 percent, followed by
Alvarez, 17 percent, and Aguirre, 9 percent. The telephone
survey of 527 likely voters conducted Sept. 19-23 had a margin
of error of plus or minus 4.3 to 4.4 percentage points,
according to  U-T San Diego , one of its sponsors.  Gus Chavez, a 70-year-old retired academic who spoke at
Fletcher’s rally in Barrio Logan, said the special election may
further marginalize Republicans in San Diego and California.  “Republicans cannot win in California because of the
tremendous damage they have done in the Latino community,”
Chavez said.  California is home to the largest Hispanic population in
the U.S., according to a report by the Pew Research Center’s
Hispanic Trends Project. Projections show Latino residents of
the state will outnumber whites within a year.  Hispanic Memories  Chavez said former Governor Pete Wilson backed a 1994
ballot initiative to deny public services to people who entered
the U.S. illegally. The measure, which passed and later was
overturned in court, soured many Hispanic voters on Republicans,
he said.  Republicans can win in San Diego by appealing to fiscally
conservative independent voters, said San Diego Regional Chamber
of Commerce President Jerry Sanders, a Republican who was the
city’s mayor for seven years before Filner.  “We are a city that’s not majority Republican anymore,”
Sanders said in an interview. “What the  Republican Party  needs
to do is to open the party up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in San Diego at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  