-- Carter to Resign as Pentagon’s Deputy Secretary
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-10T21:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/carter-to-resign-as-pentagon-s-deputy-secretary.html
U.S. Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  will resign Dec. 4 after four and a half years in two
Pentagon jobs, overseeing weapons programs and serving as the
department’s No. 2 official.  Carter’s resignation was announced today by Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel, who called him an “extraordinarily loyal
and effective deputy secretary.” Hagel didn’t say who President
 Barack Obama  would choose for the post. Carter’s decision to
leave was “his alone,” Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said
in a statement.  Carter, 59, became deputy defense secretary in October 2011
after serving as the Pentagon’s top weapons buyer since April
2009. He previously worked as an arms control official in the
Pentagon under President  Bill Clinton .  Carter, a theoretical physicist by training, was a
professor at  Harvard University  before joining the Obama
administration.  “Public service in senior levels in Washington is a little
bit like being a Christian in the Coliseum,” Carter wrote in
his faculty profile at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government in
Cambridge, Massachusetts. “You never know when they are going
to release the lions and have you torn apart for the amusement
of onlookers.”  Troop Feedback  He is known for making visits to Iraq and Afghanistan to
seek feedback from troops on major U.S. weapons deployed there.
During his tenure as chief weapons buyer, Carter took over
management of the armored Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected
Vehicles program to expedite production and delivery. The trucks
were key to protecting U.S. troops from roadside bombs.  As deputy secretary, Carter has promoted Obama’s strategy
of giving more emphasis to  Asia . Carter became the Obama
administration’s point man for improving defense ties with
India.  After Obama won a second term as president last year,
Carter was under consideration for cabinet-level jobs leading
the Pentagon or the Energy Department. Carter said in January
that Obama asked him to stay as deputy defense secretary after
choosing Hagel for the top job.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  