-- Catalonia Wants ECB Seat After Referendum: Euro Credit
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-10-11T09:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/catalonia-to-seek-ecb-seat-after-independence-vote-euro-credit.html
The Catalan government is targeting
a seat on the European Central Bank’s governing council after
the referendum it plans to secede from Spain, regional finance
chief Andreu Mas-Colell said.  “Being a member of full standing in the European Union
means that,” Mas-Colell said in an interview at his office in
 Barcelona  this week. “We are in favor of having our own state,
which would give us solidity and standing in the international
community.”  Leaders of Catalonia, with a 194 billion-euro ($262
billion) economy and its own language and parliament, are
seeking independence from Spain, the euro region’s fourth-largest economy. Catalan President Artur Mas is planning a
referendum next year and is drawing European institutions into
the dispute with Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, who has said any
vote would be illegal.  While Catalans have becoming increasingly supportive of
independence -- 52 percent want to split from Spain and 81
percent want a chance to vote, according to a  survey  of 800
people by polling company My Word last month -- the region’s
autonomy within Spain has been curbed over the past year after
Mas accepted a bailout from the Spanish state.  Catalan Spread  The spread between debt issued by Catalonia and similar
securities issued by Spain narrowed to 176 basis points at 11
a.m. in  Madrid  from a peak of 826 basis points in August 2012.
The gap has tightened as Rajoy backstopped Catalonia with about
17 billion euros, according to estimates by Fitch Ratings, after
the region lost access to markets.  “We are extremely dependent on the central government and
we don’t like that at all,” Mas-Colell said. “At this point
our bank is the Spanish Treasury.”  The biggest obstacle to independence for Catalonia, which
already runs its own schools, hospitals and police force, may
come from European institutions.  “The Europeans are not interested in having Spain split
up,” Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington , said in a
telephone interview. “If push comes to shove, the government in
Madrid can expect strong European backing for blocking an
outright independence movement for Catalonia.”  Scottish Vote  While Mas, echoing  Scotland ’s First Minister Alex Salmond,
insists Catalonia can negotiate a mechanism for separating from
Spain without leaving the European Union or the euro area, the
European Commission has said a newly independent state would
need to reapply for membership through the same process that
 Turkey  is pursuing. Salmond has persuaded the UK government to
allow a referendum on Scottish independence.  Just as the Catalan government is funded by the Spanish
state, the region’s banks are plugged into the ECB’s financing
operations.  Caixabank SA (CABK) , which has a  balance sheet  the
equivalent of 167 percent of the region’s gross domestic
product, has 21.5 billion euros of debt outstanding from the
central bank’s long-term refinancing operation, Chief Financial
Officer Gonzalo Gortazar said on a conference call in July.  “They should be very scared,” Kirkegaard said. “They run
the risk in an extreme case of being cut off from ECB liquidity
which would be very, very difficult. The ECB has a de facto veto
over” the push for independence.  Expanding ECB  Catalan officials haven’t discussed their plans with the
ECB, Mas-Colell said. A spokesman for the central bank, who
asked not to be named citing official policy, declined to
comment.  The ECB Governing Council includes the six members of the
Executive Board and the central bank governors of the member
states. The council has grown from 17 members when the currency
began in 1999 to 23 with the accession of  Estonia  in 2011, two
decades after the Baltic nation gained independence from the
Soviet Union.  Nationalist sentiment in Catalonia has surged since Spain’s
constitutional court in 2010 struck down a revised statute of
autonomy for the region following a challenge by members of
Rajoy’s party. The law had been approved by the Catalan and
Spanish parliaments as well as a local plebiscite.  “The decision of the Constitutional Court was deeply
humiliating,” Mas-Colell said.  Catalan Flag  Behind him, on the wall of his office, hangs a painting
that combines the Catalan flag with the words “volem statut” -
- meaning “we want a statute” in Catalan -- which recalls the
region’s push for autonomy within Spain following the death of
dictator Francisco Franco in 1975.  Rajoy’s People’s Party has retreated since 2000 from the
compromises reached during the post-Franco transition to
democracy, Mas-Colell said, citing opposition to the statute and
“aggressive” moves to restrict the use of Catalan in schools.
Rajoy says there’s “no attack” on the language, and proposes
dialogue to solve the conflict within the limits of the
constitution.  The risk is “a process that is mismanaged and you have
social unrest and fighting and no one is able to decide
anything,” said Nicola Marinelli, who helps invest $150 million
as a portfolio manager at Glendevon King Ltd in  London . “That
would be very bad.”  On Sept. 11, 1.6 million Catalans turned out for a pro-independence demonstration on the 299th anniversary of the fall
of Barcelona at the end of the Spanish War of Succession,
according to the regional government. Rajoy says their demands
are unconstitutional.  “If they think that they can go forward oblivious to
everything else, they should do that at their own risk,” Mas-Colell said. “The situation here is explosive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  