-- Chemtura Sells Consumer Unit and May Divest AgroSolutions
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-10-10T21:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/chemtura-sells-consumer-unit-and-may-divest-agrosolutions.html
Chemtura Corp. (CHMT)  sold its consumer-products units to KIK Custom Products Inc. for $315 million and
may also sell its agricultural-chemicals unit to focus on
industrial chemicals such as flame retardants.  Toronto-based KIK gains plants in the U.S. and  South
Africa , Philadelphia-based Chemtura said today in a statement.
The unit being sold makes pool and spa chemicals such as
chlorine, the company said on its  website .  KIK, controlled by New York-based private equity firm CI
Capital Partners, said in a separate statement the transaction
will be financed through debt underwritten by Credit Suisse
Group AG and UBS AG. The acquisition “enhances our household-cleaning portfolio and furthers our ongoing commitment to pool
care,” Kik said in its statement.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Craig A. Rogerson sold
Chemtura’s antioxidants unit for $200 million in May in the
first step of focusing the company on businesses with leading
industry positions. Chemtura has received “unsolicited
expressions of interest” in acquiring the Chemical
AgroSolutions unit and has hired Morgan Stanley to act as
financial adviser on the divestiture.  “A sale of Chemtura AgroSolutions would transform Chemtura
into a more focused, pure-play industrial specialty chemicals
company with leading global positions that we believe can
capitalize on attractive end-market growth trends,” Rogerson
said in the statement.  Compensate Shareholders  Proceeds from the consumer products sale and the potential
divestiture of the AgroSolutions unit will be used to compensate
shareholders, invest in remaining units and pay down debt,
Chemtura said.  The company also said its third-quarter earnings will be
“substantially lower than current consensus,” partly because
of the unit sale and “weakness” in the unit that makes flame
retardants. The company was projected to earn 32 cents a share,
the average of six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chemtura emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2010 after
filing for protection in March 2009, citing falling demand for
resins, electronics and construction materials made with the
chemicals it manufactures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  