-- Chicago Spot Gasoline Reaches Three-Week High on Rising Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-10-10T20:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/chicago-spot-gasoline-reaches-three-week-high-on-rising-demand.html
Chicago  gasoline reached a three-week high against futures in New York as regional demand climbed
and  premium gasoline  soared, signaling possible refinery upsets.  Conventional, 85-octane gasoline , or CBOB, in Chicago
advanced 5.25 cents to a premium of 0.75 cent a gallon versus
futures at 2:38 p.m. It was the  biggest jump  since Sept. 17 and
strongest position since Sept. 20. The premium gasoline grade
rose to a  two-month high  of 54.5 cents above futures.  “There was quality demand earlier in the day and with the
premium no lead gasoline moving up, that was also bullish,”
said Ken Malloy, a broker with Fairfield, Iowa-based Danaher Oil
Co. The demand was mostly in East Chicago, he said.  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s Wood River, Illinois, refinery, which was
carrying out planned maintenance as of Oct. 8, reported a
compressor trip that resulted in flaring yesterday.  BP Plc (BP/)  last
week shut a crude unit for repairs at its Whiting, Indiana,
site, the largest in the U.S. Midwest.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Joliet, Illinois, plant cut rates by an
unspecified amount after an electrical fault on Oct. 5, a filing
showed. The company declined to comment further.  The Wood River, Whiting and Joliet refineries have a
combined capacity of about 1.01 million barrels a day, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Retailer Demand  Aside from refinery issues, Chicago gasoline prices may
have seen a boost because of retailer demand, said Patrick
DeHaan, a gas analyst at GasBuddy.com. Prices at the pump in
 Illinois  averaged $3.453 a gallon today, compared with $3.436 a
week ago, according to the  company’s website .  “Any demand surge was likely tied to retailers filling
their tanks after motorists poured in to beat retailers raising
their prices,” DeHaan said.  Stockpiles of gasoline  in the U.S. Midwest, known as PADD
2, dropped 835,000 barrels to 49.3 million in the week ended
Oct. 4, according to U.S. Energy Information Administration
data. That was the first decline in five weeks.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  in Chicago, a rough measure of
refining margins for gasoline and diesel based on West Texas
Intermediate oil in Cushing, Oklahoma, gained $2.67 to $14.02 a
barrel, the highest level since Sept. 10, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel  in the region was unchanged at 10.5
cents a gallon below Nymex futures. The same fuel in Group 3,
the region spanning north from Tulsa,  Oklahoma , to  Minnesota  and
North Dakota, added 0.25 cent to a discount of 1.25 cents a
gallon. Gasoline in the area was at a discount of 10.5 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  