-- China’s Stocks Decline From Two-Week High as Brokers Fall
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-10T07:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-poly-real-estate-may-advance.html
China’s stocks  fell the most in two
weeks as financial companies slumped the most among industry
groups on concern earnings growth will slow.  Citic Securities Co. (600030)  and Haitong Securities Co., the
nation’s largest-listed brokerages, slid more than 3 percent
after Bank of America Corp. said brokerages will suffer from
government efforts to encourage banks to offer asset-management
products. Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co. dropped the most in two
months after the company said it will hire lawyers to probe a
media report that it got  trade secrets  from former Eli Lilly &
Co. employees. Cosco Shipping Co. slumped the most in two weeks
after gaining 6.8 percent in the previous three trading days.  “It’s a bad news for brokerages as banks are entering what
brokerages are doing now,” said Dai Ming, a  money manager  at
Hengsheng Hongding Asset Management Co. “There will be more
competition for brokerages and their earnings will be hurt.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.9 percent to 2,190.93
at the close, the biggest loss since Sept. 26. The CSI 300 Index
dropped 1 percent to 2,429.32. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  slid 0.9 percent. Chinese stocks extended losses on
speculation a bank is hedging out of an options contact,
according to Gavin Parry, managing director of Parry
International Trading Ltd.  A gauge of financial stocks in the CSI 300 fell 2 percent,
the most among 10 industry groups. Citic Securities slid 3.8
percent to 12.05 yuan. Haitong Securities lost 5.4 percent to
11.98 yuan. Industrial Bank Co. fell 3.2 percent to 11.21 yuan.
 China  Minsheng Banking Corp. lost 2.6 percent to 9.50  yuan .  Chinese brokerages, banks and mutual-fund managers may be
hurt from speculation the government wants asset-management
plans to replace wealth-management products, according to Bank
of America.  Asset Management  If banks are forced to switch to asset management from
wealth products, investors will be more aware of risks they take
on and turn more cautious with buying such financial products,
strategists including David Cui wrote in a note dated yesterday.
They cited a 21st Century Business Herald report that 11 banks
are testing direct debt financing instruments and asset-management plans.  The parent of Alipay.com Co., billionaire Jack Ma’s online
payments-system operator, will pay 1.18 billion yuan ($193
million) for a 51 percent stake in Tian Hong Asset Management as
it expands into financial services. Inner Mongolia Junzheng
Energy & Chemical Industry Co., a shareholder of Tian Hong
Asset, jumped by the 10 percent daily limit to 10.99 yuan.  Drugmakers Fall  Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine slid 3.8 percent to 34.06 yuan.
The Indianapolis Business Journal reported Oct. 8 that former
Lilly employees stole more than $55 million in trade secrets and
passed them to the Chinese company.  Cosco Shipping, a unit of China’s biggest shipping company,
fell 3.4 percent to 3.65 yuan. China Cosco Holdings Co., the
biggest shipping company, declined 2.5 percent to 3.49 yuan. The
 Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a benchmark of commodity shipping rates,
slumped for the first time in six days, losing 1 percent.  Shanghai International Port (Group) Co., the biggest
contributor to gains in the benchmark index from Aug. 22 through
Sept. 17, declined 5.4 percent to 5.62 yuan. CTS International
Logistics Corp. tumbled 5 percent to 14.78 yuan.  The “underwhelming” launch of the Shanghai  free-trade 
zone has led many to reassess the likelihood the zone will
become a test for far-reaching policy reform anytime soon,
Capital Economics Ltd. wrote in a note.  Free Trade  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 12 percent since June
27 as companies based in the city rose on speculation they will
benefit from deregulation in the Shanghai trade zone, a testing
ground opened last month for free-market policies. Trading
volumes in the Shanghai measure were 2.9 percent higher than the
30-day average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Shanghai index may reach 2,400 next year, according to
HSBC Holdings Plc. Liquidity, valuation and fund flows could be
supportive for the market in the fourth quarter, HSBC equity
strategists wrote in a report dated yesterday. The index trades
at 8.7 times projected earnings for the next 12 months, compared
with the five-year average of 12.6 times, according to  data 
compiled Bloomberg.  The government will start to release September economic
data as early as this week. The central bank may release reports
on  money supply  and new lending as early as today, while the
customs office is scheduled to provide foreign-trade data on
Oct. 12.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index, the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 0.4 percent in
 New York  yesterday on speculation the nomination of  Janet Yellen 
to lead the U.S. Federal Reserve will give  emerging markets  a
reprieve from any immediate withdrawal of stimulus.  President  Barack Obama  nominated Yellen, an architect of
the Fed’s stimulus program, to lead the central bank. House
Republican and Senate Democratic leaders are open to a short-term increase in the debt limit, said congressional aides of
both parties who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss
strategy.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  