-- China’s Money-Market Rate Declines First Time This Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-10T02:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/china-s-money-market-rate-declines-first-time-this-month.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell for the first time this month as the central bank injected
more funds into the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China pumped 48 billion  yuan  ($7.8
billion) into markets today using 14-day reverse-repurchase
agreements at 4.1 percent, according to a statement on its
website. That followed an addition of 65 billion yuan through
seven-day reverse repo contracts on Oct. 8.  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the banking system, dropped seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 4.46 percent as of 10:34 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The rate slid by as much as 63 basis
points to 3.9 percent earlier.  “This week is a bit tight, so the central bank increased
the injections in open-market operations,” said Cheng Qingsheng, an analyst at Evergrowing Bank in  Shanghai . “It may
reduce the amount in upcoming weeks if rates stabilize. I don’t
think its stance of maintaining a tightly balanced market has
changed.”  The cost of the one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed
payment to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, fell for
the first time since Sept. 30, declining two basis points to
3.99 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the government’s 4.08 percent bonds due August
2023 decreased one basis point to 4.05 percent, according to
data provided by the Interbank Funding Center.  China should make use of its reserves to issue foreign-currency bills and special  government bonds  to help restructure
debt, the Economic Information Daily reported today, citing Cao
Wenlian, director of the international cooperation center of
National Development and Reform Commission, as saying.  The Chinese government has a lot of “policy buffer” to
deal with debt accumulated by companies and local governments,
which is “way too high,” Zhu Min, a deputy managing director
at the  International Monetary Fund , said in  Washington 
yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  