-- China Arrests Journalist Who Posted Claims of Graft Online
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-11T07:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/china-arrests-journalist-who-posted-claims-of-corruption-online.html
A Chinese journalist who posted
allegations of wrongdoing by government officials online has
been formally arrested on a defamation charge, his lawyer said.  The Beijing People’s Procuratorate approved Liu Hu’s arrest
on Sept. 30, lawyer Zhou Ze said by phone yesterday. Liu, who
worked for the Guangzhou-based New Express, had been in
detention since Aug. 24, according to Zhou.  Liu’s arrest comes as  China ’s government seeks to stem the
flow of what it calls online rumors and false news in an effort
to exert control over the Internet. Authorities have targeted
outspoken bloggers and announced that people who post comments
deemed defamatory could face as much as three years behind bars.  Liu’s posts to his microblog, which have since been
deleted, were “completely in the public interest” and he had
the right under the constitution to criticize without 100
percent proof, Liu’s lawyers said in a statement posted on
Zhou’s  blog in August.   Liu had tried to expose wrongdoing by officials including
the police chief of Shaanxi province and Ma Zhengqi, former vice
mayor of Chongqing municipality, according to the statement. Liu
alleged on his microblog in July that Ma, now deputy director of
the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, waived
further investigation into the privatization of two state-owned
companies when he was party secretary of a district in
Chongqing, the South China Morning Post reported July 30.  Civil Servants  Liu alleged that local civil servants purchased the assets
for about 1.7 million  yuan  ($277,955) even though they were
valued at 27.7 million yuan, the SCMP said.  The Beijing People’s Procuratorate didn’t answer two phone
calls seeking comment yesterday. An official at the SAIC who
asked not to be named declined to comment on Liu’s arrest. Ma
was still in his job on Oct. 8, when SAIC issued a statement
reporting that he had visited a shopping district in Beijing and
encouraged enterprises to “continue to do a good job to provide
consumers with  quality goods  and services.”  Liu’s detention was a “transparent attempt to warn others
not to publicly air suspicions of wrongdoing by officials,”
Joel Simon, executive director of the New York-based Committee
to Protect Journalists, said in a statement Aug. 29.  While some journalists like Liu who alleged corruption have
been detained, others have been allowed to work unimpeded. In
December, a journalist at Caijing Magazine, Luo Changping,
posted allegations against Liu Tienan, who was vice chairman of
the country’s top economic planning agency. Liu Tienan was
stripped of his position in May, and Luo has since serialized
his account online.  False News  China wages periodic campaigns to eliminate the spread of
what it terms false news. In 2007, the official Xinhua News
Agency announced one such campaign and said bogus journalists
have taken bribes in exchange for favorable news coverage.  About 250,000 Chinese journalists will receive training on
topics including “the Marxist view on journalism” and
journalistic ethics, Xinhua reported yesterday. Reporters will
be required to pass a test after the training early next year to
obtain or renew their press cards, Xinhua said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  