-- Citic Metal Said to Join Minmetals Bidding for Glencore Mine
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-10-10T11:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/citic-metal-said-to-join-minmetals-bidding-for-glencore-mine-2-.html
Citic Metal Co. , a unit of Chinese
state-backed conglomerate Citic Group Corp., joined  China 
Minmetals Corp. in bidding for  Glencore (GLEN)  Xstrata Plc’s copper
project in  Peru , said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Minmetals, China’s biggest state-owned metals trader, is
leading the group, which offered about $5 billion for the Las
Bambas mining project, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private. Minmetals plans
to contribute about half of the funding for the bid, while Citic
Metal would put in about 30 percent, the people said.  Glencore is selling Las Bambas as part of an agreement to
obtain Chinese regulatory approval for the Baar, Switzerland-based company’s $29 billion takeover of Xstrata Plc this year.
As many as four Chinese bidders are expected to make offers for
the project, Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg
said last month.  China Reform Holding Corp. , an  investment company  backed by
China’s State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission, may contribute the remaining 20 percent of the
financing, the people said. SASAC is the agency overseeing
Chinese government assets.  The bidding group’s composition may change as the sale
process is in its early stages, the people said.  Ma Jun, spokesman for Minmetals, said he’s not aware of
developments in the bidding for Las Bambas. A call made to Citic
Metal’s general line in Beijing went unanswered. China Reform
Holding didn’t immediately respond to questions sent by fax. A
spokesman for Glencore declined to comment.  Glencore rose as much as 2.6 percent in London trading, the
biggest intraday gain since Sept. 19, and was 2.3 percent higher
at 329.9 pence at 12:02 p.m.  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are advising the
Minmetals-led consortium, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in  Hong Kong  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  