-- Citigroup Hires Ex-BofA Executive Desoer for Banking COO
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-10T16:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/citigroup-hires-ex-bofa-executive-desoer-for-banking-coo.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. lender by assets, hired former Bank of America Corp.
mortgage chief  Barbara Desoer  as chief operating officer of its
banking subsidiary.  Desoer, 60, will oversee the governance of Citibank NA, the
New York-based company’s consumer unit, and report to Gene McQuade, chief executive officer of the unit, according to a
memo from McQuade. Desoer’s role starts Oct. 15, he wrote.  “Barbara brings to Citi a wealth of experience in banking
and finance accrued during a 35-year career with Bank of
America,” McQuade, 64, said in the memo.  American Banker 
reported the hiring earlier today.  Desoer led Bank of America’s home lending unit and was once
on the list of potential CEOs for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based company. Bank of America became the largest U.S.
residential lender when it bought Countrywide Financial Corp. in
2008, and spent the following five years dealing with fallout
from faulty mortgages and  foreclosures  that have cost the bank
more than $45 billion.  Desoer lost responsibility for about half of Bank of
America’s mortgages when the firm created a so-called bad bank
to handle troubled loans. She departed in February 2012,
according to a staff memo at the time.  Her experience extends beyond mortgages. Desoer was
responsible for technology, infrastructure and application
development at Bank of America, which is currently ranked second
by assets in the U.S., and directed teams that handled mergers
and integration of Countrywide, FleetBoston Financial Corp.,
MBNA Corp. and U.S. Trust, according to McQuade’s memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  