-- Colts’ Luck Signs With Tech Startup That Has Concussion Product
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-10-10T15:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/colts-luck-signs-with-tech-startup-that-has-concussion-product.html
Indianapolis Colts quarterback
Andrew Luck joined the sports advisory board of MC10, a
technology startup that released its first commercial product in
July.  MC10, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and backed by
venture capital, teamed with  Reebok  International Ltd. on the
Reebok Checklight, a skullcap with sensors that fits under a
helmet and measures the force of impact.  Luck, the first overall pick in the 2012 National Football
League draft, will get an undisclosed equity stake in the
company, Time.com said.  It’s the latest equity agreement for Luck, who last month
signed a multiyear contract with Body Armor’s SuperDrink. He’s
also a  Nike Inc. (NKE)  endorser.  MC10’s advisory board includes Luck’s backup, Matt Hasselbeck, retired basketball player Grant Hill, lacrosse
player Paul Rabil and Georgetown University basketball coach
John Thompson III. One of Hasselbeck’s former teammates in
 Seattle , linebacker Isaiah Kacyvenski, is chairman of the
advisory board.  MC10 Chief Executive Officer David Icke, like Luck, who
majored in architectural design, is a Stanford University
graduate.  “Andrew is a perfect fit with MC10,” Icke said in a
statement. “Not only is he one of the best quarterbacks in the
league, but he’s also an incredibly bright guy with a keen eye
towards design. He wants to put his degree to work.”  The PBS documentary series “Frontline” earlier this week
aired “League of Denial,” which focused on concussions in the
NFL.  The Checklight has a light that sticks out from under the
helmet. After force is applied to the head, a yellow or red
light flashes. Yellow indicates moderate impact, while red
indicates severe impact. It’s designed to help players, coaches,
officials and trainers determine when a player should be
examined. It retails for $149.98 at Reebok’s online store.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  