-- Commitments Lose Soul, Perfect ‘Ghosts’: London Theater
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-10-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/commitments-lose-soul-perfect-ghosts-london-theater.html
“The Commitments,” the latest
jukebox behemoth to lumber into  London ’s West End, tells of a
group of working-class Dubliners who get a band together to play
covers of Motown classics like “I Heard It Through the
Grapevine.”  They start out hopefully. They argue. They split up. You’ve
seen it all before.  It’s not the cliches that drag the show down. It’s
possible, after all, to take the old rise-and-fall outline and
give it a shakeup, like Tom Hanks did in his fun movie “That
Thing You Do.”  What hampers the show -- based on a novel by Roddy Doyle,
who also wrote the book -- is the absence of plot, character
development and a great set.  It’s supposed to take place in a poor, depressed, heroin-infested Dublin in 1986. Here the atmosphere feels so generic
that it could be anywhere from Cape Town to Cape Cod.  The story centers on Jimmy (an over-energetic Denis
Grindel) and his efforts to inspire others with his love of
black soul music.  “The Irish are the niggers of Europe, and the Dubliners
the niggers of Ireland,” he tells his nonplussed colleagues.
His lead singer Deco (Killian Donnelly) is an arrogant and
violent windbag with a great voice.  The little tension there is comes too late, and sputters
out inconsequentially. The love-interest plot is so clearly an
afterthought that you’ll miss it if you blink.  Rating: **  Ghostly Perfection  It’s become common in some theatrical circles to mock the
virtues of a well-crafted plot. Doyle doesn’t think one is
necessary. Ibsen, thank heavens, did: “Ghosts” is a miracle of
construction.  A period-costume revival at the Almeida puts heart, soul
and flesh around all that clockwork perfection.  Leslie Manville is superb as Mrs. Alving, a woman who
desperately tries to keep her family secrets hidden. The way her
laugh changes through the play, from an uptight, controlled
snort to wild hysteria, is a fascinating mirror of her
disintegration. She gives as moving an interpretation of the
role as I’ve seen.  Manville is supported by an excellent ensemble, including
Will Keen as the misguided Pastor Manders, and taut, beautifully
atmospheric direction from Richard Eyre. Rating: *****  “The Commitments” is at the Palace Theatre. Information:
 http://www.thecommitmentslondon.com . “Ghosts” is at the
Almeida. Information:  http://www.almeida.co.uk , +44-20-7359-4404  Muse highlights include the London and  New York   weekend
guides ,  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater,
and  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on movies.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 