-- Commercial Paper Expands as Treasury Alternatives Sought
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-10-10T17:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/commercial-paper-market-expands-as-treasury-alternatives-sought.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through IOUs expanded to the highest level in eight months as
investors turned to alternatives to short-term Treasury bills
while a congressional impasse over raising the U.S. debt ceiling
threatens to tip the nation into default.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
outstanding climbed $11 billion to $1.066 trillion in the week
ended yesterday, the Federal Reserve said today on its website.
That’s the highest level since the market touched $1.085
trillion for the period ended Feb. 13, according to Fed data
compiled by Bloomberg.  One-month Treasury bill rates  exceeded  those of 30-day
commercial paper by the most since at least 2001 as a partial
government shutdown stretches into a 10th day one week from the
day Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has said his department will
run out of borrowing capacity, Bloomberg data show. The
inversion in rates signals investors are demanding a higher
return to compensate the perceived risk of holding short-dated
government debt than for highly rated commercial paper from
companies.  Strains, Stresses  “It’s a sign of the strains and stresses, the lack of
certainty,” Andrew Milligan, head of global strategy at
Edinburgh-based Standard Life Investments Ltd. which has $271
billion of assets under management, said yesterday in an
interview in New York. “In effect, the market is saying that
for the next two-to-three weeks the credit risk of, for example,
a large Dow Jones stock, is considered better than that of the
U.S. government.”  Rates on one-month Treasury bills today reached 8.8 basis
points more than those of similar-maturity commercial paper
after touching the highest level in at least 12 years earlier
this week, Bloomberg data show.  Institutional investors in money-market mutual funds that
focus almost exclusively on Treasury securities and other debt
backed by the U.S. government withdrew $17.5 billion in the past
seven days, according to research firm Crane Data LLC in
Westborough,  Massachusetts . That’s about 2.6 percent of assets
in those funds.  During the past week, borrowers have increased the amount
of commercial paper issuance via one-to-four day maturities to
$48.4 billion from $46.3 billion, while decreasing the amount in
the five-to-20 day categories, Federal Reserve  data  show.  ‘Artificially Steep’  “The artificially steep money-market yield curve has
encouraged borrowers to shorten their maturities” and refund
more frequently, Howard Simons, strategist at Bianco Research
LLC in  Chicago , wrote in an e-mail.  House Republican leaders proposed a short-term increase in
the debt ceiling that would continue the government shutdown and
reduce the prospects for a U.S. default while extending the
partisan fiscal fight.  The rate on bills maturing on Oct. 17 dropped for the first
time in six days, falling 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage
point, at 12:24 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Parry in New York at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Robinson in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  