-- Connecticut May Buy Yale-Backed Tennis Tournament, Malloy Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-10-10T20:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/connecticut-may-buy-yale-backed-tennis-tournament-malloy-says.html
Connecticut is considering buying
the rights to the New Haven Open, a women’s tennis tournament
hosted by  Yale University  that the governor’s office says
generates $26 million for the local economy.  The state’s Capital Region Development Authority will vote
next week on purchasing the rights to the event, Governor Dannel Malloy said today in a  statement.  Andrew Doba, a Malloy
spokesman, said the state would pay $618,000 for the tournament,
one of the  WTA tour ’s hard-court tuneups before the  U.S. Open  in
New York.  “This tournament has created both economic and community
development opportunities in the City of New Haven for 16
years,” said Malloy, a Democrat. “Economic development for our
urban environments, and the state as a whole, is a fundamental
component of the state’s agenda and we view the New Haven Open
as another chapter in bolstering this effort.”  Without the purchase, the governor said, the tournament
would probably leave Connecticut.  The sale was approved this week by the U.S. Tennis
Association, which owns the tournament, according to the
release. The program has also received commitments from all five
of its main sponsors --  Aetna Inc., (AET)   American Express Co. (AXP) ,  First
Niagara Financial Group Inc. (FNFG) , Yale, and Yale-New Haven Hospital.  The tournament has been held in New Haven for 16 years, and
past winners include  Venus Williams ,  Justine Henin , Steffi Graf
and Caroline Wozniacki. It was also a stop on the men’s ATP Tour
from 2005 to 2010.  The vote will take place on Oct. 17. The 2014 tournament is
scheduled to be held from Aug. 15 to Aug. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  