-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Little Changed Amid Government Shutdown
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-10-10T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-little-changed-amid-government-shutdown.html
Consumer confidence  was little
changed last week even as the government’s partial shutdown and
the prospect of a default made Americans less optimistic about
the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index retreated to minus
29.7 in the week ended Oct. 6 from minus 29.4. The decrease was
within the margin of error of 3 percentage points. A gauge of
opinions on the economy fell to the lowest level in more than
six months, while measures of personal finances and the buying
climate improved.  The divergence indicates  views on the economy  are more
easily swayed by the gridlock in Washington as the failure of
lawmakers to reach a compromise on the budget dims the outlook.
Matters closer to home, on the other hand, including a resilient
job market and falling gasoline prices, are helping underpin
sentiment, particularly for high-income consumers.  “Upper-end households, who are thriving in the current
environment, remain confident,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. At the same time, if the
conflict continues, he said it “will likely put a dent in
consumer sentiment and business confidence in coming weeks.”  The comfort index has vacillated within a 1.6-point range
over the past month, indicating stability in the face of the
bitter political debate. The measure reached its highest level
since January 2008 in early August.  Jobless Claims  A separate report today showed more Americans than forecast
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week as
California worked through a backlog caused by a switch in
computer systems and the federal shutdown forced some government
contractors to pare staff.  Jobless claims surged by 66,000 in the week ended Oct. 5,
the most since the aftermath of superstorm Sandy in November, to
374,000, the Labor Department said in  Washington . The median
forecast of 47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an
increase to 311,000.  Stocks climbed amid signs the nation’s lawmakers could
reach an agreement to increase the debt ceiling. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 1 percent to 1,673.36 at 9:33 a.m. in New
York.  The gauge showing Americans’ current views on the economy
dropped to minus 60.2 last week, the weakest since late March,
from minus 57.8. The  buying-climate  measure rose to minus 33.5
from minus 35, and the reading on  personal finances  climbed to
4.7, a two-month high, from 4.5.  Gasoline Prices  Lower fuel prices are giving households more latitude to
spend. The average cost of a gallon of  regular-grade  gasoline
fell to $3.35 on Oct. 6, the lowest since January, according to
data from AAA, the country’s biggest motoring group.  Even as households feel more secure in their personal
finances, the federal government’s closure, now in its 10th day,
risks damaging confidence and detracting from growth.  The comfort data contrast with other sentiment measures
that have slumped since the shutdown took effect. A Gallup index
of U.S. economic confidence last week had the largest decline
since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. One-third of respondents in another Gallup survey pointed to
“dysfunctional government” as the top problem facing the
country, the largest share in 74 years of polling.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  preliminary
index  of sentiment is scheduled for release tomorrow. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 66 economists calls for a
decrease to 75.9 from a final reading of 77.5 in September.  Government Shutdown  The Bloomberg comfort index is a four-week rolling average,
meaning it’s less volatile than shorter-term measures. Survey
data from previous weeks enter into the final reading, which
blunts any negative effect the shutdown has had on confidence.  “If we get another bad week in the week ahead, we can
expect to see more of a decline in next week’s index,” said
Gary Langer, president of the New York-based Langer Research
Associates, which produces the Bloomberg index.  Today’s figures showed a rise in confidence among those
with incomes greater than $100,000 a year. The reading for this
highest-earning group increased to 19, the strongest since early
August, from 16.1 the week prior.  For those with incomes less than $50,000, their confidence
fell last week to minus 51.2. Discount retailers including
Family Dollar Stores Inc. are facing a possible contraction in
shopper traffic as the holiday-buying season approaches.  Family Dollar  “While many higher-income consumers are feeling better and
more confident about the future, our core customer continues to
struggle,” Michael Bloom, president and chief operating officer
of Family Dollar, said yesterday on an earnings call. “They’re
dealing with tepid job growth, higher taxes and reductions in
government assistance programs.”  Confidence among people between the ages of 55 and 64 rose
last week to its best level since December 2007, today’s report
showed. Sentiment fell among those between the ages of 18 and 34
to a five-month low.  Optimism increased for both Republicans and Democrats, and
sank among political independents.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers ages 18 and older. Each week,
250 respondents are asked for their views on the U.S. economy,
personal finances and buying climate.  The percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the
share of positive views and divided by three. The most recent
reading is based on the average of responses over the previous
four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  