-- Copper Rises on Speculation U.S. Will Avoid Defaulting on Debt
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-10-10T11:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/copper-rises-on-speculation-u-s-will-avoid-defaulting-on-debt.html
Copper rose in London, rebounding
from a three-week low, on speculation U.S. politicians will
agree to increase the government’s borrowing limit and avoid a
debt default.  U.S. lawmakers for the first time yesterday embraced one
possible path out of the fiscal impasse, a short-term deal to
avoid default, even as they remained far apart on how to make it
happen. Borrowing authority will expire in a week without an
accord. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  of U.S. equities closed
higher yesterday after sliding as much as 0.5 percent.  “Signs of a debt-ceiling deal helped the U.S. stock market
bounce back up yesterday and support LME metals this morning,”
Richard Fu, director for Asian commodity trading at Newedge
Group SA in London, said by e-mail.  Copper for delivery in three months added 0.3 percent to
$7,119 a metric ton by 11:45 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange.
Prices dropped for a third day yesterday and touched $7,087, the
lowest since Sept. 18. Copper for delivery in December rose 0.1
percent to $3.2355 a pound on the Comex in New York.  A U.S. default might “seriously damage” the world
economy, the  International Monetary Fund  said this week.  Prices also gained after President  Barack Obama  nominated
 Janet Yellen  to succeed  Ben Bernanke  as chairman of the  Federal
Reserve . That “added a bit more optimism,” Fu said.  Still, LME copper is down 2.5 percent this month amid signs
of expanding production. World supply from mines will increase
no less than 4 percent annually in the 2012-16 period, Standard
Bank said this week in a report, compared with less than 1
percent in four of the six years before 2012.  “Caution is the watchword,”  Andrew Silver , a broker at
Triland Metals Ltd. in London, said by e-mail today. “My
impression from this week is that producers are nervous. They
know surpluses are here and premiums will likely be pressured.”  Copper  stockpiles  tracked by the LME, at the lowest level
since March, slid for a 26th session to 512,450 tons, daily
exchange data showed. Orders to remove the metal from warehouses
gained the most in almost two weeks to 263,000 tons.  Aluminum, zinc, lead and nickel rose in  London . Tin fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  