-- Credit Risk Drops in Europe Amid Signs of U.S. Debt Limit Accord
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-10-10T09:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/credit-risk-drops-in-europe-amid-signs-of-u-s-debt-limit-accord.html
The cost of insuring corporate bonds
against losses fell for the first time in four days in  Europe 
amid signs U.S. lawmakers will reach a deal for a short-term
increase in the  debt ceiling  and avoid default.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings dropped 2.7 basis
points to 99 basis points at 10:25 a.m. in  London . The Markit
iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with mostly speculative-grade ratings fell 11 to 390, the lowest in almost a week.  Companies raised 11.8 billion euros ($16 billion) in the
 bond market  this week as investors speculate corporate debt will
offer a haven in the event of U.S. debt turmoil. Confidence a
compromise can be reached is growing after aides of both
parties, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said House
Republican and Senate Democratic leaders are open to a short-term increase in the debt limit.  “A short-term agreement would only be a mildly
constructive outcome, placing markets in limbo for several more
weeks,”  Jim Reid , a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London,
wrote in a research note. “ House Republicans  haven’t yet
decided how long an extension they would support and whether it
will include any policy conditions.”  Company bond sales are approaching the 14.6 billion-euro
weekly average for this year and are already 29 percent above
last week’s total issuance, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  In the new issue market today, Portuguese power company
Redes Energeticas Nacionais SGPS SA is raising 400 million euros
from seven-year bonds that will yield about 315 basis points
more than swaps, according to a person familiar. The notes will
be sold through REN Finance BV with a keepwell agreement from
the Lisbon-based company.  Redes Energeticas Nacionais, rated one level below
investment grade at BB+ by  Standard & Poor’s , is selling the
notes as investors seek higher-yielding securities. The average
yield investors demand to hold junk-rated corporate debt has
fallen 19 basis points this month to 4.6 percent, the lowest in
eight weeks, Bloomberg  bond index  data show.  Also in the high-yield market, German building materials
maker Xella International Holdings Sarl is marketing 200 million
euros of payment-in-kind toggle notes yielding about 9.25
percent through its Xella Holdco Finance SA unit. PIK toggle
notes give the borrower the option of paying coupons with cash
or more debt.  Among high-grade borrowers, U.K. electricity supplier
Western Power Distribution East Midlands Plc is selling 11-year
benchmark-sized notes in pounds yielding 125 basis points to 130
basis points more than gilts.  Autobahnen- Und Schnellstrassen-Finanzierungs-AG,  Austria ’s
motorway operator known as Asfinag, is selling 1 billion euros
of seven-year securities guaranteed by Austria at a spread of
six basis points more than swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  