-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall; L Brands Sells $500 Million of Bonds
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-10T21:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-l-brands-sells-500-million-of-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
fell the most in almost four months amid signs that lawmakers
may reach an agreement to delay a lapse in borrowing authority
until next month.  L Brands Inc. (LTD)  sold $500 million in notes.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
4.6 basis points to 78.7 basis points at 4:25 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest
drop for the measure since June 25.  Investor optimism is growing as lawmakers indicate they’re
open to a short-term increase in the $16.7 trillion debt
ceiling. A resolution on the debt limit may keep the U.S. from
defaulting and lead to a break in the impasse over the  federal
budget .  “From a bond-market perspective, when you have a big
argument about something, that means you’re coming closer to a
solution,”  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  at
Cabot Money Management in Salem,  Massachusetts , said in a
telephone interview. “The market is starting to believe that
it’s unlikely that they’re going to allow a default.”  Earlier today, the White House endorsed a short debt-limit
increase with no policy conditions attached, signaling potential
support for House Republicans’ plan for a month-long reprieve
from a default.  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and climbs as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  L Brands  L Brands, the Columbus, Ohio-based clothing retailer
previously known as  Limited Brands , sold 5.625 percent senior
unsecured notes due 2023 to yield 293 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Proceeds from the sale will be used to repay notes due
November 2014 and for general corporate purposes, the company
said in a statement distributed today by PR Newswire. Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. managed
the sale, according to the statement.  Credit risk for  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  declined after Chief
Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  said the  Palo Alto , California-based company expects to return more cash to shareholders and
revenue to stabilize after a two-year drop.  Hewlett-Packard  Five-year swaps tied to the debt of Hewlett-Packard
decreased 25.5 basis points to 147 basis points at 4:32 p.m. in
New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. That’s the lowest level
since Aug. 14.  “I’ve got real confidence that we’re headed in the right
direction and we will turn this thing around,” Whitman said at
a  meeting  with analysts in  San Jose ,  California . The company
said in a slide presentation that the year-over-year revenue
drop “moderates” after fiscal 2013.  The Markit CDX North American High Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade bonds, fell 19.5 basis
points to 380.3 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 0.1 basis point to 132.5
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 1.2 basis points to 657.1.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  