-- Danes With World-Beating Debt Loads Prepare To Dig Deeper
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-10-11T12:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/danes-with-world-beating-debt-loads-prepare-to-dig-deeper.html
Danish households , which already
have the world’s biggest debt load relative to incomes, are
about to use a real estate recovery to go further into the red.  Five years after the country’s real-estate crash ripped
through home equity and drove up the number of borrowers owing
more than their properties are worth, homeowners are ready to
take on bigger loans amid the first signs prices are rising,
according to  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Scandinavia’s largest lender.  Outstanding home loans reached a record 1.44 trillion
kroner ($262 billion) in August, 78 percent more than a decade
ago, the central bank estimates. The development suggests a
recovering housing market risks turning into a mixed blessing as
Danes add to a debt load that the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development estimates is a world-beating 310
percent of disposable incomes.  “Danes’ memories aren’t infinite,” said Lise Bergmann, a
Copenhagen-based housing economist with Nordea Kredit, the
Stockholm-based lender’s Danish mortgage unit. “Not only will
we see more borrowing to buy homes, but people will begin to
take out loans against their equity.”  Denmark’s stable AAA credit ratings by Moody’s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings are underpinned by
a public debt ratio that’s less than half the average in the
euro area. That’s helped keep  interest rates  low and supported
borrowing.  Risks Lurking  Yet, adding to the world’s highest private debt burden
would exacerbate risks that the International Monetary Fund says
are lurking in Denmark’s $500 billion  mortgage system , the
world’s biggest per capita. The Danish Systemic Risk Council,
created this year to guard against financial instability, says
it’s responding to international warnings by investigating
whether new constraints should be imposed on banks.  One avenue the council is exploring is whether banks should
be required to allocate loans based on income as well as
property values. That would limit the potential of real estate
bubbles to give borrowers access to funds they can’t repay if
the value of their home tanks in a subsequent bust.  “We should go into it with an open mind,” said Lars Rohde, central bank governor and head of the Systemic Risk
Council, in an interview. He’s also cautioning the Social
Democrat-led ruling coalition against fiscal easing after a
government-appointed committee found lax policies going into the
financial crisis contributed to  Denmark ’s housing bubble.  Outside Regulation  Denmark should explore introducing loan-to-income standards
because the European Systemic Risk Board recommends the
requirement as part of a toolbox to prevent excessive credit
growth and leverage, according to Rohde.  “It may come as part of regulation from outside,” he
said.  The government and mortgage industry have cautioned against
reading too much into Denmark’s record private debt load,
arguing it’s backed by some of the world’s highest pension
savings. Still, those funds can prove difficult to access in an
asset-price slump when households are mostly likely to need to
tap them, according to the IMF.  In a Sept. 13 report, the Washington-based IMF said Danish
household asset levels, as a share of disposable income, are
lower than in “many other” economies, including the
Netherlands and the U.K., and that a large part of Danish assets
also are vulnerable to price fluctuations and illiquidity.
Excluding housing and pensions, Danes have “negative” liquid
assets, the IMF said.  “Continued low default and loss rates cannot be taken for
granted,” the fund said.  Boom Cycle  Danish mortgage banks are legally required to limit bond-backed loans to 80 percent of a property’s value. If loans crawl
above that threshold because home values sink, banks must
provide supplementary collateral. In a boom cycle, homeowners
have traditionally used rising property values to increase
leverage.  Denmark’s most recent boom-to-bust cycle has exposed the
model’s weaknesses. Loan-to-value ratios fell in 2006 to their
lowest in at least two decades as Denmark’s real estate bubble
inflated, according to a September review by the Institute for
Business Leadership and Budget at Syddansk University in Odense,
Denmark. The same review found that at least 1 in 10 Danish
homeowners owe banks more than their homes are worth more than
five years after the country’s bubble burst.  Reverse Indicator  “If you look at the LTV ratios in 2006, then everything
looks good,” Morten Skak, who co-wrote the review published by
Syddansk University, said in an interview. “So we have the
problem that many of these indicators of the institutions may
look bright when the future is gloomy.”  House prices dropped an average of 20 percent after
Denmark’s property bubble burst in 2008, with some areas of the
country suffering even sharper declines. The IMF estimated in
September that homes still remain 10 percent overvalued.  Most indicators suggest prices are recovering, led by
apartment prices in the capital Copenhagen.  “Optimism among Danes and not least homeowners is back,”
Joachim Kristensen, a housing economist at Nykredit Markets, a
division of Nykredit A/S, Europe’s biggest issuer of home-loan
covered bonds, said in an Oct. 2 note.  Danish house prices climbed in June to their highest in two
years, the national statistics agency said Oct. 2. The number of
properties for sale also has increased, while the average length
of time on the market declined, according to the Association of
Danish Mortgage Banks.  Treasury Beating  About 46 percent of all prospective home buyers were
outbid, according to a September survey by EDC, Denmark’s
largest independent real estate agent franchise. Two years ago
that figure was 40 percent, EDC said.  Danish mortgage bonds have outperformed  U.S. Treasuries (USGG10YR) 
even as the housing market slumped.  A Nykredit A/S index  of the
most traded Danish mortgage securities has returned 35 percent
since October 2008. U.S. Treasuries with maturities longer than
one year returned 22 percent in the same period, according to
the Bloomberg/EFFAS index.  Demand for mortgage loans is rising along with prices.
Banks made 23 percent more offers in September than in August,
the mortgage association said Oct. 9. The figure was down from a
year earlier, as many borrowers had already refinanced to take
advantage of record low rates, the Copenhagen-based industry
group said.  Industry Defends  According to Bergmann at Nordea Kredit, prices now “better
reflect macroeconomic fundamentals.” Though households are
unlikely to go on a similar borrowing spree to the one that
presaged the latest crisis, households’ growing optimism means
“there’s a limit on how much of a buffer households think they
need,” she said.  General consumer spending climbed fourfold last month to
its highest since the financial crisis’s start, according to the
Danish Bankers Association. The Copenhagen-based industry group
said today its payment index, which dates back to January 2008,
climbed from 0.21 in August to 0.87 in September. The index
includes debit card use and bank transfers.  Meanwhile, the mortgage industry is trying to defend itself
against warnings from the IMF, the central bank, S&P and Moody’s
that its business model is adding risk to the $340 billion
economy.  Adjustable-rate loans, introduced in 1996, require
borrowers to tap bond markets as often as annually. Interest-only mortgages, available since 2003, have added to debt burdens
by slowing the rate of amortization, the central bank says.  Bells Ringing  The industry says it’s working hard to curb those risks and
additional constraints such as a loan-to-income ratio are
unnecessary. Mortgage banks “already are making very detailed
credit and income assessments,” Peter Jayaswal, deputy director
at the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks, said in an
interview. “Responsible lending is in everyone’s interest.”  A government-appointed committee examining the causes of
the financial crisis in Denmark recommended last month that the
country’s financial regulator set stricter mortgage lending
guidelines.  According to Jesper Rangvid, the committee’s chairman,
“there should be alarm bells ringing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 