-- David Garrard Returns to Jets Five Months After Leaving NFL Team
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-10T16:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/david-garrard-returns-to-jets-five-months-after-leaving-nfl-team.html
Quarterback David Garrard has
rejoined the  New York Jets , who added the National Football
League veteran to their exempt list two days after  Mark Sanchez 
underwent season-ending shoulder surgery.  The Jets will have two weeks to evaluate Garrard’s physical
condition and decide whether to activate him. Garrard had signed
with the Jets in March and then left the team two months later
because of a recurring knee injury, saying it was swelling after
practice and limiting what he could do.  “I was able to take the whole summer off and let my body
heal,” Garrard, 35, was quoted as saying by the  Jets’ website .
“I started training a couple of months ago and my knee feels
great. I’m sitting at home, watching games thinking, ‘Why am I
at home? Why am I doing this to myself?’ I didn’t want to have
any regrets one day.”  Garrard, who last played in an NFL game in 2010, said he
reached out to Jets General Manager John Idzik and inquired
about a comeback. Garrard is eligible to practice and attend
meetings while on the exempt list, though he isn’t on the active
roster and can’t play in games.  Rookie Geno Smith has started the Jets’ first five games,
completing 60.3 percent of his passes for 1,289 yards, seven
touchdowns and eight interceptions. Matt Simms is Smith’s
backup, with Brady Quinn as the third-string quarterback.  Garrard spent his first nine NFL seasons with the
 Jacksonville Jaguars , completing 62 percent of his passes for 89
touchdowns and 54 interceptions from 2002 to 2010. He didn’t
play the past two NFL seasons after undergoing surgeries on his
back and left knee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  