-- Debt-Ceiling Alarm Freezes Market With Least Supply: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/debt-ceiling-alarm-freezes-market-with-least-supply-muni-credit.html
Municipalities are borrowing at the
slowest pace in more than two years, showing how the partial
federal shutdown and prospect of a U.S. default are dissuading
localities from taking on financing for new projects.  Cities and states are offering $4.3 billion of bonds this
week after $3.7 billion last week, when the U.S. government
shutdown began,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. Excluding
holidays, it’s the skimpiest stretch of financing since May
2011, even as benchmark muni-bond yields have fallen from a two-year high.  As the political stalemate persists, supply may dwindle
further. San Francisco and a school district in  Utah  are among
issuers that may shift sales scheduled for Oct. 17, the day U.S.
borrowing authority lapses. The ebbing tide of new bonds is
echoed in diminished trading: Volatility on benchmark 10-year
muni yields has dropped close to a 10-month low.  “Without new issues to give a little bit of price
discovery, offers are drying up, bids are getting quiet, and
when you add in the politics, the shutdown and the debt ceiling,
it seems like people are sitting on their hands,” said Dan Toboja, vice president of muni trading at Ziegler Capital
Markets in  Chicago . “I would almost call it complete malaise.”  Already Down  The federal gridlock is exacerbating a drop in local
financings as interest rates have risen from generational lows
seen in December. Cities and states have issued $233 billion of
fixed-rate long-term debt through Oct. 4, down 15 percent from
the same period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Municipalities planning their financing amid the standoff
in  Washington  have to consider the potential impact on market
interest rates and the economy. The Treasury Department has said
any U.S. default from failing to raise the $16.7 trillion
federal debt limit could have catastrophic consequences that
might last decades.  The Sevier County School District in Utah, with about 4,500
students, has a $36 million bond sale set for Oct. 17. Proceeds
from the competitive deal will go toward building a high school.
 Patrick Wilson , the district’s business administrator, said he
has talked with his financial adviser about possibly changing
the date.  “I have a little bit of concern” about selling the day of
the debt-ceiling deadline, he said in an interview. “The market
could be pretty wild.”  Volatility Vanquished  The federal government’s first partial shutdown in 17 years
began Oct. 1, halting a  rebound  in the municipal market fueled
by the  Federal Reserve ’s surprise decision in September to
maintain the pace of its monthly bond buying.  Ten-year benchmark muni yields have barely budged over the
past two weeks, fluctuating just 0.02 percentage point,
Bloomberg data show. Volatility has tumbled, deadening the
market swings that generate trading opportunities. For 10-year
yields,  60-day volatility  is close to the lowest since December,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A stable muni market is uncommon in October. Benchmark 10-year muni yields have jumped about 0.24 percentage point on
average in the month since 2009, Bloomberg  data  show.  “The market is quiet right now, and that’s pretty rare,
especially in October,” Toboja said.  Investing Antipathy  The federal government shutdown has slowed other fixed-income markets too. Corporate bond sales in the U.S. have
dropped to $15.2 billion this month from $48.1 billion in the
year-earlier period, according to Bloomberg data.  “Underwriters are very hesitant to advise issuers to come
to market during somewhat unsettled times,” said Bart Mosley,
co-president of Trident Municipal Research in New York. The
shutdown and debt-ceiling debate are “keeping investors from
feeling like they have to take action, which has led to subdued
activity.”  San Francisco  plans to sell about $37 million of tax-exempt
bonds in a competitive deal Oct. 17 to pay for work at ports,
including a cruise-ship terminal, and refinance commercial paper
issued to move the project along.  The city has until 1 p.m. local time the day before the
sale to postpone, said Nadia Sesay, director of the city
controller’s office of public finance.  As Advertised  “We have advertised for a sale on the 17th and we’re
hoping we can keep it, but we’re going to continue to monitor
the market and see what’s happening with the debt ceiling,”
Sesay said in an interview.  Cicero, an Indiana town of about 4,800 residents, has a
$2.4 million sewer-revenue bond deal set for Oct. 17. Deen
Rogers at H.J. Umbaugh & Associates, the town’s financial
adviser, said officials have flexibility to shift the sale if
necessary because of the debt-ceiling debate.  Stephen DeGroat, finance commissioner of Rockland County
north of  New York , said he’s concerned that its $34 million
general-obligation issue is scheduled for Oct. 17. He said he
plans to call the county’s financial advisers and is open to
moving the date.  In 2011, Republicans and Democrats reached a deal to raise
the borrowing limit ahead of an Aug. 2 deadline and avoid
default. Similar to this month’s reduced volatility, 10-year
benchmark muni yields were unchanged that year from the end of
June to the end of July, Bloomberg  data  show.  Offsetting Interests  “Sellers are saying maybe the market will tighten up if we
pass the debt ceiling,” Toboja said. “Buyers are saying if we
get any kind of supply, the market is going to cheapen up. The
end result is you’ve got nobody doing anything.”  Deals in the municipal market this week include a $563
million general-obligation sale from  Wisconsin .  The state is issuing with top-rated 10-year munis yielding
 2.72 percent , close to the lowest since June. The  interest rate 
compares with  2.66 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 102 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Priya Anand in New York at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  