-- Detroit’s Ex-Mayor Sentenced to 28 Years for Corruption
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k ,   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   S t e v e   R a p h a e l
-- 2013-10-10T23:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/detroit-s-ex-mayor-sentenced-to-28-years-for-corruption-1-.html
Ex-Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick
was sentenced to 28 years in prison for public corruption as
U.S. prosecutors sought to link his conduct to the city’s
bankruptcy, which came almost five years after he left office.  The 43-year-old Democrat, who was mayor from 2002 until
2008, was found guilty in March of 24 counts of racketeering
conspiracy, extortion, bribery and  tax evasion . An associate,
contractor Bobby Ferguson, was also convicted on multiple
charges, and his father, Bernard Kilpatrick, was found guilty of
filing a false  tax return . They will be sentenced on later
dates.  “Mr. Kilpatrick was a larger-than-life character who
lived” the high life as mayor, U.S. District Judge Nancy Edmunds said at a sentencing hearing in federal court in Detroit
today. “He chose to waste his talents for personal
aggrandizement and enrichment.”  Prosecutors asked Edmunds to sentence Kilpatrick to at
least 28 years, saying he “systematically exploited his office
to enrich himself, his friends and his family.” The U.S alleged
that his conduct worsened Detroit’s fiscal woes a half-decade
before it filed its record $18 billion municipal bankruptcy in
July.  “Kilpatrick is not the main culprit of the city’s historic
bankruptcy, which is the result of larger social and economic
forces at work for decades,” prosecutors said in an Oct. 3
court filing. “But his corrupt administration exacerbated the
crisis.”  ‘Cheap Shot’  Defense lawyers called the linkage a “cheap shot” in
court papers and sought a sentence of no more than 15 years.
Even “15 years is an enormously long time in anyone’s life,”
Kilpatrick’s attorney, Harold Gurewitz, told the judge today.
“Locking up people for a long time is not a deterrent.”  Kilpatrick did a lot of good for  Detroit  and shouldn’t
serve as a “scapegoat” for the city’s current problems,
Gurewitz told Edmunds.  “I am not making any such statement about Kwame Kilpatrick
pushing Detroit into bankruptcy,” Edmunds said. The bankruptcy
filing resulted from years of economic decline, she said.  “I really messed up,” Kilpatrick said in a tearful
address to the judge today. “I apologize to the city for having
abandoned you.”  Kilpatrick said he had never stolen anything and defended
his friend Ferguson, saying the contractor was making
$20 million a year before they ever met.  ‘Staggering Crimes’  Prosecutor Mark Chutkow urged Edmunds to give Kilpatrick a
long prison sentence, saying the case is about the “staggering
crimes he committed that he set in motion.”  “So far, Kwame Kilpatrick has not been remorseful or
contrite,” Chutkow said.  Kilpatrick will appeal, Gurewitz said. The sentence
“didn’t need to be this long,” he said in a phone interview.
The judge’s reasoning in handing down the long sentence
“sounded like it was written by the government,” he said.  The sentence “sends a powerful message, I think, that the
people of Detroit will not tolerate this kind of abuse of the
public trust,” U.S. Attorney Barbara McQuade said in a press
conference after the hearing.  “I appreciated his remorse for letting so many people
down, but at the end of the day he did not accept responsibility
for stealing from the people,” she said.  ‘Negative Chapter’  Dave Bing, Detroit’s current mayor, said in an e-mailed
statement that he was glad “this negative chapter” in the
city’s history has ended.  “Public service requires a higher standard of ethics and
accountability,” Bing said. “Today’s sentencing sends a strong
message to everyone in public office.”  Kilpatrick, who has been held in federal prison in Milan,
 Michigan , since his conviction, resigned in September 2008 after
pleading guilty to two state felony counts of obstruction of
justice for lying on the witness stand in an unrelated case.  In the federal case, prosecutors claimed Kilpatrick, the
son of former U.S. Representative Carolyn Kilpatrick, created a
culture of corruption and exploited his power while the city was
failing.  Kilpatrick “created a pay-to-play system for the provision
of city goods and services which compromised vast swaths of city
government, including the water and sewer system, the convention
center, the pension system, casino developments and recreation
centers,” prosecutors said in a sentencing memorandum filed
Oct. 3.  ‘Rigged Bids’  “Kilpatrick extorted city vendors to help his co-conspirators and to line his own pockets. He rigged bids and
took bribes. He defrauded non-profits to enrich himself, his
wife and his associates,” the government lawyers said. “And
worst of all, he did it in a city where poverty, crime and lack
of basic services made it one of the most vulnerable
metropolitan areas in the nation.”  “A thousand years won’t repair the damage, but 28 years
gives the city some closure on the affair,”  Erik Gordon , a
University of Michigan Law School professor, said in an e-mail
after the hearing. “Kilpatrick and his administration created
the climate of corruption and disregard for the people of
Detroit that deepened the city’s troubles and spun its future
out of control.”  Kilpatrick’s corruption wasn’t cited among the reasons for
Detroit’s bankruptcy, either by the city’s emergency manager,
Kevyn Orr, or its creditors. Orr blamed decades of economic
decline and population loss.  Pension Fund  While Kilpatrick was mayor, Detroit arranged to borrow more
than $1.45 billion to plug a hole in the city’s pension fund for
its retired workers.  Interest-rate swaps  related to that debt almost caused the
city to default on payments to the swap holders in 2009, the
city has said. Under the swaps contracts, if  interest rates  rose
above a certain level, the holders had to pay the city. If rates
fell, the city would have to pay the swap holders.  When rates fell, Detroit avoided default by renegotiating
the contracts to give the swap holders collateral rights over
casino taxes. As part of the bankruptcy, the city will try to
buy its way out of the contracts by paying the holders about
$250 million.  “Had the city of Detroit not entered into the
$1.4 billion pension certificates of participation and the
subsequent swaps in 2006 and 2009, the city’s financial status
would be less dire today,” Bill Nowling, Orr’s spokesman, said
in an e-mail. “Thirty-nine cents of every dollar the city
spends was going to service debt, the lion’s share of which was
created by the swaps.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Kilpatrick, 10-cr-20403, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit). The
bankruptcy case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Raphael in Detroit at 
 sraphael5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  