-- CPPIB Partners With Dexus in A$2.7 Billion Office Fund Bid
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-10-11T06:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/dexus-partners-with-cppib-to-bid-for-commonwealth-office-trust.html
Dexus Property Group (DXS) , Australia’s
biggest office landlord, and Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board made a A$2.7 billion ($2.55 billion) bid for  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia’s  listed office trust.  The cash-and-stock offer values  Commonwealth Property
Office Fund (CPA)  at A$1.15 a share, in line with yesterday’s closing
price, Dexus and CPPIB said in a statement to the Australian
stock exchange. Dexus is also offering Commonwealth Bank an
undisclosed sum for the fund’s management rights, it said.  The purchase would give Dexus control of a quarter of the
buildings in Sydney, the nation’s largest city, and further its
goal of expanding funds under management. Toronto-based CPPIB,
which already has C$5.8 billion ($5.6 billion) of investments in
 Australia , would gain more high-quality commercial buildings in
the nation’s largest cities with Commonwealth Bank, the
Australian government and AMP Ltd. as the biggest tenants.  “I’m happy to see a third-party provider of capital
alongside Dexus, because they didn’t have the firepower to do it
on their own,” said Stuart Cartledge, Melbourne-based managing
director at Phoenix Portfolios. Dexus will also “get the
benefit of asset management fees” while only paying 50 cents
for every dollar of assets.  The offer price is equal to the value of the fund’s net
tangible assets as of June 30. Commonwealth Property Office
shares  rose  3 percent to close at A$1.19 in Sydney compared with
a 1.6 percent gain for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index. Dexus
shares  climbed  1.9 percent to A$1.06, and Commonwealth Bank
shares advanced 2.2 percent to A$72.32.  Strong Position  While tenant demand for offices across Australia has
weakened, a lack of building during the global credit freeze has
kept supply in check. Office completions in Australian city
centers will be 30 percent less than the historical average over
the next 10 years, Tim O’Connor, Sydney-based head of office
leasing at property broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., said in a
statement last month.  Dexus in July agreed to acquire a 14.9 percent interest in
the Commonwealth Property Office Fund at A$1.1334 a share, after
Commonwealth Bank said it was seeking to exit its real estate
business. The bank proposed at that time that its three real
estate funds, including the office trust, set up their own
management teams, a process known as internalization.  “A rival bid is unlikely, though competitive pricing
tension will likely come from Commonwealth Property’s imminent
internalization,” Simon Scott, Sydney-based managing director
at Moelis & Co., wrote in an e-mailed note to clients. “We
estimate A$1.21 is the best that could be hoped for” in any
possible higher offer from Dexus in the absence of a rival bid.  Proposal Considered  Dexus and CPPIB are offering 68 Australian cents and 0.45
Dexus shares for each Commonwealth Property Office share,
according to the statement. The proposal would give Sydney-based
Dexus and CPPIB equal stakes in the office fund and boost the
Australian REIT’s office assets under management to A$11.5
billion from A$7.8 billion. Its third-party funds under
management would climb to A$8 billion from A$6.1 billion, it
said.  “We’ve had initial discussions with the responsible entity
and they’ve been positive,” Darren Steinberg, chief executive
officer of Dexus, said in a telephone interview. “The proposal
that we’ve put forward is attractive and compelling to CPA unit
holders against any proposed internalization. The costs involved
with any internalization would leave the CPA net tangible assets
at A$1.11 to A$1.12” a security.  Commonwealth Management Investments Ltd., which manages
Commonwealth Property Office, will consider the offer “and any
other alternate proposal for CPA that may emerge,” CMIL said in
a statement to the stock exchange. CMIL’s independent board
committee is being advised by UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  