-- Diageo to Centrica Target Angola Oil Wealth in Trade Push
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   J o h n   B o w k e r
-- 2013-10-11T12:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/diageo-to-centrica-target-angola-oil-wealth-in-u-k-trade-push.html
(Updates with Diageo Africa operations in eighth
paragraph.)  By Colin McClelland  Oct. 11 (Bloomberg) –-  Centrica Plc (CNA)  and world’s biggest
distiller Diageo Plc are among British companies that may start
operations in Angola as it seeks to rebuild and ease its
dependence on oil, according to a U.K. trade mission.  The U.K.’s biggest-ever business delegation to Angola
visited the southwest African country, the U.K.’s third-largest
export market in sub-Saharan Africa, from Oct. 7 to 10. The two
countries signed an agreement in June to improve trade as
Angola, which produces the most crude in Africa after  Nigeria ,
seeks to diversify away from oil.  “If you said two years ago to British businesses ‘come to
Angola,’ we might have had five” companies, mission leader
Jonathan Marlandsaid in an Oct. 8 interview in Luanda, the
capital. “Now we had a waiting list and really good support.”  Angola, which produced 1.74 million barrels of oil a day in
September and relies on crude for 97 percent of its exports, is
rebuilding after a 27-year civil war that ended in 2002. About
15 British educational institutions are due to visit next month
while a group of U.K. agricultural companies are scheduled to
arrive early next year, Jonathan Alms, an adviser to U.K. Trade
& Investment, said in an interview.  Blue Label  Diageo (DGE) , which has plans to set up a distribution company in
Angola, served its Johnnie Walker whiskey to about 200
government and business leaders at the U.K. Ambassador’s
residence on Oct. 8.  British Airways Plc (IAG)  advertised its twice-weekly Luanda- London  flights at the event while Jaguar and
Landrover, luxury cars made in Britain by  India ’s  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT) , were on display.  Wealth derived from Angola’s oil industry has helped propel
sales of Diageo’s premium brands such as Johnnie Walker Blue
Label and  Ciroc  vodka, James Crampton, a company spokesman based
in London, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “Angola is one of the largest and most attractive total
beverage alcohol markets in  Africa ,” Crampton said. “We are
expanding coverage in partnership with our local distributors
and exploring options for the local production of mainstream
brands.”  Diageo employs about 5,300 people in Africa and brews
Guinness in more than 20 countries on the continent, according
to the London-based company’s  website .  British Gas-owner Centrica may consider the construction of
natural gas lines to different regions of the country from
offshore production as Angola plans to increase its electricity
generation fivefold by 2025.  Growing Interest  Oil and gas producer  BP Plc (BP/) , the largest British investor
in Angola to date, plans to spend $15 billion in the country
over the next decade on projects such as the PSVM oil field and
the country’s first liquid natural gas plant,  Robert Wine , a
London-based spokesman for the company, said by e-mail.  “Non-oil investment by U.K companies in Angola is very
small, but interest is growing,” John Woodruffe, head of Trade
& Investment at the British embassy in Luanda, said in an
interview. The exact amount of British investment excluding
petroleum is difficult to determine because not all companies
register their operations with the embassy, he said.  Helicopter manufacturer AgustaWestland Inc., owned by Rome-based  Finmeccanica Spa (FNC) , Travelex Worldwide Money Ltd. and
chemicals trader Gapuma U.K. Ltd. were part of the 18-company
trade mission.  Corruption Index  Investors in Angola must contend with regulations that
state their local operations should be worth at least $1
million, according to the foreign investment  agency  Angolan
National Private Investment.  Angola  also has a visa process that
can take months to navigate while the country ranks 157th out of
176 countries on Transparency International’s 2012 Corruption
Perceptions  Index .  “It’s a slow burn,” Marland said. Companies must be
“prepared to put in the time, build relationships, don’t think
you’re going to do something overnight, invest in the transfer
of skills and make a commitment.” 