-- Yen Drops as Risk Appetite Rises on U.S. Debt-Limit Talks
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-11T21:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/dollar-halts-gains-versus-yen-as-u-s-debt-limit-talks-continue.html
The yen fell against all of its 16
most-traded counterparts as risk appetite increased amid
speculation that U.S. lawmakers will reach an agreement to avert
a default, curbing demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  The dollar rose a fourth day versus the yen as the White
House weighed an offer from House Republicans for a short debt-limit extension and President  Barack Obama  met with Senate
Republicans to discuss the limit and the partial government
shutdown. The euro pared gains as a European Central Bank
Governing Council member said its strength may hurt Europe’s
exports. Sterling fell to a six-week low versus the euro.  “Confidence has been shaken by the U.S. fiscal behavior,
but as the week draws to a close, the fears of a default have
eased,” Marc Chandler, chief currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, wrote in a note to clients.
“We expect more progress over the weekend.”  The yen depreciated 0.4 percent to 98.58 per dollar at 5
p.m. New York time, having slid 1.5 percent in the prior three
sessions. It reached 98.60, the weakest level since Oct. 1, and
declined 1.1 percent on the week.  Japan ’s currency dropped 0.6
percent to 133.51 per euro, and lost 1 percent on the week. The
dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.3544 per euro after losing as much
as 0.5 percent earlier.  Stocks rose. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.6
percent after rallying 2.2 percent yesterday in the second-biggest jump in 2013 on bets U.S. lawmakers would reach a deal.  Pound, Krona  The pound dropped against Europe’s shared currency as a
report showed U.K. construction slipped 0.1 percent in August.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey  estimated  a 0.8 percent
increase. Sterling lost 0.3 percent to 84.90 pence per euro and
touched 85.10, the weakest level since Sept. 2.  Sweden’s krona gained as the nation’s non-seasonally
adjusted  jobless rate , as measured by the number of people
claiming benefits, fell to 4.6 percent last month, from 4.8 in
August, the Stockholm-based Public Employment Service said.
Economists in a Bloomberg  survey  forecast 4.7 percent.  The krona advanced for the first time in four days against
the dollar, appreciating 0.4 percent to 6.4761. It strengthened
0.3 percent to 8.7702 per euro.  A gauge of price swings dropped to the lowest level since
January. The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index fell to 8.42
percent, versus the 2013 average of 9.36 percent.  Euro Strength  The euro pared an advance versus the greenback after Ewald
Nowotny, an ECB Governing Council member, said the current level
of the 17-nation currency may be harming European exports.  “We have seen the tendency of the appreciation of the euro
vis-a-vis the American dollar,” Nowotny said to reporters in
 Washington . “We have to look at these developments because on
the one hand this might have negative effects on export
performance, and therefore on economic performance, especially
on southern members of the euro zone.”  The House proposal for a debt-limit increase through Nov.
22 would require Obama to accept policy conditions attached to a
separate spending measure, said two congressional aides. Obama
has insisted that he won’t accept conditions for ending the
shutdown, which is in its 11th day. House Republicans are
scheduled to meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow to discuss their plans.  Senate Republicans are considering a plan that would pair
provisions to raise the debt ceiling and end the shutdown with a
repeal of a medical-device tax. It would change pension rules to
offset the lost revenue from the tax.  The dollar advanced 0.4 percent this week, according to
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-nation currencies. The yen fell 0.9 percent, while  Australia ’s
currency rose 0.7 percent and the euro gained 0.2 percent.  ‘More Confident’  “The yen is underperforming against a basket of
currencies, and that is in part a function of potential progress
in Washington,” said Neil Jones, head of hedge-fund sales at
Mizuho Bank Ltd. in  London . “Currencies are reflecting a more
confident global backdrop.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its forecast for the yen
versus the dollar, saying momentum behind Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s reforms has slowed and expectations of further easing by
the Bank of Japan haven’t been realized.  The yen will trade at 98 per dollar over three months, the
bank said, from an earlier projection for it to fall to 105,
according to a note to clients dated Oct. 10. Japan’s currency
will trade at 103 over six months and 107 over a year, compared
with previous forecasts of 105 and 110 respectively, it said.  ‘Drift Higher’  “We expect additional monetary-policy easing and some
further structural reforms around the beginning of the next
fiscal year,” analysts led by London-based chief currency
strategist  Thomas Stolper  wrote. “This suggests that dollar-yen
could start to drift higher in the first quarter next year.”  The yen may weaken to its September low of 100.61 per
dollar if it breaches support at 98.59, according to a client
note by  Richard Adcock , a technical strategist at UBS AG.
Support is a level on a chart where buy orders may be clustered.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $33 billion, from $48 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $11 billion, the largest share of
trades at 33 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled
$5.1 billion, or 15 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 79 percent more than the
average for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
100 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  