-- Draghi Says ECB Bias Allows for Rate Cuts (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-10-10T22:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/draghi-says-ecb-bias-allows-for-rate-cuts-transcript-.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  speaks about the euro area’s economy and the
central bank’s guidance and policy.  Draghi speaks at the  Economic Club of New York .  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK: I
would like to take the opportunity to talk about simply
what’s happening in Europe right now. The euro area as a
whole is undergoing a process of fundamental reform. The
overarching objective is to lay the foundation for recovery
and more jobs, foster financial stability and fiscal
sustainability, and enhance international competitiveness
for the benefits of all parts of the economy and wider
society.  Reform will be a lengthy process, but while it is far
from complete, perhaps for the first time in many years we
are seeing signs of significant progress. National
policymakers in Europe are able to focus a little less on
short-term difficulties and a little more on their longer-term responsibilities to strengthen the resilience of their
domestic economies while developing their growth potential.  And the monetary policy that we at the  European
Central Bank  are implementing will accompany the reform
process by maintaining the degree of accommodation that is
most appropriate, given our economic outlook and the risks
that surround it.  So let me start with a quick review of the current
situation and of the outlook for the economy.  Recent data basically support our baseline outlook of
a nascent economic recovery over the coming months.
Following six quarters of negative output growth, euro area
GDP rose by 0.3 percent in the second quarter of this year.
Taken together, this data, with incoming information
confirmed the growth outlook that the ECB staff produced
last September and, as a matter of fact, had been producing
all throughout this year. So we see this projection - these
projection see real GDP shrinking by 0.4 percent this year
and positive growth rate of 1 percent for 2014.  But, as you can easily conclude from these numbers,
the pace of recovery is going to be subdued, uneven, and to
some extent fragile, being exposed to many risks. It’s
uneven across countries for as long as it’s meaningful for
us to look into the future. The  unemployment rate ,
currently standing at 12.1 percent, remains unacceptably
high, and the risks around the outlook continue to be
tilted on the downside.  In keeping with the broad-based weakness in aggregate
demand, underlying price pressures remain subdued, as well.
Annual euro area headline inflation is projected to reach
1.5 percent this year and, next year, 1.3 percent. These
levels are historically very moderate and remain in the
lower part of the range of values that the ECB’s Governing
Council has identified as consistent with our quantitative
definition of price stability, namely that inflation has to
be close, but below 2 percent.  That said, inflation expectations continue to be
firmly anchored in line with our aim of maintaining
inflation rates at the level I said before. And the risks
to the outlook for price developments are, in spite of
everything, still expected to be broadly balanced.  Finally, monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics
remain weak. The annual growth rate of loans to the private
sector has remained well in the negative territory, and the
pace of contraction of loan - of lending has actually
accelerated over the recent period. Certainly, weak loan
dynamics can largely be explained by the current stage of
the business cycle, but we have to be attentive to
alleviate structural and supply-side factor that may hamper
credit provision.  The significant improvement in the funding situation
of banks since the summer of 2012 has partly offset supply-side restrictions, but it will - it will be some time
before the more permissive funding conditions faced by many
banks will be turned into an active spur for credit
creation.  Against this background, let’s ask, how should
policymakers respond to this still fragile macroeconomic
recovery?  We need a three-pronged strategy. First,
monetary policy has to remain consistently supportive of
the baseline outlook and mitigate the risks that surround
it. Our  price stability  mandate is sufficiently precise to
keep us concentrated on that mission. But preserving
monetary accommodation is a necessary, but not sufficient
condition for the recovery to take hold.  A second essential ingredient is that countries
continue the adjustment of their domestic policies in a way
that removes structural impediments to their economic
potential and fosters long-term financial - fiscal
sustainability. Monetary accommodation can accompany and
facilitate such regime shift in economic policy, but we
know it can never replace it.  Third, and equally important, Europe has to continue
the reform process in its banking sector. Sound finance is
part and parcel of a dynamic economy, and banks remain a
major conduit of finance, especially in the euro area.
Hence, we must establish conditions that align incentives
of individual financial institutions with those of the
society.  Let me start with monetary policy. As you know, our
treaty clearly gives priority to price stability as our
primary objective. Within this disciplining framework, we
tailor our policy response to the challenges that we face.
In response to the events of the last six years, we’ve
taken swift and resolute action. We cut the main policy
rates to record lows. We provided funding support to euro
area banks over long time horizons, first time in three
years, and we counteracted and removed unwarranted fears of
a breakup of the euro area last year.  In July this year, we again expanded our toolkit to
protect the nascent recovery from the risk that it could be
choked off prematurely by an unwelcome restriction in
monetary conditions. To that effect, the Governing Council
adopted explicit communication on how it expects its key
 interest rates  to evolve in the future. In particular, we
have communicated our expectation that the key interest
rates will remain at present or lower level for an extended
period of time.  This expectation is based on our assessment that the
subdued inflation outlook extends - will extend in the
medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the real
economy and subdued monetary dynamics.  What was the rationale for adopting our forward
guidance, our type of forward guidance?  In June and July,
we observed substantial volatility in money market rates.
The pricing of term interbank credit in the money market -
the first stage of the transmission of monetary policy to
the broader economy - had become increasingly divorced from
euro area fundamentals.  Markets tended to overreact to news that was either
not directly relevant to the euro area macroeconomic
outlook or simply confirmed our baseline scenario. Against
this background, our forward guidance aimed at better
aligning money market conditions with our policy
intentions.  In interpreting our forward guidance, there are three
essential elements. First, it acknowledges the scope for
further cuts in our key interest rates. In other words, the
adoption of forward guidance does not imply that we have
reached the effective lower bound.  Indeed, the opposite is the case. The Governing
Council has unanimously agreed to incorporate an easing
bias into our forward guidance that explicitly provides for
the possibility of further rate reductions, should the
volatility in money market conditions return to the levels
observed in early summer.  Second, our forward guidance is specifically tailored
to the ECB’s mandate and our monetary policy strategy. The
path of the policy rates remains conditional on the outlook
for inflation, and it will be reviewed over time against
our analytical framework.  This means that we assess whether the medium-term
outlook for inflation remains subdued against two types of
metrics, first, economic indicators pointing to persistent
slack in the real economy; second, monetary indicators
pointing to persistent subdued dynamics in money and
credit.  The third element of our forward guidance is that, by
confirming our policy framework, it refocuses attention on
what matters most for our monetary policy, namely the
medium-term inflation outlook in the euro area. On our
side, it induces the sort of prudent language in
communicating about the economy and the type of balanced
and steady response to economic news that is needed in
exceptional circumstances in which we currently have to
steer our monetary policy course.  The observed decline in market uncertainty about
future short-term rates indicates that our forward guidance
has helped to anchor market expectations. Going forward, we
will carefully assess developments in money markets and
liquidity conditions. And we have to ensure that interest
rate expectations remain firmly anchored around a path that
does not add to downside risks for the recovery.  Thus, our monetary policy stance will continue to be
geared towards maintaining the accommodative stance and
providing support of the economic recovery. But preserving,
as I said before, preserving monetary policy accommodation
is not sufficient in itself for the recovery to become
self-sustaining.  And this leads me to the second element of the policy
response: repairing the fiscal and structural problems that
hold back individual euro area countries. A painful lesson
from the last few years is that we all underestimated the
destructive potential that myopic national policies could
exert on the euro area’s collective body and on the world
as a whole.  It’s time to remove the institutional shortcomings
that allowed imbalances to build up in the national
economies and escalate into systemic threats in the first
place.  In the euro area, two such shortcomings were
particularly consequential. First, the E.U. - European
Union - fiscal rules were weakly enforced and, as such,
incapable of promoting prudent fiscal policies at times of
favorable economic conditions, so between the year 2000-year 2007. Second, there was no mechanism to prevent and
correct macroeconomic imbalances within the E.U.  The result was an incentive vacuum. Rather than
exploiting the advantages of monetary union for modernizing
their domestic economies, several countries simply delayed
all the necessary adjustments. And the elimination of
exchange rate fluctuations and the leveling-off of the
spreads in sovereign borrowing costs that preceded the
crisis deactivated the market forces that previously had
disciplined macroeconomic policies at countries’ level.  European policymakers are now addressing these issues.
Due to a recent strengthening of the E.U. fiscal rules,
 member states  now face stronger incentives to adopt sound
budgetary policies. Namely, there are provisions that are
now being inserted in the national constitutions to the
extent that the budgets must be balanced.  Moreover, a new macroeconomic imbalances procedure has
been established at European Union level. It does require
governments to adopt competitiveness-enhancing policies and
tackle potential sources of financial instability in their
economies.  Reflecting this reform momentum at the European level,
governments are tackling imbalances in their domestic
economies. They are implementing reforms to reverse the
misguided policies of the past and to create sustainable
long-term growth. Progress is steady, and the data
increasingly show that the right direction has started.  Euro area countries have cut their fiscal deficit
ratios by half since the peak in 2009. Excluding interest
payments, euro area member countries on the aggregate are
expected to run a small surplus by the end of this year.
This is clearly in contrast to other industrial economies,
such as the U.S. or  Japan , which last year still recorded
primary deficits of 6 percent and 8 percent of GDP,
respectively.  We are also seeing some noteworthy improvements in
competitiveness and external positions. The countries under
full E.U.-IMF programs, like  Spain , like Portugal, like
Ireland, like Greece, have seen their unit labor costs fall
by more than 10 percent since 2008 relative to the euro
area average. Their current accounts have improved by
around 8 percent of GDP since then.  In short, there is progress towards more solid
economic fundamentals in the euro area. But, of course,
it’s necessary that the current momentum of reform be
maintained to reach greater stability.  Finally, a sustainable recovery requires healthy
financial institutions. We’ve seen much progress in the
banking sector of the euro area. Since the beginning of the
financial crisis in 2007, euro area banks have raised
around 225 billion euros of fresh capital, and another 275
billion has been injected by governments. All in all, this
amounts to more than 5 percent of euro area GDP.  As a result, the average Core Tier 1 ratio of the
largest euro area banks currently stands well above 11
percent and the majority of euro area banks already comply
with the minimum capital requirements of the fully
implemented Basel III framework.  Furthermore, in countries under financial assistance,
which are the countries I mentioned before, under financial
assistance programs - Spain, especially - problematic
legacy assets have been removed from banks’ balance sheets
to ensure that they will no longer curb banks’ lending to
profitable businesses.  More progress is on its way in terms of the
institutional architecture. Europe’s Economic and Monetary
Union will be complemented by a European banking union.  Last month - last month, the European Parliament
cleared the way for the single supervisory mechanism, which
tasks the ECB with overseeing major parts of the European
banking system.  By placing this responsibility with an independent
institution at European level, the new supervisory
mechanism will allow for more stringent and consistent
supervision. This will ultimately afford an earlier
identification of financial risk, in both individual
institutions and the financial sector as a whole.  Looking forward, two objectives need to be addressed.
First - and I think that’s the most important one - we need
to create full transparency about the risks that are
present in banks’ balance sheets. And, second, we need to
align investors’ incentives with those of society.  A comprehensive balance sheet assessment will be a
crucial preparatory step before we begin our new
supervisory task in the fall of next year. This will serve
to strengthen transparency and to mitigate the risk of the
possible emergence in the early days of operations of the
new supervisory mechanism. There’s going to be a major
exercise of a balance sheet assessment, the objective of
which must be to convince the private sector that it pays
to put money in the banking industry. I think that’s the
key objective. So for this reason, transparency is the main
consideration that we have to keep in mind.  Now, this balance sheet assessment is formed by three
components: a  risk assessment ; an asset quality review;
and, finally, a  stress test . The - two be as transparent as
possible, we envisage a process which is going to be run
not only by national supervisors, but by four actors, the
ECB from Frankfurt, the national supervisors, also other
national supervisors will be part of the joint inspection
teams, and, finally, third-party private sector advisers.  So the three elements - risk assessment, asset quality
review, and a stress test - will ensure a comprehensive
assessment that will identify the remaining risks on banks’
balance sheets.  To strengthen incentives, the institutional
architecture will also be augmented - I’ve spoken so far
about the single supervisory mechanism, the single
supervisor in the euro area, but there’s also going to be a
single resolution mechanism, like equivalent to your FDIC.
As a first step to overcoming the existing problem,
harmonized rules and procedures for bank recovery and
resolution are being developed at a European level. And
this - this new way of European rules should be implemented
at a national level quickly.  But to ensure a fully consistent and effective
application of these rules, their implementation should be
placed within the remit of an independent authority that
reinforces the new supervisory framework at a European
level.  So there will be a single resolution mechanism that
will execute bank resolution in a timely and impartial
manner and formulates its decisions from a clear,
encompassing European perspective.  So by enhancing transparency and resolution, the
combination of the single supervisory mechanism and the
single resolution mechanism we hope will help Europe return
to a situation in which investment decisions will be based
on business prospects and not on geographical location.  Let me conclude. As I said, the recovery remains in
its infancy. Given the prolonged build-up of macroeconomic
imbalances in the past, we have to be prepared for a
protracted process in the future.  Yet we should also not exaggerate the euro area’s
challenges. For example, while the unemployment rate has
increased more in euro area than in the  United States 
during the crisis, the employment rate in the U.S. has
fallen further than in the euro area, which makes the two
figures hardly comparably.  Moreover, the euro area has a strategy to return to
sustainable growth and employment, and that strategy is
actually being executed. What is essential is that all
policymakers play their part to stay the course. The
rewards that will result from the reform of our economic
institutions cannot be overestimated.  Thank you for your attention.  (APPLAUSE)  Thank you.  MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Mario, for that very
comprehensive and insightful speech. I’d now like to
introduce the two members who will conduct our question-and-answer session, Bob Hormats, the former undersecretary
of state for economic growth, energy and the environment,
and now with Kissinger Associates, and  John Lipsky , a
distinguished visiting scholar at  Johns Hopkins University 
and the former acting managing director of the IMF.  If you in the audience have any questions, you can e-mail them to  questions@econclubny.org . That’s
 questions@econclubny.org , and our president, Jan Hopkins,
will read them.  Bob, you have the first question.  BOB HORMATS, FORMER UNDERSECRETARY OF STATE FOR
ECONOMIC GROWTH, ENERGY AND THE ENVIRONMENT: Thank you very
much (OFF-MIKE) to the New York Economic Club and welcome
back to New York. I would be remiss if I did not begin on
the note that everyone is talking about, I think
particularly in  Washington , but throughout the country, and
that is the ongoing debate over the government shutdown and
the debt ceiling. As you know, these issues have enormous
impact not only on the American economy, but on the global
economy.  And, therefore, I would request from your perspective
if you could take a look at this from an international
point of view, and particularly what the implications would
be if Washington failed to reach an agreement on a
constructive and sustainable solution to this problem, not
one that simply kicks the can down the road or leads to a
default in the current environment, but one that just is
simply not able to address the kind of fundamental
challenges that we face as a country on broader fiscal
policy issues, what would the global impact be?  And the second is, what do global markets and other
countries look to the United States to do to strengthen our
long-term fiscal sustainability?  As you know, this debate
has been swirling for some time around the debt issue, the
deficit issue, not just in the immediate sense, but over
the next 10 to 15 years. The CBO has just done a report on
that.  So I’d be interested on your thoughts on what happens
to global markets if this is not dealt with in an effective
way in near term, but also what kinds of measures the
United States needs to do to put ourselves on a more
sustainable basis and renew confidence in the dollar and in
the U.S.’s financial markets?  DRAGHI: Well, thanks, Bob. I’m not sure I’m actually
the best person to answer this question.  (LAUGHTER)  But - so I hope you’ll forgive any naive statement on
my side.  HORMATS: You’re better than most in Washington, Mario,
so please proceed.  (LAUGHTER)  DRAGHI: First, let me say that the - let me give you
just an outside perspective, as I said, as someone who’s
not especially informed about this issue. But I think the
world still does not believe that the United States will
not find a way out of this. There is complete misbelief
that finally some agreement will be found. So that’s the
first part.  Second, there are two types of - at least two types of
situations that we have to keep in mind. First is an
agreement is found, but late, and there may be an accident
in between. Clearly, the market’s response will depend on
what type of accident, whether it’s - it depends very much
what sort of nonpayment happens. And there are different
consequences on the markets, depending on whether it’s
bonds or it’s not bonds.  The second situation is one where this standoff lasts
several months or several weeks. In that case, it’s
probably safe to say that this could be - could cause
severe damage to the  U.S. economy  and to the world economy.
So that’s the - I think the answer.  Now, I can’t comment on the last part, namely what
sort of agreement is more likely to be found. It’s quite
clear that longstanding agreements will have - will contain
an element of stability for both the U.S. economy and the
world economy, and it’s also quite obvious that if you have
a short-term agreement will be less stable, will produce
less stability.  But I think the - this is, in a sense, must be clear
to all of you. And the key thing now is where an agreement
will be found or a way out will be - will be - will be
achieved.  On the second question, I mean, what the U.S.
government should do to ensure long-run fiscal
sustainability?  I think the - it’s, again, a very, very
complicated question, but it is quite clear that the
financial crisis has produced a debt and a deficit level
that is not sustainable through time. It’s also quite clear
that fiscal retrenchment has - fiscal consolidation has
different speeds in different parts of the world.  In Europe, it’s been very fast. And in some cases, it
was absolutely necessary, and I can say more about this
later, to do it fast, and has produced a contraction, in
some cases, a severe contraction. In U.S., the
consolidation is proceeding.  And the other way to get out of a situation which is
unsustainable is to grow more. So to grow is equally
important as to consolidate. And I’m confident that this is
well understood here. Thank you.  MODERATOR: John?  JOHN LIPSKY, FORMER ACTING MANAGING DIRECTOR OF THE
IMF: Thank you. And congratulations on that thoughtful
address.  DRAGHI: Thank you.  LIPSKY: More broadly, congratulations on the wonderful
job you and your colleagues in Frankfurt and around the
European Central Banks have done meeting the challenges. I
think the size of this audience reflects the interest here
in the European project, but also recent events have
underscored our interest in the success of European
economic monetary union, and I hope you can convey that
back home.  DRAGHI: Thanks, John.  LIPSKY: I think when you get to Washington, you will
find another hot topic, the conduct of unconventional
monetary policy, and you can see that recent events in -
here in the United States and our markets underscore that,
as well. The implementation of unconventional policy has
involved the implementation of new and more instruments. In
the case of the ECB, beyond the traditional discount and
repo facilities, and the long-term repurchase operations,
the OMT, the outright monetary transactions, the ELA, and
now, more recently, forward guidance.  How do you decide what - how to implement this mix of
instruments, given the traditional idea that you should
match instruments to targets?  How has this - how do you
decide which of these instruments to use?  And has it - has
the proliferation of instruments made it more difficult to
gauge the stance and overall impact of monetary policy?  And, finally, how do you meet the challenges of
effectively communicating this much more complex array of
monetary instruments?  DRAGHI: Thanks, John. Well, thank you for your kind
words. Just these days, one doesn’t happen to be flattered
that often, so -  (LAUGHTER)  Thanks. The three instruments you mentioned, the long-term refinancing operations that we started at the end of
2011 and - for the first time, this means that, for the
first time, the ECB was opening a what we call fixed-rate
full allotment, namely a  credit line  at policy rates
without any penalty for all the banks that would apply. And
it was a three-year horizon. The ECB had done it for at
most one year, with a horizon of at most one year.  Now, that addressed a specific problem, which was the
- the fragmentation of the financial markets of the euro
area. By the end of 2011, when the data of credit and
money, any monetary, any credit data, was showing a
dramatic drop in the last - it started - it all started,
really, midyear, but it was - became dramatically visible
by November and December. So that’s why, in two months, we
cut rates twice, and we did the LTROs.  And we are convinced that, in so doing, we avoided
major accidents in the banking system. The reason was,
frankly, all other source of funding had dried up, and
deposits were vastly migrating to safe haven places, like
Germany, from the rest of the European Union.  So that helped to cope with that - with that problem,
with that objective, at least, and I think we’ve reached
the objective. And it worked. It worked also in terms of
rates, volatility, stock markets, any index had a positive
reaction, but it didn’t last. Three months down the road,
the euro area was seen at risk, and there were many people,
many investors - also on this side of the Atlantic - which
were believing that the euro will not survive, and they had
taken significant positions on the short side.  And so the OMT - the response that the ECB within its
mandate would do whatever it takes to preserve the euro, to
make - so it was a positive commitment to the objective -
the immediate objective, of course, to defy, to - I would
say to destroy self-fulfilling expectations of disruptive
scenarios for the euro, and it was a positive commitment to
a higher, I would say, political objective, is to make sure
that the euro is irreversible. And it worked.  Now we, in a much more stable situation, we saw
interest rates going - by the way, between July 2012 and a
month ago, we saw interest rates further going down all
over, fragmentation gradually being reduced. By the way,
fragmentation on the funding side is by and large
disappeared as far as deposits are concerned.  What we do every month, every month, we look at how
deposits in the banking system grow in different parts of
the euro area. And then we calculate a dispersion index.
And this index is now at the same level it was in 2007. So
as far as that component of funding, fragmentation is gone.  But on the lending side, we still have problems. And
so the last thing we want is the short-term money market
rates start behaving in a way that would threaten our
recovery. And that’s why we issued our specific, peculiar
forward guidance. It’s different. It’s different from the
one you have here. It’s different from the one that  Bank of
England  has. Certainly very different from what Japan has.  Why is that?  Well, we are simpler folks.  (LAUGHTER)  That’s the answer. We - and I’ll tell you why, because
we don’t have - we don’t buy assets. We don’t buy
 government bonds . We don’t buy gilts. We don’t - we - our
interest rates have not reached - as I was saying in the
statement before - have not reached the zero level or the
lower bound.  So there was the different situation. Our mandate is
clear. It speaks only about price stability. So the issue
was, then, are we going to be quantitative or qualitative?
Again, being in the specific institutional context, we
thought that the - well, there were many reasons for being
qualitative, but especially that the world is such an
uncertain place that we wouldn’t feel like binding
ourselves to a specific figure, and the thing that we say
is that basically our medium-term outlook about inflation
has to be such and such for our forward guidance to remain
in place, which is what it is today, namely subdued and
weak.  The intention was not to change our reaction function.
Our intention was to clarify our reaction function. And -
now so the question is, did it work?  There are various
metrics. One is, were we successful at keeping interest
rates at the level we want to keep the short-term interest
rates?  And the answer was, yes, for some time. And then
they fluctuated, but still in a corridor that is by and
large acceptable.  The second point is that the forward guidance has been
clearly successful in reducing the volatility. And the
third is that it’s been clearly successful in reducing the
sensitivity of interest rates to news that have nothing to
do with the fundamentals of the euro area economy. I mean,
if the euro area economy recovers, you would expect an
increase in interest rates, but if it doesn’t, then you
would not. So all in all, we will stay with that.  Thank you.  LIPSKY: Thank you very much.  HORMATS: Mario, you’ve spoken eloquently here and in
many speeches in the past on the importance of structural
reforms in Europe regard product and labor markets, to
improve competitiveness, increasing adjustment
capabilities, and achieving higher growth rates. And as
you’ve pointed out in your speech today, some improvements
have actually taken place, in fact, in some countries,
considerable improvements have taken place with respect to
reducing current account deficits - some are now in surplus
- major changes in the positive realm.  I wonder if you could dig a little bit deeper and
identify what the future priorities should be. You’ve
talked about the need to keep up the momentum. Could you be
a little bit more specific about what areas you think need
to be focused on in the future to sustain momentum?  And
particularly, what types of measures have proved so far to
be most successful or most promising?  Because different
countries, as you correctly pointed out, have instituted
different kinds of reforms.  Which are those that seem to be the most promising and
most successful?  And are countries in Europe learning from
one another to try to figure out what works and what
doesn’t under, in some cases, very similar circumstances,
others, obviously, different from one to the other?  But
where are we going?  What should the priorities be?  And
where do you see the most room for optimism in this area?  DRAGHI: Thanks, Bob. Let me just step back and go to,
say, 2009, in just the - just the aftermath of the - of the
most violent period of the crisis. In many of - in many
governments of the so-called stressed countries in the euro
area, what happened was that budget deficits levels and
debt levels were unsustainable. And markets were clearly
saying so.  So the governments in power at that time had to face a
very urgent situation, and they had to go fast about
repairing these budgets. And when you have to decide very
fast on how to fix your budget, the easiest things that
everybody does is - is basically raise taxes. Taxes were
raised significantly everywhere in a part of the world
where taxes are already very high, so that some countries
reached something like 50 percent and plus of GDP in terms
of tax incidence on the economy.  The second thing was to cut investment expenditure,
capital expenditure, because that’s easy, simply cancel
investments. Now, all this produced a recession. And no
wonder. Now there is more time, and what countries now
ought to think about is just the other way around, namely
cut taxes, bring them back to sort of what used to be a
normal historical level, to recreate the incentive for
private investment, and also cut expenditure.  Now, when you go to cut expenditure, I think you know
very well in this country, it’s the same probably, it’s not
easy, because you have to change legislation which has been
(inaudible) often for many, many years. And that’s where
the structural reforms come into place. And there is a
broad range of structural reforms that can be done by the
public sector in - as far as government expenditure is
concerned, some countries need a new pension reform. Other
countries need different - much better control over their -
some of them are federal, and they have no - well, they
have very little control over their single regions’
budgets, so they have to enforce that. Each country has its
own manual.  And then you have the reforms that simply free the
individual initiative for the individual entrepreneurship,
and these are reforms that deal with competition,
especially in the product markets. If you need to wait six
months, nine months before you can open a shop and - so,
you know, I mean, just you give up. If you have to bear
substantial costs for having a license, if it’s too high,
you give up, and so on and so forth.  And, second, you - structural reforms that would
directly affect the labor market. The labor market
situation is a special one, because what happened is -
well, first of all, you look at the labor market in Europe
now and you see that in some countries they had all - most
of them had a serious crisis, comparable. Most of them have
higher levels of unemployment, but in some of them, you
have a very high level of youth unemployment on top of
having a high level of unemployment, and you ask why.  And the reasons are, by and large, two. In the early
part of the year 2000, these countries had - wanted to make
their labor markets more flexible, but they didn’t want to
hurt the people who were already working. So they wanted to
introduce flexibility leaving everything else constant. So
what they did was to introduce flexibility only for the
young entrants.  That translated into these young people being hired
only with short-term, very short-term contracts, three, six
months, even one month in one country. And this situation
went on and on and on until the crisis struck. And then, of
course, the first jobs to be cut were these people. And so
you have millions of young unemployed.  The second reason is basically that, in some
countries, you have educational systems that simply do not
produce the skills necessary for these young people to find
a job. And that’s an even - if I may say - more serious and
longer-term problem.  So the labor market has to be addressed by all
countries in their different ways, and the - there are
countries - like Spain, for example - who have started to
reform the labor market, and you can see that it works,
because, for example, the unit labor cost in Spain had
dropped much more than in other countries. In some
countries, for example, in spite of having 13 percent, 14
percent of unemployment, you still see nominal wages going
up more than the European average, which means, basically,
you have lots of people unemployed and the ones who are
protected getting higher and higher wages. So you see that
there is clearly need to address this issue.  MODERATOR: John?  LIPSKY: Thank you. As you mentioned, and as - as is
underscored in the IMF’s World Economic Outlook and Global
Financial Stability Report that were both published earlier
this week, that the banking system, that weakness - capital
weakness, fragmentation, and corporate debt overhangs in
the eurozone are leading to higher borrowing costs for
corporate borrowers, adding to systematic fragility and
helping to induce the deleveraging, the decline in bank
lending that you had discussed, and that the IMF agrees
with your analysis that progress on banking union is
central to strengthening the financial sector, especially
in the banking sector, in the eurozone economy, where, as
we all know, bank lending is dramatically more important as
a relative source of funding than, for example, in the U.S.
economy.  You have described a very important set of actions
that will be forthcoming in the next few months, the risk
assessment, the asset quality review, and the stress test.
And in the near term, that is going to produce potentially
a need for even further capital raising on the part of some
institutions.  Now, there’s been a broad agreement that that - where
capital needs to be raised, it should come, first, from
retainer needs, second, from private sources, third, from
national governments, and, fourth, from the new European
stability - stabilization mechanisms, bank recapitalization
facility.  Who is going to have the power to decide what banks
are going to have to do and which source of capital they
will have to make use of?  Is it going to be the ECB as the
new single supervisor, national governments, or the
European Commission, or who?  DRAGHI: Now, you’re absolutely right. I just have to
correct on only one small point. The ESM, the European
stability mechanism, will not be able to recapitalize banks
directly until the single supervisory mechanism will be in
place. So it’s very unlikely that they will be - that they
will - could actually finance anything at this stage - or,
I mean, at the end of - at the end of next year.  But other than that, your description is absolutely
right. And that’s why the asset quality review is so
important. The banks will have - some banks may have to
raise capital. I have no idea whether to expect major
disasters or not. Certainly, what is positive is that, in
view of this exercise, ahead of this exercise, all banks
and supervisors, national supervisors are actually reacting
very, very strongly everywhere, either convincing banks to
raise more capital, forcing a very high level of provisions
in many parts of the area, so it’s quite - this is quite
good, because it’s conducive a better situation. But
certainly we’ll have to see exactly what’s - how things
stand.  And that’s why - that’s why these four actors’
participation to the exercise is so important, because
transparency is the key thing. And the - by and large,
people outside Europe are convinced that, if there is no
more transparency, it’s very unlikely that they can
actually invest in the banking system.  Now, the - what are the prospects for raising capital?
From what we see today, the situation is not - is not bad.
We’ve seen - in the last month-and-a-half, we’ve seen
several banks capable of raising capital. So the market
prospects are way better than they were on the occasion on
the last stress test two years ago. Also, the sovereign
 bond market , by and large, is more stable than it was two
years ago.  Who’s going to decide this?  There are two different -
two different assessments. The supervisor will be - the ECB
- will be responsible for the assessment of whether a
certain bank is viable or it’s not viable. And then there
will be another authority which will decide what to do.
They can decide to sell, merge, close, liquidate, resolve,
different actions.  Suppose it’s not viable. In this process, as you said,
first, ordinary capital will be exhausted, and then a
series of creditors, according to a pecking order, which
has been defined by the European Commission as a law. It’s
- the rules of the bail-in have been defined by the
European level.  And then, at the end of this - and I insisted a lot -
in having a precise commitment by the national governments
to play - to have in place the, say, national backstops of
public money, not with the idea that it’s going to be
necessary - maybe it’s not necessarily - but it’s
absolutely important to let markets and people know that in
case it were necessary, it’s there.  It also, frankly, says something about the - I would
say the clarity of our exercise, because people might
think, if there is no backstop money, then the exercise
would be more lenient in order to avoid, to use taxpayers’
money. And this commitment, which is, by the way, enshrined
in a solemn sentence by the European leaders, is now sort
of going down to more operational level, and very likely in
the next few weeks we’ll have a precise statement about
that.  So who’s going to decide about whether to use public
money?  In the end, it’s the national government, because
the single resolution authority will not be in place very
likely by the time we finish with this exercise. But the
rules are, I would say, overall consistent, because they
have been fixed at the European level by legislation.  LIPSKY: Thank you very much.  DRAGHI: Thank you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE
DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR
USE OF SUCH TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY
OPINION EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A
SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR
COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES
NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<464492.589612.3.7.1.0.25>#
 