-- Dutch Trailing Peers Hawk Bonds as Haven For Asians
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-10-10T08:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/dutch-trailing-peers-hawk-bonds-as-haven-for-asians.html
The Netherlands, whose bonds trailed
their AAA peers in  Europe  this year, is planning to drum up
buyers for its debt by advertising itself as a haven.  “We plan to visit large investors in  Asia  next year,”
Niek Nahuis, head of the Dutch State Treasury Agency since Oct.
1, said in an interview in The Hague yesterday. “We want to
show that we’re a good alternative to Germany and other core
euro countries, and that the Netherlands can easily be part of
the investment portfolio.”  Demand for Dutch bonds waned this year as the country, the
fifth-biggest economy in the euro area, grappled with a
recession and the government’s austerity measures designed to
bring down the  budget deficit . Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said on
Sept. 26 that the Netherlands risks a fine of as much as 1.2
billion euros ($1.62 billion) from the European Commission if it
doesn’t cut the 2014 budget by 6 billion euros.  Investors from Asia bought 38 percent of 7 billion euros of
five-year notes sold by the  European Stability Mechanism 
yesterday, said a person familiar with the matter who asked not
to be identified because they’re not authorized to speak about
it. The ESM is the euro area’s 500 billion-euro firewall
designed to stabilize the financial system.  AAA Laggard  Investors charged the Dutch an average 2.41 percent to
borrow for a decade at a Sept. 10 auction, 0.62 percentage point
more than the average yield at a German bund sale on Oct. 2.  “Consumer demand is still muted and that is a clear
challenge to ensure the economic situation is improving and
confidence is returning,” said Michiel de Bruin, who oversees
about $34 billion of euro-area  government bonds  at F&C
Netherlands. “That is a slow process.”  Dutch government bonds have lost 2.2 percent this year,
underperforming German and Finnish securities, which also have
AAA ratings and have declined 1.7 percent and 1.8 percent,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. The Netherlands has
also lagged behind its French peers, rated one step lower by
Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  The Netherlands sold 10-year debt at an average yield of
2.06 percent in July. That increased to an average 2.41 percent
at the following auction in September, while the German rate
fell to 1.79 percent.  Comparing Countries  “The spread has been reasonably stable lately,” said
Nahuis, 42, who joined the Dutch debt office in 2005.
“Investors will look at a subset of comparable countries that
perform well. The Netherlands is part of that group, with
Finland, Austria and  Germany . That’s what you want to be part of
and be compared with.”  Dutch 10-year bonds yield 38 basis points more than German
securities with a similar due date, up from 13 basis points on
Jan. 23. They yield 15 basis points more than Finnish paper,
having yielded less in February.  The Netherlands is in its  third recession  since the global
financial crisis started in 2008 and has been in breach of the
European Union’s deficit limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product since then. The budget shortfall will widen to 3.3
percent of GDP in 2014 from an expected 3.2 percent this year
even, after the government introduced the additional austerity
package of 6 billion euros, its planning agency said Sept. 15.  Confidence Vote  The government on Sept. 25 defeated a no-confidence motion
in parliament introduced by  Geert Wilders ’s  Freedom Party  and
backed by the Socialist Party and the Party for Animals.  The Green Left party yesterday left discussions over a new
package of cuts, highlighting risks faced by the coalition,
which polls have shown to be losing support.  For de Bruin at F&C Netherlands, the country’s bonds are
still attractive because of its “history of solid government
finances” and there is a commitment from both the governing and
opposition parties to maintain that. They are also attractive
because of the yield premium over German bunds.  “Should this situation indeed develop in a reasonably
favorable way, we believe the spread could compress going
forward,” de Bruin said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“Our own positioning reflects that stance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  