-- Dynamic’s Stevenson Buys Trilogy in Shale Bet: Corporate Canada
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-10-10T14:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/dynamic-s-stevenson-buys-trilogy-in-shale-bet-corporate-canada.html
Jennifer Stevenson, whose  Dynamic
Strategic Energy Class (DYGLENCF)  Fund has beaten 91 percent of its peers
this year, is buying shares such as  Trilogy Energy Corp. (TET)  in a
bet on surging North American shale-oil output.  Companies like Trilogy,  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  and  PHX Energy
Services Corp. (PHX) , which are linked to unconventional shale oil and
liquids formations, have the best potential for gains among
energy stocks, said Stevenson, in an interview in a Calgary cafe
on Oct. 1. Companies producing in the Eagle Ford area of  Texas 
as well as Alberta’s Duvernay are among the holdings in the
Dynamic Strategic Energy fund, she said.  “The growth in the shale plays, especially in the U.S.,
has been one of our important investment themes,” said
Stevenson, 45, who helps manage about C$100 billion ($97
billion) in assets at Dynamic Funds, a division of GCIC Ltd.,
which is a unit of Toronto-based DundeeWealth Inc. “A lot of
these companies are big growth plays.”  Production of shale oil has boomed in Eagle Ford, the
Bakken area of North Dakota and the Niobrara formation in
 Colorado , helped by directional drilling and hydraulic
fracturing technology that breaks oil trapped in rock. Drilling
servicers and pipeline companies are also benefiting as
producers of unconventional oil grow rapidly and need equipment
and transportation for their crude, she said.  The C$38.4 million  Dynamic Strategic Energy Class (DYGLENCA)  Fund,
managed directly by Stevenson, is the third-best performer among
comparable funds in Canada this year, having risen 14 percent
through yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
fund was little changed at C$9.96 at 10:07 a.m. in Toronto, up
78 percent from its March 2009 low, and is in the 91 percentile
of its peers.  Vision, Profitability  Stevenson’s focus on shale oil stocks is based on the “low
risk” growth the sector offers as companies squeeze more
production out of properties by drilling several wells, she
said. Companies focused on oil generate higher profits which
translate to more cash flow to reinvest or pay out dividends,
she said.  When choosing companies, Stevenson first looks at a
company’s management team and its “vision” as well as assets
and profitability, she said.  Stevenson began her career working in the petroleum
industry at Petro- Canada  and Amoco Canada Petroleum Co. after
graduating from the University of Calgary with a Bachelor’s
degree in commerce.  Captivating Personalities  “I was hooked” on the oil and gas industry, she said. “I
like the science angle as the technology is always advancing.
The entrepreneurial personalities are captivating. I like that
it is a cash business. You pull it out of the ground and sell
it.”  Stevenson, who grew up Calgary, Canada’s energy capital,
completed a Master of Business Administration at the  University
of Alberta  and began working in corporate finance, including
stints at FirstEnergy Capital Corp. and Dundee Capital Markets.  Stevenson is in a minority as a woman working in the
Canadian energy industry. Women account for only 11 percent of
senior officers in the Canadian mining, oil and gas industry,
according to the  website  of Catalyst, a group which promotes
participation of women in business. Women made up 17 percent of
vice presidents in the Canadian financial markets industry in
2008, according to Women in Capital Markets, a non-profit group
that promotes the development of female leaders in business.  Be Smart  “The boys in the patch don’t seem to mind if you are red
green or purple, male or female,” Stevenson said. “Just as
long as you are smart and good at your job. Added benefit: they
remember you easily as there aren’t many gals.”  PHX, a Calgary-based drilling-service provider, which
Stevenson recently bought, has risen 20 percent this year, while
Houston, Texas-based producer Noble Energy is up 29 percent.
That compares with an 8 percent decline for Calgary-based oil-sands producer  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  and Athabasca Oil Sands Corp.
which has shrunk by 31 percent.  “The activity by these companies spreads also to the
service, midstream and pipeline sectors,” said Stevenson.
Energy stocks comprised 64 percent of the fund at Aug. 31 and
infrastructure stocks 20 percent, according to its  website .  Pipeline companies like  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  of Calgary are among
those benefiting from shale oil production in the U.S. and
Canada, she said. The Dynamic Strategic Energy Class Fund also
owns  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ,  Inter Pipeline Ltd. (IPL)  and  Pembina Pipeline
Corp (PPL) , all based in Calgary.  Supply Surplus  Enbridge is building a network of conduits to transport oil
from the Bakken, such as the Sandpiper project, a 610-mile (981-kilometer) pipeline that will connect North Dakota supplies with
the refineries of eastern Canada and the U.S. The company has
C$36 billion of planned expansion projects over the next four
years, Chief Executive Officer Al Monaco said on Oct. 1.  “We own tons of pipeline stocks,” said Stevenson
“They’re very defensive stocks, but offer a long run of growth.
The fundamental theme still works for them because there’s a big
supply surplus they have to service.”  Enbridge is little changed this year, Inter Pipeline has
gained 6 percent. TransCanada is down 5 percent as the company
waits for a decision by the U.S. State Department on whether it
can proceed with construction of the Keystone XL pipeline.  Trilogy, a Calgary-based producer with land in the
Duvernay, is another recent acquisition even with the 3.5
percent drop this year, Stevenson said.  Duvernay Exposure  “I like the Duvernay and I like what Exxon says about
it,” she said. Producers operating in the formation will likely
double the number of wells drilled to about 200 next year,
according to a July 4 report by Peters & Co., a Calgary-based
investment firm.  Exxon Mobil Corp. made its largest Canadian acquisition
last year when it bought Celtic Exploration Ltd. for its leases
in the Duvernay and Montney formations.  “The interesting thing with the Duvernay is that there are
really only two public companies you can own if you want
meaningful exposure and so Trilogy benefits because it’s the
best of what’s available,” said Greg Dean, who helps manage a
C$7.9 billion portfolio for CI Investment’s Cambridge Global
Asset Management., which also owns shares in Trilogy.  Stevenson is selling natural gas shares, which are still
suffering from depressed prices, she said. Natural gas prices
have fallen by half over the last five years. Gas for November
delivery rose 1.8 percent to $3.746 per million British thermal
units at 9:25 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange today.  Political Risk  She also recently sold  Calfrac Well Services Ltd. (CFW) , whose
shares have risen 23 percent this year, contributing to a four-fold gain since 2009. “It had a wicked run,” she said.  “It’s really hard to make money on gas,” Stevenson said.
“There’s a lot of hype about LNG. It’s fun but dangerous.”  Political risks in the Middle East, including the civil war
in  Syria  and rising interest rates are the two biggest threats
to Stevenson’s investment thesis, she said.  “If prices of oil get high enough then it will hurt
demand,” Stevenson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  