-- The Army Goes Green, but Not to Save the Earth
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-10-10T23:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/the-army-goes-green-but-not-to-save-the-earth.html
     Oct. 10 (Bloomberg Businessweek) -- Daniel Rice takes taxis
down long desert roads in  Afghanistan ’s combat zones to make
sales calls. He travels at night, unarmed, and when he’s dropped
at the gate of a U.S. military base, soldiers often call Rice
crazy before whisking him inside. The former U.S. Army officer is
there to sell commanders on something he wishes the military used
eight years ago when he served in Iraq and lost friends in
attacks on convoys: solar panels.  Rice, co-founder of SunDial Capital Partners, tells the
officers that his portable solar systems can reduce fuel
consumption. “Why are soldiers still dying in fuel convoys when
the military could significantly reduce its fuel at remote
locations and at the same time save taxpayer dollars?” he asks.  The Army has spent $10 million to equip Special Forces units
with SunDial’s systems. It’s part of a $4 billion green campaign
the Army launched in 2009, with plans to spend billions more over
the next three decades. The mission isn’t about saving the
environment. It’s about saving money and lives. “A fuel tanker
can be shot at and blown up,” says Richard Kidd, deputy assistant
secretary of the Army in charge of energy and sustainability.
“The sun’s rays will still be there.”  The modern wired battlefield requires about 20 gallons of
fuel per soldier per day. Protecting the convoys is one of the
most dangerous jobs in war: One in 24 fuel convoys in  Iraq  and
Afghanistan suffered a casualty in 2007, the last year the Army
kept such statistics. It estimates that the cost to buy and
deliver fuel safely to remote outposts can reach $56 per gallon.  The military has made changes at outposts in Afghanistan
that it expects to use more widely in future conflicts. On some
bases, floodlights are powered by solar panels instead of diesel
generators. At others, the Army is using smaller, smarter
generators that don’t run all the time, cutting energy use by
30 percent compared with larger systems. Previously, “you had
10-kilowatt load need at a tent being driven by a 100-kilowatt
generator,” says John Lushetsky, executive director of the U.S.
Army Energy Initiatives Task Force. That meant “more fuel lines,
and that led to more casualties.”  Some of the adjustments are small but could have a big
impact when used on a larger scale. New tents with hinged doors
designed at an Army research center in  Massachusetts  are
replacing some zipped tents, which are easily ripped when
soldiers enter with their packs on. That makes it harder to keep
tents cool in hot climates. Researchers are also testing showers
that curb water use by recycling it for future bathing and
laundry.  The Army’s long-term goal is energy neutrality—to generate
as much energy as it uses worldwide. It’s made the most progress
at U.S. bases. A new 4.5-megawatt solar farm at White Sands
Missile Range in New Mexico supplies 10 percent of the site’s
power. Fort Bliss, in  Texas , has a 1.4-megawatt solar plant. By
2025 officials expect the Army will draw 25 percent of its power
in the U.S. from renewables, up from 5.5 percent now.  Taxpayers aren’t paying for the new electricity plants.
Energy companies finance their construction and then bill the
Army for the power. And the military is locking in long-term
contracts with fixed prices. “If our [current] utility costs are
increasing 7 to 15 percent a year, and our starting point for the
[new] system is 2 percent higher than what we’re currently paying
and fixed for 20 years, that’s a pretty decent crossing of the
curves,” Kidd says.  With the war in Afghanistan winding down, SunDial’s Rice is
thinking ahead to potential future conflicts in  Africa  or the
Middle East. “If the U.S. Army makes this standard for every
brigade,” he says, “it will not only transform the U.S. military,
but all militaries around the world will follow.”