-- Hearst Loses Pretrial Effort to Bar Aereo Video-Streaming
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-10-11T00:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/hearst-loses-pretrial-effort-to-bar-aereo-video-streaming.html
A Hearst-owned television station
failed to stop Aereo Inc. from streaming video as the online TV
service faces copyright-infringement lawsuits from broadcast
networks.  Hearst Stations Inc., operator of WCVB-TV near  Boston , sued
Aereo in July and accused it of violating copyrights by
capturing signals and sending them to customers without
permission.  “Hearst has not demonstrated a sufficient likelihood of
success on the merits nor the requisite irreparable harm” for
an injunction, U.S. District Judge Nathaniel Gorton in Boston
said in an Oct. 8 ruling. Hearst filed a notice today that it is
appealing the decision.  Hearst, based in  New York , owns 29 broadcast stations in
the U.S., and major revenue sources include advertising and fees
paid for the right to resell programming, according to Gorton’s
opinion. Aereo, based in New York, transmits TV over the
Internet to paying customers.  “When you comply not only with the letter but the spirit
of the law, justice will prevail,” Aereo founder and Chief
Executive Officer Chet Kanojia said in a statement after the
ruling. “‘Today’s victory belongs to the consumer, and today’s
decision makes clear that that there is no reason that consumers
should be limited to 1950s technology to access over-the-air
broadcast television.”  Broadcast networks, including  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, sued Aereo in New York in March 2012. U.S. District
Judge Alison Nathan rejected the networks’ motion for an
injunction that would have shut down the service, and a panel of
New York appeals judges upheld that ruling in April.  Gorton’s decision lets Aereo continue a business that
“unlawfully profits” from copyrighted material, Paul Luthringer, a WCVB spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
Hearst Stations is part of Hearst Corp.  The case is Hearst Stations v. Aereo, 13-cv-11649, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 