-- ECB Agrees on Swap Line With PBOC as Trade Increases
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-10-10T17:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/ecb-sets-currency-swap-line-with-pboc-as-euro-china-trade-rises.html
The European Central Bank and the
People’s  Bank of China  agreed to establish a bilateral currency
swap line, bolstering access to trade finance in the euro area
and strengthening the international use of the  yuan .  The swap line will be valid for three years and have a
maximum size of 350 billion yuan ($57 billion) when Chinese
currency is provided to the ECB and 45 billion euros ($61
billion) when money is given to the PBOC, the Frankfurt-based
central bank said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
arrangement is available to all Eurosystem counterparties via
national central banks, it said.  “The swap arrangement has been established in the context
of rapidly growing bilateral trade and investment between the
euro area and  China , as well as the need to ensure the stability
of financial markets,” the ECB said. “From the perspective of
the Eurosystem, the swap arrangement is intended to serve as a
backstop liquidity facility and to reassure euro area banks of
the continuous provision of Chinese yuan.”  PBOC Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  pledged on June 28 to expand
cross-border use of the yuan, also known as the renminbi, and
encourage multinational companies to include the currency in
their asset portfolios. China will allow direct trading between
the yuan and foreign currencies and push for more convertibility
without giving up control of capital flows, Zhou said.  ‘Wider Flexibility’  “It’s a reflection of the increasing bilateral trade and a
measure to accompany China’s push for wider flexibility in the
exchange rate,” said Stefan Schneider, chief international
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Frankfurt. “China is
integrating itself more and more into global financial markets
and such agreements are part of that.”  China is the European Union’s second-largest  trading 
partner after the U.S. The 28-nation bloc exported 71.4 billion
euros of goods to China in the first six months of this year,
with imports totaling 133.6 billion euros, according to the
latest Eurostat data.  The Bank of England was the first in a race among European
central banks to establish swap facilities with China, when it
agreed on a line of 200 billion yuan and 20 billion pounds ($32
billion) in June. China, the world’s second-largest economy, has
similar agreements with countries including  Australia ,  Turkey ,
 Brazil , South Korea and  Malaysia .  Hong Kong has the largest swap agreement at 400 billion
yuan, followed by South Korea with 360 billion yuan, with the
ECB’s 350 billion yuan the third-biggest, according to PBOC
data. The ECB swap line is smaller than initially anticipated.
Frankfurt Main Finance, a lobby group based in  Germany ’s
financial capital, said in July the facility may be as much as
800 billion yuan.  ‘Symbolic Importance’  “ London  as the global center for currency trading still
has the best chances for becoming the European center for
trading in the renminbi,” Mark Williams, chief Asia economist
at Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone from London. A swap
line is “mainly of symbolic importance. It provides a backstop
to the use of  renminbi  abroad,” he said.  Frankfurt is basing its push to become an offshore trading
center for yuan on Germany’s close ties with China, the nation’s
third-biggest  trading partner . The two countries imported and
exported goods and services valued at 144 billion euros between
them last year, according to the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden, Germany.  ‘Significant Amount’  The swap agreement with the ECB “is for a very significant
amount,” Christian Noyer,  France ’s representative on the ECB’s
Governing Council, said in a statement. “This reflects the
strong position of the euro in terms of international exchange.
Euro-zone banks and French banks now have at their disposal the
security they need to develop their business in renminbi over
the long term.”  The Governing Council will discuss “technical modalities”
and their communication in due course, the ECB said.  The yuan was the world’s eighth most-traded currency in
August, up from 11th in January 2012, the Society for Worldwide
Interbank Financial Telecommunications, or Swift, said in an
Oct. 8 statement.  “Yuan is certainly becoming more internationalized,”
Williams said. “Users of renminbi in Europe can have more
reassurance that in any financial squeeze they would still be
able to access renminbi liquidity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  