-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for October (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2013-10-10T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-october-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s October monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 2 October to keep
the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Incoming information and
analysis have further underpinned the Governing Council’s
previous assessment. Underlying price pressures in the euro area
are expected to remain subdued over the medium term. In keeping
with this picture, monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics
remain subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area
continue to be firmly anchored in line with the aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. At the same time, real GDP growth in the second
quarter was positive, after six quarters of negative output
growth, and confidence indicators up to September confirm the
expected gradual improvement in economic activity from low
levels. The monetary policy stance continues to be geared
towards maintaining the degree of monetary accommodation
warranted by the outlook for  price stability  and promoting
stable money market conditions. It thereby provides support to a
gradual recovery in economic activity. Looking ahead, the
monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long as
necessary, in line with the forward guidance provided in July.
The Governing Council confirms that it expects the key ECB
interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an
extended period of time. This expectation continues to be based
on an unchanged overall subdued outlook for inflation extending
into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the
economy and subdued monetary dynamics. In the period ahead, the
Governing Council will monitor all incoming information on
economic and monetary developments and assess any impact on the
medium-term outlook for price stability. With regard to money
market conditions, the Governing Council will remain
particularly attentive to developments which may have
implications for the stance of monetary policy and is ready to
consider all available instruments.  With regard to the economic analysis, following six quarters of
negative output growth, euro area real GDP rose, quarter on
quarter, by 0.3% in the second quarter of 2013, also supported
by temporary factors related to unusually adverse weather
conditions in some euro area countries earlier this year.
Developments in industrial production data point to somewhat
weaker growth at the beginning of the third quarter, while
survey-based confidence indicators up to September have improved
further from low levels, overall confirming the Governing
Council’s previous expectations of a gradual recovery in
economic activity. Looking ahead, output is expected to recover
at a slow pace, in particular owing to a gradual improvement in
domestic demand supported by the accommodative monetary policy
stance. Euro area economic activity should, in addition, benefit
from a gradual strengthening of external demand for exports.
Furthermore, the overall improvements in financial markets seen
since last summer appear to be gradually working their way
through to the real economy, as should the progress made in
fiscal consolidation. In addition, real incomes have benefited
recently from generally lower inflation. This being said,
unemployment in the euro area remains high, and the necessary
balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will
continue to weigh on economic activity.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. Developments in global money and
financial market conditions and related uncertainties may have
the potential to negatively affect economic conditions. Other
downside risks include higher commodity prices in the context of
renewed geopolitical tensions, weaker than expected global
demand and slow or insufficient implementation of structural
reforms in euro area countries.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, and broadly in line with
expectations, euro area annual HICP inflation decreased in
September 2013 to 1.1%, from 1.3% in August. On the basis of
current futures prices for energy, annual inflation rates are
expected to remain at such low levels in the coming months.
Taking the appropriate medium-term perspective, underlying price
pressures are expected to remain subdued, reflecting the broad-based weakness in aggregate demand and the modest pace of the
recovery. Medium to long-term inflation expectations continue to
be firmly anchored in line with price stability. The risks to
the outlook for price developments are expected to be still
broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside risks
relating in particular to higher commodity prices as well as
stronger than expected increases in administered prices and
indirect taxes, and downside risks stemming from weaker than
expected economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, data for August indicate that
the underlying growth of broad money (M3) and, in particular,
credit remained subdued. Annual growth in M3 continued to be
broadly stable at 2.3% in August, compared with 2.2% in July.
Annual growth in M1 remained strong but decreased to 6.8% in
August, from 7.1% in July. Net capital inflows into the euro
area continued to be the main factor supporting annual M3 growth,
while the annual rate of change of loans to the private sector
remained weak. The annual growth rate of loans to households
(adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) stood at 0.4% in
August, broadly unchanged since the turn of the year. The annual
rate of change of loans to non-financial corporations (adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation) was -2.9% in August, compared
with -2.8% in July. Weak loan dynamics for non-financial
corporations continue to reflect primarily their lagged
relationship with the business cycle, credit risk and the
ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector balance
sheets.  Since the summer of 2012 substantial progress has been made in
improving the funding situation of banks and, in particular, in
strengthening the domestic deposit base in a number of stressed
countries. In order to ensure an adequate transmission of
monetary policy to the financing conditions in euro area
countries, it is essential that the fragmentation of euro area
credit markets declines further and that the resilience of banks
is strengthened where needed. Further decisive steps to
establish a banking union will help to accomplish this objective.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  As regards fiscal policies, euro area countries should not
unravel their efforts to reduce deficits and put high government
debt ratios on a downward path. The draft budgetary plans that
countries will now deliver for the first time under the “two-pack” regulations need to provide for sufficiently far-reaching
measures to achieve the fiscal targets for 2014. Governments
must also decisively strengthen efforts to implement the needed
structural reforms in product and labour markets. These reforms
are required not only to help countries to regain
competitiveness and to rebalance within the euro area, but also
to create more flexible and dynamic economies that generate
sustainable economic growth and employment.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains two articles. The
first article identifies recent changes in the nature of
commodity price movements and analyses their potential
implications for the assessment of the economic outlook for the
euro area. The second article reviews the role of reference
interest rates such as the EURIBOR in the euro area and
summarises the ECB’s views on the current debate on possible
options to reform these rates, as well as the initiatives taken
in this respect by the official sector, including the Eurosystem.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  