-- Medvedev Replaces Space-Agency Head With Deputy Minister
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-10-10T17:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/medvedev-replaces-space-agency-head-with-deputy-minister.html
Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  dismissed Federal Space Agency General Director
Vladimir Popovkin after a series of mishaps that cost the
country billions of rubles.  Medvedev appointed Deputy Defense Minister Oleg Ostapenko
to replace Popovkin at the agency, known as Roscosmos, according
to a statement on the government’s website. Ostapenko, 56, was
supervising advanced military research at the ministry.  Russia controls 40 percent of the global market for space
launches and plans to allocate 2.1 trillion rubles ($65 billion)
on its space program from 2013 to 2020. The country lost
billions of rubles with accidents that resulted in 10 lost
satellites and seven failed launches during a period of 18
months, Medvedev said last year.  “I hope a range of problems which, sadly, were experienced
by Roscosmos lately, will be overcome with your appointment,”
Medvedev told Ostapenko, according to the government statement.  In July, a Proton-M rocket carrying three Glonass
navigation satellites crashed soon after take-off from a base in
 Kazakhstan . The cost of the failed rocket, satellites and the
launch was estimated at about 4.4 billion rubles, according to
the Interfax news service.  Russia is trying to challenge the U.S. dominance in space-based navigation systems, and has spent at least $3.3 billion in
the last decade to develop its Glonass system with 24
satellites. That’s an alternative to GPS, which was first
developed by the U.S. Department of Defense and then spread to
civilian applications such as mobile phones and transport
monitoring.  Popovkin was appointed in 2011 after the firing of his
predecessor because a Proton-M rocket failed to deliver three
navigation satellites into orbit. Within four months of the
appointment,  Russia  lost its most powerful telecommunications
satellite, Express-AM4, after another faulty Proton-M launch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  