-- Emerging Stocks Gain on U.S. as Russia Enters Bull Market
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-10-10T20:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/emerging-stocks-decline-for-second-day-as-chinese-shares-slide.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed to a
two-week high amid signs U.S. lawmakers will reach an agreement
to avoid default. Russia’s RTS Index entered a  bull market .  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.8 percent to
1,014.05. Russia’s RTS Index extended a surge from this year’s
low to more than 20 percent as OAO Sberbank rose 2.1 percent.
Polish lenders, led by Bank Pekao SA, jumped to the highest
level in almost six years after Moody’s Investors Service raised
the outlook for the industry.  Brazil ’s real led gains among the
31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg after policy makers
signaled they will keep the pace of rate increases.  The White House endorsed a short debt-limit increase with
no policy conditions attached, signaling potential support for
House Republicans’ plan for a monthlong reprieve from a default.
The proposal by House Speaker  John Boehner  wouldn’t end the
partial shutdown of the federal government. The plan would push
the lapse of U.S. borrowing authority to Nov. 22 from Oct. 17.  “It’s all in the back of budget negotiations,” Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park , New Jersey-based fund manager at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $130 billion of
assets, said by phone. “Any type of deal regarding the debt
ceiling will embolden risk appetite.”  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained
today, led by consumer shares. The benchmark measure for
developing nations has dropped 3.9 percent this year to trade at
10.6 times projected earnings, compared with the  valuation  of
13.8 for the MSCI World Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund advanced 2.4 percent to $42.64. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
decreased 11 percent to 24.97.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  rose a second day as Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar, the nation’s biggest retailer,
jumped. The central bank yesterday lifted the target lending
rate by a half-percentage point for the fourth time in a row,
setting it at 9.5 percent. The real gained 1.2 percent as policy
makers, repeating language used in the August decision, said the
increase will ensure slower inflation next year.  Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS added 1.6 percent, while
the  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose to the highest since February. OAO
Sberbank, the nation’s largest lender, jumped to a five-month
high.  Poland ’s WIG20 jumped the most since November 2011 as
Bank Pekao, the second-biggest lender in Poland, increased 3.5
percent. Benchmark gauges in  Turkey ,  Hungary  and the  Czech
Republic  advanced more than 0.4 percent.  Tata Motors  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks advanced, with the benchmark index rising to
a three-week high, before the start of the earnings season
tomorrow.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  jumped to a record after sales of
Jaguar Land Rover climbed in September, sending a gauge of
automakers to a nine-month high. Software maker  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) 
increased for the fourth day. The rupee climbed the most in a
week on speculation that policy makers will ease restrictions on
foreign investors’ purchases of the nation’s debt.  China’s stocks  fell the most in two weeks as financial
companies slumped on concern earnings growth will slow.  Citic
Securities Co. (600030)  and Haitong Securities Co., the nation’s largest-listed brokerages, slid more than 3 percent after Bank of
America Corp. said brokerages will suffer from government
efforts to encourage banks to offer asset-management products.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries declined four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 322 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  