-- Emin’s Bed, Van Gogh’s Boots, Kate Nash: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-10-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/emin-s-bed-van-gogh-s-boots-kate-nash-london-weekend.html
Tracey Emin’s four-poster bed,  Van Gogh ’s second-hand boots, Crosby, Stills & Nash and a portrait
of Prince Charles are our choices for  London  this weekend.  STAGE  What happened to the protester who stepped in front of the
Tiananmen Square tanks in 1989?  That’s the central question in Lucy Kirkwood’s
“Chimerica,” a fast-paced portrait of  China  in the last
quarter-century. Benedict Wong (who plays a demoralized ex-demonstrator) is excellent, and so is Es Devlin’s set -- a
revolving cube that serves as a Beijing apartment, strip joint,
or torture chamber.  Too bad the female characters feel forced, especially the
British executive bent on cracking the Chinese market. Ends Oct.
19 at the Harold Pinter Theatre, Panton Street, SW1 4DY.
Information:  http://www.chimerica.co.uk  or +44-844-871-7627.  DINING  The Cheese & Wine Festival takes place this weekend at two
locations: The South Bank Centre and Old Spitalfields Market.
It’s a chance to sample cheeses from around the world, as well
as bread and wine. Entry is free. Information:
 http://www.cheesewinefestival.com/ .  Drakes Tabanco is a new tavern serving sherry straight from
the barrel as well as an Andalusian-inspired menu, with dishes
such as roasted piquillo Pepper Salad with flaked almonds, and
white bean & wild mushroom stew. This is the new Fitzrovia venue
from the owners of Copita and Barrica. Information:
 http://www.drakestabanco.com/  or +44-20-7637-9388.  VISUAL ARTS  Van Gogh couldn’t afford models when he settled in Paris in
1886. He painted himself, bunches of flowers, and a pair of
lace-up boots he picked up at a flea market.  Some stunning examples are on view in a small but absorbing
exhibition at the Eykyn MacLean Gallery that attempts to show
how two years in Paris led Van Gogh to trade dark tones for a
bright palette. Eight works (including five oils) are coupled
with 21 by contemporaries he admired, including a fine early
Gauguin.  “Van Gogh in Paris” (through Nov. 29) is at Eykyn
Maclean, 30 St. George Street, W1S 2FH:
 http://www.eykynmaclean.com .  Or see Emin’s bed before  Charles Saatchi  has it auctioned
off at Christie’s on Oct. 17 to help fund his gallery. Unlike
her stained “My Bed” (1998), this is a tame four-poster with a
quilt and ’Weird Sex’ marked above the headboard. Also on sale:
works by the Chapman Brothers and Kader Attia. The preview show
runs Oct. 12-18 at the Sorting Office, 21-31 New Oxford Street:
 http://www.christies.com .  MUSIC  Close your eyes and Crosby, Stills & Nash sound much the
same in 2013 as they did in 1969. Songs like “Marrakesh Express”
and “Long Time Gone” have their harmonies and acoustic solos
intact.  The trio return to the Royal Albert Hall tonight for a show
that draws on a repertoire that they figure contains 900 songs.
Information:  http://www.crosbystillsnash.com .  Rising U.K. star Kate Nash is at the O2 Shepherd’s Bush
Empire to showcase her album “Girl Talk” as she moves to a more
punky style of music from pop. Meanwhile that music mogul,
husband of Beyonce and friend of presidents, Jay-Z, will be at
the O2 both Friday and Saturday.  http://www.theo2.co.uk/   OTHER LONDON OUTINGS  Prince Charles’s first portrait by a Chinese artist is on
view this weekend before going under the hammer next week.  Proceeds from the sale of the Yan Pei-Ming portrait and of
works by  Antony Gormley ,  Andreas Gursky  and Emin will support
the Prince’s Drawing School and the Mimi Foundation cancer
charity founded by Myriam Ullens (wife of collector Guy Ullens).  At Sotheby’s London, 34-35 New  Bond Street , W1A 2AA.
Information:  http://www.sothebys.com  or www.mimifoundation.com.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include the London and  New York   weekend
guides ,  Warwick Thompson  on U.K. theater,  Lewis Lapham  on
history,  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater, and  Greg Evans  and  Craig
Seligman  on movies.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 