-- Tenaga Exit Said to Leave Two Bids for Ireland’s Bord Gais Unit
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-10-10T11:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/tenaga-exit-said-to-leave-two-bids-for-ireland-s-bord-gais-unit.html
Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB) , Malaysia’s
biggest energy producer, scrapped a bid for a unit of Ireland’s
state-owned gas company Bord Gais Eireann, narrowing the field
to two suitors.  Bord Gais’s retail and power generation division “might
not be the one to fit us as we have other priorities,” Fazlur Rahman Zainuddin, chief financial officer with state-owned
Tenaga, said in an interview in  Kuala Lumpur  today. The
remaining bids are from a group led by Viridian Group Ltd.,
backed by  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , and from  Centrica Plc (CNA) , the
U.K.’s largest power company, according to people with knowledge
of the matter.  The Viridian-led offer is above a 1 billion-euro ($1.35
billion) reserve set by Bord Gais, while Centrica’s is below,
said three people who asked not to be identified as the process
is private. Ireland, which agreed to sell the asset under its
international bailout in 2010, said last month the business will
be sold before the end of the year.  The Bord Gais unit, which owns 15 percent of Ireland’s
installed wind farms, had been expected to fetch as much as 1.4
billion euros, two people said on May 24. Officials from Bord
Gais, Centrica, Viridian, Northern Ireland’s largest energy
supplier, and Macquarie declined to comment on the process.  “I can’t see the government giving the business away for a
bargain basement price, even if a sale is part of the bailout
program,” said  Alan McQuaid , an economist with Merrion Capital
in Dublin.  Tenaga submitted a non-binding offer seeking to expand
earnings and cut its reliance on regulated business in Malaysia,
Fazlur said. Buying the company now appears “a little
advanced” for the company, he said.  “Given the focus on new  power plants  and the experience we
have in the regulated business here, we feel the focus should be
in Malaysia,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  