-- Energy Future Said Near Bankruptcy Loan Exceeding $3 Billion
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-10-11T20:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/energy-future-said-near-bankruptcy-loan-exceeding-3-billion.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp., the
Texas power generator taken private in the biggest leveraged
buyout ever, is close to obtaining a loan of more than $3
billion ahead of a bankruptcy filing that may come this month,
said four people with knowledge of the matter.  Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp.
and Morgan Stanley are the key lenders vying to provide parts of
the debtor-in-possession  financing , and first-lien creditors to
Energy Future’s Texas Competitive subsidiary have been invited
to participate, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the process is private. The final terms and lenders may
be decided next week, according to two of the people.  The size of the loan for the former TXU Corp., which has
fluctuated over the past few weeks, is now likely to be about
$3.5 billion, said two of the people. Debtor-in-possession
financing is funding arranged by a company going through the
Chapter 11 bankruptcy process, which typically has priority over
existing debt, equity and other claims. Such a large DIP may
help reassure vendors, customers and regulators the company can
meet its obligations.  “The discussions that are underway right now are not about
valuation and mostly about how the losses will be allocated,”
James Hempstead, a credit analyst at Moody’s Investors Service,
said in a telephone interview. “We think a filing will be
organized and amenable as opposed to disorganized and
contentious.”  Bond Prices  Texas Competitive’s $1.83 billion of 10.25 percent senior
unsecured bonds due 2015, which pay interest on Nov. 1, traded
at 3.13 cents on the dollar today, up from an all-time low of
1.87 cents on Sept. 25, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Adam McGill, a spokesman for Dallas-based Energy Future,
declined to comment, while  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , the company’s
restructuring adviser, didn’t reply to a request for comment.
Representatives at Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, JPMorgan, and Bank
of America declined to comment.  Some Energy Future creditors continued to negotiate in New
York this week, seeking consensus on a restructuring plan ahead
of filing for Chapter 11, said one of the people. Key creditors
have signed non-disclosure agreements for the talks, which
expire Oct. 14 and may be extended, the person said.  Rejected Plan  Energy Future is due to pay about $270 million in bond
coupons Nov. 1 -- cash more senior creditors want the company to
retain by filing for bankruptcy.  Texas Competitive’s $15.4 billion  term loan  that matures in
2017 was quoted at 67.7 cents on the dollar today, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg, up from 67 cents on Oct. 7.  Texas’s largest electricity provider has struggled to
reduce debt since it was taken over in a $48 billion deal in
2007 led by  KKR & Co. (KKR) , TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs Capital
Partners. The biggest-ever leveraged buyout left Energy Future
with more than $40 billion in debt in a bet natural gas prices
would rise. Instead, they plunged to below $2 from a July 2008
high of more than $13 per million British thermal units.  The company said in April that creditors had rejected a
prepackaged bankruptcy plan to restructure $32 billion in debt
held by Energy Future’s competitive power unit. The plan called
for creditors to forgive obligations in exchange for equity and
$5 billion in cash and new debt.  Energy Future, which had $43.6 billion in debt as of the
end of June, said in August that it has “engaged in additional
discussions” with a broader group of creditors and continues to
evaluate restructuring options including filing for Chapter 11
bankruptcy for some or all of the company, excluding power-line
unit Oncor Electric Delivery Co.  Oncor, the regulated and profitable power transmission and
distribution business, is protected from any restructuring,
according to corporate filings and credit ratings company
Moody’s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  