-- EPA Considers U.S. Ethanol Mandate Cut Amid Complaints
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-10-10T20:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/epa-considers-u-s-ethanol-mandate-cut-amid-complaints.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency is considering scaling back legal requirements on the use
of ethanol next year amid complaints from refiners that
statutory mandates would exceed their ability to blend it into
fuels without putting engines at risk.  A proposal from the agency would cut the mandate to 15.21
billion gallons for renewable fuels in 2014 instead of the 18.15
billion gallons  established by a 2007 law , according to an
internal proposal provided to Bloomberg. The agency would call
for the use of 13 billion gallons of conventional corn-based
ethanol and 2.21 billion gallons of advanced biofuels such as
biodiesel, down from 13.8 billion gallons and 2.75 billion
gallons respectively  this year , it said.  The EPA proposal is “addressing both availability of
qualifying renewable fuels and constraints on their
consumption,” the agency said in the draft, which is dated Aug.
26, just days before a plan was officially submitted to the
White House for review. The EPA document was provided to
Bloomberg by an industry representative.  The administration of President  Barack Obama , which has the
ability under the law to adjust the legal requirements, could
revamp the plan before the EPA issues it in the coming weeks.
After that, the proposal could be changed before being finalized
by the agency. This proposal was previously reported by
 Greenwire .  Specified Amount  Under the Renewable Fuel Standard, refiners such as  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  must use a certain amount of those fuels each year,
with their target determined by their share of the fuel market.
The EPA and renewable-fuel makers argue it spurs production of
domestic fuels and cuts greenhouse-gas emissions by reducing use
of gasoline or diesel.  The EPA is also considering dropping the requirement for
cellulosic fuels to just 23 million gallons from 1.75 billion
gallons as required in the law, as production of fuels made from
scrap wood or corn husks has failed to grow as expected,
according to the proposal.  The 2007 law mandates the use of 14.4 billion gallons of
corn-derived ethanol in 2014 and 15 billion in 2015. Lobbyists
for refiners such as  Valero Corp. (VLO)  say that requirement is too
high, and have pressed both Congress to scrap the entire program
and EPA to lower the requirements.  ‘Blend Wall’  Oil industry proponents have said that the escalating
requirements of ethanol to be added would force them to sell
fuel blends exceeding 10 percent or export gasoline, a
phenomenon known as “hitting the  blend wall .”  Blending in ethanol at greater than 10 percent can cause
problems with engine materials breaking down and the operation
of emission-control systems, according to the  American Petroleum
Institute . Older vehicles can’t handle blends of 15 percent
ethanol, the Washington-based trade group said.  The EPA had already pledged to adjust the quotas for
falling demand for gasoline, and this proposal shows how they
may be considering doing that. Based on the Energy Information
Administration’s  estimated  132.9 billion gallons of gasoline
demand in 2014, an ethanol requirement of 13 billion gallons
would fall below that 10 percent share.  Fuel Standard  Still, supporters of the Renewable Fuel Standard, or RFS,
indicated today that they are contemplating legal action if this
plan is carried out.  Existing vehicles that can use fuels with 85 percent
ethanol and new filling stations using 15 percent ethanol could
allow for the sale of 14.4 billion gallons of ethanol in 2014,
said Bob Dinneen, president of the  Renewable Fuels Association .  “The oil industry has argued that the existing vehicle
fleet and current refueling infrastructure are incapable of
absorbing significant volumes of ethanol above the E10 ‘blend
wall,’” Dinneen, whose group is based in Washington, wrote in a
 blog post today . “This contention is completely false.”  “We believe it would be unlawful for EPA to waive the RFS
based on the ‘blend wall,’ ” he added.  If this is the proposal for biodiesel and advanced biofuels
it doesn’t make sense, said Anne Steckel, vice president for
federal affairs at the  National Biodiesel Board .  “We’re not sure where these numbers are coming from, and
it may just be wishful thinking among folks in the oil
industry,” she said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Houston at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  