-- Merkel, Greens Agree on Second Round of Coalition Talks
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-10-11T08:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/merkel-greens-agree-second-round-of-talks-on-possible-coalition.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  and
 Germany ’s Greens agreed to hold a second meeting aimed at a
possible coalition after talks yesterday, raising the chance of
an alliance and piling pressure on the  Social Democrats .  The three-hour meeting brought closer the prospect of a
third German government under Merkel, who told her Christian
Democratic lawmakers this week that she wants clarity on a
future coalition by Oct. 22 when the newly elected parliament
convenes. Merkel’s bloc will meet SPD negotiators on Oct. 14 and
will meet again with the Greens on Oct. 15, CDU Secretary
General Hermann Groehe told reporters in Berlin.  “There was a positive mood” in the talks, Greens co-leader Cem Oezdemir said at a press conference. Claudia Roth,
the other Greens leader, called the meeting “constructive.”  With the Greens party leadership in transition, a gulf in
policy with Merkel’s side, a membership wary of a coalition and
open animosity with Merkel’s Bavarian allies, the  Greens  had
voiced skepticism of finding common ground.  Alexander Dobrindt, the secretary general of Merkel’s
Bavarian Christian Social Union sister party, warned there was a
bigger policy gap between the CDU/CSU and the Greens than with
the SPD. Groehe said the CDU/CSU and Greens shared common aims
for the European Union and the euro.  Grand Coalition  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc and the SPD ruled
together in a “grand coalition” during Merkel’s first term
from 2005 to 2009.  Wielding the option of Germany’s first federal tie-up with
the Greens gives Merkel leverage as she sounds out the SPD. The
negotiations pose difficulties for the Greens, preoccupied with
replacing their leaders after suffering losses in the Sept. 22
election.  The Greens face a challenge with Merkel’s fraction after
calling for higher taxes under lead candidates Juergen Trittin
and Katrin Goering-Eckardt, a strategy that many in the party
blamed for its losses in the polls. The party won 8.4 percent of
the vote, down 2.3 percentage points from 2009. Merkel called
new taxes “poison” during the election campaign.  Goering-Eckardt said her party and the  Christian Democrats 
differ on topics such as climate policy and pooling euro-area
debt, which Merkel rejects. “I don’t have the sense after last
night’s talks” that the two parties can form “a stable,
sustainable government for a span of four years,” she said on
Deutschlandfunk radio today.  Energy Differences  Another stumbling block is the energy switch, a 550
billion-euro ($745 billion) plan to shutter nuclear reactors and
raise the share of renewables to 80 percent of the power mix by
2050 from about 23 percent now. The Greens seek to exit coal-fired power generation and speed up the transition to renewable
sources such as solar and wind, while Merkel has said her focus
is to change clean-energy subsidies to cut the project’s costs.  A new coalition will almost certainly take longer to forge
than after the last election in 2009 where talks took just over
a month. While SPD General Secretary Andrea Nahles has said that
talks might last until January, the party’s commitment to hold a
membership ballot on any coalition deal lends itself to a vote
around the time of its convention in Leipzig in mid-November.  A government combining Merkel’s bloc and the Social
Democrats, the two biggest forces in the Bundestag, is favored
by 66 percent of voting-age Germans, compared with 37 percent
who favor her governing with the Greens as junior partner,
according to an Infratest poll for ARD television published
yesterday.  ‘Cautious Merkel’  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London ,
put an 80 percent bet on a repeat of the grand coalition, from
Merkel’s first term. “The typically cautious Merkel will
probably still prefer the tested combination with the SPD,”
Schulz said in a note today.  Merkel, 59, remains Germany’s most popular politician with
a 67 percent approval rating in the ARD poll, while Hannelore Kraft, the premier of North Rhine-Westphalia state, is the most
popular  Social Democrat  at 52 percent. The Sept. 7-8 poll of
1,012 people has a margin of error of as many as 3.1 percentage
points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  