-- Testing Finds Minor Cracks in Marine F-35 Bulkheads
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-10T22:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/testing-finds-minor-cracks-in-marine-f-35-bulkheads.html
Ground testing of the most complex
version of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 jet has uncovered two
small cracks the Pentagon describes as minor, according to a
statement to congressional staff.  The cracks were discovered in late August during an
inspection of the U.S. Marine Corps’ short-takeoff and vertical
landing model that’s used in ground testing to evaluate an
airframe’s long-term durability. The airframes are designed to
last through 8,000 flight hours. They are tested on the ground
to the equivalent of two lifetimes, or 16,000 hours.  The F-35B model is to be flown by the Marine Corps, the
U.K. and Italy off amphibious warfare vessels and aircraft
carriers. The $391.2 billion F-35 program is the Pentagon’s most
expensive.  “Two minor cracks were identified” in one of the test
aircraft’s four load-bearing “wing carry-through bulkheads,”
according to a Pentagon statement provided to  Bloomberg News .  The cracks were discovered after the aircraft accumulated
more than 9,400 hours of ground testing -- or into its second
8,000-hour cycle.  “Because of the high hours accumulated on this test
article, this discovery does not affect current F-35B flying
operations, nor is it expected to impact” the Marine Corps’s
plan for a 2015 declaration of initial combat operating
capability, according to the statement.  Bulkhead Repairs  “The costs and time frame associated with fixes to the
current F-35B fleet are not known at this time,” according to
the statement. “Depending on when the appropriate engineering
solution is incorporated into the  production line , about 50
F-35Bs will require bulkhead repairs.”  The initial estimates indicate any modification would add
less than 2 pounds to the aircraft’s weight, according to the
statement.  As of September, 37 F-35B models have been delivered,
including models used by the Marines and the U.K. for pilot
training.  “A combined effort by government and Lockheed Martin
engineering teams is under way to address modifications to the
bulkhead that will be incorporated into production and the fleet
as part of the normal program,” Kyra Hawn, a spokeswoman for
the Pentagon’s F-35 office, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  