-- EU Licenses Sugar Exports Totaling Less Than Half of Demand
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-10T16:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/eu-licenses-sugar-exports-totaling-less-than-half-of-demand-1-.html
The European Union issued licenses
to export 650,000 metric tons of sugar in the current season,
less than half of the amount shippers sought to deliver.  Applications were received to export 1.47 million tons in
the 2013-14 season through next September, according to the
Brussels-based European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm.
Applications made after Oct. 4 will be rejected, according to
the  Official Journal  of the European Union today.  “It looks like there’s more sugar than most expected, as
the total applications for export licenses show,” Fabienne Pointier, an analyst at researcher Kingsman SA, a unit of McGraw
Hill Financial Inc., said by phone from Lausanne, Switzerland.
“The commission, however, will need to know more about
production and the situation of the domestic market before
allowing more exports.”  EU sugar production will drop 7 percent to 16 million tons
in 2013-14, from 17.2 million tons a year earlier, the
commission forecast last month. A late, cool spring and flood
damage in central Europe in June will likely result in a below-average harvest this year, Suedzucker AG, Europe’s biggest
producer, said today.  Two Rounds  Further applications for export permits are suspended from
Oct. 14 until the season ends, according to the journal. The EU
usually exports 1.35 million tons of sugar each season, within
the limits set by the World Trade Organization, and normally
issues licenses in two rounds. This was the first round of
applications for 2013-14.  Roger Waite, a spokesman for the commission, didn’t return
two telephone calls by Bloomberg requesting a comment. No
immediate reply was made to an e-mail to the commission’s press
office.  Sugar shortages last season prompted the EU to let local
producers sell an additional 600,000 tons of the sweetener
within the bloc. The EU also authorized imports of 371,883 tons
of raw sweetener and 264,209 tons of the refined, or white,
variety at a reduced duty.  “We believe they will need to take more additional
measures at about January or February,” Pointier said,
referring to the commission. “Only then they can think of
issuing further export permits.”  The EU has been shrinking its sugar industry since 2006
after the WTO ruled the bloc was dumping subsidized sweetener on
the world market. EU rules limit sales by producers in the
domestic market and require any excess to be put to non-food use
or exported within the WTO limit of 1.37 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  