-- EU Small-Business Loan Plan Said to Be Scaled Back After Doubts
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-10-10T15:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/eu-small-business-loan-plan-said-to-be-scaled-back-after-doubts.html
The European Union is scaling back
its ambitions to counter the credit crunch squeezing small and
mid-sized businesses, according to EU officials.  Countries have all but rejected  an option  to spur as much
as 100 billion euros ($135 billion) in extra lending, said five
officials familiar with the discussions. Instead, policy makers
will probably move ahead with a plan that would lead to 58
billion euros at most, they said.  The options were prepared by the European Commission and
the European Investment Bank in June to boost credit as banks
pare lending. Loans to companies and households in the euro area
fell the most on record in August as the currency bloc struggles
to recover from its longest-ever recession.  EU finance ministers will discuss the options next week in
Luxembourg so that leaders can make a decision later this month
and the EU can move ahead next year.  The plan to boost credit would involve a combination of a
guarantee on new loans along with the possibility of bundling
them over time, helping to revitalize the small-business loan
market in three years.  The intent is to encourage banks to lend to small
businesses by helping them find funding and by providing
guarantees on loan portfolios to attract investors. Lenders
could tap the government guarantees on loans and bundled
securities in exchange for meeting small-business lending
requirements, according to the proposals.  Nations including the U.K. and  Belgium  have argued that
diverting EU structural funds to such a lending program would
penalize countries that have already dedicated their share of
the funds to other projects, three of the officials said. As a
result, the SME lending effort is likely to offer reduced gains
because some countries wouldn’t take part, they said.  EIB Readiness  The EIB is neutral on the options and stands ready to
implement its shareholders’ decisions, an EIB official said
yesterday. EIB’s existing small business lending programs will
reach 20 billion euros in 2013, and EU nations now will need to
decide how to move ahead, the official said.  Banks in Spain, Italy and Portugal face about 250 billion
euros in potential losses on their business loans over the next
two years, the International Monetary Fund said. About one-fifth
of combined corporate loans is at risk of default in the three
economies, which are forecast to contract this year, according
to the fund’s Global Financial Stability Report released today.  Companies in southern European countries like Spain may be
most likely to benefit from any lending program that moves
ahead, Danish Economy Minister Margrethe Vestager said Oct. 8.
She told lawmakers in  Denmark  she expects a majority of nations
to back the proposal to bundle old loans, with some support for
another option that includes new loans as well. That option
which has estimated potential to unlock 65 billion euros in
leverage, also remains under discussion, the EU officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  