-- European Stocks Rise on Signs of Compromise on U.S. Debt
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-10-10T15:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/european-stock-index-futures-rise-on-signs-of-u-s-deal.html
European stocks  rose the most in
more than five weeks amid signs U.S. lawmakers will agree on a
compromise deal to avoid an unprecedented default.  Ladbrokes Plc rallied to a two-week high after a report
that Playtech Plc founder Teddy Sagi may have acquired an almost
3 percent stake in the bookmaker. CGG gained 2.1 percent after
saying third-quarter vessel-production rate jumped to a record.
Rheinmetall AG declined after Moody’s Investors Service lowered
its debt rating.  The Stoxx 600 added 1.7 percent to 310.29, its highest
level since Sept. 2, as U.S. President  Barack Obama  prepared to
meet Republican lawmakers to discuss the  federal budget  and debt
limit. The benchmark gauge yesterday declined for a third day
amid concern that the impasse may lead to a default.  “It’s very important for the markets that we got this news
of a possible short-term deal and that Republicans and Democrats
are having further discussions,” Andreas Lipkow, a senior
market strategist at Kliegel & Hafner AG in Berlin, said by
telephone. “The tone earlier this week was very negative and
everyone was very concerned.”  The VStoxx Index, which measures the volatility that
options traders expect in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, tumbled 15
percent, the most in 13 months. The volume of shares changing
hands on Stoxx 600-listed companies was 22 percent greater than
the average of the past 30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  10th Day  House Republican and Senate Democratic leaders are open to
a short-term increase in the $16.7 trillion debt limit, said
congressional aides of both parties who spoke on condition of
anonymity. Economists say a failure by the world’s largest
borrower to repay its debt will devastate stock markets and
throw the U.S. and world economies into a recession.  House Republican leaders are presenting their members with
a proposal to raise the debt limit for six weeks without policy
conditions, said a congressional aide familiar with the details.
The move would lessen the risk of a U.S. default one week from a
lapse in borrowing authority.  The U.S. government is in its 10th day of a partial
shutdown and has just a week before the government’s borrowing
authority lapses Oct. 17. Obama meets with 18 House Republican
leaders and committee chairmen at 4:35 p.m. in  Washington .  In Europe, the Bank of England left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged today. Reports showed  industrial output  in  France 
rose 0.2 percent in August, the first increase in four months.
That fell short of the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, which forecast a 0.6 percent gain. A similar
measure of output in  Italy  dropped 0.3 percent in August.
Economists had projected a 0.6 percent increase.  National Markets  National benchmark indexes advanced in all 18 western
European markets. The U.K’s FTSE 100 rallied 1.5 percent,
France’s CAC 40 jumped 2.2 percent and  Germany ’s DAX climbed 2
percent. Spain’s  IBEX 35 (IBEX)  surged 2.4 percent to its highest level
since July 2011.  Ladbrokes (LAD)  rallied 2.9 percent to 185 pence, posting the
biggest two-day gain since April 2009. A mystery buyer, thought
to be Sagi, bought a stake in the U.K. bookmaker, the Telegraph
reported. The deal, through Shore Capital, was just below the 3
percent disclosure limit, according to the Telegraph. The
purchase fueled speculation about a possible bid, the newspaper
said.  CGG jumped 2.1 percent to 15.83 euros. The oilfield
surveyor said third-quarter vessel-production rate increased to
94 percent, from 90 percent in the same quarter last year and 92
percent in the second quarter of this year.  Lenders Rally  A gauge of  bank shares  in the Stoxx 600 rallied 2.5
percent. Commerzbank AG added 5.9 percent to 9.36 euros. Banco
Popolare SC rallied 1 percent to 1.40 euros, while Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA jumped 2.2 percent to 1.78 euros.  Arkema SA (AKE)  added 4.7 percent to 83.93 euros. UBS AG raised
its rating on the French chemicals maker to a buy from neutral,
saying the stock is undervalued. The firm also boosted its price
target to 100 euros from 80 euros.  Hays Plc gained 2.2 percent to 118.1 pence. The U.K’s
largest professional-recruitment agency said first-quarter net
fees rose 2 percent from last year on a comparable basis.  “We see clear growth opportunities as a number of markets
continue to improve, including some that have been challenging
for some time, such as the U.K. and Asia,” Chief Executive
Officer Alistair Cox said in a statement.  Mediaset SpA rallied 5 percent to 3.47 euros. HSBC Holdings
Plc lifted its price target on the broadcaster controlled by
former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi to 2.60 euros
from 1.50 euros. The firm maintained its underweight
recommendation, which is similar to sell.  Rheinmetall declined 0.9 percent to 42.38 euros. Moody’s
lowered its rating on the German armored-vehicle maker’s senior
unsecured notes due September 2017 to Ba1 from Baa3.  Gerresheimer AG dropped 3.4 percent to 43 euros. The
company, which develops and produces specialty products made of
glass and plastic, was cut to hold from buy at Kepler Cheuvreux.  “The key test for the stock will be the guidance for
2014,” analyst Oliver Reinberg wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  