-- Teva to Cut 5,000 Jobs to Speed Up $2 Billion in Savings
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-10-10T20:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/teva-to-cut-5-000-jobs-take-1-1-billion-charge.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, plans to eliminate
about 5,000 jobs as it accelerates cost reductions amid growing
competition for the company’s best-selling product.  The restructuring program will lead to expenses of $1.1
billion through 2017, the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company
said in a statement today. Cutbacks, which equal about 10
percent of the workforce, will yield annual cost savings of
about $2 billion by the end of that year, the company said. Teva
reaffirmed its 2013 sales and profit forecast.  The announcement answers one question posed by some
analysts and investors: how Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Levin
planned to achieve the cost savings target he laid out last
year. Levin is under pressure to boost profitability because the
multiple sclerosis drug Copaxone may face lower-priced, generic
rivals as soon as next year. The injection already faces
competition from new oral treatments.  “The strategic plan now looks more credible,” Jonathan Kreizman, an analyst at Clal Finance Batucha Brokerage Ltd.,
said by phone. “This puts some meat on the bones in their
attempt to significantly cut down costs.”  Levin, who joined Teva last year, is focusing the company’s
efforts to develop branded drugs on areas such as respiratory
and central nervous system illnesses. In December, he said Teva
would pare back some programs, such as StemEx, a stem-cell
technology it was working on with Israeli partner Gamida Cell
Ltd.  Shares Gain  He set a goal then of $1.5 billion to $2 billion in annual
cost savings, without saying how many jobs would be cut. Today
Teva said the savings will be about $2 billion. The company
estimated that it will meet $1 billion of the annual cost
savings by the end of 2014. The majority of the savings are
still expected to come from a reduction in the company’s cost of
goods, Teva said.  Teva will keep looking for assets to dispose of, while
expanding its generic-drug business and selected research
programs, the company said.  Teva’s American depositary receipts climbed 3.5 percent to
$40.57 in  New York , their biggest one-day gain since March 6.
They’ve returned 16 percent in the past five years,  trailing  the
125 percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical
Index.  While Teva is the world’s biggest maker of generic drugs,
its future hinges on finding new revenue to replace what it
earns from the branded product Copaxone. The drug accounts for
about 50 percent to 65 percent of Teva’s profit, according to
Sabina Podval, an analyst at Leader & Co.  Court Ruling  Generic drugmakers including Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc.
are seeking to introduce copies of Copaxone as early as next
year after a U.S. court in July invalidated a 2015 patent for
the $4 billion drug. Teva says the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  should require clinical trials for a generic
Copaxone because it’s a complex molecule, making a 2014 generic
competitor unlikely.  “The aggressive cost cuts mean Teva may now be thinking
there is a higher probability a Copaxone generic will come to
the market sooner than they thought and they are trying to
prepare for that,” Podval said by telephone. “Still, this is
good news as the market was looking to better understand how
Teva plans to execute those cuts.”  Teva hasn’t yet decided which businesses will see job
reductions, Yonatan Beker, a spokesman, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “These accelerated efforts are designed
to take into account the changing competitive landscape and the
potential U.S. patent expiration of Copaxone in May 2014 rather
than September 2015,” he said.  For Related News and Information:
Teva’s Levin Vows Focused Drug Development as Patents Expire  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  