-- Mexico Rating Outlook Affirmed as Positive by S&P on Reforms
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-10-10T17:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/mexico-rating-outlook-affirmed-as-positive-by-s-p-on-reforms.html
Standard and Poor’s kept its
positive outlook on  Mexico ’s credit ratings on the prospect that
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s economic reforms will boost
growth, even as a tax overhaul is watered down.  Pena Nieto’s energy and tax bills could strengthen the
country’s fiscal flexibility, S&P said. The company also
affirmed its BBB/A-2 foreign currency and A-/A-2 local currency
sovereign credit ratings for Mexico. The positive outlook was
placed on the sovereign rating in March.  Pena Nieto has proposed breaking a 75-year state monopoly
on oil drilling in order to attract companies such as Exxon
Mobile Corp. to invest in Mexico. He also presented a bill last
month to boost  tax revenue  by 2.9 percentage points of gross
domestic product by 2018 in order to help wean the government
off oil revenue. His party plans to water down the reform by
removing taxes on items such as private education tuition and
mortgage interest.  “Tapping into Mexico’s vast oil potential would energize
investment and growth throughout the economy,” S&P said in a
statement today. While the  tax reform  may not boost revenue as
much as the government estimates, plans to strengthen oil
stabilization funds and save more during economic upswings
“could be an important step in reducing revenue volatility.”  The company forecasts Mexico’s economy will expand 1.5
percent this year and 3.2 percent in both 2014 and 2015. The net
government deficit will grow to more than 3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2014 from about 2 percent this year, S&P
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  