-- Fed’s Williams Says Stimulus Still Needed to Support Growth
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-10-10T22:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/fed-s-williams-says-stimulus-still-needed-to-support-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President John Williams, who has consistently backed
record accommodation, said monetary stimulus remains necessary
and that it will support faster economic growth next year.  Monetary policy is “continuing to provide needed
stimulus” and the economy will maintain “steady gains in
jobs,” Williams, who doesn’t vote on policy this year, said
today in a speech in Boise,  Idaho . U.S. fiscal policy is
restraining growth, he said.  “As the economy continues to get better, the highly
accommodative stance of monetary policy will need to be
gradually adjusted back to normal,” Williams said to Idaho
business leaders at Boise State University. “The first step
will be to slow the pace of  asset purchases  over time,
eventually ending them altogether. This won’t be a slamming on
the brakes, it will be an easing off the gas.”  Policy makers said at their Sept. 17-18 gathering they were
likely to taper their $85 billion in monthly bond purchases this
year, even as they unexpectedly refrained from such a move at
the meeting, minutes of the last Federal Open Market Committee
meeting released yesterday showed.  A U.S. failure to raise the debt ceiling and a debt default
would have unknowable effects on global markets, Williams said
to reporters after the speech. Shaken confidence in debt “could
be extremely damaging” in the long term. There is a “tail risk
scenario” that the fiscal policy deadlock may undermine faith
in the U.S. and destabilize the global financial system, he
said.  ‘Unpredictable Consequences’  “If those beliefs shift then markets can turn on a dime,”
Williams said. “We learned from 2008 that a breakdown in trust
and confidence can lead to a run and panic that has
unpredictable consequences.”  A budget agreement that involves more fiscal restraint over
the next year may make the central bank more likely to extend
its stimulus, Williams said. Significant cuts to federal
spending would mean “just another year of drag on the economy,
and it argues that we’re going to need monetary stimulus longer
than we would otherwise,” he said.  The shutdown this month also has caused a “significant
degradation of the quality of economic information that we
have,” with the government no longer producing reports on
economic indicators such as the jobless rate and gross domestic
product, Williams told reporters.  Stocks Rally  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose the most since
January, jumping 2.2 percent to close at 1,692.56. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year Treasury increased two basis points to
2.68 percent at in New York.  Higher income-tax rates this year are “eating into
disposable income” that reduces spending by consumers who are
also facing  federal budget  cuts and sequestration, he said.
Spending reductions are subtracting about 1.5 percentage points
from economic growth, while “uncertainty” about the deadlock
in Congress also hurts confidence, Williams said.  “Business leaders are nervous about tax and regulatory
policies,” he said. “Households are worried about jobs and
future income. And everyone is uncertain about  Washington ’s
ability to overcome gridlock, including many in Washington. None
of this is bolstering anyone’s confidence.”  The FOMC, acting before the Oct. 1 government shutdown,
held off tapering bond purchases and indicated that budget cuts
and an increase in borrowing costs were drags on the expansion.
A partial federal government shutdown lasting through the end of
this week would pare 0.2 percentage point from U.S. economic
growth, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of economists.  Inflation Outlook  Inflation will remain “low and stable” and gradually rise
toward the central bank’s 2 percent goal, Williams said in his
speech.  Williams, 51, became president of the San Francisco Fed in
March 2011 after serving as the bank’s director of research. He
earned his doctorate in economics at Stanford University and was
an economist at the Fed Board in Washington and the White House
Council of Economic Advisers. He joined the San Francisco Fed in
2002 as a research adviser.  The San Francisco Fed district covers  Alaska ,  Arizona ,
 California ,  Hawaii , Idaho,  Nevada ,  Oregon ,  Utah , Washington,
American Samoa, Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands.  The Fed is set to have a new chairman after the end of Ben S. Bernanke’s term in January as President  Barack Obama 
nominated Vice Chairman Janet Yellen this week as Bernanke’s
successor. Yellen, a key architect of record stimulus, would be
the first female leader in the central bank’s 100-year history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Boise, Idaho at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  