-- Bullard Says QE Taper Less Likely This Month Amid Shutdown
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-10-10T17:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/fed-s-bullard-says-qe-taper-less-likely-this-month-amid-shutdown.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis 
President  James Bullard , a voter on policy this year who has
backed record stimulus, said the government shutdown reduces the
odds the  Federal Open Market Committee  this month will taper $85
billion in monthly bond purchases.  “As it has turned out, October is looking less likely for
a decision for  the FOMC  on tapering because of the government
shutdown and the lack of data we might have otherwise
received,” Bullard said today to reporters in St. Louis. “It
has changed the odds” for the coming meeting.  The policy making panel is debating how to curb record
stimulus amid a deadlock in Congress over the  federal budget  and
a lack of agreement on raising the debt ceiling to avoid
default. Most policy makers said the  central bank  will probably
taper its bond purchases this year and complete the program in
mid-2014, according to minutes of last month’s policy meeting
released yesterday.  “The committee cited fiscal uncertainty as one of the
factors that led to the decision not to taper in September,”
Bullard said. “In retrospect, that was probably the right
call.”  The FOMC at an Oct. 29-30 meeting will weigh the impact
from the partial government shutdown while considering a
reduction in its bond buying. The Fed every month is purchasing
$40 billion in mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion in
Treasuries to fuel economic growth and combat 7.3 percent
unemployment.  Bullard said he is concerned the shutdown and debate over
the debt limit could weaken the economy this quarter even as
inflation persists at less than the Fed’s 2 percent target.  No Pickup  “If the economy is indeed weaker in this time frame from
now to the end of the year, that would also seem to suggest we
won’t see a pickup in inflation,” Bullard said. “We can afford
to be patient with our quantitative easing program until we have
seen inflation start to come closer to target.”  Bullard said he couldn’t prejudge the outcome of the FOMC
meeting this month, adding a decision to taper would depend on
economic data. He called October a “live meeting” for a
decision on so-called quantitative easing.  U.S. stocks jumped today on optimism U.S. lawmakers will
reach an agreement. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.7
percent, the most since Jan. 2, at 1:17 p.m. in  New York . The
10-year Treasury yield increased four basis points to 2.7
percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Bullard urged Congress and President  Barack Obama  to reach
a fiscal agreement.  Paying Bills  “It is just imperative we not go in this direction, get
into a situation where we are not paying our bills,” Bullard
said.  “We have a great position as a reserve currency in the
world,” he said. “We have a reputation that is stellar enough
to make us the safe haven in a crisis in the world, which has
helped us enormously over the last five years. There is no
reason to put that at risk with a self-inflicted wound.”  The St. Louis Fed president also said the president’s
choice of Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  to lead the Fed, announced
yesterday, will keep policy on a steady course.  “The key word for a Yellen chairmanship will be
continuity,” he said. “She has been in the middle of the
action as far as designing monetary policy before the crisis and
during the crisis. I would expect policies to be largely
similar.”  Data Shortage  Policy makers have been split on the impact of the shutdown
on growth and the debate over tapering bond purchases. Richmond
Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said last week a government
shutdown shouldn’t reduce economic growth permanently, while
Atlanta Fed’s  Dennis Lockhart  said a lack of government data
will make him “somewhat more cautious” in considering whether
to slow $85 billion in monthly bond buying.  The Fed last month unexpectedly refrained from reducing its
$85 billion in monthly bond buying, saying it needs to see more
signs of sustained labor market gains. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said Sept. 18 the central bank would decide on whether to taper
purchases based on “what’s needed for the economy.”  Bullard during the past two months has urged the Fed to
hold off on adjusting so-called quantitative easing, saying any
change should depend on whether inflation moves toward the Fed’s
2 percent target. Policy shouldn’t rely on central bank
forecasts for the economy that have proven too optimistic in the
past three years, he said.  Bullard, who calls himself the “ North Pole  of inflation
hawks,” has been viewed as a bellwether for investors because
his views have sometimes foreshadowed policy changes. He
published a paper in 2010 entitled “Seven Faces of the Peril,”
which called on the central bank to avert deflation by
purchasing Treasury notes. That was followed by a second round
of bond buying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  