-- Federal Contractors Stuck in Bottleneck by U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-10-10T15:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/federal-contractors-stuck-in-bottleneck-by-u-s-shutdown.html
The U.S. government shutdown has
created a bottleneck in contracting that may hurt companies long
after federal offices open and the debt-ceiling dispute is
resolved.  Federal agencies award more than $500 billion a year, or a
rough average of $1.4 billion a day, to tens of thousands of
contractors. With each day of the partial shutdown, the pipeline
risks getting more clogged by late payments, halted work and
canceled solicitations for new contracts. Contractors’ fourth-quarter results might be affected.  “Even if the government suddenly opens for business, we
can’t expect everything to get back to normal right away,” said
 Larry Allen , president of Allen Federal Business Partners, a
McLean, Virginia-based consulting company. “This is going to be
a wave that makes its way through the government’s operational
infrastructure probably at least until the end of the calendar
year.”  If the shutdown lasts much longer, it will be difficult for
big contractors to make up for lost revenue before the end of
the year, said  Michael Lewis , managing director at McLean,
Virginia-based Silverline Group LLC, a strategic consulting firm
for aerospace and defense.  “If the government defaults, all bets are off the table,”
Lewis said in a reference to Oct. 17, the day on which the U.S.
Treasury Department says the nation will need to borrow more
money to pay its existing bills.  Fourth Quarter  The companies may slightly reduce their fourth-quarter
revenue estimates, he said.  The shutdown might also reduce some contractors’ earnings
in the last quarter of 2013,  Peter Arment , an analyst with
Birmingham, Alabama-based Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., said in a
report this week.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the biggest U.S. contractor with
$36.9 billion in awards in fiscal 2012, has fallen 5.6 percent
to $122.03 from Sept. 27 through yesterday, compared with a 2.1
percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the fourth-largest vendor with $14.5 billion
in direct U.S. contracts, declined 6.1 percent to $73.97 during
the same period. No. 6  United Technologies (UTX)  Corp., which had $9
billion in federal awards in fiscal 2012, dropped 6 percent to
$102.84.  Lockheed already has experienced some delayed payments
because of the government’s furloughs, said Gordon Johndroe, a
spokesman for the Bethesda, Maryland-based company.  About 800,000 federal workers, including Defense Department
inspectors and auditors who help certify invoices from vendors,
were furloughed when the shutdown began Oct. 1. The Pentagon
said Oct. 5 it was reinstating most of the department’s 350,000
civilian employees.  On Leave  Some of previously furloughed workers “were needed to move
invoices along” and their absence slowed payment processing,
Bill Urban, a Navy commander and Defense Department spokesman,
said in a phone interview. Now that they’ve been reinstated,
payments should be back on track by tomorrow, he said.  The military accounts for more than two-thirds of federal
awards.  Lockheed, which put 2,400 workers on leave this week,
should begin to recover payments now that most civilian military
workers are back at work, Johndroe said in an e-mail. While the
company reduced its furloughs by 20 percent, many employees
aren’t able to work because civilian government sites are closed
or the contractor has received a stop-work order.  United Technologies ’ Sikorsky Aircraft unit, which makes
Black Hawk helicopters, is expecting late payments from the
Pentagon,  Paul Jackson , a Sikorsky spokesman, said in an e-mail.
The unit slowed its helicopter production last week after
defense inspectors, who are required to monitor production
lines, were placed on leave.  Small Business  United Technologies, based in Hartford,  Connecticut 
canceled plans to furlough as many as 4,000 workers this week
after the Pentagon’s decision to recall civilian employees.  Small companies are generally more vulnerable because they
don’t have as much capital or credit to sustain themselves.  Companies send invoices to federal agencies at different
times, depending on the terms of the contract, said Allen, the
consultant. Payment is supposed to be within 30 days.  Most smaller companies submit invoices at the start of each
month, Allen said. That means those contractors won’t experience
the full impact of the shutdown until November, said Maria
Horton, a disabled veteran who owns EmeSec Inc., a 38-person
cybersecurity company based in Reston, Virginia.  EmeSec has been told to stop work on three contracts during
the budget impasse, she said. It’s working on about a dozen
contracts during the shutdown.  ‘Fewer Hours’  “We will not see the true implications until the first
week of November,” Horton said in a phone interview. “If you
haven’t been able to work in early October, you’ll see fewer
hours and less revenue because you’ll have little in your
invoice for November.”  A unit of  Leidos Holdings Inc. (LDOS) , a Reston, Virginia-based
engineering services vendor that resulted from the split of  SAIC
Inc. (SAIC)  last month, put 800 workers on leave because the government
closed the Frederick National Laboratory for  Cancer Research  in
 Maryland  where they work, Stu Shea, its president and chief
operating officer, said in an interview.  Tougher times are ahead, Shea said.  “You’ll begin to see more significant and deliberate
actions by companies to deal with their growing overhead
problem,” he said. Those actions may include plant closings,
benefit cuts and the idling of more staff, he said.  ‘It’s Over’  Barbara McClain, owner of a construction company in
Andalusia,  Alabama , said she’s ready to dump the federal
government as a customer.  Her company, McClain Contracting Company Inc., does work
for the Defense Department and has struggled to win orders
during the past several years, she said.  Since the federal shutdown began on Oct. 1, she has cut two
positions in part because the government canceled five contracts
her company had sought, she said. That means her company wasted
money preparing proposals for business that ultimately wasn’t
awarded to any firm.  “In 2009, I thought I’d work for as long as I could get
out of bed,” she said in a phone interview. Now, “I think it’s
over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  