-- FIFA Confident in World Cup Security Amid Protests and Tear Gas
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-10T18:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/fifa-confident-in-world-cup-security-amid-protests-and-tear-gas.html
Jerome Valcke , the top official
responsible for soccer’s World Cup next year, says he’s
confident  Brazil ’s security can protect the tournament amid
increasing concerns over violent protests in the country.  Valcke, general secretary of soccer’s governing body, gave
his backing to Brazil’s police just three days after they used
rubber bullets, tear gas and percussion grenades in the
country’s two largest cities -- Rio de Janeiro and  Sao Paulo  --
after planned demonstrations by striking teachers turned
violent.  Mass demonstrations, which had been rare in Brazil, have
continued since June when a record number of people took to the
streets to complain about a issues ranging from a lack of decent
health and education provision to political corruption and
public spending on sporting events. The start of the protests,
Brazil’s biggest in more than two decades, coincided with the
Confederations Cup, a warm-up event for the  World Cup .  “What has happened at the Confederations Cup and the way
the authorities reacted was definitely very good and gave a lot
of confidence to all the teams, commercial partners and all of
us on the capacity to be able to control the situation,” Valcke
told reporters in Rio, where police and demonstrators clashed on
Oct. 7. Rio will host the World Cup final on July 13, a month
after the tournament starts in Sao Paulo.  The use of tear gas and rubber bullets has become common
in Rio and provided a backdrop to the Confederations Cup, which
was played in six cities. Brazil deployed 11,000 security
personnel to protect the final of that event on June 30 when
tear gas wafted into Rio’s Maracana stadium as Brazil was on its
way to a 3-0 victory over world champion  Spain .  Premiere Canceled  The next protest in Rio is planned for Oct. 15. Last week a
movie premiere at one of the city’s main theaters was canceled
at the last minute when demonstrators ran into the venue to seek
cover as police and protesters clashed nearby. Valcke saw
protests first hand when a group of about 50 demonstrators
stormed a World Cup stadium in western Brazil as he was
visiting.  Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo said he believed the world’s
most-watched sports event would be unaffected. “I think Brazil
can have a World Cup in a peaceful environment,” said Rebelo,
who sat alongside Valcke. “I don’t see this pessimistically.”  Valcke’s latest visit to Brazil coincided with  FIFA’s 
announcement that more than 6 million requests for tickets had
been made during the first sales phase. About 30 percent of
those came from outside Brazil. Strong international demand
suggested foreign visitors were not put off by events in the
country, the FIFA executive said.  Ticket Sales  While ticket sales are good Valcke raised concerns that the
state of the turf in some of the stadiums, particularly in
Brasilia’s Mane Garrincha stadium, which at $750 million is the
most expensive of 12 stadiums being built or refurbished for the
monthlong World Cup. Valcke warned stadium operators against
hosting events like concerts that could damage the playing
areas.  “The quality of the pitch in Brasilia is not what you are
expecting,” he said. “We have more than enough time to make
sure the pitches will be good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  