-- Flaherty Says U.S. Should Exit Easing as Quickly as Possi
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-10T20:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/flaherty-says-u-s-should-exit-easing-as-soon-as-possible.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he’s not a supporter of the U.S.  Federal Reserve ’s
bond-purchase program and thinks the U.S. should exit from
quantitative easing as “quickly as they can.”  Flaherty, speaking to reporters in Washington where he is
attending meetings of Group of 20 officials and the
 International Monetary Fund , said quantitative easing is a
short-term solution that has “long-term consequences” such as
debt accumulation and inflation.  “I don’t think they should have done it in the first
place,” Flaherty said. “Now that they’ve done it, they should
get out of it as quickly as they can.”  The comments represent a minority view within the Group of
20, as officials from the world’s largest economies gather in
Washington.  Emerging markets  particularly have expressed concern that
when the Fed does begin tapering its bond buying, it could hurt
them by sparking an exodus of investment, leading to higher
borrowing costs. Brazil, Turkey,  South Africa , India and
Indonesia are the most vulnerable, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
strategists said in a Sept. 5 report.  The Federal Reserve surprised investors last month by
deciding not to trim its $85 billion-a-month asset-purchase
program. Previous signals from Fed officials, including Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke , that they may curtail quantitative easing
prompted calls from the IMF, China and Mexico for the U.S. to
communicate better.  Market Turmoil  The G-20 has identified market turmoil stemming from
central banks’ withdrawal of monetary stimulus as a key risk to
the global financial system, according to a draft communique for
the talks that begin later today.  Flaherty said he’s also concerned about the “efficacy” of
the G-20 in dealing with the world’s major economic issues.
Officials will have a “dialogue” about the future of the
institution in Washington, Flaherty said.  “I worry about the efficacy of the G-20,” Flaherty said.
“To some extent we’ve lost our way. We need to remember the
G-20 is supposed to be the primary economic forum for the world
in terms of economic policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in  Washington  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  