-- Foreclosures Surge in D.C. Area After Federal Budget Cuts
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-10T19:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/foreclosures-surge-in-d-c-area-after-federal-budget-cuts.html
Foreclosure starts  in the Washington
suburbs rose last month following  federal budget  cuts that may
have made it harder for some homeowners to pay their mortgages,
even as defaults fell across the country, RealtyTrac said.  Initial foreclosure filings climbed 144 percent from August
in Fairfax County,  Virginia , and more than doubled in Prince
William, Loudoun and Fauquier counties, the real estate research
firm said today. Fairfax’s jump was the biggest in the U.S.
among counties with populations of 1 million or more.  This year’s across-the-board budget reductions have led to
“sequester pain” including work furloughs that began in June,
according to the Bipartisan Policy Center. Homeowners may be
hurt further by the partial government shutdown as President
 Barack Obama  and House Republicans wrangle over spending, said
Brian O’Reilly, president of Collingwood Group LLC.  “There is no question that the sequester has had an impact
on the economy in  Washington ,” O’Reilly, whose Washington-based
firm advises financial clients, said in a telephone interview.
“And against the backdrop of the current shutdown, I would say
it would not be a surprise to anyone to see continued softening
in this area.”  In  Maryland , where required court approvals for home
seizures lengthen the foreclosure process, first-time notices in
September more than doubled from a year earlier in Montgomery
County, and tripled in Frederick County,  Irvine , California-based RealtyTrac said. Maryland’s 230 percent gain statewide
ranked second in the U.S., behind a 263 percent surge in  Maine .  ‘Faster Repossession’  “The timing for this surge in foreclosure activity makes
sense and correlates almost exactly to when the sequester began
earlier this year,” RealtyTrac Vice President  Daren Blomquist 
said in a phone interview. “The faster repossession timeline in
Virginia also allows lenders to liquidate assets more quickly,
and in an improving market they would be motivated to do so.”  Washington property values rose 1.4 percent in July, the
fifth straight increase on an annual basis, amid low
unemployment and historically cheap mortgages, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller  index . Values in the D.C. metropolitan area are
down 19 percent from their May 2006 peak, compared with a 21
percent decline from the July 2006 high for the 20-city
composite measure.  Real Losses  Washington-area households and businesses are nevertheless
feeling the sting of reduced government payrolls, according to
an  assessment  by Bipartisan Policy Center authors led by Steve Bell, who worked on the staff of former Republican Senator Pete Domenici and was a managing director at Salomon Brothers.  “While we only have anecdotal evidence thus far of the
impact of sequestration on private-sector businesses and
workers, we still hold to our belief that real job losses (not
just furloughs) in small- and medium-sized businesses have
already begun,” Bell wrote in the Aug. 2 report. The center was
founded in 2007 by former Senators Bob Dole, Tom Daschle, Howard Baker and George Mitchell.  While foreclosures increased in the Washington area last
month,  total U.S. filings  -- default notices, scheduled auctions
and bank repossessions -- plunged 27 percent from a year earlier
to 131,232, the 36th straight decline on an annual basis,
according to RealtyTrac. Filings fell in 33 states.  The national numbers “show a housing market that is
haltingly returning to health,” Blomquist said in today’s
report. “Foreclosures are clearly becoming fewer and farther
between in most markets.”  Federal Contracts  The government shutdown that began this month may hurt
vendors after disputes over spending are resolved, according to
Michael Lewis, managing director at McLean, Virginia-based
Silverline Group LLC. About $500 billion in federal contracts
are made each year to tens of thousands of businesses, with some
payments already late or canceled. About 800,000 people,
including Defense Department workers, were furloughed on Oct. 1.  Professional and business-service employment in Fairfax
County, where the Central Intelligence Agency has its Langley
headquarters, dropped by 1,500 jobs, or 0.4 percent, in the 12
months through July, the second consecutive decline on an annual
basis, according to the  county website . Federal agencies pared
400 jobs, and the construction industry lost 3,800.  Virginia’s 52 percent monthly increase in foreclosure
starts was the second-highest in the U.S., after New Jersey’s 55
percent, according to RealtyTrac. Lenders in the state seize
distressed homes and sell them in 189 days on average, the
fourth-fastest pace of any state, the company said.  “Fairfax County is at risk of continued softening because
35 percent of jobs in the county are directly tied to government
employment or indirectly through contractors,” said O’Reilly of
Collingwood Group. “We can anticipate federal spending levels
likely decreasing further, certainly not increasing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  