-- Forty Years After OPEC Embargo, U.S. Is Energy Giant
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r y c e
-- 2013-10-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/forty-years-after-opec-embargo-u-s-is-energy-giant.html
Forty years ago this month, the
Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries proclaimed an
embargo on oil exports to the U.S. as retaliation for its
support of  Israel  in the Yom Kippur War. It would last only five
months, but it haunts U.S. energy policy to this day.  The modern global energy market bears scant resemblance to
what existed 40 years ago. Today’s market is far more
diversified and resilient. Thanks to the shale gas revolution
and soaring domestic oil and gas production, the U.S. has
reduced the cost of its energy and become a major exporter of
refined products. Add in the political and economic tumult
within many OPEC member countries, and it’s clear that, by
almost any measure, OPEC is far weaker and the U.S. is far
stronger than in 1973.  Nevertheless, the U.S. continues to mandate the use of corn
ethanol -- a farm subsidy that has been masquerading as an
energy program since the 1970s. And the  promoters of ethanol 
still hype the supposed danger of “our dependence on imported
oil.” Every administration since President  Richard Nixon ’s has
engaged in sloganeering about energy independence -- including
 Barack Obama ’s, just this past August -- despite increasing
global interdependence.  Symbolic Move  Looking back, it’s obvious that the OPEC embargo itself was
largely a symbolic move. The main reason for gasoline shortages
in the wake of the embargo was not a lack of crude oil, but
rather  federal price controls , Anas Alhajji of NGP Energy
Capital Management LLC and other economists have concluded.
Indeed, America’s crude-oil imports in 1973 exceeded those in
1972 by 372 million barrels,  data from  the Energy Information
Administration show. In 1974, those imports jumped again by 85
million barrels.  Since then, although oil remains a critically important
commodity, petroleum’s share of the global energy market has
been in steady decline. In 1973, it accounted for 48 percent of
all global energy use. Last year, its market share fell to 33
percent.  That slide has largely been caused by the increasing use of
coal, natural gas and nuclear power. Over the past four decades,
 oil use has grown  by 34 million barrels per day, or 61 percent -
- on its face, a healthy increase. At the same time, coal use
has soared by nearly 44 million barrels of oil equivalent per
day, or 140 percent. The next biggest gainer has been natural
gas, of which global consumption has increased by about 39
million barrels of oil equivalent per day, or 184 percent.
During that same period, nuclear energy saw huge percentage
growth, rising by 1,100 percent. In absolute terms, however,
nuclear remains a relatively small player, producing about 11
million barrels of oil equivalent per day, which is less than 5
percent of global energy demand.  This diversification of the energy market, along with
growing national strategic petroleum reserves, has made the
global economy more resilient to sudden changes in  oil prices .
For its part, the U.S. has also become more efficient in using
petroleum. Back in 1973, it consumed about 17.3 million barrels
of oil per day, using it to generate almost 17 percent of its
electricity. Today, that share is down to about 1 percent.  Americans are also getting more economic growth from each
barrel of oil they consume. In 1973, the  U.S. population  was 212
million; its  gross domestic product  was $5 trillion. Today, the
population is about 316 million, and GDP has grown to about $14
trillion. (Both GDP figures are in 2005 dollars.) In other
words, the U.S. has increased its population by half and nearly
tripled its economic output, while consuming only 7 percent more
oil.  Adding to the U.S.’s enviable energy position is its shale
gas boom. In 2012, the country produced an average of almost 66
billion cubic feet of natural gas per day -- more than at any
other time in its history. Prices have fallen (they’re now at
 about $3.64  per million British thermal units) to the point
where the U.S. has a price advantage over every other country,
with the possible exception of Qatar. Cheap gas is fueling a
resurgence in U.S. manufacturing of everything from steel to
fertilizer.  Enough Hand-Wringing  The surge in natural gas production has occurred alongside
a major increase in oil output. Last year, U.S. production rose
by about 800,000 barrels per day, the biggest annual increase
since 1859. This year, it is  expected to climb  by another
600,000 barrels per day. And that has helped spur a huge
increase in exports. Yes, exports. In July, the U.S.  exported  an
average of nearly 3.9 million barrels of refined products per
day, up from a paltry 211,000 barrels per day in 1973.  At the same time, OPEC’s oil production has been
languishing. Ongoing conflicts in Libya, Nigeria and  Iraq  have
reduced output. Iran remains hamstrung by Western sanctions over
its nuclear program. In  Venezuela , where crime and inflation are
soaring,  oil production  stands at its 1994 level, about 2.7
million barrels per day.  Considered as a whole, OPEC member countries have a
combined population of some 429 million -- about 115 million
more than the U.S. -- yet their  combined GDP  is $3.3 trillion, a
fourth that of the U.S. OPEC’s per-capita GDP is $7,800, which
is about 62 percent of the  world average  and less than one-sixth
 that of the U.S. , which is nearly $50,000.  OPEC-bashing makes for good political sound bites. But the
reality is that the U.S. does not need to achieve energy
independence. It is becoming ever more interdependent in the
global energy market. And that’s a good thing. Yes, we still
import oil, but we then export increasing amounts of it in the
form of  diesel fuel  and other manufactured products. We are also
exporting increasing amounts of coal. And we may soon export
significant volumes of natural gas and domestic crude.  Forty years of hand-wringing over the evils of OPEC is
enough. The energy superpower of today is the  United States .  (Robert Bryce, a senior fellow at the  Manhattan Institute ,
is the author of “Power Hungry: The Myths of ’Green’ Energy and
the Real Fuels of the Future.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Bryce at  robert@robertbryce.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 