-- Fosun to Invest in $1.6 Billion Resort in China’s Hainan Prov.
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-10T17:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/fosun-to-spend-1-64-billion-to-build-resort-in-china-s-hainan.html
Fosun International Ltd. (656) , the
investment arm of  China ’s biggest closely held industrial group,
said it will invest in a 10 billion  yuan  ($1.6 billion) resort
in southern China’s Hainan island.  The company expects work on the project, a venture with the
Kerzner Group, to start at year-end, with completion in 2016,
according to a Hong Kong stock exchange filing yesterday. Fosun
said its total investment in the project isn’t yet set.  The project will be part of the at least 100 billion yuan
investment Fosun plans on tourism projects across China, Qian Jiannong, president of Fosun Tourism & Commercial Group, said
earlier yesterday. The resort will be built with Bahamas-based
hotel operator Kerzner International Holdings Ltd. and Shanghai-based Fosun will fund the entire project, he said.  Fosun, owned by Chinese billionaire Guo Guangchang, is
seeking to diversify its holdings, which include property,
mining and drugs. Fosun, which owns a stake in Greek duty-free
store operator and jewelry maker Folli Follie, in July won
approval from regulators to take over the French resort operator
 Club Mediterranee SA (CU)  with Ardian, formerly known as Axa Private 
Equity. It also agreed in September to buy a stake in Italian suit 
maker Raffaele Caruso SpA.  Fosun’s tourism investments will mainly be in China and the
company is working with local governments to build holiday
resorts across China, Qian said yesterday in a media briefing in
Shanghai.  Kerzner, the builder of Atlantis resorts in the Bahamas and
Dubai, will build the hotel along the Haitang Bay National
Coast, overlooking the  South China Sea , the companies said in a
joint statement yesterday.  Middle-class Chinese are increasing travel overseas and at
home, boosting profits for resorts, malls and luxury brands
across Asia. Sixty percent of the 28 million people who visited
Macau last year were from China, fueling a rush to replicate the
success of the gambling and entertainment hub.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Wei in  Shanghai  at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  