-- Franc Cap Rendered Obsolete in U.S. Ceiling Dispute
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-10T08:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/franc-cap-rendered-obsolete-in-u-s-ceiling-dispute.html
When Swiss National Bank President
Thomas Jordan said this week he hasn’t had to intervene to
weaken the franc for more than a year, he acknowledged what
traders have long argued: the currency’s cap may be redundant.  The franc has dropped 0.3 percent this month amid the U.S.
government shutdown and debt-ceiling debate against a basket of
nine other major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Japan ’s yen,
also perceived as a haven in times of turmoil, has risen 1.1
percent, while the dollar has gained 0.5 percent.  During the height of the European sovereign crisis in
September 2011, so much money flowed into Switzerland that the
franc approached parity with the common currency, prompting the
Swiss National Bank to set a ceiling of 1.20 per euro. As
Europe’s woes diminish, cash is fleeing the franc, to the extent
that even speculation of a U.S. default isn’t enough to make it
rise. That’s easing the cost of defending the cap, which last
year equated to almost a third of Switzerland’s economy.  “The market will do the SNB’s work for it,” Alvin Tan, a
director of foreign-exchange strategy at Societe Generale SA in
 London , said in a phone interview yesterday. “We’ve seen risk
premium creeping out of the euro zone because the risk of a
breakup is receding, and consequently the Swiss franc has been
slowly grinding lower.”  Holdings Drop  Franc deposits held by foreign banks with their Swiss
counterparts fell for a fifth month in July, SNB data showed
Sept. 23. Holdings dropped to 96.2 billion francs ($106 billion)
from 99.8 billion francs in June, after reaching a record-high
127.7 billion francs in February.  Morgan Stanley sees investors returning to borrow francs at
Switzerland’s low interest rates and investing the proceeds
where yields are higher, a strategy known as the carry trade.
The SNB’s benchmark  interest rate  is a range of zero to 0.25
percent. The currency fell to a two-week low of 1.2322 per euro
today before trading at 1.2304 as of 8:58 a.m. in London,
showing the cap of 1.20 that Jordan defended as still “the
right tool” may not be necessary.  “The franc will return to the more traditional role as a
funding currency in the coming year, and as a result we’re
likely to see it coming back under pressure,” Ian Stannard, the
head of European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in
London, said in an Oct. 8 phone interview.  Enforcing Cap  Morgan Stanley predicts the franc will weaken to 1.25 per
euro by Dec. 31 and to 1.35 by the end of 2014, while SocGen’s
Tan estimates it will plunge almost 10 percent to 1.35 next
year. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of more than 30
analysts sees the Swiss currency declining to 1.24 per euro by
end-2013 and 1.30 a year later.  The Zurich-based SNB implemented the cap in September 2011
after the franc soared to 1.0075 per euro from almost 1.50 at
the start of 2010. It spent 188 billion francs enforcing the
limit last year, equivalent to almost one-third of Switzerland’s
annual output.  “Despite recent turbulence on foreign-exchange markets,”
the franc “has settled against the euro since September 2012 at
slightly above the minimum exchange rate of 1.20,” Jordan said
in  Washington  on Oct. 8. “Accordingly, the SNB did not have to
enforce the minimum exchange rate for over a year now.”  Switzerland’s target for its main interest rate is the same
as the range that the Federal Reserve has maintained since
December 2008, and compares with rates of 0.5 percent in the
 euro region  and  U.K. (UKBRBASE)  and 2.5 percent in  Australia. (RBATCTR)   Annual Decline  The franc has fallen 0.4 percent against a basket of nine
developed-market peers over the past week, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen advanced 0.6
percent, and reached an almost two-month high of 96.57 per
dollar on Oct. 8.  Switzerland’s currency has slid 1.9 percent against the
euro this year, on pace for its first annual decline since 2007,
when the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression
began. It has gained 0.4 percent versus the dollar.  The U.S. government partially closed on Oct. 1 in a dispute
over funding President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul.
Obama and Congress now have only a few days to raise the
nation’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling before U.S. borrowing
authority lapses on Oct. 17.  Economies Recover  Even as the tussle in the U.S. roils global markets, the
continuing recovery of major developed nations is leading some
investors to see less need to buy assets they consider havens.  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager, said
Oct. 2 it was adding to its bet that the franc will fall versus
the 17-nation euro because of “the ongoing unwind of safe-haven
positions in financial markets.”  U.S. gross domestic product will grow 2.65 percent in 2014,
while the economy of the euro area, which earlier this year
exited its longest-ever recession, will expand 1 percent,
according to Bloomberg economist forecasts. The franc has
depreciated about 2 percent versus the euro since the ECB
announced its still-unused Outright Monetary Transactions bond-buying program just over a year ago.  Even after the slide, the franc is the most-overvalued
currency relative to the euro of 12 peers tracked by Bloomberg,
another reason it may have been kept from rising amid the U.S.
debt-ceiling debacle. It’s 30 percent overvalued on a purchasing
power parity basis, compared with 2.3 percent for the yen.  The SNB’s Jordan said this week that the franc “is still
high” and the cap remains the “right tool” for Switzerland.  Citigroup Inc., the world’s second-biggest foreign-exchange
trader, agrees, while acknowledging that the debate around
abolishing the currency ceiling has become widespread.  “With the euro-zone crisis more or less gone and deposit
inflows reversing, some clients are making the case that the SNB
may step away from the peg,”  Valentin Marinov , the head of
Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup in London, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “The peg is still very important and
is likely to remain in place for the foreseeable future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  