-- Gadgets Stuck in Shutdown Pipeline Seen as Delaying Sales
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-10-10T21:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/gadgets-stuck-in-shutdown-pipeline-seen-as-delaying-sales.html
Device makers such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
may have to delay introductions of new smartphones and other
products because the partial U.S. government shutdown halted
certifications that the gadgets don’t cause interference.  Every computer, mobile phone, gaming system, TV, wireless
medical device and anything that emits radio waves needs to pass
a review by the Federal Communications Commission. The FCC
clears about 16,000 electronic devices annually, according to
figures  presented  last month to lawmakers by Jessica Rosenworcel, an FCC commissioner.  That output is now at zero, and that “could be something
that’s a real drag on the digital economy the longer it goes
on,” Rosenworcel, a Democrat, said in an interview.  The FCC may become backed up once it resumes operations,
creating the potential for delays in introductions of devices
from Google,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Samsung Electronics Co.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and
 LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , law firm Hogan Lovells said in an Oct. 9
note.  “Increasingly it’s going to have an impact on the widely
known and available consumer products, depending on how long the
shutdown lasts,” Michele Farquhar, a Washington-based partner
with Hogan Lovells, said in an interview. Products that need
approval include smartphones, tablet computers and laptops,
Farquhar said.  Companies rely on private test laboratories for much of the
certification and need the FCC for final approval, said
Farquhar, a former wireless bureau chief for the agency.  “The longer the shutdown continues, the greater the risk
that new devices will sit in warehouses and shipping containers
unassembled or pending final design approval,”  Hogan Lovells 
said in its note.  Holiday Sales  The FCC furloughed 98 percent of its staff and closed most
of its operations Oct. 1 as agencies shut down with Congress
unable to agree on spending. Lawmakers today discussed a
proposal to defuse a parallel disagreement that didn’t include
language to reopen the government.  Companies have speeded electronic product introductions in
recent years, with applications at the FCC increasing by 400
percent over the past 10 years, according to Rosenworcel’s
testimony to Senate appropriators.  Products typically are planned a year in advance, and
devices intended for sale during the fourth quarter that
includes Christmas sales normally clear the FCC’s process by
June or July, Bruce Franca, a former official in the agency’s
Office of Engineering and Technology that vets electronics, said
in an interview.  Shari Yoder Doherty, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View ,
California-based Google, declined to comment as did William
Moss, a spokesman for the company’s phone-making unit Motorola
Mobility. Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment.  “There is no indication of major impact on Sony’s
operation from the U.S. FCC shutdown so far,” Tokyo-based Sony
spokeswoman Misato Suzuki said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  