-- German Mall Valued at $371 Million May Be Sold in Debt Reshuffle
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-10-10T12:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/german-mall-valued-at-371-million-may-be-sold-in-debt-reshuffle.html
Koe Galerie, an upscale shopping
center in Dusseldorf, may be sold in the next six months after
attracting bids at an undisclosed price.  Further offers are expected, Koe Galerie Duesseldorf GmbH
said at an Oct. 2 meeting, according to a filing today by a
Commerzbank AG unit that manages commercial mortgage-backed
securities linked to the property. Borrowers including Koe
Galerie Duesseldorf won’t be able to repay a 500.4 million-euro
($678 million) loan tied to the CMBS by the Oct. 15 due date,
according to the filing.  The Opera  Germany  (No. 2) Plc commercial-mortgage bonds,
issued in December 2006 and maturing in October 2014, depend on
the underlying loan for interest payments. CMBS pool cash flows
from loans linked to offices, shopping centers and warehouses
and package the payments into notes sold to investors. The Koe
Galerie mall was valued at 274.1 million euros in March 2012,
according to a filing last month.  The senior loan has been put into a process known as
special servicing, according to today’s filing to the Irish
Stock Exchange. That gives the Commerzbank unit, Hypothekenbank
Frankfurt, increased powers to try to ensure the loan is paid so
the bonds would pay out when they mature.  Other properties backing the loan may also be sold before
April next year, according to today’s filing. The borrowers are
seeking to refinance the loans in the first quarter of 2014.  Sales of CMBS in Europe are the highest since 2009 at more
than 7 billion euros, according to data compiled by JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  