-- Germany, China Among Signatories to UN Treaty to Cut Mercury
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-10-10T13:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/germany-china-among-signatories-to-un-treaty-to-reduce-mercury.html
Germany, China and  Japan  are among
at least 110 nations that signed a United Nations treaty to curb
emissions of man-made mercury.  The Minamata Convention adopted at a conference in Japan
would outlaw new  mercury  mines and reduce industrial use of the
metal, the German Environment Ministry said today in an e-mailed
statement. The treaty will enter into force if at least 50
signatories ratify the agreement, the ministry said.  “The Minamata Convention will protect people and improve
standards of living for millions around the world, especially
the most vulnerable,” Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in an
address read to the conference according to a UN statement e-mailed today.  High mercury levels damage the nervous system and pose a
particular danger to pregnant women, fetuses and children. Risks
include  memory loss , learning disabilities and behavioral
disorders. People are typically exposed to mercury by eating
contaminated fish. Once released, mercury can travel long
distances through air and water and seep into soil.  Asia  is the world’s biggest emitter of mercury, accounting
for about half of the total, according to a UN Environment
Program  study  released in January. Small-scale miners who use
mercury to extract gold from soil and rocks are responsible for
about 35 percent of the emissions worldwide. Burning fossil
fuels to generate power and heating causes 24 percent, the study
said.  Governments agreed to ban by 2020 several mercury-containing products including thermometers, batteries, some
compact fluorescent lamps and soaps and cosmetics, the UN said
in the statement. Other signatories to the treaty include the
European Union,  Brazil , Mexico and  South Africa , the German
ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  