-- Gold Drops to One-Week Low on Bets U.S. to Avert Default
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-10-10T18:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/gold-swings-above-1-300-as-investors-weigh-potential-debt-deal.html
Gold futures fell to a one-week low
on speculation that the U.S. will avert a default, eroding
demand for the precious metal as a haven.  The Obama administration endorsed a short debt-limit
increase with no policy conditions attached, signaling potential
support for a proposal by House Republicans for a monthlong
reprieve from a default. Most Federal Reserve policy makers said
the central bank probably will taper bond purchases this year,
according to minutes released yesterday of their September
meeting.  “The market is speculating that there will be some kind of
an agreement between the two political parties soon,” David Lee, a vice president at Heraeus Precious Metals Management in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “Also, worries about
tapering will continue to work against gold.”  Gold futures for December delivery fell 0.8 percent to
settle at $1,296.90 an ounce at 1:41 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Earlier, the price touched $1,293.40, the lowest for a
most-active contract since Oct. 2. The metal has dropped 23
percent this year.  “We recommend staying away from gold at this point in the
cycle,” Morgan Stanley analyst Joel Crane said in a video
report. Tapering is “postponed, not canceled, and is expected
by year-end,” bank analysts said in an Oct. 7 report. They said
that the political stalemate in  Washington  will be broken before
the debt ceiling is breached.  Earlier, gold rose as much as 0.4 percent after a report
showed more Americans than projected filed applications for
unemployment benefits last week, partly because the federal
shutdown forced some government contractors to pare staff.  Silver futures for December delivery climbed less than 0.1
percent to $21.896 an ounce. The price has dropped 28 percent
this year.  On the New York Mercantile Exchange, platinum futures for
January delivery advanced 0.9 percent to $1,396 an ounce.  Palladium futures for December delivery rose 1.2 percent to
$712.55 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  