-- Morgan Stanley Sees Gold Lower in 2014 as Goldman Says Sell
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-10-10T17:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/gold-seen-lower-in-2014-by-morgan-stanley-as-goldman-says-sell.html
Gold will extend losses into 2014
amid expectations the Federal Reserve will pare stimulus as the
U.S. recovers, according to Morgan Stanley, adding to bearish
calls from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG.  “We recommend staying away from gold at this point in the
cycle,” Melbourne-based analyst Joel Crane said in a video
report received today. Bullion will average $1,313 an ounce in
2014, down from the $1,420 forecast for this year, Morgan
Stanley said in its quarterly metals report on Oct. 7.  Bullion is heading for the sixth weekly loss in seven and
investment holdings are shrinking even as U.S. lawmakers wrangle
over the debt ceiling and budget, seeking to avert a default and
end a government shutdown. Gold is a “slam dunk” sell for next
year because the U.S. will extend the recovery after lawmakers
resolve the stalemate,  Jeffrey Currie , Goldman’s head of
commodities research, said this week. The political deadlock in
 Washington  is a “farce,” according to Marex Spectron Group.  “Our forecast profile heading into next year is relatively
flat against our expectations of rising real interest rates and
the U.S. dollar,” Crane said in the video. Bullion will average
lower every year through 2018, Morgan Stanley forecasts.  Bullion, which has averaged $1,453 in 2013, is heading for
the first annual loss in 13 years after dropping 22 percent. The
price tumbled to a 34-month low of $1,180.50 in London in June
on expectations that the Fed would taper the $85-billion-a-month
of bond buying. Gold fell 0.6 percent to $1,298.19 at 6:01 p.m.
in  London , dropping for a third day.  Fed Minutes  Not everyone is bearish. While gold may look weak
fundamentally, “in this sort of environment, you can make a
strong argument that gold isn’t too bad a thing to hold,” said
Kevin Norrish, head of commodities research at Barclays Plc. “I
don’t think it’s a slam dunk short by any means,” he said
yesterday. Short bets are wagers on declines.  Most Fed policy makers said that the central bank was
likely to taper its bond purchases this year, even as they
unexpectedly refrained from such a move in September, according
to minutes of their last meeting released yesterday.  Ric Deverell, Currie’s counterpart at Credit Suisse, said
on Oct. 8 that selling gold is his top recommendation for
trading in raw materials in the next year. Deverell said in May
that bullion was going to get “crushed.”  ETP Holdings  Investors sold 711.8 metric tons from bullion-backed
exchange-traded products this year, erasing more than $61
billion from the value of the funds. Holdings fell to 1,920.2
tons on Oct. 8, the least since May 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Assets are down 27 percent in 2013 after
climbing every year since the first product was listed in 2003.  House Republican and Senate Democratic leaders are open to
a short-term increase in the debt limit, according to
congressional aides of both parties, who spoke on condition of
anonymity. President  Barack Obama  has already said he could
accept a short-term deal without policy conditions.  “Tapering has been postponed not canceled, and is expected
by year end,” Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in the Oct. 7
report. “We also expect the political stalemate in Washington
to be broken before the debt ceiling is breached. Consequently,
we see little immediate upside to the gold price either in the
immediate future or next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  