-- Gold Analysts Bearish on Signs of U.S. Compromise: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-10-11T10:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/gold-analysts-bearish-on-signs-of-u-s-compromise-commodities.html
Gold analysts have turned the most
bearish in a month on increased confidence that U.S. lawmakers
will reach a deal to avoid default and evidence that Asian
demand for physical bullion is weakening.  Fifteen analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  expect prices
to decline next week, eight are bullish and four neutral, the
highest proportion of bears since Sept. 13. Prices rose after
the first partial U.S. government shutdown in 17 years began
Oct. 1, as investors sought a haven. President  Barack Obama 
didn’t accept or reject House Republicans’ plan to increase the
debt limit and end the government shutdown as the two sides
entered further talks.  The wrangling over the U.S. budget helped stem this year’s
slump in prices, with the metal heading for its first annual
drop since 2000 after some investors lost faith in gold as a
store of value. The retreat also spurred demand for physical
bullion in Asia and there are signs that is now easing, with
fewer sales in  India  and  China , the two biggest consumers.  “Gold is coming off because nobody believes that they’ll
breach the deadline for the debt ceiling,” said Jonathan Bouchet, a director at Delman SA in Geneva, which manages assets
including precious metals. “Either Obama will bend to the
Republican party, or it will be the opposite, but there just has
to be an agreement. We’re not seeing physical buyers coming back
in. It’s been very quiet regarding Asian buying.”  Coin Buying  Bullion fell 23 percent to $1,285.82 an ounce in  London 
this year and is 33 percent below the record $1,921.15 reached
in September 2011. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities dropped 1.3 percent since the start of January and
the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained 13 percent.
The Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index lost 2.6 percent.  While gold advanced as much as 21 percent from a 34-month
low in June as lower prices boosted jewelry, bar and coin buying
in  Asia , demand may now be waning. India’s government sought to
cut gold imports to combat a record current-account deficit.
Gold and silver purchases in the nation, last year’s biggest
consumer, totaled $800 million last month, from $4.6 billion a
year earlier, the Commerce Ministry said Oct. 9.  Net bullion imports to China from  Hong Kong  fell to 110.2
metric tons in August, from 113.2 tons a month earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mainland China doesn’t
publish such data. Some banks might have run out of import
quotas after purchases in the first seven months jumped 89
percent from a year ago, said Duan Shihua, a senior partner at
Shanghai Leading Investment Management Ltd.  Borrowing Authority  The U.S. government has about a week before its borrowing
authority runs out. The White House said in a statement that
“no specific determination was made” after a 90-minute meeting
yesterday that both sides described as constructive.  While the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly refrained from
tapering stimulus at its Sept. 17-18 meeting, minutes of the
gathering released Oct. 9 showed most policy makers said the
central bank would probably reduce the pace of $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases this year. Gold rose 70 percent from
December 2008 to June 2011 as the Fed pumped more than $2
trillion into the financial system.  Short-term Treasuries are little changed this year on
speculation the Fed under Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , who voted
for every stimulus measure since 2008, will keep  interest rates 
at a record low. Obama nominated Yellen on Oct. 9 to succeed  Ben
S. Bernanke , whose term ends Jan. 31.  Debt Expansion  “In the longer term, the policy of expanding debt will
lead to higher inflation,” said  Lance Roberts , who oversees
$600 million as chief executive officer of STA Wealth in
Houston. “With the nomination of Yellen, some expect
quantitative easing to be maintained or even increased.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators more than doubled
bets on gains in gold since the end of June to 78,654 contracts
by the week ended Sept. 24, narrowing this year’s drop in net-long positions to 23 percent, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. The CFTC hasn’t released figures this
month due to the partial government shutdown.  Investors in gold-backed  exchange-traded products  sold
711.8 tons this year, wiping $62.5 billion from the value of the
funds and reducing holdings to the lowest since May 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  John Paulson , the billionaire hedge
fund manager and biggest investor in the  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD) , the
largest gold ETP, cut his stake in the product by 53 percent in
the second quarter, a government filing showed.  Sugar Survey  Seven of 14 people surveyed expect raw sugar to gain next
week and five were bearish. The commodity slid 3.7 percent to
18.78 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  this year.  Sixteen of 23 people surveyed anticipate lower corn prices
and four said the grain will rise, while 16 of 24 said soybeans
will fall and four expect higher prices. Eleven predicted losses
in wheat and six were bullish. Corn fell 38 percent to $4.3475 a
bushel this year in  Chicago . Soybeans dropped 9 percent to
$12.825 a bushel, as wheat slid 12 percent to $6.8425 a bushel.  Seven traders and analysts surveyed expect copper to slide
next week, six were bullish and nine neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, dropped 9.6 percent to $7,166.75 a ton this year.  While the  International Monetary Fund  cut its global
economic growth forecast for 2014 to 3.6 percent on Oct. 8, from
July’s 3.8 percent prediction, that’s higher than this year’s
projected expansion of 2.9 percent.  “Commodities generally are a play on global growth,” said
Edward Channing, investment team director at Brooks MacDonald
Asset Management in London, which manages about 5 billion pounds
($8 billion) of assets. “It has taken five years to try to move
forward from a global growth perspective and the U.S. is finally
getting to the place where it needs to be, so it’s not in any
politician’s best interest to put that at risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  