-- Google Seeks to Appeal U.S. Judge’s Gmail Wiretap Ruling
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-10-10T16:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/google-seeks-to-appeal-u-s-judge-s-gmail-wiretap-ruling.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , facing a trial over
whether it broke wiretapping laws when it scanned users’ e-mails, asked a  California  federal judge to let it ask a higher
court to review her interpretation of the law.  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh in San Jose last month said
plaintiffs could pursue allegations that Google violated federal
law by reading private e-mails of subscribers to its Gmail
service to build user profiles and aid advertisers. Google said
her reading of the law was so “novel” as to require review.  “This court’s ruling that Google might be found liable for
illegal wiretapping because of its operation of its Gmail system
made national headlines, and has already spurred copycat
litigation against other e-mail service providers,” Google said
yesterday in a court filing. “The court’s ruling was a novel
interpretation of wiretapping statutes enacted and amended by
Congress long before the rise of the Internet.”  Users of Gmail and other e-mail services from states
including  Texas ,  Pennsylvania ,  Maryland  and  Florida  contend in
the suit that Google, operator of the world’s largest search
engine, “does not disclose the extent of its processing,”
according to a May 16 court filing. The case consolidates seven
individual and group lawsuits.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, has said that
Gmail customers knew of and allowed automated scanning, which
facilitated security, spam protection and other services.  Business Practice  In refusing to dismiss the case, Koh examined what was
allowable by law as part of normal business practice and whether
e-mail users really understood what they were consenting to when
they set up Gmail accounts. She faulted Google on both points,
while throwing out some claims.  “The court finds that it cannot conclude that any party --
Gmail users or non-Gmail users -- has consented to Google’s
reading of e-mail for the purposes of creating user profiles or
providing targeted advertising,” she said in the ruling.  Her opinion on the meaning of consent -- that customers
must be consenting to something explicit and clearly explained
in a company’s policies -- stirred interest from lawyers
bringing group suits against Internet companies for violations
of privacy.  “Her decision is enormously important,” said  David
Straite  of Kaplan Fox & Kilsheimer LLP, who represented Facebook
Inc. users in a privacy suit that the social-network company is
seeking to dismiss.  ‘Reasonable Jurist’  Google said in the filing that Koh’s definition of consent
as requiring assent to a particular purpose might be disputed by
a “reasonable jurist.”  If Koh’s view prevails, it might affect cases such as a
would-be group suit against professional network LinkedIn Corp.,
which is accused of hacking into user’s contacts, Straite said.  Google had to ask Koh for permission to appeal her ruling
as the case is still going on. The company said it must “obtain
guidance on whether the court’s novel interpretation of now-antiquated statutory provisions in an unanticipated context is
correct.” It said the questions had never been addressed by the
San Francisco-based U.S. Court of Appeals.  Google just won dismissal of a lawsuit over claims it
violated computer users’ rights by slipping electronic
“cookies” into their Web browsers to help placement of ads.
U.S. District Judge Sue L. Robinson in Wilmington,  Delaware 
wrote that the users didn’t demonstrate that Google intercepted
any “contents or meaning” under California’s Invasion of
Privacy Act.  ‘Fully Disclosed’  In Koh’s case, Google said in a previous court filing that
scanning e-mails is “a standard and fully disclosed part of the
Gmail service” which is “completely automated and involves no
human review.”  Plaintiffs say the company exploits the content of messages
“for its own benefit unrelated to the service of e-mail” and
for profit.  The case is In re Google Inc. Gmail Litigation, 13-md-02430, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California ( San
Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York 
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 