-- Government Claws Back From Shutdown With Federal Recalls
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-10-10T20:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/government-claws-back-from-shutdown-with-federal-recalls.html
In some ways, the U.S. government
began to reopen almost as soon as it shut down.  Just before the appropriations ran out as the fiscal year
ended Sept. 30, Congress passed a measure to keep paying
uniformed military personnel and President  Barack Obama  signed
it immediately. Days later, the Pentagon declared that the law
permitted the recall of about 90 percent of the 350,000 civilians
it had furloughed.  Other agencies have also taken advantage of a law that
allows them to retain workers necessary to protect life and
property even when funding disappears. This week, the  Federal
Aviation Administration  said it would recall about 800 of its
15,514 furloughed workers for inspection work. The Central
Intelligence Agency brought back an undisclosed number involved
in its “core missions,” and the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention called back 10 employees to confront a salmonella
outbreak.  The Pentagon recall alone means about 40 percent of the
800,000 workers who were furloughed Oct. 1 have been called back
to duty -- bringing the shutdown toll to fewer than 500,000
people. The portion of the 2.74 million-person civilian
workforce sent home fell to about 15 percent from 30 percent at
the start of the shutdown.  “The government is clawing itself back” because agencies
are finding that they need more workers than they originally
deemed essential,  Darrell West , director of governance studies
at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington, said in a phone
interview. “That line between essential and non-essential has
moved within the last week.”  Important Services  The shutdown has still left hundreds of thousands of people
worrying about their next paycheck and has shuttered important
services and closed monuments and national parks.  And some agencies that had been spared the shutdown because
of accumulated funds or fee-based income could still close as
the money runs out.  The U.S. Courts have “severely restricted spending” to
make its leftover cash reserves last. It said  today  on a
statement that it will remain open through Oct. 17.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, responsible for
overseeing the safety of the nation’s nuclear reactors, is
ceasing normal business operations today after running out of
spare cash, leading the agency to furlough 3,600 of its 3,900
employees. Inspectors based at nuclear plants will remain on the
job, as well as others needed to respond to emergencies.  The Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm, has funding to continue operations
through the end of the week. The closure of the EIA would
deprive energy traders of the weekly oil statistics on
Wednesdays and natural gas data on Thursdays.  Transparency Hit  “The absence of data will hit transparency,” said Julius Walker, global energy markets strategist at UBS Securities LLC
in  New York , in an Oct. 8 report. “It may become more difficult
to gauge developments in the world’s largest consumer of oil.”  The normal operation of other fee-funded agencies may be in
jeopardy if the fiscal impasse lingers, according to Colleen M.
Kelley, president of the National Treasury Employees Union.  “What is happening at the NRC should drive home the point
that this shutdown is damaging the interests of all Americans
and needs to be ended promptly,” Kelley said in a statement.  The shutdown, now in its 10th day, has underscored the fact
that not all federal agencies are created equal.  Justice, EPA  The  Justice Department , which includes the  Federal Bureau 
of Investigation and Drug Enforcement Administration, exempted
96,300 of its 114,486 employees from furloughs. The  National
Institutes of Health , which operates a hospital, retained about
27 percent of its staff of 18,646, according to the agency’s
contingency plan.  Meanwhile, the Environmental Protection Agency sent home
more than 90 percent of its 16,205-person staff.  Other jobs are funded by means other than annual
appropriations and thus were not impacted. The U.S. Postal
Service, for example, draws upon its own revenue and has kept
working. The  Federal Reserve  is funded by the interest on its
assets, and thus isn’t subject to the budgetary whims of
Congress.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said in a statement Oct. 5
that the legislation that ensured service members were paid on
time during the shutdown permitted the military to call back
employees responsible for the “morale, well-being, capabilities
and readiness of service members.”  Hagel’s Recall  The Pentagon furloughed about 47 percent of its civilian
workforce -- about 350,000 employees -- when the shutdown went
into effect, William Urban, a Defense Department spokesman, said
in an e-mail. More than 90 percent were recalled beginning Oct.
7 “and will be paid on time and in full going forward,” he
said.  CIA Director  John Brennan  said in an e-mail to agency
employees that he was recalling an undisclosed number of the
more than 12,000 furloughed workers “necessary to carry out
CIA’s core missions of foreign intelligence collection, all-source analysis, covert action, and counterintelligence.”  Director of National Intelligence James Clapper has
authorized a similar recall in his office, as well as at the
National Counterterrorism Center, the National
Counterproliferation Center, the Office of the National
Counterintelligence Executive and the National Intelligence
Council, the intelligence community’s top analytical body, said
Shawn Turner, Clapper’s spokesman, in an e-mail.  Disease Control  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which
furloughed about 9,000 of its 13,000 employees, on Oct. 8
recalled some workers to help identify the source of a
salmonella outbreak, after chicken produced by Foster Farms LLC
sickened almost 300 people in 18 states.  “We just had to bring back some of the people that would
work on the data analysis and epidemiology work,” Barbara Reynolds, a CDC spokeswoman, said in a phone interview. The unit
that monitors such illnesses is now operating with about two-thirds of its normal 30-person staff, she said.  “People who are working during the lapse of appropriations
are not paid at this time,” Reynolds said.  Ron Foster, chief executive officer of Foster Farms, said
in a statement that the company was “taking every possible step
to ensure the current and future safety of our chicken
products.”  The debate over who is allowed at work during a government
shutdown has a lengthy legal history. The so-called
Antideficiency Act, first adopted in 1870 though updated since,
prohibits U.S. officials from spending the government’s money
before lawmakers appropriate the funds, with some exceptions,
according to an August report by the  Congressional Research
Service .  Life, Property  The primary workers who are exempted from furloughs are
those considered necessary for the protection of life and
property, according to Sharon Parrott, a vice president at the
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities  in Washington.  Some recalled workers who were previously furloughed, such
as those Federal Emergency Management Agency employees needed to
respond to Tropical Storm Karen along the  Gulf Coast , fit into
this category, she said.  “At a practical level, people are working with their
office of general counsel very carefully to determine what’s
legal and what’s not” in terms of staffing during the shutdown,
Parrott said. “It’s not all black and white.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  