-- Greenhill Director’s Estate Sues Over 2011 Plane Crash
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-10T23:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/greenhill-director-s-estate-sues-over-2011-plane-crash.html
The estate of Rakesh Chawla, the
 Greenhill & Co. (GHL)  managing director killed in a December 2011
plane crash in Harding,  New Jersey , sued the estate of colleague
Jeffrey Buckalew, who was at the controls and died with him.  Buckalew and Cool Stream LLC, the company that he owned and
that held title to the plane, wrongfully caused Chawla’s death
by allowing a flight in bad weather that the pilot wasn’t
sufficiently skilled or prepared to fly in, Chawla’s estate said
in a complaint filed in  New York  State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan  today.  “Buckalew owed his passengers, including Rakesh Chawla, a
reasonable duty of care to operate, pilot and/or control the
subject aircraft in a reasonable, prudent and safe manner during
the subject flight,” according to the complaint.  Greenhill, where Chawla, 36, and Buckalew, 45, were
colleagues, is a New York-based independent investment bank
founded by former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  President Robert F. Greenhill.  The plane, a six-seat Socata TBM 700 turboprop, was also
carrying Buckalew’s wife, Corinne, and their children, ages 11
and 6, all of whom were killed in the crash about 30 miles
(48 kilometers) outside New York while headed to Atlanta.  The plane broke apart midflight after Buckalew radioed that
it was picking up ice, according to the complaint.  Claiming her husband suffered conscious physical and
emotional injuries, including severe physical pain, terror of
impending death and, ultimately, death, Chawla’s widow and
executor, Cathleen, seeks unspecified money damages on behalf of
herself and their three children.  Bruce McKissock , an attorney for the Buckalew estate,
didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail message after regular
business hours seeking comment on the suit.  The case is Chawla v. Cool Stream LLC, 159360-2013,  Supreme
Court  of the State of New York, County of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  