-- Gurria: EU Should Call Out Tech Companies on Tax Problem
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-10-10T21:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/gurria-eu-should-call-out-tech-companies-on-tax-problem.html
European Union leaders should tell
technology companies that on tax issues, “we have a problem,”
said  Angel Gurria , head of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  “What they should say is, let’s have a dialogue which both
recognizes the need to be a good fiscal citizen, and to pay your
fair share to the citizens that make your business possible, and
at the same time, we provide legal certainty that there will be
a framework that will allow you to plan ahead without suffering
any unwanted consequences,” Gurria told reporters in  Washington 
today.  International technology companies such as Google Inc.,
Apple Inc. and Yahoo! Inc. need to realize that “listen, you
had a good ride,” Gurria said. Such firms now need to play a
bigger role in countries where they do business because
governments have become more strapped for cash during the global
financial crisis and recession, he said.  “The absence of taxes by the multinationals leaves as your
captive audience middle classes, small and medium enterprises or
companies that are strictly national in their boundaries and
those are going to be having a heavier and heavier tax burden
because the needs are always there and at the same time, the
others don’t pay,” Gurria said. “It is about sharing the
burden. It’s not about moving against the multinationals at
all.”  EU leaders will meet Oct. 24-25 in Brussels to discuss the
digital economy. In Oct. 7 draft guidelines for the summit’s
conclusions, leaders “underline the importance for the digital
economy of ongoing work to tackle tax avoidance, base erosion
and profit shifting” and pledge to revisit the issue when they
meet in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  