-- Li Says China Growth Exceeded 7.5% in First Nine Months
-- B y   N e i l   C h a t t e r j e e
-- 2013-10-10T07:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/li-says-china-growth-exceeded-7-5-in-first-nine-months.html
Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  said the
nation’s economic growth exceeded 7.5 percent in the first nine
months of the year, a sign the government will next week report
success in arresting a two-quarter slowdown.  Gross domestic product “maintained a fairly high growth
rate of over 7.5 percent” in the first three quarters, Li said
today in a speech at the East Asia Summit in  Brunei . He said
earlier today at an Association of Southeast Asian Nations
summit that the economy has “shown stronger momentum of steady
growth” in recent months, with indicators that reflect market
expectations, such as the  Purchasing Managers ’  Index (SHCOMP) , improving.  China previously reported expansion of 7.6 percent in the
first half and Li’s government introduced measures including
faster railway spending and tax cuts to defend a 7.5 percent
goal for the full year. The National Bureau of Statistics
reports third-quarter  growth  on Oct. 18, with the median
estimate of 33 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  for a 7.8
percent pace, up from the second quarter’s 7.5 percent.  “We have confidence in fulfilling the targets set out for
economic and social development” in 2013, Li said at the Asean
event. Asean distributed English translations of the remarks.  Xu Gao, chief economist at Everbright Securities Co. in
Beijing, said the recovery “is obvious in the third quarter,
but whether the momentum can be sustained is open to question.”  The rebound may falter in the October-December period on
the lack of additional support policies and owing to a high
basis for comparison with last year, said Xu, who previously
worked for the  World Bank . He estimates 7.7 percent expansion in
the July-September period and 7.3 percent in the fourth quarter.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks fell 0.9
percent today.  Li told U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  yesterday that
China is paying “great attention” to the U.S. debt-ceiling
issue, the official Xinhua News Agency reported earlier today,
adding his voice to the government’s concern that the world’s
biggest economy risks defaulting on its debt due to a political
impasse over a borrowing limit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Chatterjee in Brunei at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  