-- Libya Premier Freed After Dawn Seizure
-- B y   M a r i a m   S a m i ,   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-10-10T13:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/libya-prime-minister-released-after-dawn-arrest-at-tripoli-hotel.html
Libyan Prime Minister Ali Zaidan was
released hours after being seized at a Tripoli hotel today,
exposing the insecurity roiling the nation two years after the
fall of  Muammar Qaddafi .  Zaidan, who spoke from his office after his release, said
“security agencies are doing their job in maintaining the
security of Libyans and foreigners alike,” the state-run Libyan
 News Agency  reported. His arrest was a result of “political
maneuvering in  Libya ,” LANA said.  The incident came four days after U.S. forces seized Abu
Anas al-Libi in Libya on suspicion of conspiracy to kill U.S.
nationals and to conduct attacks against American interests
worldwide. Militia violence has plagued Libya since the capture
and death of Qaddafi in 2011 and has intensified in recent
months with groups refusing to heed government calls to disband.  The group that took Zaidan did so based on false
information that the public prosecutor had issued an arrest
warrant for him, said Hashem Beshr, head of the Supreme Security
Committee for Tripoli.  The prime minister’s detention “illustrates the
criminality and lack of security for even the most senior
officials in Tripoli,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of
research at the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis in Dubai. “This will bring uncertainty to companies
and governments operating there, and will highlight the fact
that the security scene in Tripoli is subject to wild
gyrations.”  ‘Lack of Security’  Parliament Speaker Nuri Busahmein, who described the arrest
as illegal, said Zaidan’s “morale is high,” according to a
statement broadcast on the Libya Al Ahrar television channel.  Zaidan was taken from the Corinthia Hotel by the Libya
Revolutionaries Operations Room, Beshr said. The group told the
LANA agency that Zaidan was suspected of corruption. The
 Interior Ministry ’s Crime Combating Authority later said it was
holding Zaidan, the group’s spokesman, Abdel Hakim Al Belaazi,
told the news agency earlier.  Zaidan’s seizure was “a clear wake-up call” for Libya and
other countries facing political transition, United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said at a briefing on the
sidelines of the East Asia Summit in  Brunei  today. “I condemn
the abduction in the strongest possible terms.”  Oil Output  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said told reporters
traveling with him in  Kuala Lumpur  that American embassy
personnel are secure and “we’re confident about our abilities
to keep them in that security.” The U.S. diplomatic compound in
Benghazi was attacked in September 2012, killing four Americans
including Ambassador Chris Stevens.  The events today are “clearly a situation that is still
evolving,” Kerry said.  The Libya Revolutionaries Operations Room is an alliance of
former fighters who took part in the civil war against Qaddafi.
The group is affiliated with the  Defense Ministry , Busahmein
said.  Libya currently produces about 700,000 barrels a day of
oil, Oil Ministry Measurement Director Ibrahim Al-Awami said in
an interview today. The nation’s production and export
capabilities haven’t been affected by Zaidan’s brief detention,
he said.  Brent for November settlement rose 1 percent to $110.10 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange at 5:33
p.m in Dubai.  Zaidan’s arrest shows how “volatile and unsafe Libya is,”
 Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt , said by phone today before the premier was
released. “Yet again, it elevates the geopolitical risk in the
whole region, adding to the one already existing in  Egypt  and
Syria.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Sami in Cairo at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  