-- Libyan Prime Minister’s Abduction Caps Year of Mayhem
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-10T22:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/libyan-prime-minister-s-abduction-caps-year-of-militia-mayhem.html
The abduction of Libya’s Prime
Minister Ali Zaidan was only the latest sign that his interim
government’s control over the country is slipping.  Zaidan was freed yesterday, hours after he was held by the
country’s anti-crime unit at a Tripoli hotel. His seizure
followed the killing of the U.S. ambassador, attacks on the
French and Russian embassies, and the assassination of top
military officers, all within little more than a year. Oil
output has plunged, and there’s no sign security will improve
any time soon.  Libya enjoyed a burst of unity as the  NATO -backed war that
ousted  Muammar Qaddafi  was followed in 2012 by the first free
election in more than 50 years. Since then, militias who led the
fighting against Qaddafi, including some radical Islamists, have
been using force to exact concessions and expand their power.  “If you want to be taken seriously by the government and
get your demands listened to, the message being sent is that you
have to be in control of an important asset or person,” said
Firas Abi Ali, head of  Middle East  and North Africa analysis at
 IHS Country Risk , in an interview. “There’s no reason to
believe the government’s control over the country will improve
over the next year.”  Zaidan’s abductors wrongly believed that a warrant had been
issued for his arrest, said Hashem Beshr, head of the Supreme
Security Committee for Tripoli. It’s not the first time he’s
been targeted. About 30 militiamen attempted to storm his office
in Tripoli in March.  Militia Power  Two months later,  Libya ’s militias showed their power by
surrounding government ministries for two weeks, forcing the
passage of a law to purge senior Qaddafi-era officials.  Since July, protesters in the east have shut down oil
terminals, demanding better pay and jobs, and eventually calling
for Zaidan’s ouster, accusing his government of corruption.  HSBC slashed its forecast for growth in Libya this year to
0.7 percent, from 15.9 percent before the oil protests. Oil and
natural gas accounts for more than 70 percent of Libya’s gross
domestic product and generates almost all government revenue.  The unrest has delayed the drafting of a new constitution
and elections for a permanent government.  The group that held Zaidan denied reports the abduction was
a response to a U.S. military operation this week to seize
alleged al-Qaeda fugitive Abu Anas al-Libi, who was detained in
a Tripoli suburb.  Response to U.S.  Abi Ali said the U.S. action probably contributed to
Zaidan’s detention, “then the various groups involved realized
that linking the capture of the prime minister to the capture of
a terrorist put them in a bad light.”  The decline of security in Libya was illustrated by the
death of the U.S. ambassador to the country and three other
Americans in Benghazi in September last year, as militiamen
assaulted the consulate.  Half the French embassy was destroyed by a car bomb in
April. A jailbreak freed 1,200 prisoners in Benghazi in July, a
police colonel and a retired air force officer were murdered the
same month, and Russia’s embassy was attacked by armed men last
week.  Oil production  slumped to an average of 300,000 barrels a
day last month, the lowest since the 2011 war and down from 1.4
million in March.  After the failure of efforts to bring militias under
central control, the best option would be to devolve power and
turn them into regional police forces, Abi Ali said. In the
worst-case scenario, foreign companies will flee as violence
spreads, and eastern Libya will try to secede, he said.  “When Zaidan came to office, he was seen as taking a hard
line against militias and people liked him,” Abi Ali said.
“But then he realized he doesn’t have the power required to
deal with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  