-- Libyan Anti-Crime Unit Holding Premier After Hotel Arrest
-- B y   M a r i a m   S a m i   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-10-10T09:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/libyan-pm-taken-from-hotel-by-revolutionary-group.html
Libyan Prime Minister Ali Zaidan was
detained at a hotel in the country’s capital at dawn and is
being held at an undisclosed location, according to the security
forces.  The  Interior Ministry ’s Crime Combatting Authority said it
was holding Zaidan and that he’s in good health, the group’s
spokesman, Abdel Hakim Al Belaazi, told the state-owned Libyan
Arab News Agency today, without elaborating. The arrest was
carried out in a dawn raid at the Corinthia Hotel by the  Libya 
Revolutionaries Operations Room, which later told LANA that
Zaidan was suspected of corruption.  Oil rose after reports of Zaidan’s seizure. The Pentagon
said on Oct. 6 that U.S. forces had arrested Abu Anas al-Libi in
Libya on suspicion of conspiracy to kill U.S. nationals and to
conduct attacks against American interests worldwide. Militia
violence has plagued Libya ever since the capture and death of
 Muammar Qaddafi  in 2011 and has intensified in recent months
with groups refusing to heed government calls to disband.  Zaidan’s detention “illustrates the criminality and lack
of security for even the most senior officials in Tripoli,”
 Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Institute for Near
East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai, said by telephone.
“This will bring uncertainty to companies and governments
operating there, and will highlight the fact that the security
scene in Tripoli is subject to wild gyrations.”  Former Fighters  The Libya Revolutionaries Operations Room is an alliance of
former fighters who took part in the civil war against Qaddafi.
The group is affiliated with the Interior Ministry. The
government has sought to curb the influence of militia groups by
putting their members on the payrolls of the defense and
interior ministries. Libya’s national council was negotiating
for the premier’s release and a rebel spokesman said he’d be
handed to the prosecuting authorities, Sky News Arabia reported,
citing unidentified people.  Libya currently produces about 700,000 barrels a day of
oil, or less than half the level before the rebellion that
toppled Qaddafi. Brent for November settlement rose 0.7 percent
to $109.82 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange at 9:43 a.m in  London .  “It may have implications for the oil market, it shows how
volatile and unsafe Libya is,”  Eugen Weinberg , head of
commodities research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by
phone today. “Yet again, it elevates the geopolitical risk in
the whole region, adding to the one already existing in  Egypt 
and  Syria .”  ‘Unknown Destination’  Zaidan was taken “to an unknown destination for unknown
reasons by a group believed to be the Libya Revolutionaries
Operations Room and the Crime Combating Committee,” the
government said on its Facebook page. The Libyan cabinet is now
holding an emergency meeting, government spokesman Mohamed
Kaabar said by telephone.  The “well-being and safety” of Zaidan is the
responsibility of those who are holding him now, Justice
Minister Salah al-Merghani said on the government’s official
Facebook page. The prosecutor’s office did not issue an arrest
warrant for Zaidan, al-Merghani’s statement added without
elaborating.  When asked about the reports of Zaidan’s disappearance,
U.S. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters in
Brunei today that “we are looking into these reports and we are
in close touch with senior U.S. and Libyan officials on the
ground.”  ‘Appropriate Target’  Zaidan’s government later said it was not informed of the
al-Libi operation in advance and summoned the U.S. ambassador.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said on Oct. 7 that al-Libi was a
key al-Qaeda figure and “a legal and an appropriate target for
the U.S. military.”  Born Nazih Abdul-Hamed al-Ruqai, al-Libi was indicted
by the U.S. attorney in the Southern District of  New York  in
2000 for taking part in the 1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies
in Kenya and  Tanzania .  The kidnapping of Zaidan is the first of an Organization of
the Petroleum Exporting Countries government member since the
1975 attack on its Vienna headquarters by gunmen led by Ilich
Ramírez Sanchez, known as Carlos the Jackal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Sami in Cairo at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  