-- Libyan Premier’s Abduction Caps Year of Militia Mayhem
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-10T17:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/libyan-premier-s-abduction-caps-year-of-militia-mayhem.html
The abduction of Libya’s Prime
Minister Ali Zaidan marks a period of just over a year in which
the U.S. ambassador was killed, the French and Russian embassies
were attacked, military officers were assassinated and oil
output slumped. Security won’t improve any time soon.  Zaidan was freed hours after he was held by the country’s
anti-crime unit at a Tripoli hotel and went back to his office,
the state-run Libyan  News Agency  reported. Abu Bakr Abdel-Qader,
a member of parliament’s national security committee, said the
premier’s detention today amounted to “a military coup,” the
Press Solidarity news service cited him as saying. Zaidan’s
abductors wrongly believed that a warrant had been issued for
his arrest, said Hashem Beshr, head of the Supreme Security
Committee for Tripoli.  “If you want to be taken seriously by the government and
get your demands listened to, the message being sent is that you
have to be in control of an important asset or person,” said
Firas Abi Ali, head of  Middle East  and North Africa analysis at
political risk company  IHS Country Risk , in an interview.
“There is no reason to believe the government’s control over
the country will improve over the next year. This is becoming
more and more of a vicious cycle.”  Looser Federation  Libya enjoyed a burst of unity after the 2011  NATO -backed
war that ousted  Muammar Qaddafi  and during the first fully
democratic vote in more than 50 years a year later. Since then,
militias from Benghazi, Misrata and Zintan, who led fighting
against Qaddafi, have been using force to exact political
concessions and to seek a looser federation. Radical Islamists
have meanwhile been attempting to carve out a base in the east.  Britain’s Prime Minister  David Cameron  spoke to Zaidan
after his release and found him “calm and very measured
throughout the call,” according to the Downing Street
spokesman. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said told reporters in
 Kuala Lumpur  that American embassy personnel are secure and
“we’re confident about our abilities to keep them in that
security.”  Brent crude  for November settlement rose 1 percent to
$110.10 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
at 5:33 p.m. in Dubai.  The group that held Zaidan denied reports the abduction was
a response to a U.S. military operation this week that seized
alleged al-Qaeda fugitive Abu Anas al-Libi, who was detained in
a Tripoli suburb.  ‘Real Trouble’  Abi Ali said the U.S. action probably contributed to
Zaidan’s detention, “then the various groups involved realized
that linking the capture of the prime minister to the capture of
a terrorist put them in a bad light.”  It’s not the first time Zaidan has been targeted. About 30
militiamen attempted to storm his office in Tripoli in March and
were thwarted by Interior Ministry security forces.  “The government is in real trouble,” said Faraj Najem, a
Libyan political analyst, who teaches at the University of
Benghazi, in an interview from Tripoli. “There is money going
around, there are plenty of homes, weapons, so people feel
empowered and that’s dangerous.”  The decline of security in  Libya  was starkly illustrated by
the death of the U.S. ambassador to the country and three other
Americans in Benghazi on Sept. 11, 2012, as militiamen assaulted
the consulate.  Oil Slump  Since then, oil production has slumped to an average of
300,000 barrels a day last month, the lowest since the 2011 war,
oil ports have been closed by strikes, half the French embassy
was destroyed by a car bomb in April, a jail break freed 1,200
prisoners from Benghazi prison in July, a police colonel and a
retired air force officer were murdered the same month and
Russia’s embassy was attacked by armed men last week.  “When Zaidan came to office, he was seen as taking a hard
line against militias and people liked him but then he realized
he doesn’t have the power required to deal with them,” IHS
Country Risk’s Abi Ali said. Now, Zaidan is seen as unable to
conciliate or confront the militias, he said.  In May, the militias showed their power by surrounding
government ministries for two weeks and forcing the passage of a
controversial law to purge senior Qaddafi-era officials from
office. Since July, protesters in the east have shut down oil
terminals, demanding better pay and jobs, and eventually calling
for Zaidan’s ouster, accusing his government of corruption.  Devolved Authority  Libya’s economy may expand 0.7 percent this year, HSBC said
in a report this week, compared with a forecast of 15.9 percent
three months ago, after the oil protests. The oil and natural
gas industry, which makes up more than 70 percent of Libya’s
economy, generates almost all the state’s revenue.  The unrest has also delayed the drafting of a new
constitution and elections for a permanent government.  The best scenario would be for a federal constitution that
designates militias as police forces held accountable by
regional authorities, with the central government devolving
power to the regions, Abi Ali said. Making them part of the
central government has already failed.  One of the worst scenarios would see foreign energy
companies starting to withdraw, cutting the pool of security
contracts at oil installations, hitting militia incomes and
increasing the risk of inter-group fighting, Abi Ali said. That
in turn would force more foreign companies to leave.  “The longer the political deadlock continues, the more the
likelihood that this becomes the scenario,” he said. “This
would also prompt the east to try to secede, though there’s no
guarantee that this would succeed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  