-- Micron Sales Top Analysts’ Estimates on Elpida, Chip Prices
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-10-10T21:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/micron-sales-exceed-analysts-estimates-on-gains-in-chip-prices.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest
U.S. maker of memory chips, reported fourth-quarter sales that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as higher average prices helped
make up for lackluster personal-computer demand.  Net income in the period that ended on Aug. 29 was $1.71
billion, or $1.51 a share, helped by the acquisition of Elpida
Memory Inc. Revenue rose 45 percent to $2.84 billion, the Boise,
Idaho-based company today said in a filing. Excluding certain
items, profit was 29 cents a share, compared with analysts’
average  estimate  for 28 cents in profit on sales of $2.7
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Micron, which completed its $2 billion purchase of Elpida
in July, is trying to reshape the industry so that supply
doesn’t regularly outrun demand, causing prices to plunge below
the cost of production. Manufacturing constraints are keeping
chip prices steady even as PC shipments decline, according to
Betsy Van Hees, an analyst at Wedbush Securities.  “We think demand is weak, but it’s being more than offset
by the price rises,” she said. Van Hees has the equivalent of a
buy  rating  on the stock.  Micron’s shares, which have almost tripled this year amid
an anticipated increase in chip prices, were little changed in
extended trading after the report. They had gained 1.5 percent
to $18.43 at the close in  New York . Micron is best  performer  in
the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index for 2013.  Elpida Gains  Elpida added $355 million to Micron’s revenue in the fourth
quarter, the company said. Revenue from dynamic random-access
memory, or DRAM, products rose 50 percent from the previous
period, Micron said, buoyed by a 42 percent gain in sales volume
and a 5 percent jump in average selling prices.  Worldwide PC shipments fell in the third quarter, reaching
their lowest level for the period since 2008, amid lower demand
from students returning to school, market researcher Gartner
Inc. said yesterday. In the sixth consecutive quarterly decline,
global unit sales fell 8.6 percent.  The DRAM market “remains tight” and inventories are
extremely low, President  Mark Adams  said on a conference call.
He said he expects market conditions to remain favorable for the
rest of the year.  Fourth-quarter net income included an accounting gain of
$1.48 billion, or $1.31 a share, related to the acquisition of
Elpida, Micron said. It also included other one-time items, such
as the cost of job cuts and the writedown of certain assets.  Average Prices  Micron said the average selling price of DRAM is up at a
percentage in the mid-single digits so far for the current
period. Manufacturing costs are projected to decline by a
percentage in the low single digits this quarter. Nand  flash-memory  pricing has fallen on average in the high single digits
this quarter, with a similar decline predicted in production
costs for those chips over the course of the period, Micron
Chief Financial Officer Ron Foster said on the call.  In September,  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  suspended operations at a
factory in  China  after a fire. The plant makes DRAM for mobile
phones and PCs, and the shutdown helped push prices to their
highest in more than two years. SK Hynix was the second-largest
producer behind Samsung Electronics Co. until Micron’s
acquisition of Elpida.  While DRAM provides the main memory in PCs, an increasing
amount of supply is being diverted to smartphones as the devices
become more like computers. Memory-chip makers also make Nand
flash memory, chips that provide the storage in mobile gadgets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  