-- Lilly, Starbucks, Cengage, The9: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/lilly-starbucks-cengage-the9-intellectual-property.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , the maker of Cialis
and Evista, said in a  statement  yesterday it was “appalled and
very disappointed” by trade secret thefts allegedly committed
by two former employees.  The ex-employees were accused of stealing confidential
information related to early stage clinical development of
potential new drugs, Lilly said. The alleged theft doesn’t
significantly jeopardize its research and development pipeline,
the company said.  The Indianapolis-based pharmaceutical company said it has
worked with the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation in the probe and wouldn’t make any additional
comments.  The Indianapolis Business Journal  reported  that the alleged
thieves were scientists with doctoral degrees, who were accused
of transferring confidential information valued at $55 million
to a Chinese pharmaceutical company.  Trademark  Starbucks’ ‘Duffin’ Product Announcement Raises Bakery Fans’ Ire  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the Seattle-based coffee chain,  said  on
the company blog Oct. 4 that it was introducing a jam-filled
muffin it dubbed the “duffin.”  The posting garnered an immediate wave of negative comments
from readers who said they had eaten  duffins  at a London-based
establishment for years. Those who protested said that duffins
were a “signature” offering of  Bea’s of Bloomsbury , and
accused Starbucks of “having the nerve to steal their idea.”  They said the recipe for duffins has even been published in
the U.K. restaurant’s cookbook, “ Tea With Bea .”  Bea’s of Bloomsbury posted a  notice  on its website,
thanking its customers for their support in the controversy, and
offering them a 15 percent discount on a dozen of its duffins.  Although the U.K.’s Guardian  reported  that Starbucks
supplier Rich Products Corp. of Buffalo,  New York , had
registered a “duffins” trademark, the database of the U.S.
Patent and  Trademark Office  indicates only one registration.  The Pontiac Coffee House LLC of Springdale,  Arkansas ,
registered “Duffin” in September 2011 as a U.S. trademark.
According to the patent office listing, the mark is used with
donuts, muffin mixes and muffins. That company’s website lists
 several flavors  of duffins on its menu for $1 apiece.  Annheuser-Busch Loses Right to Budweiser Trademark in Italy  Budejovicky Budvar NP, the Czech brewer, has succeeded in
persuading an Italian court to bar Belgium’s  Annheuser-Busch
InBev (ABI)  from using the Budweiser name in  Italy ,  Associated Press 
 reported .  The two entities have been engaged in a century-long battle
over rights to the name, with the Czech brewer arguing that only
beer brewed in its home country is entitled to be called
Budweiser, AP reported.  Budvar said the Italian court authorized the importation of
its Budweiser Budvar lager, and the removal of the AB InBev’s
Budweiser mark from Italy’s trademark registry, according to AP.  For more trademark news, click here.  For patent news, click here.  Copyright  Cengage Learning Sues JPMorgan Chase Over Textbook Copyrights  Cengage Learning Inc. sued lenders, including JPMorgan
Chase & Co. as the agent for the first-lien debt, to nullify
their purported liens on thousands of textbook copyrights.  The textbook publisher also sued Bank of New York Mellon
Corp., as the trustee and agent for first-lien notes, and CSC
Trust Co. of  Delaware , as the trustee and agent for second-lien
notes, according to a complaint filed Oct. 5 in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Brooklyn, New York.  Cengage claimed in the lawsuit that JPMorgan and the others
recorded interest in the copyrights with the U.S. Copyright
Office within 90 days before its July 2 bankruptcy filing,
allowing Cengage to avoid the liens and security interest on the
registered copyrights, according to court documents.  The publisher said in a footnote of the lawsuit that it
believes there are “approximately 15,750 unique copyrights that
are subject to avoidance.”  Cengage, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , develops teaching
materials for colleges, schools, libraries and corporations, and
provides print and electronic publishing.  The company, which bills itself as the second-biggest
publisher of college-course material in the U.S., listed more
than $1 billion in assets in a court filing. It owes the lenders
and noteholders about $5.8 billion, court papers show.  The company negotiated a proposed restructuring with the
first-lien holders to eliminate more than $4 billion in debt,
according to a statement.  In 2007, private-equity group Apax Partners LLP led a $7.75
billion acquisition of Cengage from Thomson Reuters Corp.  The case is In re Cengage Learning Inc., 13-bk-44106, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The
lawsuit is In re Cengage Learning Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase Bank
NA, 13-bk-01479, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of New
York (Brooklyn).  The9 Ltd. (NCTY)  Defeats Chinese Author’s Copyright Infringement Claims  A Shanghai game developer has turned back a copyright
infringement claim made by a Chinese author and history teacher,
the Global Times  reported .  The9 Ltd. was sued by  Yuan  Tengfei after he found his books
listed on mobile phone software created by the company,
according to the Global Times.  The author claimed The9’s software was uploading his books
to its server, according to the newspaper.  The court found that The9 link only directed users to
another website rather than enabling the downloading of Yuan’s
books, the Global Times reported.  Safaricom Says Video Service Has No Connection to Doctor’s Plan  Safaricom Ltd., the Kenyan provider of Internet and mobile
phone services, has responded to a copyright claim from a Kenyan
doctor over a medical video conferencing service, Nairobi’s
Business Daily  reported .  Safaricom said the concept was already in the public domain
and the partnership it developed with  San Jose ,  California ’s
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and others had no connection to a proposal by
Dr. Dedan Warui, according to the newspaper.  Warui has claimed he brought the idea to Safaricom two
years ago and had signed a non-disclosure agreement with the
company at that time, Business Daily reported.  While Safaricom acknowledged it had been in contact with
the doctor, it said the company decided to go with a different
proposal, and, in court filings, claimed a similar service was
up and running in  India  before its contacts with Warui,
according to Business Daily.  Adobe Goes After Indian Photo Studios It Says Infringes  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the San Jose, California-based maker of
Photoshop software, has filed an infringement claim against an
Indian photo studio, India’s Daily Bhaskar newspaper  reported .  Police raided the studio and seized four computers, which
Adobe was later able to verify were operating with unlicensed
copies of the California company’s software, according to the
newspaper.  Sachin Gupta, who leads the Indian Photographers and
Videographers Association told the newspaper that Adobe
officials brought the police a 14-page list of names of photo
studios in India’s Indore and Bhopal regions the company claims
are using pirated software.  An Adobe official told the newspaper the raid was part of
the company’s anti-piracy drive aimed at letting potential
infringers know they face “a number of negative consequences.”  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at 
Or  vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  