-- IMF’s Lagarde Urges U.S. to Show Leadership in Budget Chaos
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-10-10T15:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/imf-s-lagarde-urges-u-s-to-show-leadership-in-budget-chaos.html
Politicians in  Washington  need to
show leadership in resolving a political deadlock on the budget
that risks damaging the country’s economy and the rest of the
world, International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde said.  “Leadership has to be demonstrated in this city,” Lagarde
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television with  Tom Keene 
today. The budget chaos could “precipitate another crisis if it
was to last longer.”  The U.S. government is in the 10th day of a partial
shutdown and a week away from the day Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has said his department will run out of measures to stay
below the nation’s limit on borrowing. House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, has rejected President  Barack Obama ’s call to pass a debt ceiling increase without policy
conditions.  House Republican leaders are presenting their members with
a proposal to raise the debt limit for six weeks without policy
conditions, said a congressional aide familiar with the details.
The move would lessen the risk of a U.S. default one week from a
lapse in borrowing authority.  The IMF this week cut its global outlook for this year and
next. Failure to raise the debt ceiling would damage a U.S.
economy that’s showing “lots of good signs,” including in the
housing market, Lagarde said. The IMF predicts the U.S. economy
will grow 1.6 percent this year and 2.6 percent next year,
helping drive global expansion at a time  emerging markets  slow.  Lew has said that so-called extraordinary measures -- the
accounting moves he’s been using since May to stay below the
$16.7 trillion debt limit -- will expire by Oct. 17, leaving him
with about $30 billion on hand. Expenditures can be as high as
$60 billion on some days, Lew has said.  “The U.S. has been a safe haven and that has been for a
long time,” Lagarde said. “It shouldn’t be damaged as a result
of what’s going on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  