-- Tin Membership Increases at ICDX as Indonesia Targets Benchmark
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-10-10T09:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/tin-membership-increases-at-icdx-as-indonesia-targets-benchmark.html
The only exchange in  Indonesia 
that’s authorized to trade tin before export said that more
members are joining as the government presses on with a policy
to try to create a benchmark in the world’s largest shipper.  The number of members that can buy or sell the metal will
rise to 24 this week from 21, according to Christilia Angelica,
head of business development at the Indonesia Commodity and
Derivatives Exchange, or ICDX. The government isn’t expected to
change any policy right now as everything is running smoothly,
Angelica said in an e-mail in response to Bloomberg questions.  Indonesia is seeking greater influence in the commodity
markets where it is a significant producer, and a new rule that
requires tin to be traded through a local bourse before export
is aimed at displacing the  London  Metal Exchange. The policy
change, which started on Aug. 30, spurred a rally in prices to
the highest in more than six months and drained stockpiles as
Indonesian shipments plunged.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy
accounts for about 40 percent of global tin exports.  “The move is really an attempt to give Indonesia far more
control over pricing,” said  David Wilson , director of metals
research and strategy at Citigroup Inc. in London. “Whether
it’s producers or consumers being registered at that exchange,
you’ll see greater volume traded.”  Initial Shipment  The ICDX traded 190 tons of tin today, the highest single-day total since Aug. 30, according to an e-mailed statement.
That raised the amount this month to 695 tons, compared with 820
tons from Aug. 30 to Sept. 30, according to bourse data tracked
by Bloomberg. The first export of ingots was successful, with no
errors during delivery, Angelica wrote.  Tin rose to $24,000 a metric ton on the LME on Oct. 4, the
highest since March 15, and has beaten the five other main base
metals this year. Futures fell 0.5 percent to $23,310 at 5:51
p.m. in  Singapore  as LME-tracked reserves held at 12,835 tons,
the lowest since Jan. 16. The Indonesian rule changes and lower
exports may create a bottleneck, according to Commerzbank AG.  “We do not expect government to change any policy for
right now,” the ICDX’s Angelica wrote, saying that the new
system is credible. Joining fees for smaller smelters will be
waived as some producers were having a “hard time paying” the
charge that could be as high as $30,000, she wrote.  PT Timah, Indonesia’s largest producer and shipper,
declared force majeure on exports after the rule change took
effect as some buyers have yet to become members of the ICDX,
which the company uses for its overseas sales. Serumpun Tin, a
group of 18 smaller producers, wants to sell output through the
Jakarta Futures Exchange, which hasn’t been granted a license.  Indonesia shipped 98,817 tons of tin last year, including
9,874 tons in September, according to  trade ministry data .
Exports totaled 786 tons last month, the lowest since at least
February 2007, when the government began monitoring sales.  PT Timah (TINS)  shares rallied as much as 2.5 percent to 1,660
rupiah, the highest since Feb. 15, and closed at 1,630 rupiah.
The stock has risen 5.8 percent this year, beating the 3.9
percent advance in the Jakarta Composite Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmasna@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  