-- India in Talks With JPMorgan to Join Bond Indexes, Reuters Says
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-10T13:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/india-in-talks-with-jpmorgan-to-join-bond-indexes-reuters-says.html
Indian policy makers are in talks
with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other companies for inclusion of
the nation’s debt in bond indexes to boost capital inflows,
Reuters reported. The rupee surged.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram and other
officials plan meetings in the U.S. next week with fund managers
including Pacific Investment Management Co. and Standard Life
Plc, Reuters said without naming its sources.  India  may ease
some restrictions on foreign purchases of its debt if necessary
for inclusion, the report said. Reserve Bank of India Governor
Raghuram Rajan said on Sept. 20 that talks would be held with
index providers.  “An opening up of the bond market will lead to inflows,”
said  Paresh Nayar , head of currency and money markets at
FirstRand Ltd. in Mumbai. “There is an expectation that some
real developments are now happening after Rajan had flagged the
possibility earlier.”  Lombard Odier Investment Management and Aletti Gestielle
Sgr SpA say India needs to remove all restrictions in its bond
market, and Standard Chartered Plc estimates that inclusion in
JPMorgan’s GBI-Global Diversified Index could lure as much as
$40 billion over 12 months. India caps foreign purchases of
local-currency debt at $81 billion.  JPMorgan “cannot comment on market speculation,” Mumbai-based spokeswoman Beverly Mathews said in an e-mailed reply to
Bloomberg. E-mails sent to the media teams at Pimco and Standard
Life didn’t immediately get a response.  The potential meetings follow the announcement yesterday
that International Finance Corp., the World Bank’s investment
arm, plans to sell a record $1 billion of rupee bonds offshore
to fund its investments. The move “should support investor
confidence further,” Citigroup Inc. strategist Gaurav Garg
wrote in a research report today.  Overseas funds have cut  holdings  of rupee-denominated bonds
to $25.9 billion as of Oct. 9, official data show.  The rupee rose 0.9 percent today, reversing a drop of as
much as 0.6 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency is still 10.4 percent weaker this year, weighed
down by a current-account deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  