-- India’s Rupee Weakens as U.S. Debt-Deal Optimism Boosts Dollar
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-10T05:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/india-s-rupee-weakens-as-u-s-debt-deal-optimism-boosts-dollar.html
India ’s rupee fell for a second day
against the dollar, which was buoyed by signs of a compromise
among U.S. lawmakers that could avert an unprecedented default
in the world’s biggest economy.  House Republican and Senate Democratic leaders are open to
a short-term increase in the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling,
according to congressional aides who spoke on condition of
anonymity. The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the
greenback against 10 major counterparts, extended gains today
after yesterday surging the most since Sept. 5. The rupee’s
losses will be limited amid optimism India’s trade deficit will
narrow, according to FirstRand Ltd.  “The U.S. is driving the world economy and so they are
unlikely to not reach an agreement,” said  Paresh Nayar , head of
currency and money markets at FirstRand in Mumbai. “So the
dollar is showing some strength” and affecting the  exchange
rate , he said.  The rupee dropped 0.5 percent to 62.215 per dollar as of
10:22 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency will probably trade between
62 and 62.30 today in the absence of fresh news, Nayar forecast.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
exchange rate used to price options, was little changed from
yesterday at 15.12 percent.  India’s trade deficit was $6.76 billion in September, the
lowest since March 2011, official data showed yesterday. Exports
rose 11 percent from a year earlier and imports fell 18 percent.  Offshore Bond  India’s current-account deficit in the year through March
2014 may come in about 14 percent lower than the  Finance
Ministry  has targeted, easing pressure on the rupee,
Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s
Economic Advisory Council, said in an interview yesterday.  International Finance Corp., the  World Bank ’s investment
arm, plans to sell a record $1 billion of rupee bonds offshore
to fund investments in India, it said yesterday.  “The announcement of the bonds issuance does not have
direct implications towards altering the capital inflows
arithmetic,” Gaurav Garg, a strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
 Singapore , wrote in a research report today. “However, the step
in the right direction towards greater capital account
convertibility should support investor confidence further.”  One-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.4 percent to 62.695
per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts declined 0.6 percent to 62.80. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  