-- Iran Won’t Give Up Nuclear Program, Ex-Rouhani Associate Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-10-10T19:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/iran-won-t-give-up-nuclear-program-ex-rouhani-associate-says.html
A former associate of Iranian
President Hassan Rouhani said no amount of sanctions will be
able to spur the country to surrender its nuclear program, even
though restrictions have debilitated the economy.  Hossein Mousavian, a former spokesman for Rouhani when he
was  Iran ’s nuclear negotiator, told a panel in Hamburg that even
as sanctions have affected the lives of ordinary Iranians, the
country will never give up its right to enrich uranium under the
auspices of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.  “It’s impossible,” Mousavian, who is a research scholar
at  Princeton University ’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and
International Affairs, told an audience today at the Koerber
Foundation in the northern German port city. “It doesn’t matter
what kind of sanctions you impose, Iran is not willing to forgo
their rights under international rules.”  Rouhani has made overtures to the U.S. and its allies since
he took office two months ago, with a priority to ease Iran’s
isolation and negotiate a lifting of the financial and oil
restrictions that have crippled the nation’s economy.  Iran’s new president spoke with President  Barack Obama  by
phone on the last day of his trip to  New York  last month, the
highest-level interaction between the two governments since the
1979 revolution.  On Sept. 26 at the UN, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif agreed with world powers to accelerate negotiations
on  Iran’s nuclear program , talks that will test the country’s
readiness to make concessions and allay concerns it’s seeking
the capability to produce nuclear weapons.  Espionage Charges  Mousavian, who was charged with espionage in Iran during
the presidency of  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  and now lives abroad,
suggested that Iran could put forward confidence-building
measures such as reducing enrichment levels to below 5 percent
or allowing inspectors to visit military sites. He reiterated
that Iran doesn’t aspire to weaponize its nuclear capabilities.  “Iran has the capability and can make a nuclear bomb if
they want, but they don’t want,” Mousavian said.  Mousavian expressed optimism that the thaw has the
potential to bring about a breakthrough on the nuclear issue in
six months, though it will take more time to ease 34 years of
hostility and bring about a rapprochement with the U.S.  “The wall of mistrust is really thick,” Mousavian said.
“It is a good beginning, but we should not believe that things
with the U.S. can be resolved in six months or one year.”  Since U.S. and EU oil sanctions went into effect in July
2012, Iran’s oil  exports  have dropped by half and inflation
almost doubled in two years, reaching 40 percent last month. The
majority of Iran’s government revenue comes from crude oil
sales.  Iran was the second-biggest crude producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries as recently as
June 2012, before U.S. and EU oil sanctions took effect, and was
in sixth place last month, according to a Bloomberg survey of
 oil companies , producers and analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Hamburg at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  