-- Italy Said to Near Rescue of Alitalie by Postal Service
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-10-10T17:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/italy-said-to-near-rescue-of-alitalie-by-postal-service.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
is close to sealing a rescue package for  Alitalia  SpA that
involves the national  postal service  taking a stake in the
carrier, four people familiar with the matter said.  An accord brokered by the government may be announced as
soon as today, said the people, who asked not to be named as the
matter is private. Poste Italiane SpA may contribute 75 million
euros ($102 million) to a 300 million-euro capital increase, one
of the people said. The agreement remains tentative and may
still break down, the people said.  Enlisting the help of the postal service would support
Chief Executive Officer Gabriele Del Torchio in securing fresh
financing that trade union executives said yesterday is
approaching half a billion euros ($676 million). Letta has
favored the support from a state-owned entity to stabilize the
carrier, whose resources have been depleted by  mounting losses
and competition from low-cost carriers including  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ)   “Alitalia needs a capital injection or on Saturday it will
remain on the ground,” Vito Riggio, head of Italian civil
aviation authority Enac, told television channel SkyTG24 in an
interview.  The measures being discussed include the proposed capital
increase, which is three times the amount the carrier had sought
earlier, and a bank loan of about 200 million euros, union
officials said yesterday after meeting the carrier’s CEO.  Postal Service  Spokesmen for Alitalia, the postal service and the
government declined to comment.“Alitalia in on the verge of
bankruptcy,” the carrier’s unions said in a joint statement
today. “The company is not self sufficient and its investors
can’t guarantee it will continue to operate.”  Letta met with Alitalia representatives and some of its
investors and creditors this week in a bid to avert a collapse.
Compounding Alitalia’s woes is a threat by energy company  Eni
SpA (ENI)  to halt fuel supplies in two days unless Alitalia shows it
is able to continue operations.  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , the
biggest shareholder, has been reluctant to take on the role of
savior in a rescue operation.  Alitalia’s board, originally scheduled to meet in  Rome 
today, will instead convene tomorrow.  Italy ’s aviation authority
also summoned the executives to a meeting in Rome today and said
afterwards that the company displays “economic-financial
stress,” while there are “positive signs’ regarding the
airline’s operations security.  Capital Increase  Alitalia’s board on Sept. 26 approved a capital increase of
least 100 million euros because its cash has dwindled following
the heavier first-half net loss. The priority is to resolve the
cash shortage through new financing and a capital increase
before combining with an international player, people familiar
with the proposed rescue plan have said.  Losses at the Rome-based carrier swelled to 294 million
euros in the first half and reserves fell to 128 million euros
from 159 million euros at the end of the first quarter.  Air France-KLM, which holds a 25 percent stake in the
company, said last month that it needs more information from
Alitalia before it can decide its next move. The French carrier
is under pressure itself to cut costs, and its French subsidiary
plans to eliminate 1,826 ground-staff jobs through voluntary
employee departures to address weaker demand.  Alitalia was put into bankruptcy in 2008 after political
and labor opposition thwarted attempts to sell the company,
which was almost 50 percent state-owned. A group of investors,
including  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank, and
 Atlantia SpA (ATL) , its No. 1 toll-road company, bought the carrier’s
main assets and combined them with smaller competitor Air One
SpA before selling the stake to Air France-KLM.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  