-- Japan Machine Orders Jump to Highest Since Lehman Sank: Economy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-10-10T05:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/japan-machinery-orders-rise-to-post-lehman-high-in-boost-for-abe.html
Japan ’s  machinery orders  jumped to
819.3 billion yen ($8.4 billion) in August, the highest since
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 and a sign
of a strengthening economic revival.  Orders excluding ships and power generation rose 5.4
percent from the previous month, more than double the 2.5
percent median forecast in a  Bloomberg News   survey  of 28
economists. While large bookings can make the numbers volatile,
Credit Suisse Group AG. said  today’s data  confirm an “upward
trend” in capital spending.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is gambling that the economy’s
momentum and 5 trillion yen of extra stimulus will be enough to
prevent a sales-tax increase scheduled for April from derailing
a recovery driven by the policies called Abenomics. Today’s
numbers build on a Tankan report released Oct. 1 that showed
confidence among large manufacturers at the highest since the
early stages of the global credit crisis in 2007.  “Capital spending is on a recovery trend,” said Minoru Nogimori, an economist at Nomura Securities Co. in  Tokyo .
“Japan’s economic recovery is looking steady.”  The Cabinet Office raised its assessment of machinery
orders, saying they are picking up.  In a note, Barclays Plc. analysts said non-manufacturing
companies were leading the recovery in Japan’s  capital spending 
and that key focuses will be on when improvements will spread to
manufacturers and when the government will introduce tax breaks
for expenditure.  Inflation Goal  The Topix index was up 0.6 percent at 2:50 p.m. in Tokyo,
while the yen slipped 0.4 percent to 97.73 per dollar.  After unleashing fiscal and monetary stimulus, Abe’s
prospects of achieving a longer-term revival may depend on
companies raising wages and boosting investment, rather than
sitting on piles of cash.  Nogimori said that weakness in the yen may help to offset
the blow to the Japanese economy from next year’s sales-tax
increase, by supporting the nation’s exporters. “As long as
exports hold steady, companies may continue to spend.”  The  International Monetary Fund  said this week that the
 Bank of Japan  is likely to reach its 2 percent inflation goal
later than a targeted two years. Excluding the effect of the
sales-tax increase, inflation “is projected to move up only
very gradually, reaching the 2 percent target sometime in
2016–17,” the IMF said in a report.  Policy Consistency  Elsewhere in Asia, the  Bank of Korea  today cut its forecast
for the nation’s growth for next year to 3.8 percent from a
previous 4 percent estimate and trimmed its 2014 inflation
outlook, while leaving its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for
a fifth month.  The lower growth outlook reflects downward adjustments of
world economic and trade growth and “should not be seen as a
sign that the economy is losing vitality,” BOK Governor Kim
said, though the central bank warned in a statement downside
risks predominate.  Kim cited uncertainties from the prospect of  Federal
Reserve  tapering to the U.S. debt-ceiling impasse, and said he
expects  Janet Yellen  to maintain a “consistent” policy if
confirmed Fed chairman.  “Policy consistency should not be taken as no change at
all,” Kim said at a press conference in Seoul.  China Watching  In Australia, the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined
in September, adding to evidence a two-year interest rate
cutting cycle is boosting demand.  Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  said China is paying “great
attention” to the U.S. debt-ceiling issue, adding his voice to
official concern that wrangling over a borrowing limit risks a
default in the world’s biggest economy. Li didn’t elaborate on
the concern in a report by the official Xinhua News Agency
posted today to the government’s website in Chinese, while a
separate English report said Li was “expressing Beijing’s
concern about Washington’s debt-ceiling problem.”  The  Bank of England  is forecast to keep its key rate and
asset purchase target unchanged today, according to a survey of
economists by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  