-- JPMorgan Says Money Funds Sold Default-Threatened Debt
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-10-10T22:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/jpmorgan-says-money-funds-sold-default-threatened-debt.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest provider of U.S. money-market mutual funds, said those
products had divested of U.S. Treasuries that mature between
Oct. 16 and Nov. 6.  The company said it took the action, which also applies to
funds with scheduled coupon payments during the period, to help
maintain the products’ stable $1 a share value. The funds have
also increased their levels of liquidity, the New York-based
company said today in a statement, without providing details.  “Although JPMorgan Investment Management continues to
believe that the probability of a U.S. government default is
low, it has taken certain precautionary measures with respect to
the money markets,” the company said.  House Speaker John Boehner today proposed a plan that would
push the limit for U.S. borrowing to Nov. 22 from Oct. 17. The
White House endorsed the short debt-limit increase with no
policy conditions attached. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
warned that “uncertainty” over the debt limit is starting to
stress financial markets, speaking in testimony to the Senate
Finance Committee.  U.S. money funds held about $475 billion in  Treasury
securities  as of Aug. 31, and an additional $156 billion in
 repurchase agreements  collateralized by Treasuries, according to
research firm Crane Data LLC in Westborough,  Massachusetts .
About $74 billion in Treasuries held by money funds matures from
Oct. 24 to Nov. 15, Crane Data estimates.  Fitch Report  Money funds can cope with a short-term default in U.S.
Treasuries as long as it doesn’t trigger the kind of investor
run that followed the collapse of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.
in 2008,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report yesterday.  Fitch based its conclusion partly on evidence that fund
companies had reduced holdings in maturities most likely to be
affected by a default and had boosted the level of assets that
could be quickly converted into cash and returned to withdrawing
investors.  Institutional investors in money-market mutual funds that
focus almost exclusively on Treasury securities and other debt
backed by the U.S. government withdrew $17.5 billion in the
seven days through yesterday, according to Crane Data. That’s
about 2.6 percent of assets in those funds.  Fidelity Investments , the Boston-based company that is the
largest U.S. money-fund manager, said earlier this week that it
had moved out of Treasuries maturing in late October and early
November.  Fund provider  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , based in
Pittsburgh, said it wasn’t avoiding that time period.  ‘No Threat’  “We continue to hold Treasury securities that mature in
the upcoming weeks and are confident that they represent no
threat to the liquidity or stability of the portfolio,” Meghan McAndrews, a Federated spokeswoman, said today in an e-mailed
statement. “We believe that, at the end of the day, the parties
in this conflict will come to a resolution that will prevent the
U.S. government from defaulting on its obligations.”  Vanguard Group Inc., the  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
fund company, doesn’t expect a default, Chief Executive Officer
William McNabb said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television.  “Within the walls of Vanguard, we continue to be
optimistic about cooler heads prevailing,” McNabb said. “The
idea that the U.S. would actually default on Treasuries seems
almost unfathomable to us.”  Funding Standoff  Republican lawmakers in  Washington  had vowed not to approve
an increase in the government’s debt limit unless President
 Barack Obama  and his  Democratic Party  agree to change the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, known as
Obamacare. They have also refused to approve new funding for
government operations, triggering a partial government shutdown
since Oct. 1.  Money-market funds give millions of households, companies
and other institutions a safe parking spot for cash and channel
$2.6 trillion to issuers of short-term debt including the U.S.
government, financial institutions and companies. A run on funds
that hold corporate debt after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
in September 2008 helped freeze global credit markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  