-- JPMorgan Clients Roll Bonds as Schwab Options Hedge Default
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-10-10T21:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/jpmorgan-clients-in-cash-as-schwab-sees-options-hedging-default.html
With the deadline for avoiding a
U.S. default looming, investors from Boston to Bangalore are
moving to cash, extending the maturities of their short-term
Treasury holdings and buying options to help protect themselves
should stock and bond prices tumble.  Some  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  private bank clients are raising
cash while others are dumping Treasury bills with maturities
beyond the Oct. 17 debt ceiling deadline for longer-dated  bonds .
Stewart Capital Advisors LLC in Indiana,  Pennsylvania , favors
insurance companies, technology stocks and health-care
providers, which now have lower valuations. Money is flowing out
of an exchange-traded fund that tracks American banks and into
overseas equities.  While most investors say a default will be averted, the
potential for calamity should political leaders fail to renew
U.S. borrowing authority before it runs out is moving some to
take measures to safeguard their assets. A Treasury Department
report on Oct. 3 said consequences would be “catastrophic”
should the U.S. fail to make payments, including higher  interest
rates , lower investment and slow growth for decades to come.  “We want to protect capital first,” said Kevin Kearns, a
fixed-income portfolio manager at Boston-based Loomis Sayles &
Co., which manages $188 billion. While Loomis is forecasting
that a default will be avoided, the back-and-forth negotiations
may provoke some investors to sell assets. “We have our
shopping list ready if things go on sale,” Kearns said.  Long Short  Kearns oversees $1.4 billion in a strategy known as long-short, where an investor can speculate on a security’s price
either rising or falling. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped
2.2 percent to 1,692.56 at 4 p.m. in New York.  Stocks rallied as U.S. House Republican leaders embraced a
possible short-term deal to avoid default. The lawmakers will
present their members with a proposal to raise the debt limit
for six weeks without policy conditions, a congressional aide
familiar with the matter told  Bloomberg News .  The House wants to “offer the president today the ability
to move” and ask “for his willingness to sit down and discuss
with us a way forward,” Speaker  John Boehner  said today to
reporters.  ETF Moves  Investors withdrew $4 billion from ETFs that track U.S
equities between Oct. 3 and 8, data compiled by Bloomberg on
fund flows show. At the same time, they  added  $418 million to
the iShares MSCI EAFE ETF, which buys European, Australian and
Israeli shares, the most for any ETF tracked by Bloomberg. The
Vanguard FTSE Europe  fund  got $385 million, the second most.  Last week, investors withdrew $780 million from the
Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund tracking financial companies
in the S&P 500, the most since April 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Options on the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index, used to hedge against stock swings, saw record  volume  of
1.78 million contracts on Oct. 8. Traders bought almost double
the number of calls to buy  compared  with puts to sell that day,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Owning bullish options on the
VIX, as the index is known, can offset losses when stocks drop
because they become more valuable as price swings widen.  Last Minute  Most investors have yet to become concerned that the debt
ceiling will be breached, citing the last-minute resolution of
the August 2011 showdown as a model that shows a deal will be
achieved in time.  “None of my investors have so far called me to say ‘I want
out,’ or ask ‘Is this really a crisis situation?’”  Jim Paulsen ,
the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist at Wells
Capital Management, which oversees about $340 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “The American psyche is in much better
position today. They don’t look at every issue as Armageddon.
It’s just another problem. They are not rushing to gold or U.S.
Treasuries or to the dollar.”  About 41 percent of investors in a TD Ameritrade Holding
Corp. survey said they haven’t made changes to their investments
as a result of the government shutdown that began Oct. 1 or a
possible default. Twelve percent said they’re “taking advantage
of opportunities,” and 10 percent said they’ve moved into cash
in the immediate term, according to the poll of 693 consumers
conducted Oct. 3.  Treasury Bills  Concern that a default might happen is starting to show up
in the market for short-term obligations of the  U.S. Treasury .  Treasury bill rates rose after President  Barack Obama 
rejected calls Oct. 8 to invoke the Constitution’s 14th
Amendment to skirt Congressional approval for issuing new debt.  Rates on Treasury bills due on Oct. 17 fell 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 0.31 percent at 5 p.m. New
York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched
0.51 percent earlier, the highest level since they were sold in
October 2012. The yield was negative as recently as Sept. 26.
The rate on bills maturing on Nov. 14 rose as high as 0.275
percent yesterday, compared with 0.02 percent on Sept. 30. Rates
on bills due Nov. 21 rose eight basis points to 0.12 today.  Some investors have been “rolling out those Treasury bills
to future maturities” in December and into 2014, Megan McClellan, head of U.S. fixed income at JPMorgan Private Bank in
New York, said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.
“For people that are nervous, rolling forward is OK, and also
going to cash. We have seen, as we saw in 2011, some percentage
going to deposits.”  Money Markets  Money-market mutual funds can cope with a short-term
default in U.S. Treasuries as long as it doesn’t trigger the
kind of investor run that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, according to  Fitch Ratings .  The funds have high levels of short-term liquidity and have
reduced their holdings of Treasuries that would be most
immediately affected by the failure of the U.S. to extend its
borrowing capacity, the ratings company said yesterday in a
report.  “We have avoided maturities in the time period toward the
end of October,” Nancy Prior, head of money funds at Boston-based  Fidelity Investments , said in an interview. Fidelity is
the largest manager of U.S. money funds with $427 billion in
assets as of Aug. 31, according to Crane Data LLC in
Westborough,  Massachusetts .  Corporate Borrowing  The market for corporate borrowing through IOUs expanded to
the highest level in eight months as investors turned to
alternatives to short-term Treasury bills amid the impasse over
raising the U.S. debt ceiling.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
outstanding climbed $11 billion to $1.066 trillion in the week
ended yesterday, the  Federal Reserve  said today on its website.
That’s the highest level since the market touched $1.085
trillion for the period ended Feb. 13, according to Fed data
compiled by Bloomberg.  As Fidelity has sought to avoid Treasury bills maturing
near the deadline, Pacific Investment Management Co. has been
buying them as their yields have risen, said co-chief investment
officer  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s largest bond fund at
Pacific Management Investment Co.  “Their selling begets opportunistic buying on the part of
Pimco,” Gross said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
“We’re picking up pennies on the street. This is a particular
penny that we think is risk-free.”  Equities Collars  Hong Kong’s futures and options market operator, Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., increased the discount on Treasury
bills used as collateral for margin requirements today, citing
concern that the U.S. is at risk of a default.  In Japan, investors sold 2.2 trillion yen ($22.5 billion)
of foreign bonds in the week ended Oct. 4, the most on record,
according to figures released by the Ministry of Finance in
 Tokyo . The report didn’t reveal the amount of Treasuries sold by
the Japanese bondholders.  For Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist for Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, the dip in stock prices
may become a chance to increase his ownership of U.S. equities.  “Where we are holding significant cash we have been
nibbling,” Luschini said in an e-mail response to questions on
Oct. 9. He added to his equity positions as the S&P 500  fell  to
1,660 and “we will buy more aggressively if we near 1,600, all
things being equal.”  VIX Options  Investors who are concerned about a default should use an
options strategy known as a collar on their largest or most
volatile equity holdings, according to  Randy Frederick , managing
director of active trading and derivatives at Charles Schwab
Corp. in Austin, Texas. To implement the trade, investors buy a
put, or option to sell, with an exercise price below the current
stock level, financed by selling  call options  with a higher
strike price.  Randall Warren, chief investment officer of Warren
Financial Service, purchased options on the VIX as protection
against surging stock volatility if the U.S. defaults on its
debt.  Warren said he bought calls that become profitable if the
VIX rises 12 percent to 22 by Oct. 16, the day before U.S.
borrowing authority lapses. He also purchased calls with a 32
strike price for October to protect against bigger swings in the
equity market, as well as 22 and 32  contracts  that expire in
November as a hedge if the talks are extended.  “Buying these options very, very cheaply and getting the
explosive upside if something serious does occur with the
markets, then that is a way to hedge your bets without a whole
lot of money,” Warren, who oversees about $100 million, said in
a phone interview from Exton, Pennsylvania.  ‘Worst Case’  The  S&P 500  has  gained  0.7 percent since the U.S.
government shut down last week. The VIX slid 0.7 percent to
16.48 over the same period, as a 16 percent tumble today erased
an advance to as high as 20.34 on Oct. 8. That compares to a
level of 48 when S&P cut the U.S. debt rating in August 2011,
the  highest  since before the  bull market  started in 2009.  Supreeth S.M., the Bangalore-based chief executive officer
at Quant First Asset Advisors India, bought put options on the
nation’s CNX Nifty Index stock gauge with an exercise price 10
percent below the index level to protect against the “worst
case scenario” of a U.S. default. He’s funding the trade by
selling call  options  on the measure.  “A U.S. default is highly unlikely as we expect lawmakers
to come around to avert a disaster,” Supreeth, whose firm
manages about $100 million in options, said in a phone interview
on Oct. 8.  “However, something bad may happen and we are
advising clients to hedge.”  Puts with a strike price 10 percent below the Nifty  cost 
8.2 points more than calls betting on a 10 percent gain on Oct.
8, the least since Sept. 19, one-month implied volatility data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Indian  stock index , which has
climbed 2 percent this  year , tumbled 26 percent in October 2008,
the month after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
bankruptcy.  Treasury Hedges  UBS Global Asset Management, a  money manager  that oversees
$644 billion, said it has bought Treasury options to hedge
against the U.S. defaulting should politicians fail to agree on
raising the nation’s debt ceiling.  The company bought two-year Treasury puts and sold those on
German two-year note futures to mitigate the risk, according to
Brian Fehrenbach, the company’s Chicago-based co-head of U.S.
multi-sector fixed income.  “That’s part of our defensive strategy and it’s something
we hope will not be tested,” Fehrenbach, a former derivatives
trader, said in an interview in London. “The uncertainty in
Washington doesn’t promote confidence. The longer they go
without a resolution, the more risk there is for a last-minute
mistake.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  