-- JPMorgan Taps Taxpayer-Backed Banks for Bailout Rules
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-10-10T20:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/jpmorgan-taps-taxpayer-backed-banks-for-bailout-rules.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank, is using cheap funding from government-chartered
institutions to meet new regulations designed to ensure it won’t
need a taxpayer bailout in any future crisis.  The bank  borrowed  almost $20 billion in the first half of
the year from Federal Home Loan Banks, according to filings,
almost as much as it got from selling dollar-denominated bonds
in 2013. New York-based JPMorgan, with $2.4 trillion of assets,
obtained most of the loans from the Federal Home Loan Bank of
Cincinnati, whose 740 members typically resemble the $139
million-asset Bank of McCreary County in  Kentucky  and $40
million-asset Rural Cooperatives Credit Union.  Set up during the Great Depression to help community
lenders, FHLBs raise cash by selling bonds viewed by rating
companies and investors as backed by the U.S. government.
Lending by the Congressionally chartered banks is climbing at
the fastest pace since the start of the financial crisis in
2007. The growth has little to do with most of the 7,600 banks,
thrifts, credit unions and insurers that are members. Without
JPMorgan,  Bank of America Corp.  and Citigroup Inc., the three
largest borrowers, lending by the FHLBs would be shrinking.  “It’s astounding,” said  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at
research firm Graham Fisher & Co. and co-author of “ Reckless
Endangerment ,” a 2011 book, which focused on the role in the
housing crisis of government-sponsored Fannie Mae. “It doesn’t
seem to be in keeping with the system’s mission.”  Top Ratings  FHLBs, cooperative institutions owned by their borrowers,
were created in 1932 to provide savings-and-loan institutions
with a way of tapping stable funding after a string of failures
caused by runs on  deposits . Their Washington-based  trade group 
now says the aim “is to support residential mortgage lending
and community growth in all areas of the country.”  In 1989, Congress allowed commercial banks to join the
network, which comprises 12 regional FHLBs that raise money
jointly in the bond market to fund lending to members and their
investment portfolios. Because of the perception the government
would step in to prevent a default, FHLBs can sell securities at
yields similar to Treasuries and the bonds carry the top rating
from Moody’s Investors Service and the second-best from Standard
& Poor’s, the same as its U.S. ranking.  According to the FHLBs’ Reston, Virginia-based  finance
office , outstanding debt for the FHLBs grew to $700.6 billion at
the end of August from $687.9 billion on Dec. 31, making it
America’s second-largest borrower in financial markets after the
Treasury Department.  Mortgage Collateral  FHLB loans to members secured by  mortgages  and other
assets, known as advances, climbed $37.1 billion in the first
six months of 2013 to $450.7 billion, the latest disclosures
show, with loans to JPMorgan, Bank of America and  Citigroup (C) 
expanding $44.6 billion. Total loans climbed a further $19
billion last quarter, Mesirow Financial Inc. strategist Ryan Graf estimated, based on bond issuance.  JPMorgan, a member of four of the FHLBs, joined the
Cincinnati branch last year, after gaining the ability to become
a member with the 2004 acquisition of Bank One Corp., whose
chief executive officer at the time was Jamie Dimon.  As head of JPMorgan, Dimon steered the lender through the
 housing crash , making it the only major U.S. bank to remain
profitable throughout the period. He’s since pushed back against
regulations designed to avoid bailouts for the industry and the
perception that financial behemoths are too big to fail.  Federal Initiatives  While most banks, including JPMorgan, have repaid loans and
investments provided by the government during the crisis, they
continue to benefit from other federal initiatives, including
the FHLBs and insurance on customer deposits of up to $250,000,
a  limit  temporarily raised from $100,000 during the crisis
before later being made permanent.  JPMorgan’s loans from the Cincinnati FHLB increased 64
percent to $42.7 billion in the first half of this year as its
total FHLB borrowing climbed to $61.8 billion from $42 billion.  The bank stepped up its borrowing as it sought to use
longer-term funding to add to its cash and similar investments
to meet new liquidity rules called for by the international
Basel III agreement, according to a person familiar with the
company’s operations. The loans, which can cost less than
similar-maturity unsecured debt, are backed by mortgage
collateral, said the person, who asked not to be named because
the details are private.  JPMorgan has issued $19.9 billion of senior dollar-denominated bonds this year, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Basel Rule  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  The Basel III rule was created to better prepare banks for
market disruptions such as the upheaval that followed Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008. JPMorgan has exceeded
the amount of liquid assets needed to meet the new rule since
the second quarter, Treasurer Sandie O’Connor said at a recent
CreditSights Inc. event, according to the research firm.  The bank isn’t alone among its peers in taking advantage of
FHLB funding.   Bank of America , which is a member of five FHLBs, increased
its advances by $19.4 billion to $33.8 billion during the first
half, while Citigroup, which belongs to three, boosted the
amount by $5.3 billion to $25.7 billion, disclosures show.  “We’re constantly borrowing across multiple alternatives
to maintain flexibility and efficient funding,”  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
bank, said in a telephone interview.  Smith Barney  Citigroup’s growth, focused on short-term borrowing, was to
prepare for a loss of deposits from Smith Barney customers,
after it agreed to sell its stake in the brokerage to Morgan
Stanley, according to a securities filing. Mark Costiglio, a
spokesman for New York-based Citigroup, declined to comment.  Borrowing by the largest banks is vital to the system,
because it creates a “deep and liquid” market for FHLB bonds,
which are used to fund loans to all members, said John von Seggern, president of the Council of Federal Home Loan Banks,
the system’s trade group.  “The small guys understand how important it is that the
big guys belong to the system,” von Seggern said. “You don’t
have the traders if you don’t have the volume. If you don’t have
the traders you don’t have the market.”  At Cincinnati’s FHLB, demand for advances from members
other than JPMorgan has been limited. The “anemic economic
expansion” has depressed the amount of loans banks are making
while they have inflated deposit levels, according to its
disclosures.  Penultimate Lender  That’s been mirrored across the system for the past few
years. FHLB loans fell to a 12-year low in 2011 at $403.3
billion, down from a year-end peak of $900.5 billion in 2008.  Advances had previously surged from $641.6 billion at the
start of 2007 as members faced a funding squeeze when investors
doubted their health. The FHLBs’ role in keeping banks afloat
led New York Federal Reserve researchers to call the system the
“ Lender of Next-to-Last Resort ” in a 2008 paper, ahead of the
central bank itself.  FHLBs “can expand and contract, that’s what we do,” said
FHLB Cincinnati CEO Andrew Howell. At the same time, having a
range of member types -- such as big banks like JPMorgan along
with small ones, or both deposit-taking lenders and insurers --
limits the challenges that would come from having more
homogeneous borrowers that move in “lockstep,” he said.  Lending Cheaply  The perceived government backing and other strengths of
FHLB bonds mean that they can lend cheaply to members. On Sept.
30, the  Boston  FHLB offered 4 1/2-year advances at 1.85 percent,
according to its website. That day, JPMorgan’s $1.25 billion of
senior unsecured bonds due in January 2018 yielded 2.16 percent,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  FHLB advances, which require collateral exceeding the
amount borrowed, have withstood numerous crises, with none ever
suffering a loss on the loans, according to von Seggern.
Taxpayers get added protection because members are required to
buy more stock when taking out advances, making the system
“self-capitalizing,” Howell said.  Several of the FHLBs, including those based in San
Francisco, Boston and Pittsburgh, have experienced losses in
their investment portfolios, according to disclosures. The
Chicago and Seattle FHLBs faced formal enforcement actions over
mismanagement of aspects of their balance sheets. JPMorgan, Bank
of America and Citigroup are among lenders sued by FHLBs over
disclosures on mortgage bonds sold before the crisis. The banks
deny the claims.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which oversees the
institutions, monitors large member activity at each “to ensure
that the FHLB has the flexibility to maintain safe and sound
operations should a large borrower choose not to renew its
advances,” Denise Dunckel, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Redeeming Shares  JPMorgan’s share of the Cincinnati FHLB’s lending has grown
to 66 percent, from 48 percent on Dec. 31. Howell, the CEO, said
that the FHLB hasn’t added to its 200 employees and is able to
match the maturity of its funding to that of its loans.  It also can force a member to redeem its shares as its
borrowing is retired to avoid becoming over-capitalized, he
said. Too much capital led the Seattle FHLB to take on too much
risk in its investment portfolio, the American Banker newspaper
 reported  in 2005.  Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Bill Isaac,
who’s now chairman of Cincinnati FHLB member Fifth Third
Bancorp., said that as long as JPMorgan is using the money to
fund real-estate loans, its use of the system would match the
FHLBs’ intended mission.  Government Backstop  At the same time, Isaac said, the existence of a system
with a perceived government backstop is “something that we’ve
got to look at and debate” after the financial crisis.  That’s not really happening, according to von Seggern of
the FHLB trade group and Howell of the Cincinnati FHLB, who said
he last month visited policy makers in  Washington .  Lawmakers are instead considering how the FHLBs might play
a bigger role in the future amid a reform or elimination of
mortgage-finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, they
said. Until 2008,  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac operated as private
companies, while benefiting from a similar implied government
guarantee. That year, investors’ perceptions were confirmed when
the U.S. took over the firms.  Bipartisan legislation introduced this year in the Senate
that would replace Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with a U.S. agency
that sells catastrophic-loss insurance on mortgage securities
envisions the FHLBs offering small lenders a way to tap the
program.  “What I hear is, ‘This system works, and has done well
over the cycles,’” Howell said. While the FHLBs’ size and
government charters could be seen as creating the risk of
another taxpayer-funded bailout, it’s “something the system has
been well-positioned to keep from happening.”  Insurer Borrowing  While the FHLBs’ net lending would be shrinking without
JPMorgan, Bank of America and Citigroup, many other individual
members, particularly insurers, are also borrowing more,
according to e-mails and interviews with officials and spokesmen
from the New York, Cincinnati, Indianapolis, San Francisco and
Atlanta branches.  One reason banks of all sizes are increasing their FHLB
borrowing is to obtain longer-term funding that better matches
the duration of their assets to protect against a rise of
deposit costs from  record lows , according to officials at the
Federal Home Loan Banks of San Francisco and New York.  That’s one way in which the financial system is made safer
by the FHLBs, said Alfred DelliBovi, president of the Federal
Home Loan Bank of New York.  “Regulators frankly would like to see matched books in
most cases, and advances are a good way to match the maturities
of asset and liabilities,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 