-- Juventus Plans $13 Million Vidic Bid, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-10T07:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/juventus-plans-13-million-vidic-bid-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Juve Targets Vidic  Italian champion Juventus is planning an 8 million-pound
($13 million) bid for Manchester United captain Nemanja Vidic in
January, the  Sun reported .  Barcelona and Monaco are also interested in the 31-year-old
Serbian center-back, the newspaper added.  Rooney’s Reason  United striker  Wayne Rooney  said he wanted to leave in the
offseason because he was being played out of position in
midfield and is now “happy” and “settled” at Old Trafford
under new manager  David Moyes , the  Guardian reported .  “Everyone at the club knew where I wanted to play and I
think that’s why I was disappointed,” the Guardian cited Rooney
as saying. “I got told to play in midfield and I didn’t want
to. I just think there had to come a point when, for my own
career, I had to be a bit selfish really.”  Moyes Wants Hughes  Moyes wants to sign Derby County midfielder Will Hughes in
the January transfer window, the  Daily Mail reported .  Hughes, 18, is predominantly left-footed and considered one
of the best young talents in the Championship after making about
50 appearances for the Rams, the newspaper said.  Zenit Return?  Zenit  St. Petersburg  wants to re-sign defender  Martin Skrtel  from Liverpool and has set aside about 16 million pounds
for a new center-back in January, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Spurs Eye Salah  Tottenham Hotspur is considering a move for Basel’s Mohamed
Salah and plans more checks on the Egyptian winger, who’s valued
at 15 million pounds by the Swiss club, the  Daily Mail reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  