-- Hedge Fund Elliott Clings to Kabel Stock in Vodafone Buyout
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-10T20:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/kabel-shareholder-elliott-clings-to-shares-amid-vodafone-buyout.html
Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) 
shareholder Elliott Management Corp. is holding out as  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  attempts to persuade investors to cash out so it can
complete its takeover of the German cable company.  Elliott hasn’t reduced its 11 percent holding since
September, when investors were asked to tender their Kabel
Deutschland shares to Vodafone, the German company said at a
shareholder meeting in Munich today. The hedge fund may be
betting it can force a higher price from Vodafone using that
strategy, a person familiar with the takeover offer said last
month.  In Germany, investors can refuse to sell during a takeover
attempt and ask for a higher price, leaving it to a court to
decide on the stock’s value. Holders of about 77 percent of
 Kabel Deutschland ’s shareholders accepted Vodafone’s offer, the
Newbury, England-based company said on Oct. 7. All members of
Kabel Deutschland’s board agreed to sell their shares to
Vodafone as well, Chief Executive Officer Adrian von Hammerstein
said today.  Investors voted at today’s meeting to accept a domination
agreement, which would give Vodafone control of the company even
though some shareholders are withholding their stock, as well as
to accept a dividend of 2.50 euros a share, said Kuzey Esener, a
Vodafone spokesman.  Vodafone expects to pay investors who accept the offer next
week, the company said. Von Hammerstein will receive 6.6 million
euros ($8.9 million) in the sale, he said. Because this is
coming before the buyout offer closes next week, that means
Vodafone will pay 84.50 euros a share, or 7.5 billion euros.
Vodafone had agreed to cover the dividend if the deal closed
earlier.  Bundled Offers  A spokesman for Elliott Management didn’t immediately
respond to a call and e-mail seeking comment.  In addition to getting Kabel Deutschland’s 8.5 million
customers, the deal will give Vodafone a way to expand sales,
offering packages of TV, Internet and phone service. Vodafone
CEO Vittorio Colao has said he plans to take this approach to
the rest of  Europe , betting that selling multiple services to a
household will improve customer retention and increase monthly
bills.  Kabel Deutschland shares fell 0.9 percent to 93.35 euros in
 Frankfurt . Vodafone rose 1.1 percent to 217.40 pence in  London .  Germany is Vodafone’s biggest market, accounting for 18
percent of revenue, and has performed relatively well during a
Europe-wide slowdown that’s cut sales and caused the company to
report a 7.7 billion-pound ($12.3 billion) impairment on its
businesses in southern Europe in the fiscal year ended March 31.
German sales declined 4.6 percent that year compared to a 16
percent decline in  Italy  and an 18 percent drop in  Spain .  Consolidation Wave  Europe is going through a wave of consolidation attempts as
bidders take advantage of low valuations for telecommunications
assets. Vodafone sparred with  John Malone ’s Liberty Global Plc
for control of Kabel Deutschland. Liberty bought U.K. Internet
and television provider Virgin Media Inc. in June and has been
increasing its stake in Dutch cable-TV provider Ziggo NV,
reaching 28.5 percent, according to a July 26 regulatory filing.  A month after Vodafone announced the deal for Kabel
Deutschland, Spain’s Telefonica SA and Royal KPN NV of the
Netherlands agreed to combine their German phone businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  