-- Korean Banks’ Margins Seen at Four-Year Low on Rate Decline
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-10-10T04:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/korean-lenders-margins-seen-at-four-year-low-on-rate-decline.html
South Korean banks may close 2013
with the lowest profitability in four years as central  bank rate 
cuts meant to stimulate  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy squeeze
loan margins further.  Three rate decreases by the Bank of Korea since July 2012
have left borrowing costs near a three-year low and average net
interest margin for lenders, including  Shinhan Financial Group
Co. (055550) , at the lowest since 2009, according to Financial
Supervisory Service data.  “Rate reductions since last year have slammed into the
banks’ interest margins,” said Taye Shim, a Seoul-based analyst
at Daewoo Securities Co. who forecasts the gauge will slip to an
average 2.28 percent in 2013 from 2.51 percent last year at the
nation’s seven biggest  banks . “Loan margin will probably show
mild growth from 2014 after hitting a bottom in the second half
of this year.”  While the Bank of Korea today cut its growth forecast for
next year, it still expects the expansion to accelerate. Faster
growth and prospects for global rate increases may lift
profitability at South  Korea ’s seven biggest banks including KB
Financial Group Inc. by an average 10 basis points next year
from 2013, according to four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  South Korea ’s economy will expand 3.8 percent in 2014,
slower than the 4 percent previously forecast, the central bank
said. It left its projection for 2013’s growth at 2.8 percent.
It also kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 2.5
percent for a fifth month to bolster the economic rebound.  Profit Drop  The nation’s lenders since 2011 have cut executive ranks
and closed unprofitable branches to preserve profit amid
tightening margins and sluggish credit demand.  The average net interest margin at the country’s 18 banks
was 2.1 percent last year, the lowest since 2009, following the
global financial crisis, FSS data show. It dropped to 1.88
percent at the end of the second quarter, resulting in a 56
percent slump in lenders’ combined net income compared with a
year earlier, the data show.  Net interest margin for Southeast Asian banks averaged 4.5
percent and 2.9 percent for banks in the world’s top 20
economies, including South Korea, according to data from the
companies’ latest filings compiled by Bloomberg.  Combined second-quarter interest income for Korean lenders
stood at 18 trillion won, the lowest level since at least 2009,
according to the regulator.  Rate Gap  The time lag between adjustments on loan rates and the
rates banks pay on deposits has deepened the impact of central
bank rate cuts on banks’ profitability, according to Kim Jae
Woo, an analyst at Samsung Securities Co.  Interest rates  on almost 80 percent of the country’s
outstanding loans are variable and adjust quarterly to reflect
benchmark rates. That compares with the average 12-month term
for  time deposits  at Korean banks, he said.  The interest rate spread in August between what South
Korean banks charge customers on new loans, and the amount banks
pay customers on time deposits, narrowed to 1.92 percentage
points from 2.03 percentage points a year earlier, according to
central bank data.  “Interest margin isn’t a factor banks can control as it’s
closely tied to macroeconomic conditions,” said Kim Woo Jin, a
senior researcher at the Seoul-based Korea Institute of Finance.
“To Korean banks, whose revenue heavily relies on interest
income, the low-rate environment has brought huge negatives.”  Lending accounts for about 80 percent of the banks’ profit,
he said. South Korea’s total outstanding bank loans in July rose
4.1 percent from a year earlier to 1,129 trillion won ($1,048
billion), according to  Bank of Korea  data. Loans rose 3.4
percent last year to 1,099 trillion won, the slowest growth
since at least 1999.  ‘Spring Breeze’  While earnings at Korean lenders remain under pressure, the
Kospi Finance Index, a gauge of 51 financial stocks including
Shinhan, the country’s biggest banking group by market value,
and Woori Finance Holdings Co., has risen 2.5 percent this year.
The index’s gains indicate some investor optimism for the
industry’s prospects as the wider benchmark Kospi Index gained
0.2 percent this year.  The net interest margin for Korean banks is likely to get a
boost as the rate gap between loans and deposits narrows and the
Bank of Korea raises rates along with global peers, according
the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank will increase its benchmark rate to 2.75
percent in the third quarter of next year, according to the
median forecast in a survey of 22 economists by  Bloomberg News .  Cautious Optimism  “I’m cautiously optimistic about the Korean banking
industry from the second half onward,” said Im Jeong Jae, a
Seoul-based  fund manager  at BNP Paribas Asset Management Co.,
which oversees about $35 billion in assets. “We seem to have
left the worst behind in the second quarter as far as interest
margin and credit cost. Korean banks may finally see the long-waited spring breeze next year.”  The central bank’s rate cuts have also contributed to
Korean household debt rising to a record 980 trillion won in
June, making the prospect of higher rates a threat to the
country’s economic growth as borrowers pay more to service debt
when rates rise.  Swelling Debt  Swelling  household debt , the biggest risk to the nation’s
financial system, according to a Bank of Korea survey of 90
experts and fund managers in January, has spurred banks to boost
bad-debt provisions by 10 percent to 2.7 trillion won at the end
of the second quarter, further eroding earnings.  “The three core variables for banking stocks -- net
interest margin, credit costs and loan growth -- all have shown
a negative picture in the past couple of years,” Im said.  Standard Chartered Plc, the London-based bank that earns
about three-quarters of its profit from Asia, said in August it
would take a $1 billion write down on the value of its Korean
business and characterized the country as its “most difficult
market.”  “South Korean banks will need to accept the structural
changes of a low-growth era,” said Korea Institute of Finance’s
Kim. “The country no longer has the growth potential of an
emerging nation like Indonesia and  Malaysia . Banks need to find
a way to reduce their dependence on interest income and cut back
costs, which won’t be resolved overnight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  