-- Kuroda Says BOJ Prepared to Do What’s Necessary on Deflation
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-10-10T14:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/kuroda-says-boj-prepared-to-do-what-s-necessary-on-deflation-1-.html
Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said the bank will do what is necessary to defeat
deflation, while declining to discuss specific additional
measures it might take.  The bank’s asset-purchase program has “been exerting its
intended effect, which is quite encouraging,” Kuroda said at
the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  New York . “By continuing to
pursue” this policy, he said, “we are convinced that we will
definitely overcome deflation.”  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has gained 37
percent this year through today as a weakening yen helped boost
profits of exporters from Toyota Motor Corp. to Sony Corp.  “The economy is on track,” Kuroda said. “The real
economy, prices and expectations -- all of them are improving as
we intended.” Kuroda said he expects wages to start to rise
next year, and an increase in the  sales tax  to 8 percent from 5
percent starting in April won’t hamper growth.  It would be “premature” to speculate what additional
stimulus steps the central bank could take if the economy
faltered, Kuroda said. “At this stage, the economy is on track
and everything is going on as we intended so I don’t think it’s
appropriate for me” to speculate, he said.  Kuroda said the central bank’s policies aren’t aimed at
weakening the yen and are trying to boost the domestic economy.
“We do not target exchange rates,” he said.  The yen weakened to 98.13 to the dollar at 10:30 a.m. in
New York from 97.34 late yesterday.  Machinery Orders  Economic data this month have indicated the world’s third-largest economy continues to recover, with  sentiment  among large
manufacturers at the highest level since December 2007, and
machinery orders, an indicator for  capital spending , jumping to
the highest since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in 2008.  Positive developments are spreading in Japan’s economy and
financial markets and expectations are turning favorable, Kuroda
said on Oct. 4 after the central bank kept monetary policy
unchanged.  The Bank of Japan has promised to double the  monetary base ,
a gauge of the  money supply , by the end of next year in a bid to
generate 2 percent inflation in two years.  Kuroda said the central bank’s policies are aimed at
increasing inflation expectations.  “Prolonged deflation” has led to “persistent deflation
expectations,” Kuroda said today. “It is natural for prices
not to increase” when those expectations have “become
entrenched.”  Consumer Prices  Core consumer prices , which exclude fresh food, rose 0.8
percent in August, the largest increase since November 2008. The
increase was led by higher energy prices, with the weak yen and
the shutdown of all of Japan’s nuclear power plants increasing
the cost of the nation’s energy imports.  Kuroda said Japanese bond yields may “eventually” climb
if policy makers are able to boost expectations for price
increases.  “If we successfully raise inflation expectations to 2
percent,” it’s “irrational” for bondholders to “accept”
such low  interest rates , he said.  Until the central bank exits from its asset purchase
program, “we intend to contain as much as possible long-term
interest rates from rising,” Kuroda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  