-- N.Y. Comptroller Supporters Get Prison for Donor Fraud
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-10-10T18:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/n-y-comptroller-supporters-get-prison-for-donor-fraud.html
Two supporters of New York
comptroller and former mayoral candidate  John Liu  were sentenced
to prison for a scheme to send thousands of dollars in illegal
contributions to his campaign using straw donors.  Jia “Jenny” Hou, Liu’s former campaign treasurer, was
sentenced to 10 months while Xing Wu “Oliver” Pan, a
fundraiser, was ordered to serve four months.  Hou and Pan were convicted in May after a three-week trial
in federal court in  Manhattan  of campaign finance fraud in a
scheme to recruit people to pose as donors, conceal their
identities on filings to the city’s Campaign Finance Board and
then try to get matching funds provided by the city.  “The damage done by this crime in adding to the public’s
cynicism over the process is incalculable,” said U.S. District
Judge Richard Sullivan, who presided over the trial. “It makes
people shrug and say the system is corrupt.”  Irwin Rochman, a lawyer for Pan, asked Sullivan to sentence
his client to probation saying that a prison term would cause
“substantial harm” to Pan’s efforts to rebuild his life.
Prosecutors said that a prison term of eight to 14 months in
prison was warranted for Pan.  Election Process  Sullivan said probation officials had properly recommended
a sentence of four to 10 months for Pan. He said the crime for
which Pan was convicted “is really about undermining the
election process and undermining the electoral system.”  Hou was also convicted of attempted  wire fraud , false
statements and obstruction of the federal investigation. Her
lawyer, Gerald Lefcourt, asked Sullivan to impose a non-jail
sentence, citing her background and character.  Assistant U.S. attorneys Brian Jacobs and Justin Anderson,
who sought a prison term of 24 to 30 months for Hou, said in a
memo to the court that she had attempted to deceive the Campaign
Finance Board in the straw donor scheme. The jury found Hou
guilty of obstructing a federal grand jury investigation into
the matter by failing to produce documents in response to
federal subpoenas and falsely claiming that she’d complied with
investigators’ requests.  Matching Funds  The scheme was uncovered after a  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  agent, posing as a businessman known as “Richard
Kong,” approached Pan seeking to make a $16,000 donation to the
Liu campaign, using straw donors which could be used to obtain
matching campaign funds.  During the trial, jurors saw secretly recorded
conversations and videos of sessions between Pan, Hou and Kong,
which prosecutors said were evidence of wrongdoing.  Prosecutors said that Kong’s donation was above the maximum
allowed by the city campaign finance laws. Kong was actually FBI
Special Agent John Chiue, posing as a rich businessman from
 Texas  seeking to open a chain of restaurants in  New York City .  At an August 2011 meeting secretly recorded by the FBI and
shown to the jury at trial, Pan discussed with Kong how to
circumvent the city’s $4,950-a-person campaign donation limit.
Pan was heard instructing Kong to find 20 straw donors who would
purport to make contributions of $800 each in their own names.
He later used money received from the undercover agent to
reimburse the donors, the U.S. said.  After the agent gave Pan $16,000 in cash, the two discussed
an event for which people were recruited to pose as Liu donors,
the U.S. said.  “Would they get matching contribution?” the agent asked
on the tape.  “Uh huh,” Pan replied, adding later, “Legally, in theory
it comes from everybody, but...it’s your event.”  Liu, who wasn’t charged in the case, finished fourth in the
Democratic primary for mayor in September.  The case is U.S. v. Pan, 1:12-cr-00153, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  