-- Ex-Fed Examiner Claims Firing for Finding Goldman Lapses
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-10-11T23:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/new-york-fed-sued-by-ex-bank-examiner-over-goldman-policy.html
A former senior bank examiner for
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  sued her ex-employer,
claiming she was fired because she refused to change her
findings that  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lacked a firmwide
conflict-of-interest policy.  Carmen Segarra, 41, said in a lawsuit filed yesterday in
Manhattan federal court that she examined the legal and
compliance divisions of Goldman Sachs in late 2011 and early
2012 and found that they lacked a policy that conformed with
federal banking regulations. She alleges she was fired because
she refused to withdraw her findings.  “Defendants repeatedly obstructed and interfered with
Carmen’s examination of Goldman over several months,” according
to the complaint. “Finally, in May 2012, defendants directed
Carmen to change the findings of her examination. Carmen
refused. Because Carmen refused to change her findings,
defendants terminated her three business days later, on May 23,
2012.”  Michael Silva, who is named as a defendant, was the  New
York  Fed’s relationship manager for Goldman Sachs, according to
Segarra. In a meeting, he said the Fed “possessed information
about Goldman that could cause Goldman to ‘explode,’” Segarra
said in her complaint.  No Policy  In the filing, Segarra cites e-mails with Silva in which
she argued that Goldman Sachs doesn’t have a firmwide policy
that met requirements while Silva accuses her of telling him the
bank didn’t have a policy at all. She also cited exchanges that
undercut the thrust of her complaint, including claims by
superiors that her analysis was incorrect and questioning her
judgment.  In a letter today, the New York Fed asked U.S. District
Judge Ronnie Abrams to order parts of Segarra’s complaint
sealed, including all the e-mails and other attachments,
claiming they disclose “confidential supervisory information,”
in violation of federal law. Those documents are now open
records.  “CSI may not be communicated by any Federal Reserve
employee without the permission that is required by the
regulation,” David Gross, counsel and vice president for the
New York Fed, said in the letter. “Ms. Segarra had no
permission. She purloined CSI when she was discharged by the New
York Fed, and now seeks to use the court as an enabler of
further wrongful communication of that information.”  Gross told Abrams that Segarra demanded the New York Fed
pay her more than $7 million for her claim.  ‘Protected Activity’  “A judge would have to weigh whether she was engaging in a
protected activity or just doing a bad job,” said Michael Weil,
an employment-law partner at Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP
who isn’t involved in the case. “People can be true whistle-blowers even if they are wrong, but they have to have been both
objective and acting in good faith in what they were doing.”  In addition to the New York Fed and Silva, Segarra sued
Silva’s deputy, Michael Koh, and Johnathon Kim, Segarra’s
supervisor.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to
comment on the case, saying only that “The New York Fed
provides multiple venues and layers of recourse for its
employees to freely express concerns about the institutions it
supervises,” and that “such concerns are treated seriously and
investigated appropriately with a high degree of independence.”  Goldman Policy  Andrew Williams , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, said in an e-mail that the company has no knowledge of
internal Fed discussions or the matters raised by Segarra.  “Goldman Sachs has a comprehensive approach to addressing
conflicts through firmwide and divisional policies and
infrastructure,” Williams said.  Segarra’s lawyer, Linda Stengle, said yesterday in a phone
interview that her client was one of a group of bank examiners
hired by the New York Fed in 2011 under the Dodd-Frank Act. She
began Oct. 31, 2011, and was assigned to examine Goldman Sachs’s
conflict-of-interest program in three transactions: Solyndra
LLC,  Capmark Financial Group Inc. (CPMK)  and  Kinder Morgan (KMI)  Inc.’s
takeover of El Paso Corp.  Segarra later found that Goldman Sachs fabricated
information about performing due diligence on a fourth
transaction, one involving  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , according to the
complaint. She also claimed Goldman Sachs had misrepresented the
New York Fed’s approval of that transaction.  Off Guard  “The Federal Reserve Bank of New York was clearly caught
off guard,” Stengle said. “The New York Fed had expanded the
number of examiners it had in 2011, they were doing a more in-depth examination and she happened to be the person who drew
Goldman.”  Segarra claims the defendants harmed her career and
reputation by firing her for cause. She seeks an order stating
they illegally interfered with her bank examination and
reinstating her to her job. Segarra also asked for unspecified
damages.  “To our knowledge, an action like this has not been filed
before, so we’re anxious that the court will do the right
thing,” Stengle said.  Segarra said in a May 11, 2012, e-mail cited in the
complaint that Goldman Sachs “does not have a conflicts-of-interest policy, not firmwide, and not for any divisions.”  “I would go so far as to say they have never had a policy
on conflicts,” Segarra wrote. “I am happy to circulate
Barclays’ and Morgan Stanley’s conflicts-of-interest policy so
you guys can get a sense of what such a policy actually looks
like -- let me know!”  ‘Very Troubled’  Two days later, Silva sent her an e-mail saying he was
“very troubled” by her messages and questioned her judgment,
saying that she wasn’t following procedures for flagging matters
requiring attention.  Silva said he had repeated her assertion that Goldman Sachs
had no conflict-of-interest policies during a meeting, “relying
in part on statements that you have made repeatedly to me.” He
said he was later corrected.  “It was pointed out to me after the vetting session that,
in fact, GS has a written code of conduct,” Silva wrote.
“Moreover, in light of your repeated and quite adamant
assertions that Goldman has no written conflict-of-interest
policy, you can understand why I was surprised to find a
‘Conflict of Interest Section’ (pasted below) in Goldman’s code
of conduct that seems to me to define COI, prohibit COIs, and
instruct employees what to do about COIs.”  Silva said he also reviewed another Goldman document
outlining policies and procedures for conflicts.  ‘Plainly Incorrect’  “In light of these documents, repeated statements that you
have made to me that GS does not have a COI policy AT ALL are
debatable at best, or alternatively, plainly incorrect,” Silva
wrote.  “The existence of written GS COI materials that I have
discussed, which are easily available, combined with the absence
of clearly established Federal Reserve standards in this area,
have caused me to raise serious questions in my mind as to your
judgment in reaching and communicating conclusions without a
sound basis in the supervisory process and before the due
diligence and vetting process is complete,” he wrote.  Goldman Sachs sought to address the firm’s conflicts of
interest in 2010, when it created a business standards committee
to review the firm’s operations. The move came after it was sued
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over the 2007
sale of a mortgage-linked investment.  Fabrice Tourre  The company agreed to pay $550 million and change business
practices to settle SEC claims it misled investors. Fabrice Tourre, a former Goldman Sachs vice president who worked on the
deal, was found liable for his role and faces unspecified fines.
He has asked the court to reverse its verdict and grant him a
new trial.  In the business standards committee’s January 2011 report,
eight of the 39 recommendations addressed conflicts of interest.
Those included moving some underwriting units out of the trading
division, giving clients written disclosure of what activities
it may conduct while advising the client, and making a
“comprehensive compilation” of its conflict-of-interest
policies available to employees during training.  The firm said in May that chief executive officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 59, led 23 three-hour sessions in 2011 and 2012 with
partners and managing directors that stressed personal
accountability and included a case study about communications
within the firm and with clients following the report.  ‘Disturbing Nature’  Less than 14 months after the report was published, Goldman
Sachs was rebuked by Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine
for “incomplete and inadequate” handling of a “real and
potent” conflict of interest in advising on the merger of
 Kinder Morgan  and El Paso.  Strine cited “the disturbing nature of some of the
behavior” leading to the terms of the $21.1 billion deal,
Goldman Sachs’s biggest takeover assignment of 2011. The bank,
which stood to get a $20 million fee from El Paso, had a $4
billion stake in Kinder Morgan and two employees on its board,
both of whom recused themselves from negotiations.  In addition, Goldman Sachs partner Stephen D. Daniel, then-co-head of global energy investment banking in Houston and lead
banker on the El Paso deal, didn’t disclose his personal
ownership of about $340,000 in Kinder Morgan stock, the judge
wrote. Daniel retired from the firm this year, the Wall Street
Journal reported.  The case is Segarra v. Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
13-cv-07173, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York
at   csalas1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  