-- New Jersey Can’t Delay Start of Gay Marriages, Court Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-10T21:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/new-jersey-can-t-delay-start-of-gay-marriages-court-says.html
New Jersey can’t block same-sex
marriages while it appeals a decision that overturned a
statewide ban on such unions, a court said.  Superior Court Judge Mary Jacobson today denied a request
to delay implementation of her ruling that same-sex marriages
can be permitted as of Oct. 21. Acting Attorney General John J.
Hoffman asked Jacobson on Oct. 1 to put the ruling on hold while
his office appealed directly to the state Supreme Court. The
state today filed an emergency appeal of Jacobson’s decision to
the appellate division of the Superior Court.  “Plaintiffs would suffer many hardships of constitutional
magnitude if the stay were to be issued, but the state has not
demonstrated how it would suffer in any meaningful way if the
order is enforced,” Jacobson said in the ruling denying the
Oct. 1 request.  Jacobson said Sept. 27 that the state’s 2006 civil-union
law reserving marriage for heterosexual couples was
unconstitutional. Her decision, in favor of six same-sex couples
and their children, came three months after the U.S. Supreme
Court struck down a federal law denying benefits to same-sex
married couples.  ‘Social Implications’  New Jersey faces immediate harm from Jacobson’s decision,
according to the emergency filing. The state’s Supreme Court
recognized in 2006 that the “issue of how to define marriage
has far-reaching social implications, and alteration of the
traditional definition of marriage would render a profound
change in the public consciousness of a social institution of
ancient origin,” the state said in the filing.  Governor Chris Christie, a Republican, vetoed a same-sex
marriage bill last year. The governor, who is seeking re-election in November, has called for the issue to be settled in
a public referendum and has criticized the court for legislating
from the bench.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, wasn’t
immediately available to comment on the ruling.  “This is a historic moment for all loving and committed
couples in New Jersey,” Mike Premo, campaign manager for New
Jersey United for Marriage, said in a statement. “The fact that
those who have waited so long for this moment can get married in
just 11 days is truly amazing and something to be celebrated.”  14 States  Jacobson’s ruling brings the number of states allowing gay
marriages to 14 plus the District of Columbia. Another 29 states
have constitutional amendments prohibiting such unions and six
have made it illegal by law.  The Supreme Court’s June ruling invalidated that part of
the 1996 federal Defense of Marriage Act that said the U.S.
government could only recognize those marriages between one man
and one woman.  “While this is an amazing decision, it is far from over,”
Troy Stevenson, executive director for plaintiff Garden State
Equality, said in a statement. “We still must fight on both
fronts: the legislative route and the courts.”  The case is Garden State Equality v. Dow, L-001729-11, New
Jersey Superior Court, Mercer County (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  