-- New York City Opera Says It Has Possiblilty for ‘Merger’
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-10T20:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/new-york-city-opera-says-buyer-interested-in-costume-thrift-shop.html
New York City Opera , which filed for
bankruptcy court protection last week after years of management
missteps, told a judge at least one other cultural institution
may be interested in buying some of its operations.  The entity, which wasn’t named, was referred to as a
“potential partner” or a “potential merger candidate” by the
opera’s lawyer, Kenneth Rosen, today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan. The opera also has a potential nonprofit buyer for
its costume thrift shop, he said.  “A few cultural institutions are interested in preserving
some aspect of the opera,” Rosen, of Lowenstein Sandler LLP in
New York, said at the hearing. “We are entertaining
everything” and will provide details “in the not too distant
future.”  The opera company, created 70 years ago as the “people’s
opera” because of its affordable tickets, filed a Chapter 11
petition on Oct. 3 after it failed to meet an emergency online
fundraising goal of $7 million. The nonprofit organization,
which this year produced “ Anna Nicole ,” about the late tabloid
celebrity, listed as much as $10 million in assets and debt in
court filings and said it will liquidate.  The opera also asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane to let
it refund about $323,000 in pre-paid opera tickets and pay laid
off workers for their unused vacation time. Lawyers for union
musicians objected today, saying their wages may need to come
first. The opera said the money doesn’t belong to them.  The judge put off ruling on the motions and scheduled
another hearing for Oct. 24.  Office Space  Rosen, who has been representing the opera for free for
about two years, said his law firm offered its own office space
to the opera’s remaining employees at no charge. The opera laid
off most of its workers after deciding to wind down in court.  In 2011-12, the last year for which results are available,
ticket sales were $1.1 million, down 87 percent from 2005-06.  The case is New York City Opera Inc., 13-13240, U.S
Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  