-- Nordic Currencies Tank as Inflation Slowdown Saps Rate Bets
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-10-10T08:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/nordic-currencies-tank-as-inflation-slowdown-saps-rate-bets.html
The currencies of  Sweden  and Norway
slumped after reports showed inflation pressures eased in the
largest Nordic economies, cooling bets that  interest rates  will
rise.  The Norwegian krone lost as much as 1.2 percent versus
euro, reaching the weakest level since Nov. 29, 2010. Sweden’s
currency slid 0.7 percent to 8.8078 per euro.  A report in Sweden showed headline inflation unexpectedly
held at 0.1 percent, when economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
predicted faster price growth. Underlying inflation in Norway
slowed more than estimated in September to 1.7 percent. Policy
makers at both nations’ central banks last month kept rates
unchanged and signaled higher rates next year.  The June 2014 future on the Riksbank’s main rate slid three
basis points to 1 percent, signaling no change by then. The
future traded as high as 1.2 percent in August.  Sweden’s Riksbank kept its repo rate at 1 percent last
month, in part to avoid fueling  household debt , and predicted it
would raise rates late next year. At the same time, inflation
has trailed the bank’s 2 percent target for 21 months. Norges
Bank last month kept the main rate unchanged at 1.5 percent and
signaled faster tightening as the krone weakened and  house
prices  and consumer debt hover at record levels.  The annual rate in Norway, adjusted for taxes and energy
prices, fell to 1.7 percent from 2.5 percent,  Statistics Norway 
said in a statement on its website today. The rate was seen at
2.2 percent, according to a median forecast of 10 economists in
a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  