-- Norwegian Air Says 15 Boeing Technicians Working on 787 Problems
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-10-10T17:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/norwegian-air-says-15-boeing-technicians-working-on-787-problems.html
Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  said 15
 Boeing Co. (BA)  technicians are working to resolve faults that led to
the grounding of one of its 787 jets and will remain to do
maintenance on the airline’s other Dreamliner.  “The other plane is performing well,” Chief Executive
Officer Bjoern Kjos said in an interview in  New York  today. It
will be taken out of service “later” and undergo routine
maintenance only, the executive said.  Glitches on the two Dreamliners operated by Norwegian Air,
Europe’s fourth-biggest discount airline, have included a brake
fault that delayed the second plane’s entry into the fleet in
early September and a cockpit oxygen-supply flaw. While hiccups
with the Dreamliner’s introduction have slowed Norwegian Air’s
push into low-cost long-haul services that began in May, the
airline is committed to the jet and will considering buying the
larger 787-9 model, Kjos said.  “We think it’s a fantastic airplane,” the executive said,
adding that the carrier did speak with Airbus SAS about ordering
the manufacturer’s new A350 jet. “We need more Dreamliners.
It’s highly likely we’ll look at the 787-9.”  Boeing’s airliner, distinctive for its composite fuselage
and electrical architecture, made its commercial debut in 2011.
Regulators grounded 787s worldwide for three months following
the overheating of  lithium-ion batteries  on two 787s in January.  The Fornebu, Norway-based carrier ordered 222 Boeing and
Airbus planes last year valued at 127 billion kroner ($21
billion), including eight 787s. Destinations outside the Nordic
region include Bangkok and New York, and the airline plans
services to  Orlando ,  Florida , starting in May.  New Routes  New route announcements are “highly likely” if the
company gains a permanent Irish Air Operator Certificate, Kjos
said. A ruling is expected in December, he said.  Norwegian Air has sought to leverage the 787’s lower
operating costs in a push to offer discounted trans-Atlantic
trips at a profit and succeed where long-haul no-frills carriers
such as Laker Airways have failed. The company outlined plans in
September to hire as many as 350 U.S. employees and add bases at
existing destinations New York and  Fort Lauderdale , Florida.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  