-- Not All Voters Equal as States Move to Two-Tier Ballots
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/not-all-voters-equal-as-states-move-to-two-tier-ballots.html
Arizona and  Kansas , where top state
posts come up for grabs next year, are creating two-tiered
voting systems to bar some residents from casting ballots in all
but congressional races unless they prove they’re U.S. citizens.  The dual methods are in response to a U.S. Supreme Court
ruling in June that bars Arizona from rejecting federal voter-registration forms that don’t include proof of citizenship,
which is required by both states. To comply, both plan to
provide those voters with ballots listing just federal races.  “It is quite likely going to disenfranchise a number of
voters,” said Julie Ebenstein, a lawyer with the Voting Rights
Project of the American Civil Liberties Union in New York. “It
is going to cause a lot of expense to county election officials
and confusion.”  State officials say they have little choice: the high court
didn’t invalidate the statutes that require proof of citizenship
to vote in state and local races. Critics say the mandates are
designed to impede ballot access for minorities, the poor and
older residents who may not have the needed documentation, such
as a passport or a birth certificate.  “It’s a little bit of a mess for election officials,”
said Matt Roberts, a spokesman for  Arizona  Secretary of State
Ken Bennett. “We found ourselves in the middle of these two
things.”  Motor Voter  Supporters of the proof-of-citizenship requirements, passed
by ballot initiative in Arizona in 2004 and by Kansas lawmakers
in 2011, say they’re needed to ensure that noncitizens don’t
participate in elections. On the federal form, created as part
of the so-called “Motor Voter Law” intended to make
registration easier, applicants swear that they are citizens,
under penalty of perjury.  The state measures reflect larger battles over ballot
access and the role of states in combating illegal immigration.
In the months leading up to last year’s presidential election,
Republicans pushed new laws requiring voters to present
identification at the polls and other measures they said were
needed to prevent fraud. Democrats cried foul, charging that the
laws sought to suppress participation by those likely to favor
their candidates, such as young people and Latinos.  Kay Curtis, spokeswoman for Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, said her state’s requirements aren’t set up to prevent
voting by anyone who is eligible. Kobach, a Republican, is
credited with helping Arizona lawmakers draft a 2010 immigration
law that was mostly struck down by the Supreme Court in 2012.  “The law applies to every Kansan equally,” she said.  Thousands Rejected  More than 18,000 Kansas residents who have tried to
register to vote since January haven’t been accepted because
they didn’t provide proof of citizenship, Curtis said. Most of
those used state forms and are Republicans. She said some later
told county officials that they weren’t U.S. citizens.  Kobach’s office issued guidance in July to county election
offices on how to implement the two-tiered balloting method for
those who registered to vote using the federal form.  Kansas state Representative Jim Ward, a Democrat from
Wichita, said he believes the dual-ballot method is a further
attempt by Kobach to suppress voter turnout and secure his own
political future.  “I think it is reprehensible,” said Ward, who’s exploring
whether creating the system should have gone through the
legislature. He predicted “chaos” at the polls. “It’s un-American, it’s undemocratic and there is no rational basis for
it.”  Suing Agency  Taking another tack in response to the court ruling, both
states sued the U.S. Election Assistance Commission on Aug. 21,
seeking to compel the agency to include state proof-of-citizenship requirements on the federal voter-registration form.
While the agency has denied such requests, the Supreme Court
said the states could seek judicial review of those decisions.  In Arizona, Bennett sought advice from fellow Republican,
Attorney General Tom Horne following the high court ruling.
Horne issued  an opinion  Oct. 7 instructing election officials to
create two separate voter registration rolls, one for those who
proved their citizenship and one for those who didn’t.  In Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix, about 900
people are expected to get federal-only ballots, said County
Recorder Helen Purcell. While almost 30,000 people have used the
federal form to register in the past several years, most of
those provided a driver’s license number or some other proof of
citizenship that county officials verified, she said.  Added Costs  The additional ballots will cost the county between
$225,000 and $250,000, according to estimates from her office.
Affected voters will be urged to provide the documentation that
will let them cast ballots in state and local elections, too.  “I hope we can do enough with a letter and education to
reach out to these people,” Purcell said. “I don’t want to see
anyone disenfranchised.”  Advocacy groups seeking to register new college students
and Latino voters in Arizona often use the federal form because
it is much simpler, said Sam Wercinski, executive director of
the Arizona Advocacy Network in Phoenix. The nonprofit group
works to increase civic participation among underrepresented
constituencies.  “They are trying to circumvent our victory before the U.S.
Supreme Court,” Wercinski, whose group was among those that
challenged the Arizona law, said of Republicans and others who
support the statute and the dual-ballot system.  “They are trying to cause confusion and discourage people
from using the federal form, because they want to make it more
difficult to register to vote,” he said. “They want low
turnout so they can retain power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 