-- Numericable CEO Targets Web Users for Growth Ahead of IPO
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-10-10T14:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/numericable-ceo-targets-web-users-for-growth-ahead-of-ipo.html
Numericable SAS, the French cable-TV
provider preparing for an initial public offering, plans to
appeal to investors by tapping into rising demand for speedier
Internet connections.  “Investors are interested in cable operators reinventing
themselves through the technology shift to fiber -- markets are
fairly open to that right now,” Chief Executive Officer Eric Denoyer said in an interview this week. “The Numericable story
is shifting to a growth story, and that’s what we want to take
to the market.”  After focusing in the past five years on cost cuts, debt
restructuring and integrating acquisitions, the company is
upgrading its network to faster fiber technology to jump-start
sales growth. Denoyer is betting a better network will help him
sell packages of ultra-fast Internet, TV and fixed phone at a
premium and challenge rivals such as  Orange SA. (ORA)   Numericable, based in Champs-sur-Marne, France, is set to
complete its planned IPO before year-end, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be named
because they weren’t authorized to discuss the process. The
cable operator, which gave analysts access to its financial
information last month as part of the IPO, is seeking an
enterprise value, which includes debt, of 4 billion euros ($5.4
billion) to 5 billion euros, one of the people said. The
company’s net debt as of June was about 2.8 billion euros.  Sales Forecast  Numericable, which isn’t yet allowed to provide the details
of its IPO plans and timetable, has said it will do so in the
coming weeks, after it gets French market regulator AMF’s go-ahead. Isabelle Mas, a spokeswoman for the company, declined to
comment on details of the sale.  The company forecasts revenue growth of 2 percent to 5
percent a year from 2013 to 2016, with an adjusted margin on
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of 50 percent in 2016. Last year, sales shrank 0.3 percent to
1.3 billion euros and the Ebitda margin was 47.6 percent.  Persuading consumers to spend more may prove a challenge
for Numericable as  France  struggles with unemployment at a 14-year high. The cable operator is also up against tough
competition from telecommunications rivals, from Orange to
discounter Iliad SA, which have shifted focus back to fixed-line
services as mobile revenue fades amid price wars.  ‘Next Chapter’  “The natural way for us to write the next chapter of our
story is the IPO. It will bring liquidity to our shareholders
and help finance our growth,” Denoyer said. “It’s a solid
investment case, with network assets, good margins and cash
flows, as well as strong visibility.”  Last month, Numericable registered a plan to sell shares in
an IPO, including a capital increase of 200 million euros to 250
million euros.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are
managing the share sale, along with banks including  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)   The cable company’s owners include private-equity firms
Carlyle Group LP, Cinven Group Ltd. and Altice.  Numericable, which has 1.7 million subscribers, plans to
invest about 375 million euros annually starting next year on
renovating and expanding its network. Its network connects to 10
million homes in France, half of which through the faster fiber
technology.  France’s former telecommunications monopoly Orange, which
also sells packages of fixed-line high speed Internet, phone and
TV, had 10 million fixed broadband customers as of June.
France’s biggest carrier has said that bundling fixed and mobile
into a single bill has helped it fend off competition.  Cable Targets  Cable companies have been pushed to center-stage in  Europe 
as potential targets for telecommunications companies looking to
expand in adjacent business without risking being stopped by
competition authorities.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is poised to
complete its 7.7 billion-euro takeover of Kabel Deutschland
Holding AG as early as this month.  Numericable’s peers Kabel Deutschland, Liberty Global Plc,
Telenet Group Holding NV and Ziggo NV have an enterprise value,
on average, of 4.7 times 2012 sales, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. At 5 billion euros, Numericable would be valued at
3.8 times 2012 sales.  IPO volumes in Europe rose about sixfold last quarter,
according to Bloomberg data, as investors resumed buying on
strengthening economies and an easing euro debt crisis. Activity
is also returning in France’s capital markets, as Numericable
joins local companies including Web-advertising company Criteo
SA and floor maker Tarkett SA that are planning listings at home
and in the U.S. this quarter.  Speed Need  Though the high-speed fixed Internet market is showing
little growth in customer numbers -- most households already
have a subscription -- the need for increased bandwidth is
becoming more pressing. Consumers are connecting more devices on
their home Internet network to watch high-definition video, play
games with rich graphics and access photos and files stored on
remote servers.  Numericable is also betting consumers will pay more for
their monthly fixed subscription if their set-top box includes
extra services such as YouTube and Twitter.  The need for speed will be helped by a change of technology
on wireless networks, as mobile carriers also upgrade their
infrastructure to support faster, so-called fourth-generation
technology, Denoyer said.  “With 4G, consumers get speeds of tens of megabits per
second on their smartphone while walking around in the street,”
Denoyer said. “I don’t expect they’ll accept dropping back to a
tenth of that when at home on an old connection. They’ll
definitely want to upgrade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  