-- NYC Taxis of Tomorrow Will Roll Even After Judge Blocks Plan
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-10-10T14:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/nyc-s-taxis-of-tomorrow-will-roll-even-after-judge-blocks-plan.html
A  New York  judge’s decision to block
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s plan for a uniform fleet of van-like
yellow cabs with sliding doors and skylight windows won’t stop
them from cruising city streets.  While they may not be the only cabs allowed, as Bloomberg
wants under his Taxi of Tomorrow initiative,  Nissan Motor Co.’s (7201) 
vehicles costing almost $30,000 will still be sold to
individuals and fleet owners who choose to buy them. The
Yokohama, Japan-based carmaker is manufacturing them in  Mexico ,
with some modified for wheelchair users in  Indiana , said  Brian Brockman , a Nissan spokesman based in Franklin,  Tennessee .  “We just got them about three days ago, and we’ve sold
five to individual operators,” said car dealer Howard Koeppel,
who’s invested more than $1 million in a Queens-based garage for
the Nissan taxis and other vehicles. “They’re good cars.”  Supreme Court Justice Shlomo Hagler ruled Oct. 8 that the
city exceeded its authority in requiring that cab operators have
no choice except to buy a remodeled taxi version of Nissan’s
NV200 van. Unless the Bloomberg administration can win an appeal
before Dec. 31, when the mayor leaves office, the effort to
standardize a fleet of 15,237 cabs with the Nissan-built vans
will die. The cars are due to hit the streets Oct. 28.  ‘Safest Taxicab’  “Aside from its being by far the safest taxicab ever
designed, the NV200 has superior leg room, a panoramic roof and
a host of other comforts and amenities,” said Taxi and
Limousine Commission Chairman David Yassky. The model sells for
a top price of $29,700, fully equipped.  Officials wanted to give one carmaker an exclusive contract
so that the manufacturer would have an incentive to include
passenger amenities and durability features while keeping the
price low, Yassky said last year. Current taxis are built by
nine manufacturers, and the fleet was dominated by  Ford Motor
Co.’s (F)  Crown Victoria, which the company stopped making.  The Nissan cabs feature seats of leather-like fabric woven
with an antimicrobial vinyl resin. Passenger-controlled air-filtration and cooling systems reduce odors, Nissan says on its
website. The cabs also have overhead reading lights and floor
lighting. Chargers with 12-volt electric outlets and two USB
ports may be used to power mobile devices.  Driver Praise  Bhairavi Desai, spokeswoman and organizer of the New York
Taxi Workers Alliance, a drivers’ union, praised the Bloomberg
program, saying it “allows us to use our collective purchasing
power to lower the sales costs and have an unprecedented
150,000-mile warranty.”  The lawsuit challenging the Taxi of Tomorrow, she said, was
filed by “deep-pocketed companies that charge high-interest  car
loans  to drivers.” The suit was brought by the Greater New York
Taxi Association, a group of medallion owners.  Warren Trosky, 57, a third-generation owner of J&I
Maintenance Corp., a Brooklyn-based fleet of 65 cabs, said
 government regulation  should be limited to safety issues and
such details as interior leg room and window capacity, not what
model to buy.  Free Enterprise  “It’s the  United States of America ,” said Trosky, who
wasn’t involved in the lawsuit. “Doesn’t sound like free
enterprise, does it?”  New York’s top lawyer, Michael Cardozo, said in a statement
Oct. 8 that the city would appeal. The statement didn’t say
whether the city may be liable to Nissan for its inability to
make good on its promised exclusive contract. Kate Ahlers, a
spokesman for Cardozo, declined to comment yesterday.  “We are evaluating the options we have for the next steps,
and we’re also continuing to plan to put the vehicles into
service later this month,” said Brockman, the Nissan spokesman,
in a telephone interview.  Both major-party candidates who want to succeed Bloomberg
support taxi fleet owners’ opposition to the mayor’s plan and
say they wouldn’t pursue an appeal. The mayor, who is the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP, is barred from seeking a fourth term.  Democrat Bill de Blasio, 52, who’s received more than
$200,000 in taxi-industry donations, has said he opposes the
plan because not all cabs would be wheelchair accessible. The
Bloomberg plan calls for about 2,000 of them to be fitted for
disabled riders.  Jobs Cited  Additionally, de Blasio said in a letter to the taxi
commission last year that the city selected “a bid that did not
contain a plan to create jobs in  New York City  despite the large
contract awarded to the company.” De Blasio is evaluating the
ruling, his spokesman, Dan Levitan, said yesterday by e-mail.  Republican Joseph Lhota, 59, has cited “environmental and
business concerns” because Bloomberg’s plan would add 2,000
yellow cabs as well as 15,000 green-colored liveries to service
passengers in underserved areas of northern  Manhattan  and the
four other boroughs.  Bloomberg’s outer-borough plan won approval in June when
the state’s Court of Appeals declared it constitutional. Since
August, apple-green sedans have been stopping for street-hailing
passengers where yellow-cab service had been hard to find.  Another Suit  The approved increase in the fleet also meant that the
future administration will be benefit from more than $1 billion
in revenue from the sales of new medallions, or taxi-operating
licenses, which trade for about $1 million each.  The Taxi of Tomorrow program is also facing litigation in
federal court. Disabled people and advocates for the handicapped
sued the commission in federal court in Manhattan in January
2011, seeking to force the city to make its entire taxi fleet
wheelchair accessible.  U.S. District Judge George B. Daniels ruled in December
2011 that the commission subjects disabled people who use
wheelchairs and scooters to discrimination, in violation of the
Americans with Disabilities Act.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York overturned Daniels’
ruling in June 2012 and found that the act doesn’t obligate the
commission to require taxi owners to provide access for disabled
people. The plaintiffs in August asked Daniels to allow it to
amend its lawsuit to declare that the NV200 is a van and
therefore must be accessible.  The state case is Greater New York Taxi Association v. New
York City Taxi and Limousine Commission, 101083/2013, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman at   hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  