-- NYSE Open to Major Changes in Market Structure Debate, CEO Says
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-10-10T19:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/nyse-open-to-major-changes-in-market-structure-debate-ceo-says.html
NYSE Euronext, the biggest U.S.
stock exchange owner, is willing to consider major changes to
how it does business as part of a discussion on reworking the
structure of American markets, according to Chief Executive
Officer  Duncan Niederauer .  NYSE would review issues such as its status as a self-regulator of customers and its practice of giving rebates to
high-volume users of its markets as part of industrywide talks,
Niederauer said. He didn’t say what concessions he expected from
other market participants beyond a willingness to compromise.  “A lot of people want to make it like it’s a fist fight or
a food fight,” Niederauer said today during a speech at an
Investment Company Institute conference in New York. “It
doesn’t have to be.”  Niederauer spoke as his company’s acquisition by
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. nears a projected Nov. 4
completion date and amid pressure from U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White to prevent the
technology breakdowns that are plaguing American markets.
Niederauer was among bourse executives who met with White on
Sept. 12, months after NYSE officials went to  Washington  to
discuss restrictions on private trading venues including dark
pools that compete with the New York Stock Exchange.  Non-public venues, which are run by many of the same
broker-dealers that NYSE oversees as a self-regulatory
organization, or SRO, now handle almost 40 percent of U.S. stock
trading, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
remains the single largest operator, with about one-fifth of the
nation’s volume handled on its three markets.  Making Consessions  Niederauer said today that the industry should consider a
trade-at rule, a regulation that would keep trades away from
off-exchange venues unless those markets improve upon prices
available on public markets. At the same time, the nation’s
exchange operators could consider giving up the maker-taker
model that pays firms that provide liquidity.  “What we’re committing to do is to show up and say, ‘If
everybody wants to, put everything from SRO status to market
data to the trade-at rule to access fees to maker-taker on the
table, and let’s have an honest, open discussion about it,’”
Niederauer said.  Industry talks would probably yield results, though all
sides must be willing to negotiate, Niederauer said today.  Nothing Sacred  “If we sit down, we’re going to find we have a lot more in
common than we think we do,” he said. “There’s a lot more
common ground, and I think people would be surprised that things
people think we hold sacred, if for the greater good we have to
put something on the table, everyone has to give to get.”  Earlier this week, a senior executive at NYSE Euronext’s
future owner,  ICE (ICE) , said rules governing U.S. equities trading
should be pared back because regulations have made the market
vulnerable to malfunctions.  Tom Farley, the senior vice president of financial markets
at ICE, said that regulations introduced since the late 1990s
have forced “unnatural competition and evolution” between
public exchanges and among equity venues run by broker-dealers.  To improve the U.S. stock market, “I would probably start
by getting rid of rules -- and some pretty big rules,” Farley
said Oct. 8 at a Baruch College  conference  in New York. He
declined to identify those he would prefer to eliminate.
“There’s been several significant rules that have been layered
on in the last 15 years that have resulted in a costly and
complex market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  