-- Obama Fundraiser Said to Seek $1 Billion for Private Fund
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-10-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/obama-fundraiser-said-to-seek-1-billion-for-private-fund.html
Barack Obama ’s top individual
fundraiser, a former technology executive who collected millions
of dollars for the president, is seeking as much as $1 billion
for a private-equity fund that will invest in infrastructure and
renewable energy, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  Frank White Jr. has teamed up with two other Obama backers,
Shomik Dutta and two-time Grammy Award-winning rapper Prakazrel
Michel, to establish a Washington-based money-management firm
called DuSable Capital Management LLC, according to a  regulatory
filing . DuSable plans to raise $500 million to $1 billion, said
the person, who requested anonymity because the details are
private.  White’s new firm joins a small group of money managers
founded by former political figures and public officials, who
have sought to parlay their connections to invest in industries
that rely on direct or indirect government support. The biggest
among them is  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the buyout firm that got its
start buying defense companies after the fall of the  Berlin
Wall . Monument Capital Group LLC and Darby Overseas Partners
Ltd., both based in  Washington , were also founded by former
high-ranking officials.  “It gives them a particular edge against other firms that
may not feel comfortable in looking at the government market or
understand how Washington works,” said Michael Steed, who
served as national director of the  Democratic National Committee 
in the 1980s before forming Paladin Capital Group, a private-equity firm that invests in cyber-security providers.  Top Bundler  As a top Obama bundler, White raised more than $10 million
from friends and associates for the president and the Democratic
party, according to two people familiar with the matter, who
requested anonymity because the information is confidential.
White ranks as the president’s largest individual fundraiser,
according to the people.  A bundler is someone who solicits campaign contributions
from their personal networks and communities. Obama was the only
candidate to identify all of his bundlers during the 2012
presidential campaign, though his list only gave broad amounts
raised, with the top category being $500,000 or more.  “Without question, Frank was one of our top donors and was
critical” to the success of Obama’s campaign, said Peter
Newell, who served as chief of staff to  Jim Messina , the former
White House deputy chief of staff for operations. Michael Czin,
a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, declined to
comment. White didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment.  Prior to setting up DuSable, White founded Advanced
Concepts Inc., a Columbia, Maryland-based provider of technology
services to the military and intelligence agencies. He sold that
company to L-1 Identity Solutions Inc. in 2007 for $72 million
along with earn-out incentives. He then became involved in
Obama’s campaign for the presidency, serving as vice chairman of
the 2012 re-election campaign and co-chairman of the president’s
2013 inauguration committee, according to DuSable’s website.  Banker, Rapper  Dutta, a co-founder at DuSable, is a former Morgan Stanley
investment banker who also worked as national-finance consultant
to the president’s re-election campaign and as a special
assistant in the White House. Michel, one of DuSable’s owners,
is best known as Pras, a founding member of the hip hop group
called the Fugees. He has contributed to Organizing for Action,
a non-profit that promotes Obama’s agenda, as well as the
 Democratic Party  and Black Men Vote, a super-political action
committee.  Brandon Hurlbut, who stepped down as chief of staff at the
U.S. Department of Energy in June, will serve as an adviser to
DuSable. Its other adviser will be William Lee, president and
co-founder of Bright Plain Renewable Energy LLC, a San
Francisco-based firm that has teamed up with D.E. Shaw & Co. to
buy solar power projects.  ‘Competitive Advantage’  A political career in Washington can prepare executives for
the task of raising money from wealthy and institutional
investors and help them understand regulatory issues. White will
“employ his network, contacts, and reputation” to source
attractive investment opportunities for DuSable, according to
the  registration  filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in July. The filing also said that White’s government
and private-sector contacts would provide the fund with “a
competitive advantage” in addressing global regulations and
identifying promising executives.  Carlyle Group ’s past and present executives include  David
Rubenstein , who previously served as deputy assistant to the
president for domestic policy under  Jimmy Carter , and Frank
Carlucci, an ex-secretary of defense. The firm, started in 1987,
initially used government connections to invest in defense
contractors before diversifying into all types of deals.
Monument Capital was co-founded by Douglas Baker, a former
special assistant to President George W. Bush.  Romney’s Route  “I knew what I knew and I knew how it could be a good
idea,” said Nicholas Brady, who in 1994 started Darby Overseas
Partners LP, a Washington-based private-equity firm that
specializes in  emerging markets , after working as U.S.  Treasury
Secretary  under  Ronald Reagan  and  George W. Bush . Brady said he
spent four years in the government dealing with  Latin America 
and had been on the Kissinger Commission in Central America.  Some private-equity executives have taken the opposite
route.  Mitt Romney , the onetime chief executive officer of Bain
& Co., challenged Obama for the presidency in 2012 after a
career leading private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC.  DuSable shares its name with Jean Baptiste Point DuSable,
the first settler of  Chicago  as well as the city’s first black
resident.  Investing Strategy  The firm’s strategy is based on a theme that Obama has
often sounded in addressing the nation, that the U.S.
infrastructure is crumbling, and will need increased attention
in the coming years. The fund will also seek to invest in
infrastructure assets such as airports, which overly indebted
municipalities such as  Detroit  are selling as they seek to
recapitalize their balance sheets, said the person familiar with
the matter.  On the renewable energy side, DuSable will focus on
deploying technologies in emerging markets that face high
unsubsidized electricity costs, the person said. Renewable
energy remains a priority for Obama, who announced in June a
climate action plan to cut carbon pollution, in part by
providing access to public lands for the construction of wind
and solar projects.  “Certainly the industry is in need of of some favorable
equity capital into renewables,” said Robert Banks, CEO of
Seminole Cos., a money-management firm in Belleair Bluffs,
 Florida , which makes renewable energy investments. “There would
be more deals done if there was easier access to capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  