-- Oi Small Investors Diluted as Controlling Owners Rescued
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-10-10T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/oi-small-investors-diluted-as-controlling-owners-rescued.html
Oi SA’s proposed merger with
Portugal Telecom SGPS SA is being criticized by minority
investors, who see the value of their shares diluted to fund the
purchase of $2 billion of debt from Oi’s controlling families.  The Jereissati and Andrade-Gutierrez families, parts of
Oi’s ownership group, are refinancing their debt by selling new
convertible bonds to Portugal Telecom, which will then become
part of Oi.  Meanwhile, Oi is raising at least $3.2 billion by selling
new shares,  diluting  its stock. While Oi says that new capital
will help the company grow, HSBC Holdings Plc and Moody’s
Investors Service say it will probably be used to pay for the
purchase of the convertible bonds from the controlling owners.  After forcing Oi to pay out dividends even as it fell
behind rivals on investments, the controlling shareholders are
using the convertible bonds to unwind themselves from loans they
got from the national development bank for the 2009 takeover of
Brasil Telecom Participacoes SA, an acquisition that was
designed to make Oi competitive with Telefonica SA and America
Movil SAB. The rest of Oi’s investors, who get no such payout,
have little recourse, with no competing offer on the table and
their stock down 50 percent in the past year.  “Everyone’s protected except the long-suffering Oi
shareholders,” said Leo Soong, a former Wells Fargo & Co.
analyst and co-founder of Crystal Geyser Water Co., who has
individually held Oi shares off and on for the past year. The
transaction is “a bailout of major shareholders paid for by
dilution of existing smaller shareholders,” he said.  Complex Transaction  A spokesman for Rio de Janeiro-based Oi declined to
comment, as did a spokesman for the the Andrade-Gutierrez
families and the controlling shareholder group, known as
TmarPart. A spokeswoman for the Jereissati family declined to
comment.  The transaction, announced on Oct. 2, benefits all
shareholders because it will result in one class of stock, as
opposed to a current combination of classes and a convoluted
ownership structure through several holding firms, Oi Chief
Executive Officer Zeinal Bava told Bloomberg Television on Oct.
3.  “This ends the conflict of TmarPart being in debt and
needing dividends,” said Alex Pardellas, an analyst at CGD
Securities in Rio de Janeiro, by telephone. “Internally, it
changes nothing.”  TmarPart and the two families are selling enough
convertible bonds to Lisbon-based Portugal Telecom to be able to
pay off all their 4.5 billion reais ($2 billion) in debt,
including money they have borrowed from  development bank  BNDES,
according to filings this week.  Debt Absorbed  That means the debt will be absorbed into the new company
formed by the merger. Oi had 29.5 billion reais in debt at the
end of June, while Portugal Telecom 10.9 billion euros ($14.7
billion), according to regulatory filings and  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The transactions are scheduled to take place just
after Oi issues new shares to raise at least 7 billion reais
from the stock market, leading HSBC, Moody’s and others to
conclude that the capital increase is paying for the controlling
shareholder debt.  The company disputes that interpretation, without supplying
an alternate explanation. The debt transactions with the control
group “should not be confused with the Oi capital increase,
which will be conducted through a public offer, with the
objective of improving the balance sheet flexibility of
CorpCo,” it said in a filing.  ‘Not Happy’  After declining last week on a call with analysts to
discuss the details of the funding for the debt transaction
because he said they weren’t directly related to Oi, Bava spoke
again two days ago on a conference call with Soummo Mukherjee of
Moody’s. He again made clear he wouldn’t provide specifics on
that aspect of the merger, Mukherjee said.  “It’s not clear to a lot of analysts whether or not the
4.5 billion reais is coming from the 7 billion reais they want
to raise, though that is what everyone is assuming,” said
Mukherjee, who is based in  Sao Paulo . “Minority shareholders
are not happy about paying the 4.5 billion reais of debt
belonging to the holding company.”  Unidentified shareholders of TmarPart have also agreed to
join Banco BTG Pactual SA in buying 2 billion reais worth of
stock in Oi’s share sale, according to Oi’s filings. The
companies haven’t disclosed how much BTG and its partners will
contribute individually.  Bava has said that what’s important is the end result -- a
company with less debt. The company formed by the merger will
have net debt of 3.3 times  earnings  before interest and other
items, compared with Oi’s 3.4 times at the end of June,
according to HSBC.  ‘Much Better’  “We should be focusing on where we end up in the end, and
where we end up in the end is a company with 41.2 billion reais
of debt with a much, much better balance sheet than it has
today,” Bava said in a conference call with analysts on Oct. 2,
after repeatedly being asked about the 4.5 billion-real
recapitalization and the valuation of Portuguese assets.  “You always have to follow the money,” Soong said. “The
real question is who gets what at the end of the day.”  Last week, Soong filed a complaint over the fairness of the
merger with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and he
said he doesn’t expect the agency to approve the deal. The
Bovespa stock exchange and other groups are working on better
measures to protect Brazilian investors, who have had few
resources to defend their interests. Minority shareholders who
opposed Oi’s acquisition of Brasil Telecom lost their battle
after four years of fighting.  Needing It  “It’s very unlikely that this deal doesn’t happen,” said
Thomas Chang, an analyst at UM Investimentos, which manages
about 150 million reais. “There won’t be a problem in terms of
competition with the antitrust agency, and Oi needs it.”  Investors and analysts are doing various scenario
calculations given limited information, which “leaves you with
a sense of not having the full picture, and that rarely makes
for comfortable investors,” said Richard Dineen, an HSBC
analyst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  