-- Tokyo September Office Vacancies Fall to Lowest Since 2009
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2013-10-10T06:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/tokyo-september-office-vacancies-at-4-year-low-as-demand-rises.html
Tokyo ’s office vacancy rate fell in
September to the lowest level in four years as the amount of
space taken up in the month more than doubled, according to
broker Miki Shoji Co.  The  rate , a measurement of unoccupied space, fell to 7.9
percent last month from 8.16 percent in August and was at its
lowest since October 2009, according to data released today by
the closely held Tokyo-based company. The Topix Real Estate
Index rose 1.1 percent to its highest closing level since Oct.
1.  Tokyo’s office market is improving amid a return of
confidence among  Japan ’s  large businesses  as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe introduces extra stimulus to boost the economy ahead
of a sales-tax increase scheduled for April. The  Bank of Japan 
has pumped $404 billion into the financial system since April,
pushing down the value of the yen, and boosting both exports and
the country’s banking industry.  “The vacancy rate was better than I had expected,” said
Daisuke Fukushima, a Tokyo-based analyst at Nomura Securities
Co. who had predicted the rate would decline to 8 percent.
“Economic sentiment is improving and that has had a positive
impact on the office market.”  Japan’s large businesses now are the most confident they’ve
been since before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
The Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan index for big
manufacturers, released Oct. 1, rose to 12 in September from 4
in June, exceeding the median estimate of 7 in a Bloomberg
survey.  About 19,000 tsubo of space was absorbed in one month,
according to the Miki Shoji report today. That is more than
double the 8,400 tsubo of space signed in August, it said. One
tsubo, a standard measure of property area in Japan, is 3.3
square meters, or 35.5 square feet.  “We expect the Bank of Japan’s monetary easing to produce
the desired effects and look for increases in  government
spending  and public works investment to continue through 2015,”
 Masahiro Mochizuki , an analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a
research note Oct. 7. “Under this scenario, strong demand for
office space should drive down vacancy rates in Tokyo’s five
central wards from now through 2015.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  