-- French State’s Bluster Belies Alcatel’s Job-Cutting Reality
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-10-11T07:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/hollande-ministers-bluster-belies-alcatel-s-job-cutting-reality.html
President  Francois Hollande ’s
government drew from a well-worn French playbook this week when
it threatened to block job cuts at  Alcatel-Lucent SA. (ALU)  It’s a
game plan that almost always ends with firings happening anyway.  Alcatel is unlikely to be any different.  The telecommunications-equipment maker said Oct. 8 that it
will eliminate 10,000 jobs globally, including 900 in France.
“What we want are serious negotiations to limit the job cuts,”
Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said the next day. “If there
is no accord, this restructuring plan won’t be approved.”  For all its tirades, the Socialist administration can do
little to stop a private company that has lost money in six out
of the past seven years from reducing headcount and closing
operations. As with  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and  PSA Peugeot Citroen SA (UG) ,
the corporate plans are likely to go ahead.  “This is purely  crisis management ,” said  Antonio Barroso ,
a political analyst at Teneo Intelligence in  London . “The
government is trying to show it cares at a time when
unemployment is above 10 percent. In the end they can apply
pressure to limit the cuts but I don’t think they have a lot of
leverage to stop them happening.”  Not Reliable  Ayrault’s remarks echo the government’s initial reactions
to plant closures by carmaker Peugeot and steelmaker Arcelor
that were announced in July and November 2012 respectively. In
both cases, the plans eventually got under way in the face of
the financial realities of the companies and the markets they
address. Those drowned out the howls of protests from unions and
lawmakers during weeks of front-page coverage in the media.  Alcatel shares fell 1.6 percent to 2.74 euros at 9:50 a.m.
in Paris.  Unions aren’t holding out much hope in the Alcatel case
either, saying the government’s threats don’t add up to much.  “If past experience is any guide, we can’t rely on the
state to intervene directly to stop the job cuts,” CGT union
representative  Stephane Dubled  said in an interview. “They’re
not completely deaf to our situation. It’s a start, but we’d
like something more concrete.”  Although the government took to the airwaves right after
the Alcatel plan was announced, its remarks have been more
measured than in previous cases, reflecting the recognition of
the company’s dire state.  Alcatel-Lucent is speeding up a turnaround bid after
thousands of earlier job cuts, restructuring and asset sales
failed to stem losses. Pressure on equipment prices and slower
investment from European carriers, along with competition from
 China ’s Huawei Technologies Co., are forcing Alcatel-Lucent and
rivals such as  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s network-gear unit to reduce staff.  ‘Realistic Expectations’  Unions, too, have sought to temper their members’
expectations, looking to the government to at best win some
concessions rather than a wholesale abandoning of the plan.  “We’re keeping realistic expectations about what the state
can do,” CFDT union representative  Pascal Guiheneuf  said.
“With all the money going into research tax breaks, giving
Alcatel access to qualified French engineers at a cheaper cost,
the state does have some power to ask for concessions. It’s not
just about immediate job cuts; it’s about the company’s future.
The state definitely has some power over that.”  Ministerial reaction suggests a greater understanding of
corporate reality -- a recognition that has evolved since
Hollande came to power in May last year.  When Peugeot said it would close a car plant in  France  for
the first time in 20 years and bring its total job cuts to
11,200, Hollande said the plan was “not acceptable.” With
Peugeot executives making the case that the survival of France’s
largest carmaker was at stake, the government revised its stance
and called the actions “inevitable.” The plan has gone ahead.  Arcelor’s Plan  After months of talks and government assistance to the
company, the last car from the Aulnay plant that’s being shut is
slated to roll off the line this month.  The ArcelorMittal plan to shut down a section of its plant
in Florange drew an even fiercer response, with Hollande telling
 Lakshmi Mittal , the chief executive and biggest shareholder of
the world’s largest steelmaker, to find a way to keep the jobs,
sell the operations or face its nationalization. Industry
Minister  Arnaud Montebourg , who had suggested its
nationalization, told Mittal he was no longer wanted in France.  In the end, Mittal went ahead and shut down the furnaces as
he had planned while agreeing to use the facility for an
alternative purpose in the future.  In contrast to the positions on Peugeot and ArcelorMittal,
Montebourg’s stance on Alcatel’s plan was practically
supportive.  ‘Burning Cash’  Alcatel-Lucent is “burning through cash” and “the French
government considers that its mere existence is in danger,”
Montebourg said during a parliamentary debate on Oct. 8. The
government has asked the company to lead “exemplary social
dialog” and told phone companies they should favor Alcatel when
purchasing equipment.  “There’s definitely been a learning curve,” Barroso said.
“The government knows it is going to face a number of episodes
like this and that in the long term its goal has to be to regain
competitiveness.”  Yet with unemployment at a 14-year high of almost 11
percent, the political noise is unlikely to fade. Lawmakers from
Hollande’s own party expressed dismay at the inability of the
government to do much in the Alcatel-Lucent case.  “It’s a Franco-American  crown jewel  that has made
technological marvels and is having a very rough time,” said
Francois Brottes, a Socialist lawmaker who heads the economic
affairs committee at the National Assembly, which will question
Alcatel-Lucent CEO Michel Combes next week. “Alcatel has to
understand that France gave birth to this company and shouldn’t
have to pay the high social price that’s being announced.”  Can the government do anything to stem Alcatel’s plans for
job cuts?  “If we don’t try we won’t get anywhere so we have to
try,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  