-- Oman Oil to Buy Advent Chemicals Unit for $2.4 Billion
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-10-10T14:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/oman-oil-to-buy-advent-s-oxea-to-add-industrial-chemicals.html
Oman Oil Co. agreed to buy Oxea from
Advent International to expand beyond refining into chemicals
and ingredients for manufacturing and consumer goods.  The state-owned oil producer will use the purchase of Oxea
as a springboard for tapping demand for oxo-based chemicals, the
companies  said today . Oxea, formed from units of  Celanese Corp. (CE) 
and the predecessor of  Evonik Industries AG (EVK) , generated about 1.5
billion euros ($2.03 billion) in sales in 2012. Oman Oil paid
almost 1.8 billion euros, according to three people familiar
with the matter who asked not to be named because the
negotiations were private.  The deal with Oman Oil “will provide additional access to
growth markets in  Asia  and the  Middle East ,” Martina Floel,
managing director of Oxea, said in the statement.  Under Advent’s leadership, Oberhausen, Germany-based Oxea
diversified its products to add higher-margin derivatives, and
capacity is now 1.3 million tons a year. After a push into Asian
markets, Oxea’s polyols are used in cosmetics and lubricants,
and its amines are used in rubber chemicals and dyes.  The company is building a new derivatives plant in Nanjing
to serve fast-growing markets for films and safety glass
laminates in Asia, including  China .  Raw Materials  Oman Oil will give Oxea the option to draw on the country’s
petrochemical base and source cheaper supplies of its main raw
material polyproplene from its parent. It will also provide the
technology and management experience to further expand
operations, which compete with companies such as  BASF SE. (BAS)  Oxea
is the largest supplier in the merchant oxo chemicals market,
and No. 2 in capacity after Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF.  Oman Oil was advised by HSBC. Talks, which started in 2009,
were bilateral and Advent didn’t use an adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  