-- Mondi Tracks Pampers to China in Bet on Packaging Boom
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-10-11T07:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/mondi-tracks-pampers-to-china-in-bet-on-packaging-boom.html
Mondi Ltd. (MND) , the South African
packaging company that joined the U.K.’s benchmark FTSE 100
Index last month, is opening factories in  China  and  Iraq  as it
follows clients into emerging markets to boost earnings.  Customers including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Nestle SA (NESN)  are
tapping booming local demand for products such as diapers and
microwaveable food and Mondi has to stay close to meet specific
requirements in each market, Chief Executive Officer David Hathorn said in an interview in Johannesburg. Mondi this year
inaugurated a plant in China’s Jiangsu province to supply
stretchy films for P&G’s range of Pampers diapers, he said.  Asian demand for hygiene consumer products is helping
Hathorn to transform the 46-year-old company into a packaging
specialist and move away from the traditional printing and
writing paper business that is suffering amid the rise of
digital offerings. The strategy is paying off for Johannesburg-based Mondi as first-half earnings gained 35 percent and sales
rose 18 percent to 3.3 billion euros.  “Growth will be in packaging and our bias will be towards
consumer packaging,” Hathorn said. “If you go back over a 20
year history, Mondi used to be a printing and writing paper
company, gradually we have evolved and moved into becoming a
packaging company.”  Specific Requirements  Mondi, which operates in 30 countries with more than 25,700
employees and was spun off from  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  in 2007, said
half of its sales now stem from higher-growth emerging markets,
with packaging accounting for two-thirds.  The company this year also opened an cement bags plant in
Sulaimaniyah, northern Iraq, to tap growing demand in the
country, according to Mondi’s website.  The new China factory supplies P&G with the stretch
materials in the frontal tape and waistband of diapers. The
plant helps to cut costs and to meet the specific requirements
of P&G, Hathorn said.  “In addition to taking advantage of lower production
costs, it makes sense to convert the film reels to the finished
product as close to the customer as possible rather than to
import the end product,” he said.  Tracking clients as far as Jiangsu and producing food
pouches with as many as seven layers of film to allow meat and
dairy products to stay fresher for longer has helped make Mondi
the top performer in  South Africa ’s benchmark stock index.  Changing Tastes  Dual listed in London and Johannesburg, the shares have
surged 82 percent this year, valuing it at 80.8 billion rand
($8.2 billion). Today, it was up 0.1 percent as of 9:22 a.m. The
stock joined the FTSE 100 index on Sept. 23. London-listed DS
Smith rose 38 percent.  Smurfit Kappa (SKG) , traded on the Dublin
exchange, gained 86 percent.  As the 2008 financial crisis led to plant closures in the
industry, Mondi sold peripheral assets and focused on plants
with the capacity to supply packaging of different sizes and
colors to keep pace with changing consumer tastes. That’s added
industrial and consumer clients on top of the corrugated
packaging market.  Hathorn said while Mondi’s focus is currently on  emerging
markets , demand for packaging offerings is also rising in
established markets.  “We are not fixated with emerging markets. In the consumer
packaging space, the western market is also very good,” he said
“So we make a lot of stuff in  Poland  for example and sell to
Germany. Cost is an important part of our strategy.”  Consistent Quality  Mondi says it’s benefitting as consumer goods companies are
seeking to reduce the weight of packaging, replace
environmentally critical materials such as aluminium foil with
multilayer paper materials and extend the shelf life of products
through improved packaging.  Justin Jordan, an equity analyst at Jefferies LLC, says it
makes sense for international consumer goods companies to source
the packaging from paper companies with factories in different
markets to make sure the quality is the same in each market.  “One of the key advantages companies like Mondi can offer
brands is the ability to service them across multiple countries,
across  Europe ,” he said. “The brand can be presented in a
consistent manner in  Russia  and well as it can be in  Germany ,
the packaging looks exactly the same across multiple countries.
The individual colors of a brand logo are presented in a
consistent manner.”  Marketing Messages  Demand for more sophisticated wrappings is spiralling and
Mondi is targeting a third of its revenue from products that
have been developed within the past five years to meet client
requirements, Hathorn said.  “Consumer packaging is used to enhance a product on a shop
shelf,” Jefferies’s Jordan said. The packaging “tends to be
doing more than just protecting a product. It can also be giving
marketing messages at the point of sale.”  After a year of integrating acquisitions, Mondi is also
back in dealmaking mode, Hathorn said. The company has spent 1.6
billion euros on acquisitions since it sold shares on the
Johannesburg exchange. After a year overseeing integration of
companies like Nordernia International AG, the CEO is now
looking at further deals.  “We have signaled that we are now looking at further
growth options,” Hathorn said. “Clearly there are a number of
acquisition opportunities out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  