-- Treasury Bills Risk Triggers Higher H.K. Margin Discount
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-10-10T18:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/hong-kong-raises-discount-on-u-s-treasuries-for-margin-cover.html
Hong Kong ’s futures and options
market operator said traders will need to put up additional
collateral when using some U.S. Treasury bills to back their
positions, citing concern the U.S. is at risk of a default.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388)  will impose a
“haircut” of 3 percent on Treasuries with maturities of less
than one year in margin requirements for index futures and
options, it said today in a circular. That’s up from 1 percent
previously, and charges for Treasuries with longer maturities
aren’t affected, according to the circular.  An impasse in  Washington  over raising the U.S. debt ceiling
is rippling through global financial markets as the Oct. 17
deadline for increasing the borrowing authority approaches.
Rates on Treasury bills due Oct. 24 climbed as high as 0.50
percent today before falling to 0.31 percent.  China  and  Japan ,
the biggest foreign creditors of the U.S., have urged action to
head off the risk of a default. The decision in Hong Kong
preceded a three-day holiday.  “Other countries may follow Hong Kong’s decision if the
U.S. government stalemate continues next week,” said  Roberto Mialich , a senior currency strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan.
A default “is not our base case as we expect lawmakers will
reach a last-minute deal,” he said.  Lew Testimony  Financial markets are under stress because of
“uncertainty” over the debt limit, U.S. Treasury Secretary
Jacob J. Lew said in testimony prepared for a hearing before the
Senate Finance Committee today. Congressional leaders are open
to a short-term increase in the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling that
may stave off the risk of default, according to Republican and
Democratic aides who spoke on the condition of anonymity.  The rate on bills schedule to mature on Oct. 17 dropped for
the first time in six days on speculation House Republican and
Senate Democrats will begin work toward a budget deal.  House Republican leaders will present their members with a
proposal to raise the debt limit for six weeks without policy
conditions, said a congressional aide familiar with the details.
The move would lessen the risk of a U.S. default one week from a
lapse in borrowing authority.  Rates on Treasury bills maturing Oct. 17 fell 0.10
percentage point to 0.38 percent, at 2:10 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Yields fell for all
bills maturing through Nov. 14.  Proposal Shift  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority reminded banks to manage
liquidity risks properly and is closely monitoring the U.S.
debt-limit developments, it said in an e-mailed statement today.
It hasn’t made any change to its collateral arrangements, it
said.  The SIX Swiss Exchange Ltd. is monitoring the situation in
the U.S., spokesman Alain Bichsel said by phone. ICE Clear
 Europe ’s current haircut for U.S. Treasuries is 3 percent, and
any change would be communicated via a  market circular ,
according to spokeswoman  Claire Miller . Rachael Harper, a
spokeswoman for LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., declined to comment in
an e-mailed response to questions.  In Hong Kong, investors using short-dated Treasuries to
back up their trades will need to put up additional collateral
to make up the shortfall caused by the new rules. The city hosts
the third-largest stock index futures and options market in  Asia 
by value of trades for the year through Aug. 31, according to
data compiled by the World Federation of Exchanges.  Debt Status  “It’s possible there could be a U.S. debt default,”
Lorraine Chan, a spokeswoman for Hong Kong Exchanges said by
telephone. The extra measures don’t indicate an expectation of a
default, she said. “We’ve been closely monitoring the
operations of our clearinghouses and markets and as always we
will take appropriate risk-management measures,” Chan said.  “It’s understandable that the HKEX would raise the
haircut,” said  Steven Leung , director of institutional sales at
 UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK)  in Hong Kong. “It’s reasonable for
them to take the precaution.”  Longer-dated bill rates haven’t increased as much as those
maturing immediately after the Oct. 17 deadline. The  extra yield 
investors get for buying one-month securities instead of 91-day
securities was 16.7 basis points, after reaching 28.9 basis
points on Oct. 8, the biggest difference since March 2008,
according to closing-market data. The longer-dated bills usually
yield more than their one-month counterparts.  Hong Kong  The decision by the Hong Kong market operator looks “a bit
premature,” said  Patrick Jacq , a senior rates strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in Paris. “We are not yet in a situation of
default,” he said.  Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  said China is paying “great
attention” to the U.S. debt-ceiling issue, without elaborating,
Xinhua News Agency said in a report posted today to the
government’s website. He made the comment in a meeting yesterday
with U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  at the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations summit in Brunei, Xinhua said. Japan
must consider the impact of any default on its bond holdings,
even as the U.S. will probably avoid a fiscal crisis, Japanese
Finance Minister Taro Aso said on Oct. 8.  “U.S. debt default risk isn’t at a stage for us to
consider similar arrangements” to HKEX, Naoya Takahashi, a
spokesman at Japan Exchange Group Inc., the operator of the
world’s second-biggest stock market, said by phone. “If it does
default we may take some steps.”  Singapore Exchange Ltd.,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest bourse
operator, already has “conservative haircuts on  government
securities  that cover stress market conditions,” and it’s
monitoring the situation closely, Agnes Siew, head of clearing
risk, said by e-mail.  A Bank of England press officer declined to comment when
contacted by phone today. The  European Central Bank  and  Swiss
National Bank  don’t accept the U.S. securities as collateral.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  