-- Hong Kong Stocks Advance on Optimism for U.S. Debt Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-10T01:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/hong-kong-stocks-advance-on-optimism-for-u-s-debt-deal.html
Hong Kong  stocks  rose amid optimism
U.S. lawmakers will reach a deal to raise the debt limit and on
speculation Janet Yellen won’t rush to withdraw stimulus if she
becomes the next head of the Federal Reserve.  The Hang Seng Index gained 0.2 percent to 23,074.90 as of
9:31 a.m. in Hong Kong. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index,
also known as the H-share index, was little changed at
10,505.86. President  Barack Obama  opened the door to talks to
end the impasse over the U.S. debt ceiling, with House
Republicans sending negotiators to the White House today.  “Anything could happen so markets are pretty cautious,”
Sean Fenton, a Sydney-based fund manager who helps oversee about
$1 billion at Tribeca Investment Partners, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “The uncertainty on Capitol Hill combined
with Yellen likely pushes back the case for Fed quantitative
easing tapering to early next year.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 1.7 percent this year through
yesterday on better-than-expected China economic data and after
the Federal Reserve refrained from cutting stimulus. Hong Kong’s
benchmark equity gauge traded at 11 times estimated earnings
yesterday, compared with 14.9 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Futures on the S&P 500 added 0.3 percent. The U.S. equity
gauge gained 0.1 percent yesterday after congressional aides
said Republican and Democratic leaders are open to a short-term
increase in the debt limit, the first movement toward averting a
U.S. default. Should lawmakers not agree to raise the cap by
Oct. 17, the country’s borrowing authority will lapse.  Shares also climbed yesterday after Yellen, the Fed vice
chairman and an architect of its stimulus program, was nominated
to replace central bank chief Ben S. Bernanke. A partial
government shutdown that began Oct. 1 has delayed the release of
economic data, making it harder for Fed policy makers to decide
when to start paring unprecedented monetary stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  