-- Honohan Warns Irish Banks to Fix Mortgages Quicker as Tests Loom
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-10-10T15:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/honohan-warns-irish-banks-to-fix-mortgages-quicker-as-tests-loom.html
Irish central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said the country’s banks will have to step up the pace
of easing the terms on distressed home loans to reap the
benefits in stress tests next year.  Banks may reduce loan losses and the need for further
capital by restructuring mortgages in distress instead of
estimating how much they can recover through repossessions,
Honohan said in a  speech , dated Oct. 7, and published on the
Dublin-based central bank’s website today. Ireland will conduct
bank stress tests before a wider euro-area probe next year.  “However, it may not be possible to rely for capital
stress-testing purposes on the results of this alternative
exercise until there is sufficient evidence of the banks
actually using such modifications,” Honohan, 64, said.  Ireland’s central bank has told lenders that they risk
being penalized for loans in arrears that haven’t been properly
restructured. It is pressing banks to switch from temporary
measures to tackle what it calls “unprecedented levels” of
arrears to solutions such as permanent interest-rate reductions
to split mortgages, where payments on part of a loan are
deferred until a borrower’s circumstances improve.  “Though challenging, and although concrete results on the
ground have been slower coming than we want to see, this work is
now well advanced at the central bank and will continue to be
pushed forward energetically,” Honohan said.  Home Repossessions  Almost 13 percent of loans to owner-occupied homes and 20
percent of buy-to-let mortgages were at least 90 days in arrears
at the end of June, the central bank  said  on Aug. 23. While the
central bank has called for home repossessions to increase,
lenders from  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  to  Bank of Ireland Plc  have
said they plan to focus on restructuring loans.  “Honohan is putting it up to the banks to get a move on
and complete sustainable loan workouts within provisioning
levels that have already been allocated to bad loans,” said
Ciaran Callaghan, an analyst with Merrion Capital in Dublin.  On March 13, the central bank said lenders may have to
write down loans more than 90 days in arrears that haven’t been
properly restructured by the end of 2014 to their repossession
value. Irish  house prices  have fallen by half from their 2007
peak, according to the  Central Statistics Office .  The central bank said it defines a “sustainable”
arrangement as one “which is likely to enable the customer to
meet the original or, as appropriate, the amended terms of the
mortgage” over its lifetime.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  