-- Top Forecaster Sees Rand Blip Before Slide: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-10-10T12:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/top-forecaster-sees-rand-blip-before-slide-south-africa-credit.html
The South African rand’s rebound
this month will persevere through year-end, then reverse with
the currency tumbling during most of 2014, according to the most
accurate forecaster in the third quarter.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , the best at predicting the rand against
the dollar over the past four quarters, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, sees the currency rallying about 3
percent to 9.67 per dollar by Dec. 31 before weakening 6.2
percent over the next three quarters. The rand’s 15 percent
slump this year is the worst out of 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The recovery will prove short-lived because of the
government’s failure to rein in labor unions and policies that
stifle economic growth, said  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-markets analyst at Danske. That risks weighing on rand bonds,
whose 10-year yields have climbed 88 basis points this year, the
most after  Turkey  among emerging-market peers in  Europe , the
Middle East and  Africa , according to Gina Schoeman, an analyst
at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the second-ranked forecaster.  “I’m really worried about the direction South Africa is
taking,” Christensen said by phone from Copenhagen on Oct. 4.
“Some of the policy directions taken by the government are not
consistent with market reforms and free markets. The cost of
that is going to be fairly high.”  Cut Unemployment  Citigroup sees the rand gaining to 9.80 per dollar by year-end before declining to 10.20 in 2014, while Warsaw-based X-Trade Brokers Dom Maklerski SA, the third-most accurate, sees a
drop to 10.12 by the end of the second quarter of next year. The
currency will probably appreciate about 2 percent to 9.80 per
dollar by the end of 2014, according to the median forecast of
30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The rand fell 0.1 percent to 9.9750 per dollar as of 2:45
p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark bonds due February
2023 were unchanged at 7.66 percent after falling two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, yesterday.  South African President  Jacob Zuma  is reviewing mining
royalties as he comes under pressure to alleviate poverty and
inequality in the world’s biggest producer of platinum and
chrome. With elections due to take place next year, the ruling
 African National Congress  is seeking to cut a 25 percent
 unemployment rate  and reduce income disparities that are among
the highest in the world.  Less Competitive  At the same time, a series of strikes in industries ranging
from mining to carmakers has undermined investor confidence.
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , said it will halt future expansion plans after a
three-week strike that cost the industry as much as 700 million
rand ($70 million) a day, according to the Automobile
Manufacturers Employers Association.  “ South Africa  is becoming less globally competitive in
terms of wages, energy cost, water cost,” BMW spokesman Guy Kilfoil said in an interview on Oct. 3. “All of those things
are making South Africa a less attractive destination for
foreign investment.”  South Africa relies on foreign investment to plug the gap
in the current account, funds which may dry up as the  Federal
Reserve  starts tapering monthly bond purchases. That leaves the
nation vulnerable to external shocks, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , which said on Oct. 8 that South
Africa needs “structural reforms” to improve government
services, ease infrastructure bottlenecks and increase labor
market flexibility.  Negative Outlook  The current-account deficit  widened  to 6.5 percent of gross
domestic product in the second quarter from 5.8 percent in the
previous three months. It will probably remain under pressure
after the  trade gap  grew to 19.1 billion rand in August, the
biggest since January. The budget shortfall reached 5.1 percent
of GDP in the year through March, according to National Treasury
estimates.  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  retained a
negative outlook for the nation’s debt after downgrades last
year, citing concern that spending will increase before next
year’s vote.  “Political noise is rising before the elections, labor
issues remain complicated, and all of that adds to” the rand’s
risk premium, Citigroup’s Schoeman said by phone from
Johannesburg yesterday. “If we face another credit-rating
downgrade, as I believe we do, we will see that reflected in
bond yields, and we will see that reflected in the currency.”  Boost Exports  The rand’s decline in the past three years may have been
enough to start boosting exports as the global economy recovers,
according to analysts including  David Bloom , head of currency
strategy at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank. HSBC sees
the South African currency ending the year at 9.80 per dollar
and extending its recovery to 9.20 by the end of 2014.  Foreign investors bought a net 66.5 billion rand of South
African  bonds  and  stocks  this year, compared with inflows of
75.9 billion rand in the same period in 2012, according to JSE
Ltd., which runs the nation’s stock and bond exchanges.  The cost to insure South African debt against non-payment
using five-year credit default swaps climbed 46 basis points
this year to 188 yesterday. The extra yield investors demand to
hold the nation’s dollar bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries
surged 101 basis points in the period, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. EMBI indexes.  “It is true that the weak rand is making our exports more
competitive, but we can’t get those exports out of the ground,”
Schoeman said, referring to mining strikes that contributed to
an 8.6 percent decline in production this year. “Even if the
current account gets a bit better, it will disappoint
expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  