-- OPEC Curbing Supply to Two-Year Low Sees Sluggish Fuel Demand
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-10T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/opec-curbing-supply-to-two-year-low-sees-sluggish-fuel-demand.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries predicted “sluggish” fuel demand and
increasing supplies this winter as the group’s output dropped to
the lowest in almost two years amid losses in  Iraq .  Consumption in  Asia  will be constrained by the removal of
subsidies in countries such as Indonesia and Malaysia, while
demand in  Europe  will continue to ebb despite an economic
recovery, OPEC said today in its monthly market report. Its 12
members pumped 30.05 million barrels a day last month, the least
since October 2011. OPEC kept estimates for global oil demand in
2014, and the amount of crude it will need to provide, in line
with last month’s forecast.  “Despite the more positive outlook for the U.S. and
Europe, global product markets are expected to come under
pressure over the winter season,” the group’s Vienna-based
secretariat said. “The combination of sluggish demand and
increasing product supplies are likely to damp margins, leading
to lower refinery runs over this period.”  Brent futures have slipped about 1 percent this year,
trading near $109 a barrel in  London  today. Slower growth in
emerging economies as well as easing of tensions between  Iran 
and the west over the OPEC member’s nuclear program also helped
lower  oil prices . Oil refiners will cut processing of crude by
about 2 million barrels a day in the fourth quarter, from 77.2
million in the third, because of reduced profit margins and
seasonal maintenance work, the group said.  Basrah Maintenance  OPEC’s production fell by about 390,000 barrels a day to
30.047 million in September as output from Iraq slumped by
370,300 barrels a day to 2.8 million amid maintenance at the
Basrah terminal, data from secondary sources cited in the report
show. Supplies from Libya,  Saudi Arabia  and  Venezuela  also
declined, according to the data. The organization is responsible
for 40 percent of global oil supplies.  The group forecast that world demand will increase by 1
million barrels a day, or 1.2 percent, to 90.8 million a day in
2014, unchanged from its prediction in last month’s report.  Supply from  outside  the organization will increase by 1.2
million barrels a day to 55.27 million next year, reducing the
amount that OPEC will need to supply. The call on OPEC will
average 29.6 million barrels a day in 2014, or about 400,000 a
day less than it pumped in September.  The group’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran,
Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates and Venezuela. OPEC will meet on Dec. 4 in Vienna
to discuss output policy.  The  International Energy Agency  will release its monthly
report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  