-- Orange Leaf Seeking Acquisitions Ahead of Frozen-Yogurt IPO
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-10-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/orange-leaf-seeking-acquisitions-ahead-of-frozen-yogurt-ipo.html
Orange Leaf Holdings LLC  is seeking
takeovers as the self-serve frozen-yogurt chain plans for a
potential initial public offering, said Chief Executive Officer
Reese Travis.  An IPO is possible in 2015, though the Oklahoma City-based
company may conduct the sale sooner if it finds an acquisition
target that it could pay for with funds raised in public
markets, Travis said in a telephone interview.  Orange Leaf’s IPO would follow offerings at restaurant
chains  Noodles & Co. (NDLS)  and  Potbelly Corp. (PBPB) , which more than doubled
on their trading debuts this year after raising a combined $232
million. The Bloomberg U.S. Quick Service Restaurant Index,
which includes McDonald’s Corp. and  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , had surged
34 percent in the year through yesterday, compared to a 18
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “Investors are showing that there’s demand for these types
of concepts,” Travis said. “The success of Noodles, the
success of Potbelly and all other brands that are out there
shows that the market is ripe for concepts like Orange Leaf.”  With more than 300 locations, Orange Leaf projects system-wide sales of $100 million this year, up from $80 million last
year, Travis said. Its competitors include Pinkberry, which is
backed by Maveron LLC, a venture-capital firm co-founded by
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  founder  Howard Schultz .  TCBY Enterprises Inc., which stands for “The Country’s
Best Yogurt,” was started in 1981 and has about 650 stores
around the world. TCBY is a unit of Famous Brands International,
which is owned by  Z Capital Partners .  Market Statistics  Orange Leaf had about 6.4 percent of the U.S. frozen-yogurt
market as of October 2012, according to the latest industry
report from IBISWorld, a market-research firm. Competitors TCBY
and Pinkberry each held more than 16 percent each, the report
showed.  Travis, 35, previously worked for  hedge funds  managed by
Wexford Capital LP, covering oil and natural-gas services. He
became an Orange Leaf franchisee before acquiring the company
for about $5 million in 2010, he said.  He owns 75 percent of Orange Leaf along with another
investor, whom Travis declined to identify. Travis’s friends and
family members own the other 25 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  