-- Moscow Exchange Plans Gold to Silver Trading to Broaden Appeal
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-10-10T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/moscow-exchange-plans-gold-to-silver-trading-to-broaden-appeal.html
OAO Moscow Exchange will introduce
trading of gold and silver as early as this month as part of
plans to make metals more accessible to smaller banks by
reducing transaction costs.  The exchange will quote gold and silver in Russian rubles
per gram, with minimum trades starting at 10 grams of gold and
100 grams of silver, the bourse’s Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Andrey Shemetov said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. Platinum and palladium contracts will start trading
in the first half of 2014, he said. Russia is the world’s
largest developing-nation producer of gold after  China .  Most metals trading in the country takes place via the
over-the-counter market, which is dominated by Russia’s biggest
banks, such as OAO Sberbank. Smaller lenders including Moscow-based Absolut Bank ZAO take on higher costs and risks because
they turn to the market makers to close positions, limiting
their ability to offer precious-metal trading to clients.  “It’s a cheaper way of tapping into ruble-denominated
gold,” Ivan Fomenko, head of asset management at Absolut Bank,
which offers metals accounts to clients, said by phone on Oct.
9. “You will be able to buy, sell, swap easily. It’s awesome.”  Fomenko couldn’t provide a cost-savings estimate.  The Moscow Exchange is following Shanghai Gold Exchange in
listing precious metals to augment over-the-counter, or OTC,
trading and broaden the range of instruments available for
hedging and liquidity purposes. The bourse will also introduce
swap agreements for the metals that aren’t available on the OTC
market, Shemetov said.  ‘Unusual Move’  It’s an “unusual move” for the stock and currency
exchange to list physical metals, and has the potential to
affect the gold market as trading volume grows, Marcus Grubb,
managing director of investment research at the World Gold
Council, said in an e-mailed response to questions on Oct. 9.  The exchange will quote prices and enable traders to settle
contracts via delivery to and from unallocated metals accounts
at its National Clearing Center. Banks can deposit or withdraw
precious metals in the form of physical bullion bars, and
delivery and collection will occur at a nominated Moscow vault,
the bourse said. The contracts are also likely to appeal to
brokers, producers, jewelers and private investors in the long
run, it said.  “A transparent, exchange-based market will emerge as the
best place for determining fair value for  Russia ’s precious
metals,” Shemetov said. “We hope to bring some change to the
Russian precious metals market, whose current structure is
primarily vertical.”  Trading hours will run from 10 a.m. to 11:50 p.m. Moscow
time, with settlement taking place on the day after the trade.
Negotiated deals will include same-day and forward settlements
of as far as six months in the future, the exchange said.  “Operational costs will be lower, bringing in new players
and making the gold market more efficient,” Fomenko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  