-- Toyota Shows Hydrogen Prototype in Race Toward Fuel Cells
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-10-10T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/toyota-shows-hydrogen-prototype-in-race-toward-fuel-cells.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  has long held out
hydrogen as the ultimate alternative to gasoline for powering
autos. Soon, consumers will be able to kick the tires of its
fuel cell-powered car and those of other automakers.  To demonstrate how far hydrogen cars have come since the
early 2000s, Toyota gave test drives of a small, prototype sedan
in Japan this week. A similar vehicle with a different exterior
will debut at next month’s  Tokyo  Motor Show. The car, which
showed quick acceleration and sharp handling, will arrive in the
U.S., Japan and Europe as early as next year as a 2015 model.  “Earlier would have been better, but it’s taken a long
time to get to this point,” said Satoshi Ogiso, the Toyota
engineer managing its fuel cell development and electric-drive
vehicle programs, in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “We’ve
already started work on the next-generation vehicle. We can’t
wait.”  While Toyota is racing to establish itself at the leader in
this technology, it has a lot of company. Honda Motor Co.,
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  have poured
billions of dollars into fuel cells since the 1990s, spurred by
hydrogen’s allure as an abundant, low-carbon fuel.  Critics, such as  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  Chief Executive Officer
Elon Musk, deride it as too complex, too costly and not clean
enough, since most hydrogen is generated from natural gas.
Toyota argues that it’s a game-changer: petroleum-like
performance with zero tailpipe emissions and avoiding the size,
range and refueling-time issues of battery-electric autos.  Water Vapor  Used in spacecraft since the 1960s, hydrogen fuel cells
make electricity and emit only water vapor. For mass-market
appeal, carmakers are competing to cut the cost of fuel cell
“stacks,” which use expensive precious metals, and the high-pressure carbon-fiber tanks that store fuel on the vehicle.  Solving those mean hydrogen vehicles may not be a
“significant technology” until 2018 or 2020, said Alan Baum,
an independent auto analyst at Baum & Associates in West
Bloomfield,  Michigan .  “I see fuel cells as a technology for the decade of the
2020s, with a small but growing ramp-up in the first half of the
decade, not unlike what we are seeing now with EVs,” he said.  Toyota, based in Toyota City, Japan, hasn’t set a volume
goal for its hydrogen car, though deliveries should reach tens
of thousands annually by 2020, Ogiso said. By that point, the
cost of the system should fall by at least half, he said.  Toyota’s 2015 model fuel cell car will have more than 500
kilometers (311 miles) of range per fueling, according to the
company, a level matched only by Tesla’s $70,000 Model S among
alternative-powered vehicles. Pricing hasn’t been announced,
although U.S. Toyota executives have previously said it may cost
about $50,000.  Lexus Chassis  Prototype fuel cell cars cost $1 million or more in the
mid-2000s, according to automakers.  The prototype driven this week had the new powertrain
system in the chassis of a Lexus HS 250h, a model that is larger
than a Corolla compact and smaller than a mid-size Camry, or
about the size of a Prius. The new model, which will be sold
under the Toyota brand, will be on a modified platform of the
HS, which is sold as the Toyota Sai in  Japan .  Toyota’s new model holds about 5 kilograms (11 pounds) of
compressed hydrogen in tanks that can be fully refueled in three
minutes, the company said. Fueling is about as easy as filling
up with gasoline. A sensor in the hose ensures a proper
attachment and fills until the tank is full to maximum
recommended pressure. Total system power will be about 100
kilowatts, Ogiso said.  Honda, which has leased a few dozen FCX Clarity fuel cell
sedans to Los Angeles-area drivers, has said a new version of
the mid-size car is due by 2015. The Tokyo-based automaker in
July announced an alliance with GM to bring even more advanced
fuel cars to market by 2020.  Hyundai Tucson  Hyundai, seeking to make its mark as a technological
leader, also plans to commercialize fuel cell vehicles next
year, said John Krafcik, the Seoul-based company’s U.S. chief
executive officer.  The largest South Korean carmaker has started making a
hydrogen-powered version of the Tucson crossover vehicle that
goes on sale in the U.S. “early” next year, Krafcik said in an
e-mail message.  Ford Motor Co. is in a fuel cell development alliance that
includes Daimler, Nissan Motor Co. and Renault SA. Likewise,
Toyota and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG are collaborating on the
technology to improve the odds of hydrogen getting a market
foothold.  Station Scarcity  Cutting the cost of fuel cell cars is only half the battle:
stations dispensing fuel are few and far between.  “The technology is here and automakers are ready,”
Catherine Dunwoody, executive director of the  California  Fuel
Cell Partnership, the world’s biggest hydrogen-vehicle
evaluation program, said in a statement. “Before they can sell
or lease fuel cell electric vehicles, a much larger fueling
infrastructure must be in place.”  Japan,  Germany  and South Korea have government programs to
create initial networks of hydrogen fuel stations. California
has also approved funding for 100 stations over nine years. It
has nine public hydrogen stations open and 19 more in
development, according to the partnership’s website.  Automakers “seem genuinely committed to advancing the
technology and the market,” said Dan Sperling, director of the
Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of
California at Davis and member of California’s Air Resources
Board. The powerful agency requires carmakers to sell a range of
low- and no-emission models to address the state’s persistent
air-quality problems.  Just as the Prius was derided as too complex and costly
when it arrived in 1997, Toyota sees the challenges as solvable,
said Koei Saga, Toyota’s director and senior managing officer
for research and development.  “We think in the future this technology will be
required,” Saga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  