-- Toyota Found Not at Fault in Acceleration-Related Death
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   V a l e r i e   R e i t m a n
-- 2013-10-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/toyota-found-not-at-fault-in-acceleration-related-fatality-1-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  wasn’t
responsible for an accident that killed a 66-year-old woman who
crashed her 2006 Camry into a tree after it sped out of control
on a road in the wrong direction, a California jury said.  A Los Angeles jury yesterday found that there wasn’t a
defect in the Camry that contributed to the 2009 crash,
rejecting the allegation that the absence of a brake-override
system in the vehicle was to blame for the car speeding into
oncoming traffic and crashing while driver Noriko Uno was trying
to brake.  The jury instead pinned full liability on the driver of
another vehicle that had crashed into Uno’s car before the Camry
sped out of control. Jurors said the other driver should pay $10
million in damages to Uno’s husband and son.  The Uno trial was a bellwether case for about 85 personal-injury and wrongful-death lawsuits in  California  state court
that were brought against the Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker
in the wake of a series of recalls in 2009 and 2010 for possible
sudden, unintended acceleration-related issues, including floor
mats that could get stuck under the gas pedal and sticky pedals.  The 2006 Camry wasn’t included in the Toyota recalls for
unintended acceleration issues.  ‘Unfortunate Accident’  “We are gratified that the jury concluded the design of
the 2006 Camry did not contribute to this unfortunate accident,
affirming the same conclusion we reached after more than three
years of careful investigation –- that there was nothing wrong
with the vehicle at issue in this case,” Carly Schaffner, a
Toyota spokeswoman, said in a statement. “We believe this
verdict sets a significant benchmark by helping further confirm
that Toyota vehicles are safe with or without brake override.”  Outside California, Toyota has won both injury cases that
reached jury verdicts since the recalls, including one in  New
York  in 2011 and another in Philadelphia in June. A trial is
under way in  Oklahoma City  over a crash that left one woman dead
and another injured.  Toyota is facing a fifth trial next month in federal court
in  Santa Ana , California, where about 200 death and injury cases
are pending. Another case is set for trial in February in state
court in  Michigan .  In the Los Angeles case, Toyota lawyers argued that the
lack of a brake-override system in the Camry wasn’t to blame for
the accident because Uno didn’t try to brake. Uno’s medical
condition, including diabetes, caused her to experience
cognitive impairment after her car was struck by the other
vehicle running a stop sign, Toyota said.  Happy, Disappointed  Jeffrey Uno, Noriko Uno’s son, said in an interview he was
“very happy with the verdict but disappointed about the outcome
with respect to Toyota.”  “I wish the best for the other cases and hope that they’ll
have better luck and an outcome that will shed more light on the
problems in  Toyota vehicles ,” Uno said.  Garo Mardirossian, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, who sought
damages of $20 million, he was happy that the Uno family won
damages from the other driver. Toyota “got away by the skin of
its teeth,” he said.  “We had so many missing pieces in this case -- the woman’s
dead, she couldn’t talk,” Mardirossian said.  The attorney said he has another case against Toyota
involving allegations of sudden acceleration by a plaintiff who
will be able to testify about it. That case “is much more
straight-forward,” he said.  John Duffy, who represented the driver found liable in the 
accident on behalf of her insurance company, said he was 
``stunned'' by the amount the jury awarded to the Unos. When  
asked if they would appeal, Duffy said, ``It sure looks like we 
will have to.''  The cases are In re Toyota Motor Cases, JCCP4621,
California Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Federal court in Los Angeles at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Valerie Reitman in state court in Los Angeles at
 valeriereitman@yahoo.com  