-- HP Shares Climb After Whitman Forecasts Stabilizing Sales
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/hp-shares-climb-after-whitman-forecasts-stabilizing-sales.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  shares climbed
the most since May after Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman 
promised more cash for investors and said sales are stabilizing
following a two-year drop.  The  stock  rose 8.9 percent to $22.60 at yesterday’s close
in  New York . After reaching their lowest in a decade in
November, Hewlett-Packard shares have jumped 59 percent in 2013.  “I’ve got real confidence that we’re headed in the right
direction and we will turn this thing around,” Whitman told
analysts at a  meeting  in  San Jose , California.  As Whitman enters her third year at the helm, she’s
contending with declining sales from slack demand for personal
computers and stepped up competition in the business-technology
market. While analysts are projecting a 3 percent drop in 2014
sales to $107.6 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, Whitman said she expects “revenue to stabilize.”  The Palo Alto, California-based company said in a slide
presentation that the year-over-year revenue drop “moderates”
after fiscal 2013. Profit excluding some items next year will be
$3.55 a share to $3.75 a share, compared with the average
analyst estimate of $3.61.  Prior to the 2013 rally, Hewlett-Packard shares plunged
each of the previous three years, losing so much value that they
fell out of the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  “Expectations were low” entering yesterday’s meeting,
 Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group, wrote in an e-mail. The
stock pop is “just a short-lived bounce in our view.” Marshall
has the equivalent of a hold rating on the shares.  Whitman, 57, is trying to move past a tumultuous period
during which the company ousted her two predecessors and then
took an $8.8 billion writedown on its  acquisition  of software
maker Autonomy Corp.  Generating Cash  Maynard Um, an analyst with  Wells Fargo Securities LLC ,
wrote in an Oct. 7 note to clients that Hewlett-Packard is
generating cash, remains “very focused on improving its balance
sheet” and has improved relationships with customers and
resellers during Whitman’s tenure. He has the equivalent of a
buy rating on the shares.  The company said yesterday that at least 50 percent of its
free  cash flow  will be returned to shareholders via dividends
and buybacks in 2014. Hewlett-Packard said in August that it
expects free cash flow to approach $8 billion for fiscal 2013.  For the past two quarters, Hewlett-Packard has paid a
dividend of 15 cents a share, amounting to a 2.6 percent
indicated yield. That’s higher than the average of 1.7 percent
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index.  Scrapped Forecast  Hewlett-Packard is losing out to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung
Electronics Co. as consumers and businesses shift to smartphones
and tablets. In the market for servers, storage and networking
equipment, Whitman has cited a “weak enterprise spending
environment,” and in August she scrapped a prediction that
Hewlett-Packard would return to growth in 2014 after two years
of declines.  Sales for fiscal 2013 are expected to drop 7.8 percent to
$111 billion, according to the average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. PC shipments worldwide dropped 8.6
percent to 80.3 million in the third quarter, researcher Gartner
Inc. reported yesterday.  Whitman said that Hewlett-Packard faces changes in the
competitive environment as longtime partners  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
Microsoft Corp. become challengers. Hewlett-Packard’s PC
business has relied on Microsoft’s Windows operating systems and
Intel’s chips.  Microsoft is going after consumers directly with the
Surface tablet computer, while Intel is helping  Google Inc., (GOOG) 
Facebook Inc. and others build servers, removing the need for
Hewlett-Packard hardware. Hewlett Packard, meanwhile, is using
chips and operating systems from other suppliers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  