-- Palmer Strengthens Australia Senate Hand Through Voting Bloc
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-10-10T02:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/palmer-strengthens-australian-senate-hand-by-forming-voting-bloc.html
Clive Palmer, the Australian mining
magnate whose party is on course to win three Senate seats in
the Sept. 7 election, formed an alliance with another new member
of the upper house and said Prime Minister Tony Abbott’s
government will have to negotiate with the bloc to pass laws.  The Palmer United Party will vote with the Australian
Motoring Enthusiast Party, represented by Ricky Muir, when the
new Senate convenes from July 1, Palmer said in Sydney today.  Abbott’s leader in the upper house “will have to negotiate
with our team or he won’t be negotiating at all,” Palmer told
reporters. Otherwise it will be a “very cold winter,” he said,
adding it was important to avoid legislative gridlock.  With the final outcome of the Senate yet to be declared,
preliminary results indicate Abbott will be required to gain the
support of at least six Senators outside his coalition to make
good on his election promises. They include repealing the
previous Labor government’s carbon price mechanism and mining
tax, and introducing a maternity-leave plan that will cost A$5.5
billion ($5.2 billion) a year.  The election saw 40 of the 76-member Senate up for grabs.
Until July 1 the balance of power is held by the Greens. Abbott
is yet to announce when parliament will sit for the first time
under the new government.  The Liberal-National coalition, which won a majority in the
lower house, is set to hold 33 of the 76 seats in the new
Senate, according to preliminary results from the Australian
Electoral Commission. Labor is on course for 26 spots, the
Greens nine and smaller, mainly center-right parties --
including Palmer’s -- eight.  Muir won a Victoria Senate seat after his Motoring
Enthusiast Party gained 0.5 percent of the primary vote in the
state.  Palmer, 59, may yet secure a seat himself in the House of
Representatives. The AEC on Oct. 1 ordered a full recount of
more than 89,000 votes cast in the Queensland lower-house
district of Fairfax, after initial counting showed he won by
just seven votes.  Another recount will occur for Western Australia’s Senate
results, involving about 1.25 million votes, the AEC said today.
It didn’t say when the recount will be concluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  