-- Patriot Plans Bankruptcy Exit After Accord With Peabody
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-10-10T14:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/patriot-plans-bankruptcy-exit-after-accord-with-peabody.html
Patriot Coal Corp. and  Peabody
Energy Corp. (BTU)  reached an agreement that will compensate retired
miners for health-care benefits, one of three agreements that
will help Patriot exit bankruptcy.  Peabody, the largest U.S. coal producer, will pay
$310 million for retirees’ health care under the accord with its
former unit and a labor union that represented the retirees.  “We are pleased to resolve the uncertainty among Patriot
retirees by providing substantial funding,” Peabody Chief Legal
Officer Alexander Schoch said today in a statement.  An agreement with Arch Coal Inc. to resolve a similar
dispute will bring $150 million to its bankruptcy estate,
Patriot said yesterday in court papers filed in St. Louis.  The two settlements, and an agreement with Knighthead
Capital Management to backstop a rights offering that will fund
$250 million for Patriot’s bankruptcy exit, are the cornerstones
of a reorganization plan that will save the company $130 million
a year over the next four years, Patriot lawyers wrote.  Patriot hopes to win court approval of an outline of that
plan on Nov. 6 on an expedited schedule that will allow it to
exit bankruptcy quickly, the company said.  In 2007, Peabody spun off operations and reserves in
Central Appalachia, Northern Appalachia and the Illinois Basin
to form Patriot Coal.  2012 Bankruptcy  St. Louis-based Patriot filed for bankruptcy in July 2012,
citing a drop in demand and $1.6 billion in lifetime health-care
obligations for its retirees. It said the spinoff left it
responsible for the benefits of three times as many retirees and
dependents as active employees, saddling it with liabilities of
$1.3 billion or more.  Peabody said Patriot was a viable company when it was spun
off, and that its acquisition of a separate company, Magnum Coal
Co., along with a drop in coal demand and increased regulation,
caused its financial burden.  During Patriot’s reorganization, it won court approval of a
proposal to reduce pensions and benefits to 13,000 unionized
workers and retirees. The United Mine Workers of America
continued to press it for contributions from Peabody, as well as
Arch Coal.  In 2008, Patriot bought Magnum Coal, which had acquired
three Arch units in 2005.  Under the Peabody agreement, which is subject to court
approval, Peabody agreed to make payments through 2017 and fund
a group that will determine future benefits for Patriot retirees
and settle all claims related to Patriot’s bankruptcy, St.
Louis-based Peabody said in the statement.  The agreement requires that Patriot have an effective plan
for reorganization, Peabody said.  The case In re  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ) , 12-bk-51502, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. bankruptcy court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney
at   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 