-- Pentagon Gets Help Restoring Death Benefit as House Acts
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-10-10T00:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/pentagon-gets-help-restoring-death-benefit-as-house-acts.html
The Pentagon said a foundation has
agreed to make payments to survivors of U.S. military personnel,
an arrangement disclosed after the House passed a measure to
restore the death benefit halted by the federal shutdown.  Minutes after the unanimous House vote, Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel said in a statement that the  Fisher House
Foundation , a nonprofit that supports military families, has
agreed to pay the $100,000 “death gratuity” and will be
reimbursed by the Pentagon after the partial shutdown ends.  The Senate didn’t act on the bill today because Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, was awaiting word from the
White House on whether the legislation is still needed,
according to a Senate leadership aide who asked not to be
identified discussing internal deliberations.  “Our men and women serving in uniform in dangerous places
all over the globe deserve the peace of mind of knowing that,
during the worst of times, their families will receive the
benefits they deserve immediately,” Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen, a New Jersey Republican and author of the
legislation, said today on the House floor. “This bill removes
any ambiguity on this point.”  Before the House passed the measure on a vote of 425-0,
members engaged in partisan finger-pointing over who was to
blame for the benefit lapsing when most government funding ended
Oct. 1 in a standoff between President  Barack Obama  and  House
Republicans . The tax-exempt death benefit is intended to provide
immediate cash to the survivors of U.S. military personnel.  Partisan Debate  Republicans said the Pentagon interpreted too narrowly a
previously passed bill authorizing continued pay for military
personnel by saying it doesn’t authorize death benefits.
Democrats said allowing the government shutdown led to the
disruption.  Hagel said in his statement that the Pentagon had warned
Congress of the issue before the shutdown.  “I am offended, outraged and embarrassed that the
government shutdown had prevented the Department of Defense from
fulfilling this most sacred responsibility in a timely manner,”
he said.  White House spokesman Jay Carney today told reporters that
Obama was “disturbed” to learn that death benefit wasn’t being
paid because of the shutdown.  “The president expects this to be fixed today,” Carney
said before Hagel’s announcement.  ‘Work-Around’ Questioned  Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , the No. 2 Senate Republican,
said he’s “skeptical” about the legality of the Defense
Department’s “work-around” for death benefits and that the
Senate still needs to act on the House-passed measure.  The Fisher House Foundation’s chairman and chief executive
officer,  Kenneth Fisher , is a senior partner at New York-based
Fisher Brothers Realty Corp. The foundation was established in
1990 and has built 62 houses that provide temporary lodging for
families of hospitalized military personnel and veterans,
according to its  website .  Dave Coker, president of the Rockville, Maryland-based
foundation, said the group created a $4 million emergency
assistance fund to cover the death benefits during the shutdown.
The families of fallen service personnel “shouldn’t be paying a
financial price,” he said in a phone interview. “They’ve
already paid a price” with the death of a loved one.  Dover Base  In addition to the $100,000 death payment, the military has
halted other benefits for survivors, including burial expenses
and travel to Dover Air Force Base in  Delaware  to receive the
remains of loved ones, according to Navy Lieutenant Commander
Nate Christensen, a Pentagon spokesman.  While Hagel flew to Dover today for the arrival of flag-draped coffins bearing four of the five U.S. service members
killed in  Afghanistan  over the weekend, families wishing to be
there had to pay their own way or seek help from outside groups.
Hagel said in his statement that the Fisher House Foundation
will provide “the full set of benefits” promised to survivors.  The lapse in death benefits is “heart-breaking for all of
us,” said Ami Neiberger-Miller, a spokeswoman for the  Tragedy
Assistance Program for Survivors , a nonprofit group based in
Arlington,  Virginia , that provides counseling to grieving
families of fallen troops. The $100,000 death benefit typically
serves as “bridge money,” that “you’re able to use to bring
your family together,” she said in an interview yesterday.  The benefit can be used to pay immediate expenses that are
otherwise difficult to cover after the loss of a fallen
soldier’s salary, Neiberger-Miller said.  Car Payments  “If your car payment is due in two weeks, this money is
really important,” she said.  Shannon Collins, whose son, Marine Lance Corporal Jeremiah
Collins, was killed in Afghanistan over the weekend, said that
“the government is hurting the wrong people.”  “Families shouldn’t have to worry about how they’re going
to bury their child,” she said in an interview with NBC News.
“I don’t necessarily have $10,000 to bury my son.”  Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, chairman of the
House Armed Services Committee, said yesterday that Congress
intended that the family allowances would continue uninterrupted
during the shutdown.  “Judging by the  Department of Defense ’s own summary of
those programs, we believed that ’death gratuities’ would
continue to go to the families of those heroes who made the
ultimate sacrifice,” the California Republican said in a
statement.  Reid said yesterday he was shocked that U.S. military
personnel could die for their country while their families were
handed an IOU.  “It’s an unbearable loss, but now they’re being denied
death benefits because of this senseless shutdown,” Reid said
on the Senate floor. “It’s shameful and embarrassing.”  Christensen, the Pentagon spokesman, said the government
continues to process claims under the  Servicemembers Group Life
Insurance  program and to pay benefits such as a monthly stipend
based on a deceased service member’s base duty pay.  The legislation is H.J.Res. 91.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  