-- Pentagon Stops Development of BAE Systems F-35 Helmet
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-10T21:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/pentagon-stops-development-of-bae-systems-f-35-helmet.html
The Pentagon’s program office for
the F-35 fighter jet has decided to stop development of a backup
helmet by  BAE (BA/)  Systems Plc that was in the works as the Defense
Department sought improvements in  Rockwell Collins (COL)  Inc.’s
primary headpiece, according to a statement to Congress.  The Defense Department cited progress by Rockwell Collins
in correcting technical deficiencies in its helmet. Rockwell
Collins, based in Cedar Rapids,  Iowa , will offer a 12 percent
discount on the price of its helmet, according to the statement.  The program office “will focus solely” on bringing the
Rockwell Collins helmet, which is now being used in testing and
training, up to a fully compliant standard, according to the
statement. The introduction of BAE’s competition encouraged a
reduction in Rockwell Collins’s price, the Pentagon said.  The helmet is a vital component on the $391.2 billion
program to buy 2,443 jets for the Air Force, Marine Corps and
Navy. The  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  aircraft is often described as a
flying computer, with pilots using the helmet’s glass display as
their primary means of access to information such as altitude,
airspeed and the location of enemy fighters.  The helmet has been dogged by several persistent glitches,
including jittery images during maneuvers, misaligned symbols
and a “green glow,” or insufficient display contrast, Frank Kendall, the Pentagon’s undersecretary for acquisition, told
senators in June testimony.  ‘Significant Progress’  “Last year, the program made significant progress against
these challenges” using flight tests to identify and analyze
the issues, Kendall said.  The F-35 program will recoup about $45 million from money
it had allocated for developing an alternate helmet, Lockheed
Martin said today in a statement.  “The government’s decision to proceed exclusively with the
principal helmet is indicative of their confidence in the
helmet’s performance and the successful resolution of previously
identified technical challenges,” Lockheed Martin Executive
Vice President Lorraine Martin said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net  