-- Pernod Ricard Said to Seek to Cut Interest Margin of Credit Line
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-10-10T16:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/pernod-ricard-said-to-seek-to-cut-interest-margin-of-credit-line.html
Pernod Ricard SA (RI)  asked lenders to
reduce the interest rate and extend the maturity of a 2.5
billion-euro ($3.4 billion) loan to take advantage of falling
borrowing costs, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Europe ’s second-largest distiller wants to reduce the
margin it pays on the revolving credit facility to 80 basis
points more than the euro interbank offered rate, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the terms are
private. That compares with 135 basis points when the deal was
raised in April 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It also wants to reset the maturity of the loan for another five
years.  Investment-grade borrowers are capitalizing on competition
among banks to cut their interest costs. Carrefour SA, Schneider
Electric SA, Siemens AG and Daimler AG have all refinanced
credit lines this year at lower margins, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Paris-based distiller is offering an amendment fee of
15 basis points to existing lenders, and a 25 basis-point fee to
any new banks joining the deal, said the people.  The revolving credit facility, a type of debt where money
repaid can be borrowed again, includes a fee if it’s drawn,
climbing to 40 basis points when two-thirds of the  credit line 
is utilized. A premium of 40 basis points to draw the facility
in dollars will also be removed, said the people.  Pernod Ricard spokeswoman Sylvie Machenaud yesterday
confirmed Olivier Guelaud, group treasury director, is in talks
with banks. She declined to comment on the details of the
request today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  