-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate After Central Bank’s Reserve Reductions
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-10-10T23:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-after-central-bank-s-reserve-reductions.html
Peru ’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a 29th straight month after reducing  reserve
requirements  to counter slower growth.  The board, which is led by bank President Julio Velarde,
maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, matching the
forecasts of all 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Peru ties
Malaysia for the longest interest-rate pause in  developing
countries .  Policy makers cut reserve requirements Sept. 30 for a third
straight month after lowering their 2013 growth forecast to 5.5
percent from 6.1 percent on weaker export revenue. The central
bank will continue cutting reserve requirements this year to
stimulate growth as inflation holds near the upper end of the
central bank’s target range, said  Mario Guerrero , an economist
at Scotiabank Peru SAA.  “ Interest rates  will probably remain stable for a
relatively long period, at least through the first half of next
year,” said Guerrero in a phone interview from Lima. “The
central bank is opting for changes in reserve requirements to
bolster credit.”  The  economy  expanded 4.5 percent in July, less than the 4.8
percent forecast by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Growth has
lagged behind economists’ estimates in seven of the last eight
months.  Velarde said Sept. 30 the slowdown will prove temporary as
exports rebound and business sentiment recovers, spurring 6.2
percent economic growth in 2014, the fastest in South America.  Exports rose 1.2 percent in August, the first increase this
year, after a surge in shipments of copper offset lower prices
for the country’s biggest export, Peru’s statistics agency said
today in a report on its website.  Consumer prices increased 0.11 percent in September, the
slowest pace in seven months, while the annual inflation rate
fell to 2.83 percent from 3.28 percent in August. The central
bank targets inflation of 1 percent to 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  