-- Philippine Peso Falls as Fed Minutes Show Tapering Probability
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-10-10T04:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/philippine-peso-falls-as-fed-minutes-show-tapering-probability.html
The Philippine peso fell by the most
in more than a week after minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s
September meeting showed most policy makers are in favor of
cutting bond purchases that boosted inflows to  emerging markets .  The currency dropped to a one-week low as the yield  premium 
on three-month Philippine Treasury bills over similar-maturity
U.S. securities narrowed to 38 basis points this week, the least
in five months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. U.S. lawmakers
are currently gridlocked in negotiations to raise the U.S. debt
ceiling, almost a month after the central bank surprised markets
by maintaining the $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  “The lower short-term interest-rate differential and the
recent indication of a higher probability of tapering from the
Fed minutes is favoring the  U.S. dollar  over Asian currencies,”
said Estelito Biacora, senior vice president and chief
investment officer in  Manila  at  Bank of the Philippine Islands. (BPI) 
“We are still seeing strong support for Philippine equities
today despite the currency pressure.”  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 43.230 per dollar as of
the midday break in Manila, prices from Tullett Prebon Plc show.
It touched 43.285 earlier today, the lowest level since Oct. 3.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.20 percent.  Bonds Rise  The Fed minutes showed it was “a relatively close call”
to maintain the bond purchases in September.  “Most participants viewed their economic projections as
broadly consistent with a slowing in the pace of the committee’s
purchases of longer-term securities this year and the completion
of the program in mid-2014,” according to the record of the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s Sept. 17-18 gathering.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Composite Index rose 1
percent today, the biggest increase in a week. The government
reported exports climbed 20.2 percent in August from a year
earlier, the most since September last year.  The yield on the government’s 2.125 percent notes due May
2018 slipped four basis points to 3.01 percent, according to
prices from Tradition Financial Services. That’s the lowest
level in more than three weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  