-- Photos From Asia Show Obama’s Absence Left U.S. Demoted
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-10-11T00:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/photos-from-asia-show-obama-s-absence-left-u-s-demoted.html
If a picture is worth a thousand
words, photos from two global summits in Asia this week reveal
all you need to know about how President  Barack Obama ’s absence
due to the budget fight in  Washington  has marginalized the U.S.  At the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Bali,
the official photo of leaders in matching batik shirts shows a
smiling Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President
Vladimir Putin flanking the host,  Indonesia ’s president. In the
far right corner of the back row, at the edge of the stage, is
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, who’s been standing in for
Obama all week at summits across Asia.  The picture from the East Asia Summit in Brunei on Oct. 9
was more of the same -- Kerry shunted to the far left, while
Premier Li Keqiang,  China ’s second-ranking leader, basked center
stage next to the host, Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah. At the gala
dinner, Kerry was seated at one end of a long table, between the
Malaysian prime minister’s wife and an empty chair.  For a White House that’s made Asia a second-term priority
and sought to underscore America’s centrality to trade, growth
and security in the fastest-growing region in the world, the
optics haven’t been great, as they say in Washington.  Obama was to have occupied the place of honor to one side
of the Sultan, but the U.S. was demoted in his absence, said one
U.S. official. Protocol dictates that foreign ministers such as
Kerry and his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, who
represented Putin in  Brunei , were relegated to the wings, said
the official, who asked not to be named because of government
policy.  Kerry’s Quip  Kerry, the 2004 Democratic presidential candidate, tried to
make the best of his lot. Addressing a CEO summit at the APEC
forum in Bali, he joked that he’d “worked very, very hard to
replace a president.” After a theatrical pause, he added:
“This is not what I had in mind.”  He repeated the same one-liner at another gathering, both
times as a prelude to apologizing for Obama’s absence and
reassuring partners that the partial government shutdown in
Washington is “nothing more” than “a moment in politics.”  Obama conceded that the situation is not ideal, though. He
was scheduled to lead a meeting in Bali of leaders from 12
nations trying to seal a U.S.-led Trans-Pacific Partnership
trade agreement by the end of this year that would link a region
that boasts $28 trillion in annual economic output.  “It didn’t help that I wasn’t there to make sure that we
went ahead and closed a trade deal that would open up markets
and create jobs for the United States,” Obama said at a White
House news conference on Oct. 8. It’s like “not showing up to
my own party.”  Chinese Media  While Obama was stuck in Washington, China’s and  Russia ’s
leaders grabbed the limelight and headlines.  Chinese state media practically gloated that Xi and Li were
the main attractions, and newspaper commentaries in Indonesia,
Singapore and Hong Kong wondered if the U.S., facing a looming
threat to its government’s  borrowing ability , could sustain its
commitment to Asia -- or if China would displace the U.S.  The Jakarta Globe ran a picture of an embattled-looking
Obama with the headline: “Diminished Superpower.”  “I’m sure the Chinese don’t mind that I’m not there right
now,” Obama said at his news conference. “There are areas
where we have differences and they can present their point of
view and not get as much of a pushback.”  Kerry’s been making the same case Obama would have,
stressing U.S. priorities and pushing back against efforts to
derail them. Still, the secretary of state -- like any other top
diplomat -- doesn’t have the same status as the chief executive.
So Kerry had informal conversations with the Chinese and Russian
leaders instead of the lengthier sit-down meetings they would
have had with Obama.  Respectful Treatment  A State Department official traveling with Kerry downplayed
the impact of Obama’s absence and stressed to reporters that
other leaders interacted directly and respectfully with Kerry,
just as they would have with Obama. The official, who wasn’t
authorized to be quoted, said the leaders expressed empathy for
Obama’s decision to stay home to resolve the  budget  battle.  In Kuala Lumpur today, Kerry will again stand in for the
president, this time at a Global Entrepreneurship Summit.
Greeting U.S. Embassy employees last night, he joked that
despite his warm welcome, the U.S. ambassador to  Malaysia  is
“really sad he’s not introducing the president of the United
States.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  