-- Pimco Flags RBA Cut on Mining as Yellen Named: Australia Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-10-10T00:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/pimco-flags-rba-cut-on-mining-as-yellen-named-australia-credit.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
predicts lower benchmark Australian  interest rates  as mining
investment cools while a Janet Yellen-led Federal Reserve
maintains stimulus that strengthens the Aussie.  The local dollar climbed the most among major currencies
this month on prospects a partial U.S. government shutdown and
Yellen’s promotion will push the Fed to delay a reduction in
asset purchases. Pimco, which runs the world’s largest debt
fund, said Australian bonds may gain as the economy slows with
mining companies paring investment after a record boom.  “Should the Australian dollar remain persistently high,
this will only impede the required rebalancing in our economy
and support the need for further easing,”  Robert Mead , a
Sydney-based  money manager  for Pimco, said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions. A Yellen confirmation “would
support a Fed leadership that will maintain extraordinarily easy
monetary policy for longer than the market expects.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  has said a weaker Aussie would
help rebalance the economy as he seeks a transition from
resource investment to employment-intensive businesses such as
residential construction. Industries from tourism to steelmaking
and education were hampered as the Aussie climbed 48 percent in
the four years to Jan. 1. The economy is slowing as a 
decade-long boom that lifted mining investment to about 7 
percent of gross domestic product wanes.  Mining Transition  “ Australia  does not have the luxury of controlling the
balance sheet for the mining sector,” Mead and colleague Adam Bowe wrote yesterday in an article on Pimco’s website. “The RBA
will have to keep interest rates low for an extended period, in
our view, and likely lower them further to help smooth the
transition away from mining-assisted growth.”  Stevens and his board have cut the benchmark cash  rate  by
2.25 percentage points since late 2011 to a record-low 2.5
percent. In a statement accompanying the Oct. 1 decision when
borrowing costs were left unchanged, he said “a lower level of
the currency than seen at present would assist in rebalancing
growth.”  As the Fed’s No. 2 official, Yellen has articulated the
case for maintaining highly accommodative monetary policy. In a
series of 2012 speeches, she outlined why rates could remain
near zero into late 2015, and in a 2011 speech she justified the
Fed’s first two rounds of large-scale asset purchases with an
estimate that the programs would create 3 million jobs.  Yellen ‘Dovish’  “She’s even more of a dove than Bernanke is,” said J. Alfred Broaddus, a former president of the  Federal Reserve  Bank
of Richmond who debated Yellen over the Fed’s mandates during
the 1990s.  Traders are betting on a 76 percent chance the RBA will
hold rates for the rest of this year, according to swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg. The unemployment rate fell to 5.6 percent
last month from a four-year high of 5.8 percent in August,
government data today showed.  Home prices  in Australia’s biggest cities rose 3.7 percent
in the three months through September, according to the RP Data-Rismark Home Value Index.  Sydney will lead a jump in home prices as demand driven by
low rates meets a lack of supply, SQM Research Pty estimated.
Prices across major cities may rise as much as 11 percent on
average in 2014 in SQM’s base-case scenario, which assumes no
more than one 25 basis-point RBA rate cut, it said.  Confidence Stronger  A private report this week showed  business confidence 
surged in September to the highest level in 3 1/2 years after
the federal election ended a hung parliament.  Pimco remains “skeptical” the recent improvement in
business sentiment signals stronger investment intentions by
non-mining companies, Mead and Bowe wrote. The  International
Monetary Fund  said in an Oct. 8 report that Australia’s
 unemployment rate  will climb to a 10-year high in 2014 and
reduced its growth forecast for an economy that has avoided
recession for 22 years.  Mead said Australian  government bonds  due between three to
five years are attractive, after yields climbed to the highest
in at least six months.  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco
oversaw $1.97 trillion in assets worldwide as of June, according
to the company’s website.  Yields Climb  The yield on benchmark five-year Australian notes rose more
than 40 basis points since June and touched 3.48 percent today,
the highest since April 2012. Three-year yields reached 3.07
percent, the most since March.  The premium five-year Aussie debt offers over similar-dated
U.S. notes widened 38 basis points this month to 204 basis
points. Australian sovereign securities handed investors a 0.5
percent loss this year, compared with a 2.6 percent slide for
Treasuries.  The Australian dollar has risen more than 6 percent since
the start of September to 94.55 U.S. cents as of 11:50 a.m. in
Sydney. It is the best performer this month among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “That’s clearly not what the RBA wants,” said  Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief economist in Australia who
predicts the central bank will cut rates next month. “The
higher the currency goes the lower the cash rate will go as they
try to offset that contractionary impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  