-- Platform to Buy Chemical Maker MacDermid for $1.8 Billion
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-10-11T18:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/platform-to-buy-chemical-maker-macdermid-for-1-8-billion.html
(Corrects name of legal adviser in last paragraph.)  Platform Acquisition Holdings Ltd. (PAH) ,
the investment company founded by Martin E. Franklin, agreed to
buy closely held  MacDermid Group Inc. (MRD)  for $1.8 billion and said
it plans to acquire more specialty-chemical makers.  The purchase of Denver-based MacDermid should close this
month and Platform plans to move its shares from the London
Stock Exchange to the  New York  Stock Exchange by year-end, the
Tortola, British Virgin Islands-based company said yesterday in
a statement. It also plans to rename itself Platform Specialty
Products Corp., or PSP.  Franklin, Platform’s chairman, plans to acquire a
“portfolio” of specialty-chemical companies that emphasize
customer service and have relatively few factories, he said on a
conference call today. Platform is targeting makers of chemicals
used in oilfield services, adhesives, energy catalysts and water
treatment for future acquisitions.  “MacDermid is a natural choice to serve as the initial
investment and foundation for Platform Specialty Products,”
Franklin said in the statement.  Platform plans to retain MacDermid managers, with Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Daniel Leever to become PSP’s vice
chairman and CEO, and Chief Financial Officer Frank Monteiro
remaining as CFO.  Deal Funding  British-born Franklin and investor  Nicolas Berggruen  listed
Platform in London earlier this year, attracting  Bill Ackman ’s
Pershing Square Capital Management LP and  Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  as
investors with its aim of targeting niche businesses for as much
as $2.5 billion.  MacDermid, founded in 1922, had $742 million in revenue in
the past 12 months and $180 million in adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Platform said.  The transaction is expected to be funded through proceeds
from Platform’s previously completed initial public offering, an
amendment of MacDermid’s existing first lien term debt and
proceeds from a warrant exchange offer to be carried out by
Platform, Platform said.  Barclays Plc acted as financial adviser and Greenberg
Traurig LLP acted as legal adviser to Platform.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) 
acted as financial adviser to MacDermid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  