-- Poland Pension-Fund Overhaul to Cut Debt Sets 75% Stock Minimum
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-10-10T18:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/poland-pension-fund-overhaul-to-cut-debt-sets-75-stock-minimum.html
Poland today unveiled its draft law
to take over 51.5 percent of assets held by the country’s
privately-run pension funds, saying the step will reduce public
debt by 9.2 percentage points of economic output next year.  Thirteen funds, which invest mandatory contributions from
16.2 million members and control $94 billion of assets, will be
banned from buying  government bonds  from Feb. 3 and required to
put at least 75 percent of their assets in stocks.  The overhaul will give the government more leeway to boost
public spending as 2015 general elections loom while its public
support wanes. The draft will be sent to parliament in mid-November following a month of consultations, Prime Minister
Donald Tusk told reporters in parliament this week.  “With 75 percent of assets in stocks, pension funds will
effectively become equity funds, irrespective of the age and
profile of their clients,” Marcin Zoltek, who oversees the
equivalent of $20.2 billion of assets as deputy chief executive
of Aviva PTE in Warsaw, Poland’s second-largest pension fund,
said today by phone. “It will be difficult to offset the risk
linked to stock-market volatility.”  Poles will have three months to decide whether they want to
divert all of future contributions to the state-controlled pay-as-you-go system or transfer 2.9 percent of their pay to the
pension funds. They will be allowed to review their decision in
2016 and every four years afterward, according to the document
posted on the Labor Ministry’s  website .  Foreign Assets  Under the draft law, funds will be allowed to invest as
much as 10 percent of their assets abroad in 2014, up from a 5
percent limit this year. That maximum foreign-asset allocation
will increase to 20 percent in 2015 and 30 percent in 2016.  Funds may be allowed to buy derivatives to hedge against
market risk, with the government specifying which derivatives
may be used in a separate regulation, according to the draft
bill.  Pension funds in the mandatory system held 292 billion
zloty ($94.4 billion) of assets, including 120.3 billion zloty
of stocks and 124.1 billion zloty of bonds as of Sept. 30, data
from  Poland ’s financial markets regulator show.  By taking over and canceling the bonds held by the funds,
the government will save as much as 25 billion zloty in
borrowing costs annually in 2014-2017, according to Labor
Ministry commentary accompanying the draft bill.  Collision Course  The plan may still put the government on a collision course
with the European Union and the owners of companies running the
funds, which include  Aegon NV (AGN) ,  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  MetLife Inc. (MET) ,  Aviva
Plc (AV/) ,  AXA SA (CS) , Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A.,  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and
 Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)   Henri de Castries, chief executive officer of AXA, said in
September his company will become “very aggressive from a legal
standpoint” if the law were introduced. The Polish Chamber of
Pension Funds in a letter asked European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  to “closely analyze” the plan and “take
appropriate actions.”  The Polish government has already factored the pension-fund
changes into the 2014 budget, projecting a drop in the central
deficit to 47.7 billion zloty from 51.6 billion zloty this year.
Standard and Poor’s said on Sept. 5 the plan was “neutral” for
Poland’s rating and “essentially an accounting exercise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  