-- Gilts Drop Amid Signs of U.S. Debt Talks, BOE Maintains Stimulus
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-10-10T15:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/pound-is-little-changed-before-bank-of-england-policy-decision.html
U.K. government bonds declined for
the first time in four days as Treasuries fell on optimism U.S.
lawmakers will temporarily increase the nation’s debt ceiling
and avert a default, damping demand for the safest assets.  The pound touched the weakest level against the euro in
five weeks as the  Bank of England  kept its benchmark  interest
rate  at a  record-low  0.5 percent and left its bond-buying
stimulus  target  at 375 billion pounds ($599 billion). The
central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mark
Carney , said in August it would keep down interest rates until
 unemployment , currently at 7.7 percent, falls below 7 percent.  “Gilts are following other bond markets lower as the
prospect of the U.S. avoiding a technical default seems to
improve,” said Peter Osler, head of interest-rate strategy at
broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd. in  London . “The Bank of
England’s decision is in line with market expectations.”  The 10-year gilt yield increased seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 2.75 percent at 4:56 p.m. London time.
The 2.25 percent bond due in September 2023 fell 0.555, or 5.55
pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 95.695.  Treasury 10-year note yields climbed five basis points to
2.72 percent, while the rate on German  10-year (USGG10YR)  bunds rose six
basis points to 1.87 percent.  Partial Shutdown  U.S. House Republican and Senate Democratic leaders are
open to a short-term increase in the $16.7 trillion U.S. debt
limit, according to congressional aides, who spoke on condition
of anonymity. The U.S. government is entering its 10th day of a
partial shutdown before its borrowing authority lapses on Oct.
17. Economists say a failure by the world’s largest borrower to
repay its debt would throw economies around the world into
recession.  The pound was little changed at $1.5975 after falling to
$1.5914, the lowest since Sept. 18. It slid 0.8 percent versus
the U.S. currency yesterday. Sterling was also little changed at
84.71 pence per euro after depreciating to 84.93 pence, the
weakest level since Sept. 2.  The BOE’s decisions were predicted in two Bloomberg News
surveys of economists. The pound slid 0.2 percent versus the
dollar and gilts fell after the previous announcement on Sept.
5, when officials also left policy unchanged.  “This decision was not in any way a surprise,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “U.K.
monetary policy settings for now are on auto-pilot, barring the
U.S. debt ceiling debate getting very messy.”  Sterling Slides  Britain’s currency weakened versus all of its 16 major
counterparts yesterday after a report showed U.K. industrial
production slumped in August, casting doubt on the strength of
the economic recovery.  Citigroup Inc.’s Economic Surprise Index for the U.K. slid
to 28.1 yesterday, the lowest since July 16. The gauge, which
shows whether data beat or fell short of economists’ forecasts,
climbed to a nine-month high of 113.30 on Aug. 19.  The U.K. 10-year  break-even rate , a market gauge of
inflation expectation derived from the yield difference between
gilts and index-linked securities, rose five basis points to
3.12 percentage points today. It was at 2.65 percentage points,
the lowest rate for this year, in January.  Sterling declined 0.4 percent in the past week, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 0.9 percent and the
euro gained 0.1 percent.  The pound strengthened 5.7 percent in the past six months,
making it the best performer in the period, the indexes show.  Pound Pressure  “The pound has been an outperformer among the G-10, but we
believe that it has reached over-extended levels,”  Ian Stannard , the head of European foreign-exchange strategy at
Morgan Stanley in London, wrote in an Oct. 9 note to clients,
referring to the currencies of the Group-of-10 nations. “We
expect the pound to come under pressure.”  Britain’s currency will decline to $1.51 in the coming
year, Stannard predicted.  Carney said in an interview last month that he doesn’t see
an argument for expanding the quantitative-easing program
because the recovery has strengthened and  minutes  of the
monetary policy committee’s September meeting showed all nine
members agreed that the current policy setting was appropriate.
Minutes of today’s meeting are due to be released on Oct. 23.  Gilts lost 2.7 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds dropped
1.7 percent and U.S. Treasuries declined 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  