-- Pre-World War I Evoked in Post-Crisis Markets: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-10-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/pre-world-war-i-evoked-in-post-crisis-markets-cutting-research.html
Global capital markets are more
integrated than at any time since the late 19th century, giving
a reason to be upbeat about the world economic outlook.  Non-resident ownership of domestic bonds in  emerging
markets  has increased since the financial crisis, Simon Quijano-Evans, head of emerging-markets research at Commerzbank AG, said
in an Oct. 8 report. Almost half of  Hungary ’s debt is held by
foreigners, doubling from 2010, while overseas ownership of
Polish, Turkish, Mexican and Russian debt also has jumped.  “A tough task, but we should have plenty of room for
optimism, given the ever-increasing global integration at both a
human and economic level,” Quijano-Evans said.  To him, it recalls the period more than a century ago when
people moved freely around Europe without the need of a
passport. That age ended with World War I.  It’s not the only example of interdependence that has
formed through the financial crisis. The share of developed
market exports going to developing nations rose to 30 percent
last year from 23 percent in 2007, while industrial countries
became more dependent on foreign workers.  The number of migrants stood at 120 million in 2010,
compared with fewer than 80 million in 1990. Remittances sent
home by workers from emerging markets now account for as much as
20 percent of gross domestic product in some African countries
and 10 percent for the  Philippines . Even  Germany  receives $14
billion a year from its diaspora.  “Rather than cause divisions, the crisis years have
highlighted how interdependent developed markets and emerging
markets have become, substantially increasing the profile of
emerging markets,” said Quijano-Evans, a former official in
 Thailand ’s Ministry of Industry.  More worried is Joachim Fels, co-chief global economist at
Morgan Stanley in London. He suggested in a Sept. 30 report to
clients that the globalization push of recent decades is
weakening as it did a century ago.  “I wonder whether just as 1913 marked the end of the first
Golden Age of globalization that had begun in 1870, 2013 may
mark the end of our age of globalization, which accelerated
since the 1980s and 1990s after many emerging markets opened up
to international trade and capital flows,” said Fels. “I’m not
predicting the world wars, mass sufferings and economic
depressions of the three dark decades following 1913, but I do
worry about a creeping trend towards a de-globalization of
economic activity and capital flows.”  * * *  France  would incur the biggest cost if a fresh financial
crisis forced European governments to recapitalize their banks.  The government would have to provide 239.92 billion euros,
or the equivalent of almost 12 percent of GDP, according to a
study published this month by the IESEG School of Management in
France.  Cyprus and  Greece  would have to find more than 8 percent of
GDP in public funds to save their banks. Finland’s financial
industry would be the least in need of state aid, the study
found.  A crisis was defined as a 40 percent slump in the stock
market over six months. Author Eric Dor, director of economic
studies at IESEG, also assumed  European banks  would be expected
to maintain equity equivalent to 5.5 percent of their assets.  Given their already high level of indebtedness, increasing
the public debt ratio by 5 percent to 10 percent of  GDP (FRGEGDPQ)  would
“certainly trigger a sharp increase of interest rates on
government bonds,” Dor said.  “An extremely severe fiscal austerity should be
implemented, leading to a new recession,” he wrote.  * * *  Monetary policy is more potent in expansions than in
recessions.  So say economists Silvana Tenreyro and Gregory Thwaites,
who examined the effects of Federal Reserve decision-making from
1969 to 2008.  Their analysis found almost all the effect that the Fed’s
benchmark rate had on economic activity was attributable to
shifts made during upswings. The impact was particularly driven
by the reaction to rate changes of business investment and
consumer spending on durable goods.  One explanation is that during recessions people hold back
from buying expensive goods, so rate changes don’t affect their
spending on those as much as during stronger growth, said
Tenreyro and Thwaites, in a study published Oct. 10 by the
Centre for Macroeconomics at the  London  School of Economics.  * * *  Countries that attract trade and finance should also lure
investors, according to Societe Generale SA.  Since the end of 2007, the developed nations in the top
five for so-called international investment positions, including
 Singapore , saw stocks fall 11 percent, their exchange rates gain
9 percent versus the dollar and bond yields drop 154 basis
points. An international investment position measures the
difference between a country’s external financial assets and its
liabilities.  By contrast, those in the bottom five, including Greece,
experienced a decline in benchmark equity indexes of 40 percent
on average and in currencies of 1 percent, while 10-year bond
yields rose 82 basis points.  A similar relationship exists in emerging markets, Societe
Generale said in its Sept. 26 study of 48 countries.  Those with poor positions, such as  Croatia , lost 28 percent
in equity valuation and their currencies dropped 24 percent.
Those that attracted investors, such as  China , suffered only a 5
percent decline in stocks and an 8 percent fall in currency.  “External accounts have huge market implications,” said
Paris-based strategist Philippe Ferreira.  * * *  Trade related to infrastructure will provide a force for
good in the world economy in coming years, with HSBC Holdings
Plc predicting it will triple by 2030.  The pace of such goods, such as those used to construct
buildings and transportation networks, will grow at an average
of 9 percent a year by then and rise as a share of total trade
to 54 percent of global exports from 45 percent, HSBC said in an
Oct. 8 study.  The report differentiated between goods for infrastructure
projects on the one hand and investment equipment, which is
machinery required by businesses to boost production, on the
other.  It predicted by 2020 the U.S. will have been passed by
 India  as the biggest importer of infrastructure goods as it
rebuilds its domestic transportation networks. China will become
the largest importer of investment equipment as it boosts
manufacturing capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  