-- Rajan Sees India’s Growth Quickening as Infrastructure Improved
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-10-10T16:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/rajan-sees-india-s-growth-quickening-as-infrastructure-improved.html
Reserve Bank of  India  Governor
Raghuram Rajan expressed optimism in the economy’s prospects,
saying growth will accelerate as infrastructure is improved and
signaling the nation has the means to finance its external debt.  India’s growth “should be better from now on” and could
reach double-digits if underlying problems such as
infrastructure are fixed, Rajan said in a speech in Washington
today. Inflation remains high, and the central bank and finance
ministry are on boosting growth and curbing inflation, Rajan
said. The country can pay its external debt with the reserves it
has, he said.  Rajan this week further relaxed emergency liquidity curbs
imposed on the banking system in July to support the rupee after
his efforts to attract dollar inflows boosted the currency. The
former International Monetary Fund chief economist has also
raised the benchmark  repurchase rate  to fight  inflation (INFUTOTY)  since
becoming governor last month, acting even as the economy slows.  Rajan cut the marginal standing facility rate to 9 percent
from 9.5 percent on Oct. 7, easing the cash squeeze with the
second MSF reduction in less than a month. He’s previously said
he plans a measured roll back of the liquidity curbs.  He raised the repurchase rate to 7.5 percent on Sept. 20
from 7.25 percent, pledging to cool price pressures in Asia’s
third-largest economy.  Economic growth  will slow to 4 percent in the 12 months
ending March 2014, HSBC Holdings Plc predicts. That would be the
weakest pace in more than a decade. Consumer-price inflation has
averaged 10 percent in the past year.  Credit Rating  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s second term in office has
been marred by graft scandals and a deteriorating economic
outlook. Standard & Poor’s last month reiterated it could
downgrade India’s credit rating to junk on risks including
budget and current-account deficits.  India will grow “closer to” 5.5 percent in the fiscal
year of 2014, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in a
speech today in  Washington . That compares with the International
Monetary Fund’s forecast of 5.1 percent. “We don’t share their
pessimism,” Chidambaram said.  More than two-thirds of the nation’s 1.2 billion population
live on less than $2 per day, according to World Bank  data .
Elections are due in the $1.8 trillion economy by May.  Rajan was the chief economist at the IMF from 2003 to 2006.
He is on  leave  from the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business, where he is Eric J. Gleacher Distinguished Service
Professor of Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  