-- Treasury Bill Rates Tumble on Debt-Deadline Talks Optimism
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-10-10T21:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/treasuries-hold-two-day-drop-on-signs-of-short-term-debt-talks.html
Rates on Treasury bills tumbled and
yields on longer-maturity U.S. debt rose on speculation
lawmakers were working toward an agreement on a short-term
increase in the nation’s debt limit to avoid a U.S. default.  The rates for all bills maturing through Nov. 14 fell,
while those with due dates after that to Jan. 2 rose, as House
Republican leaders proposed a short-term increase in the debt
ceiling and the White House endorsed it. Hong Kong’s futures and
options market operator upped the discount on Treasury bills
used as collateral for margin requirements. The U.S. sold $13
billion of 30-year bonds with the highest demand since February.  “We are starting to see investor concerns shift attention
to November and December bills as they expect the ceiling may be
extended by several weeks,” said Andrew Hollenhorst, fixed-income strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “Since it’s
not a done deal, we are still seeing weakness in October bills,
but yields have come in a bit since the press began reporting a
six-week extension might be offered by Republicans.”  The rate on $120 billion in bills due Oct. 17 dropped for
the first time in six days, falling 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 0.31 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 0.51
percent earlier, the highest level since they were sold in
October 2012. The rate on bills due Nov. 21 rose eight basis
points to 0.12.  Repo Levels  The 10-year yield gained two basis points to 2.68 percent
after touching 2.72 percent, the highest level since Sept. 23.
The 2.5 percent note due in August 2023 fell 5/32, or $1.56 per
$1,000 face amount, to 98 14/32. Yields on 30-year bonds were
little changed at 3.73 percent after gaining as many as five
basis points before the auction.  The overnight Treasury general collateral repo rate closed
at 0.26 percent after opening at 0.27 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker. That’s up from
0.09 percent at the start of the week.  “The concern by front-end investors has certainly caused
an aversion to Treasury bills which is now manifesting itself
into the repo market,” said Kenneth Silliman, head of U.S.
short-term rates trading at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in New York. “Market participants are building
in a much higher risk premium for receiving collateral that
could be potentially associated with a default.”  The 21 primary dealers serving as counterparties to the Fed
in its open market operations cut their  holdings  of short-term
Treasury bills to $16.2 billion for the week ended Oct. 2, the
lowest since October 2012, central bank data show.  Treasuries ‘Haircut’  The “haircut” for Hong Kong investors will rise to 3
percent from 1 percent today for Treasuries with maturities of
less than one year in margin requirements for index futures and
options, Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. said in a circular.
Treasuries with longer maturities aren’t affected.  “You are seeing some responses to the nonsense going on
here,” said David Ader, head of U.S. government-bond strategy
at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The market
is making comments about the risk of default and Hong Kong is
following suit. We’ve seen this type of action in the bill
market already.”  The budget proposal today by House Speaker John Boehner,
which wouldn’t end the 10-day-old partial shutdown of the
federal government, would push the lapse of U.S. borrowing
authority to Nov. 22 from Oct. 17.  Market ‘Panic’  Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said President
 Barack Obama  would support a short increase in the U.S. debt
limit with no “partisan strings attached,” though he prefers a
longer extension. House Republicans haven’t specified what they
plan to tie to the measure and Carney said the White House would
need to see a bill before accepting it.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told the Senate Finance
Committee in prepared testimony that failing to raise the debt
ceiling by Oct. 17 “will impact everyday Americans beyond its
impact on financial markets.”  “The deadline was starting to panic the markets,” said
Thomas di Galoma, head of U.S. rates sales at ED&F Man Capital
Markets in New York. “We’re starting to see the bill market
reprice itself to lower yields.”  A short-term agreement in the U.S. could push U.S. bills
lower as investors anticipate a further dispute on the debt
ceiling, according to Ewen Cameron Watt, chief investment
strategist at BlackRock Inc.’s Investment Institute.  ‘Another Round’  “If it goes OK, kicking the can down the road, then in a
few weeks’ time there will be another round of this stuff,” he
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse”
with Guy Johnson. “In the meantime, maybe short bills get too
cheap.”  As of Oct. 7, the U.S. Treasury had a payment capacity of
$127 billion and it will still have $70 billion on Oct. 17,
according to estimates compiled by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch.  Treasuries (BUSY15)  due in one-to-five years have declined 0.2
percent this year, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
Those maturing in more than 10 years have dropped 10 percent,
the data show.  The 30-year bonds sold today yielded 3.758 percent,
compared to 3.82 percent at the previous offering on Sept. 12,
the highest yielding sale since July 2011, and a forecast of
3.784 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight of the Federal
Reserve’s 21 primary dealers.  The  bid-to-cover ratio , which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount sold, was 2.64, the highest since
February, compared with an average of 2.47 at the past 10
auctions.  ‘Solid Overall’  “Good statistics overall -- a solid overall result,” said
Christopher Sullivan, who oversees $2.2 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New
York. “The auction was encouraged by late news that we are
close to reaching a temporary deal with respect to the debt
ceiling.”  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 41.9 percent of the bonds, compared
with an average of 37.8 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 22.6 percent of
the bonds, compared with an average of 15.4 percent at the last
10 auctions.  Thirty-year bonds have lost 12.5 percent this year,
compared with a 2.6 percent drop in the broader U.S. Treasuries
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Long
bonds returned 2.5 percent in 2012, versus a 2.2 percent gain by
Treasuries overall.  Third Offering  Today’s offering is the third of three note and bond
auctions this week totaling $64 billion. The government sold $30
billion in three-year debt on Oct. 8 and $21 billion in 10-year
securities yesterday.  The sales will raise $31.7 billion of new cash, as maturing
securities held by the public total $32.3 billion, according to
the U.S. Treasury.  The Fed today purchased $1.38 billion in Treasury inflation
protected securities maturing between April 2028 and February
2043.  The  extra yield  investors get for buying one-month
securities instead of 91-day securities was 17.2 basis points
after reaching 28.9 basis points on Oct. 8, the biggest
difference since March 2008, according to closing-market data.
The longer-dated bills usually yield more than their one-month
counterparts. In 2013, investors have been able to earn almost
one basis point on average by buying the longer-dated security.  Two years ago,  one-month bill rates  climbed to 0.17 percent
in the days before the Aug. 2, 2011, deadline set by the
Treasury to avoid a default. They were at 0.015 percent in
December 2012 before a year-end trigger of automatic spending
cuts and tax increases.  The  three-month rate  climbed to 0.09 percent before the
August 2011 deadline, and it rose as high as 0.081 percent in
the week before Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  