-- Treasury Bond Auction Demand Rises After Lackluster Note Sales
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-10-10T22:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/treasury-bond-auction-demand-rises-after-lackluster-note-sales.html
Optimism U.S. lawmakers are moving
closer to an agreement to increase the nation’s borrowing
capacity bolstered demand at the Treasury’s 30-year bond
auction, tempering lackluster buyer interest at three- and 10-year note sales earlier this week.  The Treasury’s $13 billion auction of the long bonds
yesterday attracted the most demand since February, with a 2.64
 bid-to-cover ratio , which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount sold. That compares with an average of 2.47 at
the past 10 bond auctions. The two note sales drew bid-to-cover
ratios that were weaker than average.  These were the first auctions of coupon securities since
the government was partially shut down on Oct. 1 as  House
Republicans  and President  Barack Obama  wrangle over a budget
deal. Speaker  John Boehner  proposed a short-term increase in the
debt ceiling yesterday, and party leaders met with Obama last
night to discuss the proposal. The plan would push the lapse of
U.S. borrowing authority to Nov. 22 from Oct. 17, the date by
which the debt ceiling must be raised or the nation risks a
default, according to Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew.  “There was a shifting tide in sentiment that rose with the
news in Washington, and as a result the auctions started weaker
and grew stronger,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , the chief economic
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “There is a strong conviction that we are
closer to getting some sort of deal in  Washington . And that,
combined with more attractive yields, helped close the week of
auctions strong, despite a shakier start.”  Yields Rise  The yield on the current 30-year  bond  was at 3.73 percent
at 5 p.m. yesterday in New York, up from 3.68 percent on Sept.
30, the day before the shutdown, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader Prices. The yield on the  three-year note  was 0.68
percent, up from 0.64 percent, and 10-year yields surged to 2.68
percent from 2.61 percent.  Even with the strong 30-year auction, overall demand was
down this week. Investors bid 2.75 for every dollar of the debt
sold at the three auctions, compared with 2.97 at the last round
of the same maturity debt sales last month.  The bid-to-cover ratio for the $21 billion 10-year note
sale on Oct. 9 was 2.58, compared with an average of 2.75 at the
previous 10 auctions. The day before, investors bid 3.05 for
every dollar of the $30 billion of three-year notes sale, after
averaging 3.35 for the past 10 sales.  Bidder Participation  At yesterday’s 30-year bond auction,  indirect  bidders, an
investor class that includes foreign central banks, purchased
41.9 percent of the bonds, compared with an average of 37.8
percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 22.6 percent of
the bonds, compared with an average of 15.4 percent at the last
10 auctions.  “The stats for the auction showed decent investor demand -
- you still have people interested in buying Treasuries given
how much we’ve cheapened of late,” said Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist in  New York  at Credit Suisse Group AG,
which as a primary dealer is obligated to bid at Treasury
auctions. “The issues in Washington haven’t deterred buyers of
these securities, as there is a general belief that there will
be resolution and the debt ceiling will ultimately be raised.”  Thirty-year bonds have lost 12.5 percent this year,
compared with a 2.6 percent drop in the broader U.S. Treasuries
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Long
bonds returned 2.5 percent in 2012, versus a 2.2 percent gain by
Treasuries overall.  This week’s sales will raise $31.7 billion of new cash, as
maturing securities held by the public total $32.3 billion,
according to the  U.S. Treasury .  Investors bid $2.87 for each dollar of the $1.682 trillion
in U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this year,
according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from the record $3.15 for the $2.153 trillion sold at last
year’s offerings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  