-- Regency to Buy Gas Processor PVR for About $3.88 Billion
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-10-10T20:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/regency-agrees-to-acquire-pvr-in-deal-valued-at-5-6-billion.html
Regency Energy Partners LP (RGP) , a
pipeline partnership controlled by billionaire Kelcy Warren’s
 Energy Transfer Equity LP (ETE) , agreed to buy  PVR Partners LP (PVR)  for
about $3.88 billion in stock and cash to expand its natural gas
transport and processing capabilities.  PVR holders will get 1.02 common units of Regency for each
unit they own and a one-time cash payment estimated at about $40
million in total, the companies said in a joint statement today.
The $28.68-per-unit offer represents a 26 percent premium based
on yesterday’s closing prices. Dallas-based Regency will assume
about $1.8 billion of debt.  The transaction, expected to close in the first quarter,
will extend Regency’s operations into the Marcellus Shale, the
largest U.S. shale-gas basin, the Utica Shale in  Ohio  and the
Granite Wash fields in Texas and  Oklahoma , Chief Executive
Officer Michael J. Bradley said in the statement.  “The size and scope of the combined enterprise will be
highly beneficial to our unitholders, offering added
diversification and critical mass,” William H. Shea, CEO of
Radnor, Pennsylvania-based PVR, said in the statement.  Bradley will lead the combined company, which will keep its
headquarters in  Dallas .  Riverstone Units  PVR, formerly owned by Penn Virginia Corp., had dropped 12
percent this year before today after reporting delays in
producer connections to its pipelines during the second quarter.
The partnership reached a 52-week high of $28.93 on July 19. The
units jumped 13 percent to $25.75 in New York, their biggest
one-day gain since August 2011.  Regency fell 8.6 percent to $25.44, the steepest decline
since August 2011. Energy Transfer Equity gained 1.9 percent to
$66.11.  PVR expanded its Marcellus holdings last year with the $1
billion purchase of Chief Gathering LLC. It created Class B
units for Riverstone Holdings LLC, which helped fund the deal.  Mergers and acquisitions are the fastest way for gas
pipelines to grow now, Warren said in a September interview.
Warren’s  Energy Transfer  owns the general partner that controls
Regency and is the partnership’s largest shareholder, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deal Cowboy  “You’re going to see the resumption of some kind of M&A
strategy that we deliberately shelved for quite a period now,”
the 57-year-old Texan said Sept. 24 in his Dallas office. He
acknowledged getting a reputation as a deals-obsessed “cowboy”
after leading a $13 billion buying spree in 2011 and 2012 that
made Energy Transfer Partners LP the third-largest gas pipeline
company.  “Ultimately, this is going to benefit the whole Energy
Transfer complex,” Ethan Bellamy, a Denver-based analyst for
Robert W. Baird & Co., said today in a telephone interview.
Payments by Regency to Energy Transfer Equity will increase once
the affiliate issues the new units.  Expanding Regency makes its takeover by Energy Transfer
Partners more probable, he said. Bellamy rates Regency and
Warren’s other enterprises at hold and doesn’t hold the stock.  Although Energy Transfer once had a “stated goal” to take
over Regency, “right now there are no plans” for this to
happen, Bradley said today on a conference call with analysts.  Bank of America Corp. and UBS AG advised Regency, with
legal advice from Baker Botts LLP. Citigroup Inc. and Evercore
Partners Inc. were PVR’s financial advisers, with Vinson &
Elkins LLP as legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Susan Warren
at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  