-- Regling Says Greece Widely Expected to Need New Bailout in 2014
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-10-10T19:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/regling-says-greece-widely-expected-to-need-new-bailout-in-2014.html
Greece  will probably need a third
rescue program next year and the euro area’s firewall fund will
be able to move quickly when needed, European Stability
Mechanism chief Klaus Regling said.  “It’s very likely that they will need more assistance,”
Regling said today in  Washington  during an interview with Sara
Eisen for Bloomberg Television. He said Greece is more likely to
remain shut off from financial markets when its current bailout
ends, unlike Ireland and  Portugal , which have been in better
shape and made more progress regaining investor confidence.  Greece’s current 240 billion-euro ($325 billion) rescue
program runs into the middle of next year. If another bailout
package follows, “we don’t need that much time” to prepare,
Regling said.  When asked if the ESM is preparing new assistance for Spain
or  Italy , Regling said “at the moment I see no signs that these
countries need money from us.” The 500 billion-euro ESM has
about 90 percent of its capacity available for further rescues
if needed, with only 50 billion euros committed to Cyprus and
the Spanish bank rescue, he said.  “That will go a long way to cover any problems that I can
imagine,” Regling said. Bailouts for Greece, Ireland and
Portugal were funded through the ESM’s predecessor, a temporary
euro-area backstop.  The ESM is now working with euro-area nations to develop a
tool that could provide direct aid to banks, a measure sought by
European Union leaders last year to break contagion between the
sovereign debt crisis and financial system strains.  Bank Supervision  As the  European Central Bank  conducts balance-sheet reviews
as a precursor to taking over bank supervision duties in the
currency zone, details on how to use that tool need to be
developed, Regling said.  “I don’t think it has to be in place before,” he said.
“But it has to be in place the moment the results come out,
which will be a little bit later. We are working on that.”  The ESM attracted more than 200 investors for the 7
billion-euro sale of five-year bonds, Regling said. More than a
fifth of investors came from  Asia , including central banks,
sovereign wealth funds, pension funds and insurance companies.
More than half of the bond’s demand came from  Europe ,
representing all types of investors, he said.  Regling said the ESM invests its funds in euro-area assets
and therefore is not immediately exposed to market turmoil
related to the U.S. government shutdown and need to raise its
debt limit.  “If it really became very bad, we are all interconnected”
and there “could be a ripple effect,” he said, adding that “I
don’t expect that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  