-- Republicans Seen Leaving Rate Specifics Out of Debt Deal: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-10-10T11:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/republicans-seen-leaving-rate-specifics-out-of-debt-deal-taxes.html
One of Republicans’ top goals for
rewriting the U.S.  tax code  may be left out of the instructions
party leaders want to attach to a debt-limit increase.  Senior lawmakers said yesterday that instructions on a tax
code rewrite don’t have to mention a long-held goal to cut the
top  tax rate  to 25 percent, Bloomberg BNA reported.  “There’s an opportunity to leave  tax reform  not to the
specifics in anything now, but to put into place a mechanism to
push tax reform as a whole package without major restrictions,”
said Representative  Tom Reed , a  New York  Republican.  To leave out specific rates would break away from the past
approach. The House approved a list of instructions for tax
revisions in 2012 that called for a top tax rate of 25 percent,
a goal Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp  laid out.  Putting the rates into writing right now may jeopardize
nascent progress on getting talks going between Republicans and
Democrats on the budget and the impasse over raising the
nation’s debt limit, committee members said. If the U.S. doesn’t
raise the limit by Oct. 17, the government will have $30 billion
plus income revenue to pay its bills. It would start missing
scheduled payments, including benefits, salaries and interest,
between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  The details of the tax instructions, which Republican
lawmakers are pushing to include in any deal, are still being
worked out, a committee spokeswoman said.  The instructions will set out a procedure for moving tax
revision forward, Reed said. Generally, Democrats and
Republicans have agreed that a tax overhaul should broaden the
tax base and lower at least some rates.  Debt Limit  Leaving the specifics on tax rates out of the instructions
could make sense, as the normal procedure would be for the tax-writing committees to spell out rates in their own bills, said
Ways and Means member Pat Tiberi, a Republican from  Ohio .  Asked if he could envision making no mention of rates in
the instructions, Tiberi told Bloomberg BNA, “Yeah, I could. I
think the beauty about instructions is we on the Ways and Means
Committee and those on the Finance Committee will still do our
deal through regular order, which is a good thing.”  The committee’s ranking Democrat, Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , has said tax overhaul instructions would be
“totally unacceptable” if they dictate a 25 percent top tax
rate, a level he said Republicans have not demonstrated how they
would achieve.  Popular Breaks  Whether tax-related instructions will be part of a deal on
the debt limit remains in doubt because Democrats who control
the Senate have said they want to reopen the government and
raise the debt limit without any policy prescriptions attached.
Camp told reporters the week of Sept. 30 that tax-related
instructions would be based on the instructions from 2012,
though not exactly the same.  Lawmakers may be having trouble finding a way to lower the
top rate to 25 percent without killing big, popular tax breaks,
lobbyists following tax issues told Bloomberg BNA.  Committee members said yesterday that they are awaiting
cost estimates from the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation, which should shed light on how the reduced rates could
be achieved.  That process, as well as the current stalemate on
government operations and the debt ceiling, has also slowed the
committee’s march toward a tax overhaul, to some extent,
although Camp still envisions marking up a bill in 2013,
lawmakers said.  Saying Yes?  “He’s saying not yes, but heck, yes,” said Representative
 Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican, as he left the Ways and Means
committee’s meeting.  Several lobbyists following tax revisions told BNA their
impression is that action has all but stalled, given
conversations with Capitol Hill staff members. But Reed said tax
remains a subject of conversation at the committee Republicans’
weekly meetings -- although not the dominant subject it once
was, on account of the debt ceiling and budget stalemate.  The meetings, once focused on the tax rewrite, have
broadened into an opportunity to “debrief and talk to each
other” on issues of the day, Reed said.  In the Senate, Finance Committee Chairman Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, has said a tax overhaul is his top
priority as he prepares to retire in 2014. The effort in the
Finance Committee is on hold while lawmakers deal with the
shutdown and looming credit limit crisis, the panel’s ranking
Republican, Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, told
reporters Oct. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Heller in Washington at  mheller@bna.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cheryl Saenz at  csaenz@bna.com . 