-- Richemont Says Net-a-Porter Not for Sale Amid Yoox Talk
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-10-10T16:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/richemont-says-net-a-porter-not-for-sale-amid-yoox-talk.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the
world’s largest jewelry maker, said Net-a-Porter isn’t for sale
amid speculation that the online clothes retailer may be bought.  “Richemont has a long-standing policy of not commenting on
market rumors,” the Geneva-based company said today in a
 statement . “Exceptionally in this case, Richemont wishes to
make it clear that The Net-A-Porter Group is not for sale.”  Yoox SpA held talks with Richemont about a merger with Net-a-Porter, though discussions have stalled, Il Sole 24 Ore
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.
Yoox Chief Executive Officer  Federico Marchetti  said in a
subsequent interview with  Bloomberg News  that the Web-based
retailer isn’t in talks currently to buy Net-a-Porter.  “There are no talks underway with Richemont,” Marchetti
said in the interview. Asked whether there had been discussions
between the companies about Net-a-Porter, he said: “We wouldn’t
be doing our job if we didn’t look at certain acquisitions in a
selective manner and we will continue to do so.”  Yoox, (YOOX)  based in the Italian city of Bologna, has a dedicated
team to evaluate investment opportunities that could help
maintain the company’s leadership position in luxury e-commerce
and create industrial synergies, Marchetti said.  Richemont fueled speculation in May that it could break up
its fashion and leather-goods unit after Chairman Johann Rupert
said the company should have been quicker to cull bad
investments and the division’s head left. Richemont has
appointed Nomura Holdings Inc. to sell handbag maker Lancel, two
people familiar with the situation said last month.  Richemont acquired the two-thirds of Net-a-Porter that it
didn’t own in 2010 in a deal valuing the retailer at 350 million
pounds ($559 million). Net-a-Porter, founded by former fashion
journalist Natalie Massenet in 2000, reported a loss of 19
million euros ($25.7 million) in the 12 months through March.  Richemont said today that it has no further comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  