-- Rinehart Family Trust Left Without Nominee for Manager
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-10-11T06:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/rinehart-daughter-bianca-loses-bid-to-manage-family-trust.html
Gina Rinehart ’s $4 billion family
trust is without a nominee to replace her as manager after a
judge rejected a proposal from her youngest daughter Ginia Rinehart and her son withdrew a nomination for himself and his
choice of an independent candidate.  John Hancock and his sister Bianca Rinehart sued their
mother in 2011, accusing her of misconduct and sought to replace
her. Gina Rinehart agreed to step down last week, ahead of a
trial that began Oct. 8 to determine her successor.  New South Wales Justice Paul Brereton yesterday rejected a
proposal to nominate Bianca Rinehart and today he turned down a
bid from Ginia Rinehart, saying both ideas would lead to an
“unacceptable” delay in the trial. Hancock then withdrew his
nomination as well as that of Bruce Carter, an Adelaide
businessman he had proposed, leaving the judge to choose a
trustee on his own.  “Your honor has no one,” to choose from, Christopher
Withers, lawyer for  John Hancock  and Bianca Rinehart, said at
today’s hearing.  Lawyers plan to spend the weekend working up alternate
proposals for Judge Brereton, with Richard McHugh, Ginia
Rinehart’s lawyer, saying he would suggest Perpetual Trustee
Co., a unit of investment advisor  Perpetual Ltd. , to name a
manager for a company that would own the trust holdings.  Withers had earlier rejected McHugh’s proposal for a unit
of National Australia Bank to manage the company proposed by
Ginia Rinehart, saying it’s involved in financing Hancock
Prospecting Pty’s Roy Hill mine development.  Trust Assets  John Hancock, Bianca Rinehart and Hope Welker Rinehart sued
in September 2011 accusing their mother of misconduct when she
sought to delay the trust’s vesting date from that month to
2068. The trust holds almost a quarter of Hancock Prospecting,
an iron ore and  coal  company Gina Rinehart inherited from her
father  Lang Hancock  and built into an $18.3 billion fortune,
making her the 41st richest person in the world, according to
the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Hope Welker Rinehart has withdrawn from the lawsuit.  Gina Rinehart changed the rules governing the trust in 2006
for her own benefit, breaching her duty as trustee, by
prohibiting non-family members from holding shares of Hancock
Prospecting or managing the trust, Withers said yesterday.  That’s an “absurd proposition,” Gina Rinehart’s lawyer
Noel Hutley said today.  Gina Rinehart, with 75 percent of the holdings in Hancock
Prospecting, is most at risk if she tries to dispose of her
shares to retire and use her money for philanthropy, Hutley
said.  She’s been “selfless to the extreme” in drafting the
succession plans for her company, Hutley said.  The case is John Langley Hancock v. Gina Hope Rinehart.
2011/285907, New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  