-- Romanian Inflation Slowdown Strengthens Case for More Rate Cuts
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-10-10T11:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/romanian-inflation-slowdown-strengthens-case-for-more-rate-cuts.html
Romanian  inflation  slowed more than
analysts estimated in September, strengthening the case for more
interest-rate cuts from a record low.  The inflation rate dropped to 1.9 percent, from 3.7 percent
in August, the Bucharest-based National Statistics Institute
said today. The median estimate of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 2.3 percent. The rate was also below the central
bank’s end-September forecast of 3 percent. Prices declined 0.6
percent from the previous month.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei lowered its key rate to a
record-low 4.25 percent on Sept. 30, the third reduction in as
many meetings. Slowing consumer-price growth persuaded policy
makers to resume lowering borrowing costs after pausing for more
than a year. The September inflation rate was within the bank’s
2013 target range of 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent for the first
time since July 2012.  “The disinflationary process continues at a pace above
that taken into account by the central bank,” economists at
Raiffeisen Bank Romania SA, including Ionut Dumitru, wrote in an
e-mailed note today. “In the context of declining inflation
expectations and weak domestic demand, we expect policy makers
to increase the pace of the easing cycle.”  The leu was little changed at 4.4602 against the euro at
1:03 p.m. in Bucharest. It has weakened 0.3 percent versus the
euro this year, the second-best performance among 23 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Easing Cycle  The likelihood of a 50 basis-point rate cut in November has
“increased considerably,” the economists at Raiffeisen said.
They predict that the easing cycle will end at 3.5 percent in
January.  Food prices declined 1.7 percent in September from a year
earlier after the government cut the value-added tax for bread
to 9 percent from 24 percent and a bumper harvest pushed prices
down. The inflation rate for non-food items also dropped to 4.38
percent from 5 percent in August, the institute said.  The increase in service prices was unchanged at 3.2 percent
in September, according to the statement.  Today’s data “open the door for new record lows in
inflation during the first half of 2014 and maybe even more rate
cuts than currently considered,” Vlad Muscalu, a Bucharest-based economist at ING Bank Romania SA, wrote in an e-mailed
note.  ING forecasts another 50 basis points of rate reductions to
3.75 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  