-- Royal Mail Stock Jumps 38% on First Trading Day After IPO
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-10-11T15:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/royal-mail-stock-cut-for-institutions-as-u-k-boosts-retail-pot.html
Royal Mail  Group Ltd., Britain’s
360-year-old postal service, closed 38 percent higher on its
trading debut, heightening criticism of an initial public
offering that opposition politicians say was underpriced.  Royal Mail shares, sold to investors for 330 pence in the
U.K.’s biggest state asset sale since British Rail was broken up
in the 1990s, rose as much as 39 percent to 459.75 pence and
ended the day up 125 pence at 455 pence in  London , valuing the
company at 4.55 billion pounds ($7.3 billion).  The allocation of Royal Mail shares to institutions, which
bid for more than 20 times the number available, was cut
yesterday to meet higher-than-expected demand from individuals.
Business Secretary Vince Cable said today that the price surge
doesn’t mean an IPO which raised 1.7 billion pounds for state
coffers had been undersold or mismanaged.  “You get an enormous amount of froth and speculation in
the aftermath of a big IPO of this kind,” Cable said on  BBC 
Radio 4. “It’s of absolutely no significance whatever. What
matters is where the price eventually settles.”  The level of demand has led Britain’s opposition  Labour
Party , which wanted Royal Mail kept in state hands, to query the
sale’s handling, with business spokesman Chuka Umunna predicting
taxpayers would get “massively short-changed” while adding
today that he’ll judge the IPO in three months. Lawmaker Katy Clark said after the share gain that it should have been pulled.  High Volume  “The government was warned that this sale was undervalued
and the news today suggests that this was the case,” said
Clark, who sits on the House of Commons’ Business, Innovation
and Skills committee, which cross-examined Cable this week.
“They should not have gone ahead on this basis.”  Gray-market trading earlier this week suggested  Royal Mail (RYE) 
stock would rise at least 20 percent, based on figures from
London-based spread-betting company IG.  Some 102 million shares traded in the first hour today,
versus 6.2 million for wireless phone carrier Vodafone Group
Plc, the second-largest company on Britain’s benchmark FTSE 100
index, and almost 228 million had changed hands by the close.  Graham Simpson, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in
London, said there is still “plenty of upside to go,” citing
the company’s Quest cash-flow valuation model as suggesting
Royal Mail shares are worth 599 pence apiece.  Fidelity, Standard Life  Cable added on the BBC that the aim had been to secure
committed shareholders. About 90 percent of the institutional
allocation was placed with long-term investors such as pension
funds and life insurance companies, with about 10 percent going
to hedge funds, and the majority of institutional orders -- 500
out of about 800 -- received no shares at all.  Among successful subscribers were Threadneedle Investments
UK, Fidelity, Blackrock Inc. and  Standard Life Plc. (SL/)   The institutional allocation was cut to 67 percent from the
planned 70 percent, the government said yesterday, with small
investors getting 33 percent of the issue, up from 30 percent,
after the stock assigned to them was seven times oversubscribed.  Royal Mail will pay investors a dividend of 133 million
pounds in July, the government said, and a notional full-year
dividend of 200 million pounds, which translates into a 6.1
percent dividend yield for 2014.  All individuals who applied for 10,000 pounds or less of
shares -- more than 690,000 people -- received an allocation of
227 shares, equivalent to 749.10 pounds at the maximum offer
price of 330 pence. Those who applied for more than 10,000
pounds got nothing.  Workers Protest  Out of the company’s 150,000 staff, 371 have opted not to
receive free shares in the company, Cable said Oct. 9, though
the main  Communication Workers Union  opposes the selloff.  “Shares will make no scintilla of difference to postal
workers who are far more concerned about their jobs,” General
Secretary Billy Hayes said in a statement. Some staff protested
outside the London Stock Exchange today, he said, adding that
union members will vote on taking  strike action  next week.  Royal Mail is the largest IPO in  Europe  since April 2011,
when  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  raised $10 billion in its London
listing, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The volume of
initial offerings in the region rose sixfold last quarter, as
investors returned on the back of strengthening economies.  The sale of Royal Mail, which has refocused on package-delivery markets spurred by a trend toward web-based purchasing,
opened Sept. 27 and was fully subscribed within hours.  Bookrunners for the IPO were Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS
AG, Barclays Plc and Merrill Lynch & Co., with Investec Ltd.,
Nomura Bank International Plc and RBC Europe Ltd. as lead
managers, while the government is being advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   The investment banks managing the sale will be paid 10.3
million pounds in fees, including commissions and expenses, the
government said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  