-- Russia Will Probably Refrain From Cutting Main Rate on Inflation
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-10-10T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/russia-will-probably-refrain-from-cutting-main-rate-on-inflation.html
Russia ’s central bank will probably
leave borrowing costs unchanged for a 13th month as  inflation (RUCPIYOY) 
holds above its target.  Bank Rossii will hold the one-week auction rate, its new
benchmark introduced last month, at 5.50 percent at the Oct. 14
meeting, according to all of 16 economists in a Bloomberg
 survey . The decision will be announced at 1:30 p.m. in Moscow.  Elvira Nabiullina, who became central bank chairman in
June, is reluctant to cut borrowing costs with the inflation
rate above this year’s target of 5 percent to 6 percent even
after a drop last month. That has prevented the central bank
from countering a slowdown in economic growth to the weakest
pace since a 2009 contraction.  “There are risks that the drop in the inflation rate may
pause or even reverse,” Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist
for Russia at  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s investment banking unit in Moscow,
said by phone yesterday. “That’s the main reason for the
central bank not to make any moves now.”  The ruble appreciated 2.4 percent against the dollar in the
past month, the eighth-best performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded at 32.2030 as of 7:20
p.m. in Moscow yesterday.  As a measure to provide banks with liquidity with the
benchmark rate unchanged, the central bank will also offer 500
billion rubles ($15.5 billion) at an auction for three-months
loans backed by non-marketable assets at a floating rate.  ‘Good Demand’  “We expect good demand for the entire limit,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for Russia and the  Commonwealth of
Independent States  at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in Moscow, said in an e-mailed answer yesterday. “The need for liquidity remains and is
growing as banks have near-record debt on  repurchase agreements 
and collateral has depleted.”  While Russian policy makers have kept  interest rates 
unchanged for a year, their counterparts in the largest emerging
economies have started policy tightening to rein in inflation.
 India  last month raised the benchmark repo rate a quarter-point
to 7.50 percent, while  Brazil  this week increased the Selic rate
by 50 basis points to 9.50 percent.  For Russians, consumer-price growth is one of the biggest
concerns along with housing and utilities, according to a poll
published Sept. 18 by the state-run All-Russian Center for the
Study of  Public Opinion .  Inflation slowed to 6.1 percent in September from 6.5
percent in August.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs
such as energy, remained at 5.5 percent. Bank Rossii estimates
consumer-price growth will slow to its target by the end of the
year.  ‘Inflation Persistence’  “We see signs of inflation persistence,” Jacob Nell and
Alina Slyusarchuk, economists at Morgan Stanley, said in a
research note yesterday.  Gross domestic product rose 1.2 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter, the worst result since the last three
months of 2009. The Economy Ministry estimates the economy will
grow 1.8 percent this year and 3 percent in 2014.  Even with the slowing expansion, monetary easing isn’t the
prescription as it wouldn’t have a “real effect” on economic
growth, Nabiullina told lawmakers Oct. 8.  “All our monetary stimulus may lead to price growth and
inflation, triggering a new round of increases for state
monopoly tariffs and housing costs,” Nabiullina said. Low
inflation “is necessary for an investment-oriented model of
economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  