-- Sachin Tendulkar to Retire From Test Cricket After Record Career
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-10-10T18:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/sachin-tendulkar-to-retire-from-test-cricket-after-record-career.html
India’s  Sachin Tendulkar , whose
15,837 runs are the most in Test cricket history, said
he’s retiring from elite five-day matches, ending his 
record-setting 24-year career.  Tendulkar, 40, will play his final two matches next month
against the West Indies to lift his world record tally to 200
Tests. He quit one-day internationals in December.  “It’s been a huge honor to have represented my country and
played all over the world,” Tendulkar said in a statement
released yesterday by the  Board of Control for Cricket in India .
“I look forward to playing my 200th Test match on home soil, as
I call it a day.”  Nicknamed “Little Master,” the 5-foot-5 Tendulkar holds
almost all of cricket’s major batting records, including the
most runs and centuries in Test and one-day international
matches. He became the first player to hit a one-day
international double-century two decades after his debut in
2010, score 50 Test hundreds and tally an unprecedented 15,000
Test runs. In 2011, he helped  India  win its first Cricket World
Cup title since 1983.  “He is without doubt the greatest cricketer India has
produced,” BCCI President N. Srinivasan said in the
organization’s statement. “In fact one should really say he
ranks among the top of all-time great sports persons in the
world. He has been an inspiration for generations of sportsmen
not just cricketers.”  Batting Style  With a batting style founded on balance, precision and
anticipation, and his mastery of an array of strokes, Tendulkar
was able to score runs in all conditions and in any country. He
made his test debut at age 16 against  Pakistan  in November 1989,
with his first one-day international against the same opponent
the following month.  He registered his first three-figure score in Tests against
 England  in 1990 at the age of 17.  “There is going to be a big vacuum not only in India but
in the world cricket community,” former cricketer Vinod Kambli,
a childhood friend of Tendulkar, said in an interview. “What he
has brought to the game can’t be matched. Youngsters of today
won’t have a legend to look up to. We will have to wait for
another phenomena like him to take cricket to the next level.”  Tendulkar has played  198 Tests matches  for India with an
average of 53.86. His total of 15,837 runs in the format played
over five days is 2,459 runs more than former Australia captain
 Ricky Ponting , who is second on the all-time list. In the 50-over format, Tendulkar ended his career with an average of 44.83
scored over 463 games.  “All my life, I have had a dream of playing cricket for
India,” he said. “I have been living this dream every day for
the last 24 years. It’s hard for me to imagine a life without
playing cricket because it’s all I have ever done since I was 11
years old.”  Tendulkar, an idol in his native India, scored an
unprecedented 100th international hundred against  Bangladesh  in
March 2012. It was his most recent century.  “One of my heroes and an absolute joy to play against,”
former England captain  Michael Vaughan  said on his Twitter feed.
“The Master brought a lot of happiness globally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  