-- San Francisco Transit Strike Looms as Time for Deal Ebbs
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-10-10T08:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/san-francisco-transit-strike-looms-as-time-for-deal-ebbs.html
San Francisco-area commuters who
suffered through a four-day Bay Area Rapid Transit strike in
July may confront a second dose as workers are freed to walk out
if they don’t have a new contract by midnight.  Disagreements over wages and pension and health-care
contributions have kept the two sides from a new accord to
replace one that expired June 30. A resumption of the strike had
been blocked by a court-ordered cooling-off period that expires
at 11:59 local time tonight.  “We’re hopeful we can find a negotiated settlement before
that,” Jim Allison, a transit spokesman, said by telephone
yesterday. “We want to talk until we get a deal.”  BART, as the fifth-largest U.S. commuter rail system is
known, carries about 400,000 riders a day across the San
Francisco-Oakland region. The strike in July jammed freeways and
forced people into carpools and long queues for buses and
ferries, while thousands of others simply stayed home. It was
BART’s first such job action since 1997.  Josie Mooney, chief negotiator for Service Employees
International Union Local 1021, said she couldn’t discuss the
talks because of a gag order from a mediator.  “We’ve listened to the public and we share their concern
about a disruption in service at the end of the cooling-off
period,” she said by telephone.  Union representatives delivered a 72-hour strike notice to
BART management before walking out July 1. They issued a similar
notice in August before Governor  Jerry Brown , a 75-year-old
Democrat, sought a court order for the 60-day stay. No new
notice has been issued.  ‘Every Opportunity’  “We do not want a strike, which is why we are not giving a
72-hour notice at this time,” Mooney said. “We want to leave
every opportunity open to try to get this deal done.”  The four-day work stoppage that began July 1 cost the Bay
Area economy $70 million, San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee said in
August.  “A strike will have significant impacts to our entire
regional economy and derail the hard-fought progress we’ve made
to rebuild our economy,” Lee said in an Oct. 8 meeting of the
 San Francisco  Board of Supervisors.  Brown, speaking to reporters Sept. 25 in Oakland, called on
both sides “to get serious, make the concessions needed and
keep that BART running.”  About 3,250 people work for BART, which pays an average of
$79,500 a year to its employees, who also receive $50,800 in
benefits annually, according to the agency’s  website .  Its major unions are SEIU, representing mechanics and
clerical employees, and the Amalgamated Transit Union, which
bargains for train operators and station agents.  The BART system opened in 1972 and connects the region’s
biggest cities, including Berkeley and Oakland, as well as San
Francisco International Airport. Its last strike, in 1997,
lasted six days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  