-- Scene Last Night: Genius Manicures, Women’s Microfinance
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-10-10T14:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/scene-last-night-genius-manicure-gala-women-s-microloan.html
The nail salon at the
 SculptureCenter  gala last night had a long waiting list.  “All my girls are celebrity nail artists,” said Rita De
Alencar Pinto, in charge of the operation on the balcony of the
Edison Ballroom.  At Pinto’s Lower East Side shop, Vanity Projects, full nail
art costs from $50 to $130. At the gala for the Long Island
City-based home for sculpture, guests could have as many as two
nails hand-painted with one of 10 designs free.  “This is the Fred Wilson-inspired one,” Pinto said,
pointing to a nail painted white with black rain drops.  Pinto’s own nails were hot pink, some bulging with glued-on
gold baubles. “You Go Girl” was printed on the tip of her
middle finger, after graffiti she’d seen on the Williamsburg
Bridge.  Wilson, an artist who has received a MacArthur Foundation
“genius” grant, was still on the ballroom floor when he heard
about the nail art. He was holding the glass-encased brick he’d
received as honoree. Wilson has created works with bricks made
by slaves and had nothing to do with the nail art, he said.  World Banking  At the Women’s World Banking gala at the IAC Building, even
the cocktail napkins broadcast the group’s message.  “Your support expands micro-insurance to Morocco and
 Uganda ,” read one. Another touted guests’ help in creating
“savings in Malawi.”  Near a cart of injera and spiced carrots, WWB staff talked
about a savings product for Ethiopian youth that the
organization helped introduce at a local bank. Girls raise
chickens and sell eggs; boys shine shoes. There are now 9,000
accounts with average deposits of $9 earning 6 percent interest.  Maureen O’Toole, a managing director at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , has
visited WWB partners in  Jordan , Bosnia, Tunisia, Colombia and
 Ghana . She said she’d hire any of the microfinance bankers who
work there. She is equally impressed with their entrepreneurial
clients.  “They may not know ROI or Ebitda, but they know every
penny of their enterprise,” O’Toole said. “It’s here and here,
not in a spreadsheet. In a different set of life circumstances,
any one of them could be CEOs.”  Before her WWB trips, O’Toole said she didn’t participate
in women’s groups or mentoring at work. “Now I am much better
at mentoring and feeling a part of a female global community.”  She called over her guests, all junior women in her
department.  Microfund for Women  in Jordan was honored.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 