-- Scene in D.C.: Yellen Girl Power, Rubenstein Jet, Kaufman
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-10-10T10:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/scene-in-d-c-yellen-girl-power-rubenstein-jet-kaufman.html
Janet Yellen  was a bipartisan
favorite during last night’s  Woodrow Wilson Awards  dinner at the
Willard Intercontinental.  “My opinion is girl power,” said the Wilson Center
president,  Jane Harman , a former congresswoman, of the woman set
to be the  Federal Reserve ’s first female chairman.  “Two thumbs up,” said Senator Ed Markey, Massachusetts
Democrat, during the cocktail hour. Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse ,
Rhode Island Democrat, and his wife, Sandra, were among those
mingling. While his colleague  Susan Collins , Maine Republican,
left early to attend talks on the shutdown, she praised Yellen
before her exit.  The Wilson Center, named for the 28th president, fosters
research on a range of international issues. This year’s dinner
chairman was  David Rubenstein , who met Harman 35 years ago when
they were “lowly Capitol Hill staffers,” as she described it.  Rubenstein, co-founder of the  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , was
essentially the same guy, but without “the bank account and
jet,” she said.  Rubenstein assured the guests that they were all
“essential,” the buzz word of furlough-speak.  “How many ’essential’ people do you think know how to
transfer a call?” he asked the crowd. “I don’t think very
many.” He joked that earlier in the day he called the White
House switchboard and the president answered.  Budget Scoop  Rubenstein dined next to Steny Hoyer, the house minority
whip. He said Hoyer had given him the inside scoop on the budget
negotiations, which he would divulge to guests who helped the
center reach its million-dollar goal for the evening.  The fundraising total at the time was $900,000.  “This is the grown-up table,” said lobbyist Heather Podesta, surveying the guests. “All the grownups have turned
out for Jane.”  “I’m here to wave the cultural flag,” said Earl Powell,
the director of the  National Gallery of Art , which is closed
because of the shutdown. His friends, arts patrons Roger and
Vicki Sant, were the dinner’s honorees with Katherine and David Bradley, the owner of Atlantic Media Co.  Not far from the Willard,  Nancy Pelosi , the House minority
leader, and her investor husband Paul, stopped by the Motion
Picture Association of America to see director Philip Kaufman,
who was the guest of honor at a screening of his movie “The
Right Stuff,” celebrating its 30th anniversary this year.  Pelosi’s daughter, Christine, is married to Kaufman’s son,
Peter, both of whom were present.  The elder Kaufman said he would love to work again with
Daniel Day-Lewis, whom he directed in “The Unbearable Lightness
of Being.”  “When my wife died, he wrote me the most beautiful, long
note,” Kaufman said. “He and my wife were good friends.”  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Catherine Hickley  on music,  Jason
Harper  on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Amanda
Gordon’s  Scene Last Night  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 