-- Scott Carpenter, Mercury Astronaut in ‘Right Stuff,’ Dies at 88
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-10-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/scott-carpenter-mercury-astronaut-in-right-stuff-dies-at-88.html
Scott Carpenter, the second American
to orbit the Earth and one of the seven Mercury astronauts
immortalized in Tom Wolfe’s book, “The Right Stuff,” has died.
He was 88.  He died yesterday in a Denver hospice, according to the
Associated Press, citing his wife, Patty Barrett, who said his
death was due to complications from a stroke in September. He
lived in Vail,  Colorado .  Project Mercury, the first U.S. human spaceflight program,
proved the viability of manned missions and laid the groundwork
for the  Apollo  program’s moon landings. Of the seven Mercury
astronauts, only John Glenn, who went on to serve as a U.S.
senator from  Ohio , now survives.  A Navy test pilot when he was tapped for America’s nascent
space program, Carpenter orbited his Aurora 7 spacecraft around
the Earth three times on May 24, 1962, three months after Glenn
became the first American to do so. Carpenter had been the
backup for Glenn’s historic mission, which took place almost a
year after the Soviet Union’s Yuri Gagarin became the first
person to orbit the Earth.  Almost five hours in duration, Carpenter’s flight didn’t
lack for drama. The temperature in the cabin reached 108
degrees, and a malfunction of the automatic-control system led
him to take manual control of the spacecraft before re-entering
Earth’s atmosphere. He fired the craft’s rockets seconds too
late and with the craft at too shallow an angle, and so missed
his ocean target by 250 miles (402 kilometers).  Breathing Relief  An hour passed before he was plucked from the ocean and the
nation could breathe a sigh of relief.  Receiving a congratulatory call from U.S. President John F. Kennedy, Carpenter told him, “My apologies for not having aimed
a little bit better on re-entry.”  He later told reporters that his return “worried a lot of
people, including my family and the people in the control
center. No one knew where I was -- and I didn’t either.”  Within the hard-partying fraternity of test pilots-turned-astronauts, Carpenter, like Glenn, stood out for his commitment
to his family and his aversion to unnecessary risk. Carpenter
was Glenn’s “one great ally” in urging the astronauts to be
careful about their public image, Wolfe wrote in his 1979  book .  “Scott was about the only one you could sit down with and
talk about the broader and more philosophical sides of Project
Mercury and space exploration,” Wolfe wrote. “Scott was the
only one with a touch of the poet about him, in the sense that
the idea of going into space stirred his imagination.”  ‘Profound Speculation’  “He would even go out at night and prop a telescope up on
top of his car on a tripod and just stargaze and let himself
drift into the most profound speculation of astronomy: What is
my place in the cosmos?”  Actor Charles Frank played Carpenter in the 1983  movie 
based on Wolfe’s book. One scene reconstructed how, as 32
astronaut candidates were being culled to the final seven,
Carpenter beat Glenn in a lung-capacity contest, blowing air
through a tube for 171 seconds. He and Glenn, who quit after 150
seconds, both annihilated the previous record of 91 seconds.  Back in the Navy in 1965 while on leave from the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, Carpenter spent 30
consecutive days living in the underwater habitat  Sealab II , 205
feet below the ocean’s surface off the coast of  California . He
thus achieved the distinction of being the only astronaut-aquanaut. During his one month underwater, he spoke by telephone
to fellow Mercury program member Gordon Cooper, who was orbiting
the Earth in Gemini 5.  Apollo Module  In his final NASA years, Carpenter was involved with
designing the Apollo lunar landing module.  Malcolm Scott Carpenter was born on May 1, 1925, in
Boulder, Colorado, a descendent of the earliest settlers of the
state. He was the only child of Marion Scott Carpenter, a
research chemist, and his wife, Florence, native Coloradans.  Nicknamed Buddy as a child, Carpenter attended Boulder
public schools and developed an early interest in aviation. At
15, he wrote a school paper on why he aspired to be a pilot.  Carpenter attended the Navy’s aviation cadet program and
had just begun primary flight training in 1945 when World War II
ended and he was demobilized. He returned to Boulder and studied
engineering at the  University of Colorado at Boulder  on the G.I.
Bill. His education was interrupted by a 1946 car accident that
almost took his life.  Test Pilot  At 24, during his senior year, he was again recruited by
the Navy. He completed flight training and flew anti-submarine
and ship-surveillance missions in the Korean War. He became a
Navy test pilot, flying fighters, bombers, transports and
seaplanes.  While serving as air intelligence officer on the carrier
USS Hornet, Carpenter was summoned to Washington as one of the
110 U.S. military pilots under consideration by newly created
NASA. According to Wolfe, Carpenter was surprised when he made
the final 32, given his limited flight time.  After a battery of medical, physical-endurance and
psychological testing, America’s first astronauts -- the Mercury
Seven -- were introduced at a press conference on April 9, 1959.  Carpenter’s  NASA  training specialized in communication and
navigation. As Glenn’s backup, he was manning the console on
Feb. 20, 1962, for the pioneering  Friendship 7  mission. During
the final countdown to blastoff, Carpenter said, “Godspeed,
John Glenn,” one of the memorable quotes of the space age.  For the second mission, he replaced fellow Mercury
astronaut  Deke Slayton , who was diagnosed with an erratic
heartbeat.  Carpenter retired from the Navy on July 1, 1969, with the
rank of commander, established oceanographic research company
Sea Sciences Inc., and worked as a consultant to makers of
diving equipment. He wrote two novels and a  memoir .  He was divorced three times and had eight children, one of
whom died in infancy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  