-- Senate Backs Restoring Military Death Benefit
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-10-10T20:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/senate-backs-restoring-military-death-benefit.html
Both chambers of Congress now have
passed legislation to resume benefits to bereaved military
families despite a disagreement over whether a new law’s needed.  The Defense Department contracted with with  Fisher House
Foundation , which supports military families, to make the
payments for the duration of the government shutdown.  “The legislation’s not necessary,” said White House
spokesman Jay Carney.  The No.2 Republican in the Senate, John Cornyn of  Texas ,
pressed for final action on the special appropriation to pay the
$100,000 death benefit for military families, saying the
Pentagon may not have the authority to contract with the
foundation.  Enacting a new law “would alleviate the need for Fisher
House and the Department of Defense trying to figure out a
workaround,” and “open a stream of funding so these families
get the benefits they deserve,” he said.  No one in Congress argued against providing the payments
while other parts of the government aren’t operating. The House
passed the bereavement benefits bill unanimously, and no senator
raised an objection to sending the measure to the White House
without a recorded vote.  Instead, the focus was on who should be blamed and who
should get credit.  Fallen Heroes  Cornyn’s Facebook page said that he and other Republicans
forced Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid “to surrender and
allow the families of our fallen heroes to receive death
gratuities and survivor benefits.”  Republicans in the House said the Pentagon had
misinterpreted a law enacted to pay military salaries during the
partial government shutdown. Carney countered that government
lawyers determined that that legislation didn’t cover the tax-exempt military death benefits because it didn’t explicitly
mention them.  “These benefits were held up because Republicans wanted to
defund Obamacare,” Carney said at today’s press briefing.
“From the beginning we were arguing, don’t shut down the
government. We specifically through the Department of Defense
noted this specific consequence.”  “There is an obvious fix to avoid all these negative
consequences,” he said. “Open the government,” he said.  Carney, who  didn’t say whether President  Barack Obama 
would sign the bill into law, emphasized that it was on the
president’s order to Chief of Staff  Denis McDonough  to “get
creative and get it solved” that the arrangement was hastily
reached with the foundation.  For Show  Even though he agreed to the bill’s passage, Reid said
there was no need for it. “It’s clear the action on this
legislation is now just for show here,” he said.  The death-benefit issue came to a head following five U.S.
military combat deaths in  Afghanistan  over last weekend. In
total, 29 military personnel have died while on active duty
since the shutdown, Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale today told
a House Armed Services subcommittee  The Defense Department announced its contract with Fisher
Foundation House yesterday just minutes after the House vote.  Founded in 1990, Fisher House Foundation has built 62
houses that provide temporary lodging for families of
hospitalized military personnel and veterans, according to its
 website . Its chairman and chief executive officer, Kenneth Fisher, is a senior partner at New York-based Fisher Brothers
Realty Corp.  Dave Coker, the foundation’s president, said the group
created a $4 million emergency assistance fund to cover the
death benefits during the shutdown. The families of fallen
service personnel “shouldn’t be paying a financial price,” he
said in a phone interview. “They’ve already paid a price” with
the death of a loved one.  The legislation is H.J.Res. 91.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  