-- HSH Nordbank May Scrap Dozens of Ships as Owners Default
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-10-10T08:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/hsh-nordbank-may-scrap-dozens-of-ships-as-owners-default.html
HSH Nordbank  AG, the world’s largest
shipping bank, may scrap dozens of ships seized from indebted
clients should it fail to sell them.  “If a ship is no longer supported by its owners and we
don’t find a buyer, then an insolvency or scrapping of the
vessel may become the last option,” Rune Hoffmann, a spokesman
for HSH Nordbank, said by telephone from Hamburg yesterday.
“Potentially 30 to 40 of the 1,100 vessels in the restructuring
unit might be affected.”  HSH Nordbank, controlled by the German states of Hamburg
and Schleswig-Holstein, is seeking to reduce non-performing
loans on its balance sheet. Some clients have failed to pay back
debt as the financial crisis hit global trade and the industry
battled a sixth year of overcapacity.  The company’s shipping loan loans total 25 billion euros
($33.8 billion), of which 9 billion euros are part of the
restructuring unit established in 2009, according to Wolfgang Topp, who heads its operations. Some 15 percent or about 165 of
1,100 vessels in the unit are not salvageable, while the
remaining 85 percent may be restructured, he said in an
interview last month.  HSH Nordbank plans to sell salvageable ships to strategic
investors about 10 vessels at a time to help reduce the stock of
bad loans, it said last month. The structure of the transactions
will resemble an agreement with Greek shipping company  Navios
Group (NM)  in April.  Navios, based in Piraeus,  Greece , said it paid $130 million
for about 40 percent of loans associated with five tankers and
five  container ships , buying a “significant fleet at
historically low values.” It guaranteed to operate them for at
least six years. The remaining $170 million of debt was
converted into a 10-year loan, in the course of which HSH
Nordbank is due to receive 80 percent of the returns generated
by the ships, excluding operating and capital costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  