-- Shutdown Could Reduce U.S. Growth By 0.2 Point This Week
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2013-10-10T17:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/shutdown-could-reduce-u-s-growth-by-0-2-point-this-week.html
A partial federal government
shutdown lasting through the end of this week would pare 0.2
percentage point from U.S. economic growth and cost as much as
0.5 point if it continues another two weeks, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Estimates of gross domestic product losses in the fourth
quarter if the shutdown ends this week range from zero to 0.6 on
an annualized basis, according to a Bloomberg survey of 45
economists taken Oct. 4-9. The U.S. government began its first
partial shutdown in 17 years Oct. 1 as Republicans and Democrats
clashed over passing a budget.  “The main impact on GDP comes from the government sector
itself,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “My guess is the
ripple effects are modest early on, but if the government were
to stay shut down for as long as a month, you would see issues
developing in the private sector.”  Companies reliant on federal procurement spending, such as
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the top federal contractor, have already
furloughed workers because of the shutdown. Having initially
planned to send 3,000 people home, the company reduced the
number by about 20 percent Oct. 7 after the Defense Department
said most of its idled employees would be called back to work.  For many furloughed federal employees, the paychecks they
receive tomorrow may be half their usual amount, and the last
ones for a while.  Diminishing Impact  The effects of a shutdown could diminish with time as
Americans pressure the government into recalling more workers,
said Mike Englund, chief economist at Action Economics LLC in
Boulder,  Colorado .  “As we keep passing patches, the size becomes smaller and
smaller, and the effects diminish,” Englund said.  Even so, the cumulative effect would continue to build the
longer the shutdown continues, according to projections in the
Bloomberg survey.  Economists expected a 0.1 percentage point cost after one
week of shutdown, based on an Oct. 1 Bloomberg survey. The
median estimate of GDP loss from a shutdown lasting through Oct.
18 was a 0.3 percentage point reduction, this week’s poll shows,
climbing to half a point if the shutdown persists through the
end of the following week.  The median estimate of 68 economists in a separate survey
forecast annualized growth at a 2.4 percent rate in the fourth
quarter. The September survey was for 2.5 percent.  Reduced Growth  “Right now, we’re looking at another quarter of below-potential growth,” said  Stefane Marion , chief economist and
strategist at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  Financial Inc. in
 Montreal . Reduced growth “makes the difference between
stabilizing the unemployment rate or having a rate that might
drift higher.”  Economists also cut their forecasts for the third quarter
and the first quarter of 2014. The median for the third quarter
was lowered to 1.9 percent from 2 percent in the September
survey, and the median for the first three months of 2014 was
down to 2.6 percent from 2.7 percent.  Initial  jobless claims  climbed to 374,000 last week from
308,000 the prior week, Labor Department data showed today. The
surge was the most since in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy in
November 2012.  The jump came as  California  worked through a claims backlog
caused by a computer system switch and as non-federal employees
were forced to take time off because the shutdown, a Labor
Department spokesman said.  Federal Reserve  Federal Reserve  policy makers said after their Sept. 17-18
meeting that they will wait to taper $85 billion in monthly
asset purchases until they see more evidence of steady growth to
reduce the 7.3 percent  unemployment rate . Minutes from the
meeting, released this week, show Fed officials who favored
maintaining the pace of purchases cited concerns partly from
“considerable risks surrounding fiscal policy.”  “Their concerns about a new fiscal shock have materialized
and this will probably delay the start of tapering further
into” the first quarter, Societe Generale SA economists led by
Michel Martinez and Michala Marcussen, wrote in a note to
clients today.  Another fiscal battle is playing out: the  U.S. Treasury  has
said its ability to borrow will end on about Oct. 17 unless
Congress increases the $16.7 trillion debt  ceiling . Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew told Congress today that failing to raise
the limit would risk putting the U.S. into default and cause
“irrevocable damage” to the economy and financial markets.  Fiscal Talks  President  Barack Obama  said this week that he would accept
a short-term debt limit increase and an agreement to end the
partial government shutdown and then enter broader fiscal
negotiations with Republicans.  “Failing to raise the debt ceiling will impact everyday
Americans beyond its impact on financial markets,” Lew told the
Senate Finance Committee today. Between Oct. 17 and Nov. 1, the
U.S. has “large payments to Medicare providers, Social Security
beneficiaries, and veterans, as well as salaries for active-duty
members of the military. A failure to raise the debt limit could
put timely payment of all of these at risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in Washington at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  