-- Shutdown Impact; Fuel, Physicians and Furloughs: BGOV Insight
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   G o v e r n m e n t
-- 2013-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/shutdown-impact-fuel-physicians-and-furloughs-bgov-insight.html
Below are data and analyses from
Bloomberg Government analysts about the business impact of the
partial government shutdown.  Renewable Fuel Standard  The federal shutdown has put a number of forthcoming EPA
rules on hold. The 2014 Renewable Fuel Standard requirements --
which are technically due by Nov. 30 -- are probably the most
time-sensitive. EPA has promised to consider the “blend wall”
and other constraints in its 2014 rulemaking, so industry is
eagerly awaiting the agency’s proposal. Compliance in 2014 is
uncertain unless the total target is significantly lowered.  Contracting Dynamics  The shutdown that froze the federal contracting market hit
most multiple-award contracts (MACs) hard. Oct. 1 is often the
second- busiest contracting day of the year; the shutdown
resulted in huge year-over-year reductions on that date in
nondefense funds put on contract through General Services
Administration schedules and government-wide acquisition
contracts (GWACs), including  NASA ’s SEWP IV.  There were a few exceptions. More money was spent this Oct.
1 than last on Transformation Twenty-One Total Technology,
Patent Data Capture, and 8(a)STARS.  Orders on underperforming MACs should spike when the
government reopens. That doesn’t mean federal contracting is
becoming a seller’s market -- far from it, as lowest-price
bidders rack up wins across the government. Yet contractors need
to be ready for a quick spurt of buying.  Spreading the Pain at the VA  The Veterans Affairs Department furloughed 2,754 employees
in its Office of Information & Technology (OI&T), effective Oct.
8. Contractors supervised by those furloughed employees probably
can’t continue working.  The VA’s top IT contractors for fiscal 2012, the latest
year available, were Systems Made Simple Inc., with $157.8
million in contract orders, and  Harris Corp. (HRS) , with $145.9
million in orders.  A Bloomberg Government Study found that the department’s IT
contract spending was more fragmented than all other large
departments. The VA also exceeded several  small business goals 
in both fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013. Due to the fragmentation
and the use of small businesses, many small contractors will
feel the shutdown pain, rather than just a handful of large
ones.  OIRA Regulatory Lockdown  The Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, an
obscure but influential government agency that reviews the most
ambitious regulations from executive-branch agencies, has
essentially stopped operating since the shutdown began.  During the week preceding the shutdown, OIRA completed its
review of five rules. On Sept. 30, the agency completed its
review of 12 rules. Only one rule was reviewed on Oct. 1, and no
rules have been reviewed since then.  OIRA Administrator Howard Shelanski recently told Congress
that the shutdown would reduce his agency’s personnel from about
40 to two.  With Congress in constant gridlock over budget issues,
regulatory agencies had played a leading role in shaping
President Obama’s domestic policy. Now the busy slate of
rulemakings awaiting OIRA approval will remain frozen until the
shutdown ends.  Medicare Provider Payment Cuts  Updates to Medicare payment rates for home health
providers, physicians, hospital outpatient departments and renal
dialysis providers may be delayed.  Payments to home health providers are scheduled to be
reduced by 2.4 percent in 2014 compared with 2013. Renal
dialysis providers face a 9.3 percent reduction. Conversely,
hospital outpatient departments await a 1.8 percent increase in
payments and ambulatory surgery center providers a 1 percent
hike.  The Medicare payment updates that have yet to be finalized
by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) for 2014
have historically been published no later than early November
each year to give providers sufficient time to finalize their
billing and payment systems. The longer the shutdown lasts, the
greater the chance that the publication of the final rules will
be delayed, potentially affecting the ability of both CMS and
providers to change their billing systems in time for the new
rates in January.  To contact the analysts:
Rob Barnett in Washington at 
 rbarnett12@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Brancato in Washington at 
 kbrancato@bloomberg.net ;
Miguel Garrido in Washington at 
 mgarrido8@bloomberg.net ;
Afzal Bari in Washington at 
 abari1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Barry in Washington at 
 mbarry24@bloomberg.net   To contact the director of research:
 Robert Litan  at 
 rlitan2@bloomberg.net  