-- Silicon Graphics’ Sales and Profit Crimped by Shutdown
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/silicon-graphics-sales-and-profit-crimped-by-shutdown.html
Silicon Graphics International Corp. (SGI) 
said profit and sales for the latest fiscal quarter probably
fell short of analysts’ projections because the partial
government shutdown is “freezing” some projects.  Revenue for the period that ended Sept. 27 was about $147
million, the high-performance computer maker said in a statement
of preliminary results yesterday. Analysts projected $164.7
million on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SGI shares declined as much as 17 percent in extended
trading. The 10-day old partial closing of the federal
government, caused by a budget impasse and fight over President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care reform law between Democrats and
Republicans in Congress, is making it “virtually impossible”
to deal with government clients, according to SGI Chief
Executive Officer Jorge Titinger. SGI’s supercomputers are used
by U.S. government agencies, including the Department of
 Homeland Security , Defense Department and other agencies,
according to SGI’s  website .  “The revenue shortfall was primarily due to the impending
government shutdown at quarter-end, which led to the freezing of
funds for a Federal project; and to delayed acceptance of a non-Federal project,” SGI said in the statement.  SGI  shares  slumped to a low of $13.52 in extended trading.
The stock closed up 2 percent at $16.35 at yesterday’s close in
 New York , and has advanced 60 percent this year.  Profit, excluding some items, was probably 2 cents to 4
cents a share, Fremont, California-based SGI said. Analysts had
predicted 9 cents on average.  The shutdown “adds significant risk to our near-term
revenue outlook and impairs our visibility as to the timing of
the expected restart of Federal projects,” Titinger said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  