-- Singh Aide Sees Narrower India Current-Account Gap Helping Rupee
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y
-- 2013-10-10T03:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/singh-aide-sees-narrower-india-current-account-gap-helping-rupee.html
India ’s  current-account deficit  in
the fiscal year may come in about 14 percent lower than the
Finance Ministry has targeted, easing pressure on the rupee, an
adviser to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said.  The current-account gap for the fiscal year ending March 31
could shrink to $60 billion, or about 3 percent of gross
domestic product, barring any unforeseen events, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of Singh’s Economic Advisory Council, said
in an interview yesterday. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram last week said the government’s $70 billion target
for the deficit served as a “red line.”  “We are moving in the direction of containing the current-account deficit, and the next three, four months will provide us
the time to bring it down,” Rangarajan, 81, said at his New
Delhi office. “It will be maintained at a reasonable level and
should not cause too much pressure on the currency.”  Singh is struggling to revive  Asia ’s third-biggest economy,
which grew at the slowest pace in a decade last fiscal year, as
a higher import bill boosts prices for the majority of India’s
1.2 billion people who live on less than $2 a day. A narrower
current-account deficit would provide India a buffer when the
 Federal Reserve  begins to reduce stimulus, a prospect that
prompted a slide in the rupee to a record low in August.  “When the next announcement for tapering comes, by that
time India’s current-account deficit would’ve come down very
substantially,” Rangarajan said. “We would also face a
situation in which the capital flows could come down, but it
will not cause any serious repercussions so long as the current-account deficit is maintained at a reasonable level.”  Rupee Slide  The rupee has slid 11 percent this year, the third-most
among Asia’s top traded currencies behind  Indonesia ’s rupiah and
 Japan ’s yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It fell
0.2 percent in Mumbai yesterday to 61.9350.  Rangarajan’s current-account deficit projection of about 3
percent of GDP compares with Chidambaram’s target of 3.7 percent
of GDP. The median forecast of 23 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  from Sept. 27 to Oct. 3 was 3.8 percent of GDP.  “The extent of correction in the current-account deficit
could surprise positively this year,” said Shubhada Rao, chief
economist at Yes Bank Ltd. Easing concerns over financing the
deficit and a gradual improvement in economic growth will help
the rupee strengthen toward 60 per dollar by the end of March,
she said.  Exports Grow  Exports have climbed since July, snapping a three-month
stretch of declines as the weaker rupee helped competitiveness.
Overseas shipments rose 11 percent in September, while  imports 
dropped 18 percent and the trade deficit shrank to $6.76
billion, the narrowest shortfall since March 2011, according to
a government report yesterday and previously reported data.  The economy will expand 5 percent to 5.5 percent in the
year ending March, the  Finance Ministry  said in its quarterly
review released on Oct. 8. GDP growth will cool to 4 percent in
that period, according to HSBC Holdings Plc. That would be the
weakest  pace  in more than a decade.  Chidambaram plans to meet a budget deficit target of 4.8
percent of GDP in the year through March 2014, down from 4.9
percent the prior year, even after the gap reached 75 percent of
the target in the first five months.  Standard & Poor’s 
reiterated on Sept. 3 it may lower India to junk on risks
including budget and current-account imbalances.  Price Increases  Government spending  has contributed to consumer-price
inflation that has remained at more than 9 percent for the past
18 months, which the  Reserve Bank  of India has tried to
restrain. RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan raised the benchmark
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 7.5
percent on Sept. 20.  Rangarajan was  Reserve Bank of India   governor  between 1992
and 1997. He picked up his doctorate from  University of
Pennsylvania  in 1964.  Stable  oil prices  and higher agricultural production will
bring inflation based on wholesale prices toward 5.5 percent by
March 2014, Rangarajan said. The  gauge  stood at 6.1 percent in
August, and averaged about 6.5 percent over the previous 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In recent years, inflation has been triggered by food
inflation,” Rangarajan said. “Therefore, moderation in food
inflation, which will come from an improved agricultural crop,
will have a positive impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey in New Delhi at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  