-- Singapore Exchange to Adopt Circuit Breakers by Early Next Year
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-10-10T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/singapore-exchange-to-adopt-circuit-breakers-by-early-next-year.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , Southeast
Asia’s biggest bourse, plans to add circuit breakers by early
next year after a plunge in shares of three commodity companies
erased $6.9 billion in market value over three days.  Under the proposal, trading of a stock will be halted for 5
minutes if it breaches 10 percent in either direction, the
exchange said in an e-mailed response to queries. The bourse
sought public feedback on the plan in June, it said.  “We aim to introduce the dynamic circuit breakers by early
next year subject to regulatory approvals,” Joan Lew, a
spokeswoman for the exchange, said in the statement yesterday.  The bourse operator imposed trading restrictions this week
on  Blumont Group Ltd. (BLUM) , Asiasons Capital Ltd. and  LionGold Corp. (LIGO) 
after their stock prices plunged. Trading caps to prevent sharp
gains or losses will give investors time to assess their
holdings, according to Liquidnet Holdings Inc. and the
Securities Investors Association of Singapore.  Regulators worldwide have evaluated safeguards since the
May 2010 plunge known as the flash crash briefly erased about
$862 billion from the value of U.S. equities. American exchanges
have implemented a limit-up/limit-down initiative that prevents
market makers from quoting shares at prices deemed too far above
or below current levels.  The city's plan for circuit breakers ``should help minimize 
market manipulation,'' said Kelly Teoh, a strategist at IG Asia 
Pte in Singapore. ``The regulator can hold all directors 
responsible including non-executives or at least have the 
process in place to bring them in for questioning if the circuit 
breakers are breached more than once."  Exchange Probe  The Singapore exchange said Oct. 6 that shares of the three
companies have been declared designated securities, prohibiting
investors from selling them unless they hold the same quantity
of stock. Buyers must make cash payments for the transactions,
it added.  The bourse said in a separate statement yesterday there
were short sales on Blumont and  Asiasons (ACAP)  on Oct. 7, contrary to
trading directions it gave after classifying them as designated
securities.  “We will be investigating these cases and take the
appropriate disciplinary actions as necessary,” Kelvin Koh,
head of market surveillance at the Singapore Exchange, said in
the statement. “SGX will continue to monitor closely the market
in the three designated securities. We will assess the trading
conditions and lift the designation as soon as it is appropriate
to do so.”  More Oversight  Regulators around the world have stepped up oversight of
capital markets after the global financial crisis in 2008. The
Monetary Authority of Singapore established a 13-member council
in 2010 with the goal of boosting corporate governance standards
and investor confidence.  Blumont, which invests in minerals and energy, slumped 94
percent over two trading days on Oct. 4 and Oct. 7. That shaved
S$4.9 billion ($3.9 billion) off its market value, prompting the
company to scrap a proposed S$146 million acquisition of
Australia’s Cokal Ltd.  Asiasons, which last month bought a stake in U.S. oil and
gas producer Black Elk Energy Offshore Operations LLC, tumbled
96 percent over the three trading days through Oct. 8, shaving
S$2.5 billion in market value.  LionGold, which said this week it’s in advanced
negotiations for a possible acquisition of Minera IRL Ltd., a
gold explorer in  Peru , Argentina and  Chile , plunged 87 percent
over the three-day period, wiping off S$1.2 billion in value.  Record Penalty  The decision to introduce circuit breakers comes one month
after  Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  announced a 523 million  yuan 
($85 million) loss after $3.8 billion in erroneous trading
orders that roiled  China ’s equity market and drew a record
regulatory penalty that banned four executives from the market
for life.  Trading in the National Stock Exchange of  India ’s Nifty
index and some individual companies stopped for 15 minutes in
Mumbai a year ago after the 50-stock gauge tumbled as much as 16
percent. A brokerage that mishandled trades for an institutional
client was to blame, the exchange said then.  Markets including South Korea, India and Taiwan use circuit
breakers, while countries including Japan have daily price
limits depending on their value, according to CLSA Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  