-- Smiles to Take Control of Netpoints in 5 Years, Andrade Says
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-10-10T18:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/smiles-to-take-control-of-netpoints-in-five-years-andrade-says.html
Smiles SA (SMLE3) , the frequent-flier unit
of  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL3) , plans to take control of
Netpoints Fidelidade SA in five years to expand its business
with retailers, Chief Executive Officer Leonel Andrade said.  Smiles announced this week that it agreed to acquire a 25
percent stake in the retail consumer loyalty program for
25 million reais ($11.4 million). The deal includes an option
for Smiles to increase its stake to 50 percent plus one share
within five years.  “That’s our intention, and we’ll invest so Netpoints gets
stronger for us to take control of it,” Andrade said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo yesterday. “Smiles will be
the leader in partnerships with retailers.”  Spun off from Gol in April, Sao Paulo-based Smiles operates
loyalty programs for about 150 retailers in addition to its
business with the airline.  Multiplus SA (MPLU3) , operator of the
frequent-flier program for the Brazilian unit of  Latam Airlines
Group SA (LFL) , has about 300 retail partners.  Smiles’s shares rose 1.6 percent to 27.85 reais at 3:19
p.m. in Sao Paulo, the highest level on a closing basis since
Sept. 30. They extended the rally this year to 28 percent.  Netpoints has relationships with about 100 companies,
mainly supermarkets and online retailers, according to a
regulatory filing Oct. 8. The company plans to use proceeds from
the stake sale to expand to more cities in  Brazil  and find new
partners, Andrade said.  “The company is not complacent,” Sandro Fernandes, an
analyst at brokerage firm Geraldo Correa in  Belo Horizonte ,
Brazil, said in a telephone interview. “It’s actually looking
for ways to grow and add value to shareholders. Investors loved
to hear that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  