-- Snowden Father Arrives in Russia to See Son With Thanks to Putin
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-10-10T09:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/snowden-father-arrives-in-russia-to-see-son-with-thanks-to-putin.html
The father of former U.S. government
security contractor Edward Snowden arrived in Russia to see his
son for the first time since April, thanking President  Vladimir Putin  for granting him refuge that ended a global manhunt.  Lon Snowden expressed his “extreme gratitude that my son
is safe and secure and he’s free,” according to comments
televised by Russian state channel  RT  after his arrival today at
Moscow’s Sheremetyevo airport. “I am extremely thankful again
to the Russian people, to President Vladimir Putin.”  Edward Snowden, 30, who faces espionage charges in the U.S.
for disclosing secret surveillance programs, received one-year
asylum in Russia on Aug. 1, ending his 39-day stay in
Sheremetyevo where he had been holed up since arriving from Hong
Kong. The decision sparked a rift between the former Cold War
foes, with President  Barack Obama  canceling a planned summit
with Putin in Moscow.  The Russian leader, who’s demanded that Snowden stop anti-U.S. activity in exchange for sanctuary, has defended the move
to grant him asylum, saying the U.S. left  Russia  with no choice
after blocking his departure from Moscow to  Latin America , his
intended final destination.  “I’m not sure that my son will be returning to the U.S.,”
he said. “That’s his decision. He’s an adult. I’m his father. I
love my son.”  Bulk Data  Snowden, who exposed classified U.S. programs that collect
telephone and Internet data, had been seeking asylum around the
world as American authorities pressed for his return to face
prosecution. Snowden revealed that the U.S. government was
secretly collecting bulk data on phone and Internet use to
monitor online activity of foreigners believed to be plotting
terrorist attacks.  Lon Snowden, who has previously defended his son, said that
Edward has refrained from further disclosures since he arrived
in Russia.  “Edward Snowden is not leaking information,” he said.
“He is a whistleblower and he passed along information in  Hong
Kong  to responsible journalists who have been writing stories
since. But Edward Snowden since he has been in Russia my
understanding is he has simply been trying to remain healthy and
safe.”  In a later interview with state television channel Rossiya
24, the elder Snowden said he arrived in Russia on a multiple-entry visa and last saw his son in early April. Edward’s Moscow-based lawyer, Anatoly Kucherena, said Russia has received no
extradition request from the U.S. over Snowden.  Job Offers  The fugitive American expects to get a job soon as his
savings are running out, Kucherena said on Rossiya 24. He’s
received numerous job offers and is choosing between employment
in the information technology industry and advocacy of human
rights, according to Kucherena, who says he last met him
yesterday.  While Venezuela, Nicaragua and  Bolivia  have previously
indicated they’d be willing to accept Snowden, Kucherena said
his client isn’t negotiating asylum with any other countries.  “He’s still being pursued, the situation remains highly
dangerous,” the lawyer said. “Edward is leading a relatively
low-profile life, primarily because he is being pursued by a
rather great power, that is the U.S. government”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  