-- South Africa to Take 20% Free Stake in New Oil Projects
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-10-10T12:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/south-africa-plans-to-take-20-free-stake-in-new-oil-projects.html
South Africa’s government plans to
take a 20 percent free stake in all new oil and gas ventures and
reserve the right to buy a further 30 percent at market-related
rates, Mineral Resources Susan Shabangu said.  The state gave notice of its intention to take a share of
all new energy projects when it published planned amendments to
the 2002 Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act last
year. At hearings held in Parliament last month, companies
including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  criticized
the draft law for failing to specify what size stake must be
ceded, and said a lack of certainty will deter investment.  “The first 20 percent will be the free carried part by the
state,” Shabangu told reporters today in  Pretoria , the capital.
While the government will be able to increase its interest to 50
percent, it will have to acquire 30 percent at market-related
prices, she said.  South Africa, closed to foreign investment until apartheid
ended in 1994, is seeking to develop its oil resources to boost
and diversify an economy with a 25.6 percent  unemployment  rate.
While Irving, Texas-based Exxon and The Hague-based Shell have
stakes in offshore blocks, extraction is yet to take off. The
country imports 70 percent of its oil needs, processing the
remainder of its fuels from coal and gas.  Proven Reserves  South Africa  had proven oil reserves of 15 million barrels
in January 2011, located to the south and off the west coast
near the Namibian border, according to Oil and Gas Journal.  “For a country to attract investment in the exploration of
oil and gas, the financial risks need to be balanced with stable
and transparent legislation that provides benefits to investors
and meets the country’s aspirations,” Shell said in a Sept. 11
submission to lawmakers. The bill’s deficiencies “could lead to
significant delays in planned investment.”  Shell is exploring prospects off South Africa’s west coast,
while Exxon, the largest U.S. energy producer, plans to search
for crude and natural gas after acquiring rights to blocks near
the eastern port of Durban.  Changes to the law “may significantly impact on the
ability of investors to continue exploration in South Africa,”
Russ Berkoben, president of Exxon’s local unit, told lawmakers
in  Cape Town  on Sept. 11. The government “is sending a message
to investors that their high-risk investment will have a much
lower reward.”  Exploration Agreements  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , based in Houston, bought stakes
in about 24 million acres offshore South Africa, and estimates
it will have to invest about $800 million in exploration and a
further $3 billion to $8 billion if a commercial discovery is
made. BHP Billiton Ltd., Cairn India Ltd. and Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd. have also struck exploration accords.  Parliament’s mineral resources committee is due to resume
its deliberations on the new law on Oct. 22.  The Offshore Petroleum Industry Association of South
Africa, a grouping of 18 energy companies, said legislating that
the state gets a free stake in projects would be a deviation
from technical cooperation permits and exploration-rights
accords signed by its members.  “At present, state participation is provided for in
exploration rights and production rights and is capped at 10
percent,” the group, whose members include BHP, Shell,  Sasol
Ltd. (SOL)  and Total SA, said in a written submission to lawmakers
“The state, while not liable for past costs, is liable to pay”
its share of production costs should it elect to participate, it
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  