-- South African Rand Falls First Day in Three Before Output Data
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-10-10T08:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/south-african-rand-falls-first-day-in-three-before-output-data.html
The rand weakened for the first time
in three days against the dollar on speculation that South
African manufacturing growth slowed, prompting traders to curb
bets of interest-rate increases.  Manufacturing growth slowed to 1.2 percent in August from
5.4 percent the previous month, a report may show today,
according to the median estimate of 11 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Mining output rose 0.8 percent from 0.6 percent, a
separate report may show.  South Africa ’s central bank has left
its benchmark repurchase rate at 5 percent since July 2012 to
support growth even as inflation rose above target.  “The impact of these numbers on the rand should be judged
via their perceived consequences for the balance of payments and
monetary policy,” Bruce Donald, a currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, and colleagues wrote
in an e-mailed note. “We expect outcomes will be consistent
with a bank that is disinclined towards hiking rates,
notwithstanding a breach of the inflation target ceiling and
risks to inflation posed by currency vulnerability, owing to
weak economic growth.”  The rand depreciated 0.3 percent to 9.9880 per dollar as of
10:08 a.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent
bonds due December 2026 fell less than one basis points to 8.1
percent.  The dollar climbed against all of its most-traded peers
except for three currencies on signs of a compromise among U.S.
lawmakers that would avert an unprecedented debt default amid a
continuing partial shutdown of the government in the world’s
biggest economy.  The rand has retreated 15 percent this year against the
dollar, the most among the major currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  