-- Spain to Reassess Cost-Benefit of Quake-Hit Castor Gas Site
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2013-10-10T17:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/spain-to-reassess-cost-benefit-of-quake-hit-castor-gas-site.html
Spain  will review the costs and
benefits of the Castor natural gas storage site that may have
caused a series of earthquakes.  When the project, backed by 1.4 billion euros ($1.9
billion) of secured bonds, was approved, it was considered
“urgent” to secure Spain’s gas supply for the period 2008 to
2016, Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria told a parliamentary
committee today in  Madrid . Lower demand amid a five-year
economic slump and overcapacity in infrastructure including
regasification plants have changed that equation, he said.  “It is necessary to carry out a new cost-benefit analysis
of this installation,” he said.  Soria’s ministry ordered a halt last month on work at the
offshore site, owned by  ACS SA (ACS)  and  Dundee Energy Ltd (DEN) , following
a series of quakes in the surrounding area. The government has
commissioned studies into the seismic activity and has said the
facility, which was still being tested for suitability as a gas-storage site, will remain idle until the safety of the project
can be guaranteed.  Soria said today preliminary studies indicate that the
quakes in the area were connected to work at the site, a former
oilfield 22 kilometers (14 miles) off eastern Spain. Studies
carried out before the project was first approved in 2008 didn’t
show there was a risk of temblors, Soria said.  Fitch Ratings  put the 1.4 billion euros of bonds on rating
watch negative on Oct. 1, saying in the “worst-case scenario”
the government may terminate the project. Soria said no such
decision can be taken until all the technical reports have been
considered.  The government is challenging in court legislation, passed
by the previous administration in 2008, that allows for
compensation for the operator in the case of closure or
suspension of the project, Soria said. The government considers
the clause, which sets out compensation even in the case of
negligence by the operator, to be “abusive,” and is awaiting a
decision from the  Supreme Court  on the decree, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  