-- Sports Memorabilia Auctioneer Pleads Guilty to Mail Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-10T18:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/sports-memorabilia-auction-house-chief-admits-to-mail-fraud.html
William Mastro, the sports
memorabilia auction house owner accused of secretly altering a
rare Honus Wagner baseball card to boost its value and the
reputation of his business, pleaded guilty to mail fraud.  Mastro, 60, entered his plea to a single count of that
crime today before U.S. District Judge Ronald A. Guzman, who
twice previously rejected a U.S. government plea agreement with
Mastro, citing concerns it wasn’t tough enough.  “Are the facts true?” Guzman asked Mastro today, after
their recital by Assistant U.S. Attorney Nancy DePodesta. “Did
you actually do all these things?”  “Yes your honor,” replied Mastro. Asked how he pleaded,
the businessman replied, “guilty, your honor.”  Mastro and two other men were indicted last year on charges
they’d lied about the terms of company auctions, used shill
bidders to drive up sale prices and misrepresented the condition
and authenticity of items sold including the Wagner card.  The auctioneer faces a maximum penalty of five years
imprisonment. While prosecutors have agreed to seek a sentence
no longer than 2 1/2 years, the judge isn’t bound by that
accord.  Mastro and his attorney, Michael Monico, declined to speak
to reporters after the hearing. No sentencing date has been set.  Pittsburgh Pirates  Wagner, who  played  Major League Baseball from 1897 to 1917,
predominantly for the Pittsburgh Pirates, was inducted into the
Hall of Fame in 1936. He died in 1955.  American Tobacco issued the card bearing Wagner’s likeness
in 1909 as part of a 524-card set and without the ballplayer’s
permission, Ken Goldin of West Berlin, New Jersey’s Goldin
Auctions, said in an April interview.  Wagner didn’t want youngsters buying cigarettes to get his
photo, according to the  Society for American Baseball Research .
When he objected, the card was withdrawn from what later became
known as the T-206 series.  Goldin sold a  T-206 Wagner  card unrelated to the Mastro
case for more than $2.1 million on April 6. Maybe 150 were
issued, of which perhaps 50 or fewer exist today, he said in the
April interview.  Auction Business  Mastro of Palos Park,  Illinois , owned the auction business
known as Mastro Fine Sports and Mastro Net until 2004 and was
its chairman and chief executive officer from 1996 to February
2009, according to the government.  The mail fraud charge to which he pleaded guilty was
isolated from prosecutors’ case against his co-defendants in a
separate charging document filed against him Oct. 7.  It alleges he and the other two men failed to disclose in
auction house marketing materials that while they’d once sold a
T-206 Wagner card, Mastro had altered it by cutting the sides in
a manner that, if disclosed, would have significantly altered
its value.  Mastro acquired the card, which had “bowed borders”
giving it a football-like shape in 1986, according to his plea
agreement. Using a paper-slicing machine, he trimmed those
edges, then sold the card in 1987 without ever disclosing he’d
done so.  Altered Condition  The card was later graded based on its surreptitiously
altered condition. Mastro Auctions later participated in its
sale for more than $1 million. The business publicized its role
in that sale to distinguish itself from competitors, according
to the agreement.  Mastro and the two other men were also accused of
misleading collectors by claiming they had Elvis Presley’s hair
for sale and a baseball awarded as a trophy to the first
professional baseball team, the 1869 Cincinnati Reds, while
knowing the authenticity of those items was in dispute.  Guzman in April rejected a plea deal under which Mastro
would have received a prison term of no more than 30 months,
avoiding a potential 20-year sentence if convicted at a trial,
without requiring him to cooperate in the prosecution of the
other defendants.  “I’m not sure what I’m getting into, so I’m not getting
into it,” the judge said then.  He previously rejected the pact in February, asking
DePodesta then, “What does the government get out of this?”  Today’s accord requires Mastro’s cooperation in the case
against his co-defendants, who are scheduled for a status
conference with Guzman on Oct. 30. Mastro has also agreed to pay
the maximum statutory fine of $250,000.  The case is U.S. v. Mastro, 1:12-cr-00567, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  