-- SSE Price Rise Reignites Political Spat Over U.K. Energy Policy
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-10-10T11:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/sse-price-rise-reignites-political-spat-over-u-k-energy-policy.html
SSE Plc (SSE) ’s decision to raise U.K.
household energy prices by an inflation-busting average 8.2
percent reignited a political dispute over the cost of living
and the extent of government intervention in the market.  SSE, one of the Big Six energy suppliers that dominate the
U.K. market, said in a Regulatory News Service statement today
it will increase gas and electricity prices on Nov. 15 after six
months of losses in its retail arm. It cited higher energy costs
in global markets, supply charges and government levies. The
increase will affect 4.4 million electricity customers and 2.9
million gas clients, putting up bills for a typical dual-fuel
consumer by about 2 pounds ($3.20) a week, SSE said.  The increase by SSE, which trades as brands including
Southern Electric and Swalec, is more than three times the level
of inflation and eight times faster than average income growth.
U.K.  consumer prices  rose 2.7 percent in August from a year
earlier while average wages increased by only an annual 1
percent in the three months through July.  While Conservative Energy Minister Michael Fallon urged
consumers to consider switching to one of the company’s
competitors, telling ITV’s “Daybreak” program that “the best
answer here is more competition,” the opposition Labour Party
repeated its pledge to freeze prices if it wins power in the
2015 general election.  “When times are tough, energy companies should be helping
their customers, not hitting them with more price rises to boost
their profits,” Labour’s energy spokeswoman, Caroline Flint,
said in an e-mailed statement. “That’s why a Labour government
would freeze energy prices and reset Britain’s energy market to
stop people being ripped off.”  Policy Differences  Labour’s plan to cap energy prices until the start of 2017
represents the starkest dividing line yet with Prime Minister
David Cameron’s Conservatives, as the cost of living comes to
the fore as an election issue. Cameron’s government is seeking a
more competitive market to drive down prices, and its Energy
Bill going through Parliament gives ministers some powers to
force companies to move some customers onto less costly tariffs.  The prime minister’s weekly question-and-answer session in
the House of Commons yesterday was dominated by energy policy.
Cameron said Labour’s plans would amount to a “broken promise”
because international wholesale gas prices would mean the U.K.
could not act unilaterally. He accused Miliband of being
ideologically committed to “tribal socialism.”  Miliband, who is trying to portray Cameron as out of touch
with the concerns of ordinary voters, accused the premier of
“floundering around” and standing up “for the wrong people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  