-- Starbucks CEO Starts Petition to End U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-10-10T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/starbucks-ceo-starts-petition-to-end-u-s-shutdown.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  Chief Executive
Officer  Howard Schultz  is starting a petition calling for an end
to the U.S. shutdown and a deal for the nation’s budget.  “The American people have no platform with which to voice
their frustration,” Schultz, 60, said by telephone today.  People can sign the petition in the Seattle-based coffee
seller’s stores starting tomorrow or  online  today, he said. They
can add their names in about 60 percent of Starbucks’ 11,200
U.S. locations that are company owned.  Schultz, who has been vocal in the past on a range of
political topics from  gun control  to prior budget standoffs, is
urging the White House and Congress to re-open the government.
He’s also calling on lawmakers to pay debts to avoid a financial
crisis and reach a long-term budget deal by the end of the year.  “The responsibility is on the President and Congress to
reach a compromise,” Schultz said. Government dysfunction is
worse now than it was in 2011, he said.  Schultz said that he recently talked to Representative  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican and chairman of the House Budget
Committee, Senator  Patty Murray , a  Washington  Democrat, and
fellow CEOs about the shutdown and pending debt crisis.  “There’s no company in America, no company small or large,
that is immune from the destruction of what’s going on in the
 U.S. economy ,” Schultz said.  Starbucks, the world’s largest coffee-shop operator,
yesterday said it would give customers a free tall brewed coffee
if they bought someone else their favorite drink to encourage
the U.S. government to reach a solution to the shutdown. Schultz
has also asked customers to leave weapons at home after being
caught in the debate over gun rights in the U.S.  Republican Proposal  The partial shutdown, which started Oct. 1, has closed
government services and furloughed federal workers. Some
functions, such as mail delivery, are continuing. House
Republican leaders have proposed a short-term increase in the
debt ceiling that would continue the government shutdown and
reduce the prospects for a U.S. default while extending the
partisan fiscal fight.  President  Barack Obama  would likely sign a debt-ceiling
increase without policy conditions,  Jay Carney , the White House
press secretary, told reporters today.  In December, Starbucks baristas in Washington wrote “Come
Together” on customers’ cups to encourage U.S. politicians to
reach a compromise to reduce the national debt. Two years ago,
Schultz urged Obama and Congress to overcome party divisions to
fix the nation’s budget deficit and unemployment.  “The responsibility, and in a sense the rules of
engagement, for a company today is changing,” Schultz said.
“It’s changing because we have a greater responsibility to our
employees and the communities we serve because unfortunately the
government is letting us down.”  Schultz said he wouldn’t consider running for a public
office.  Starbucks has  outperformed  the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
this year. The shares gained 40 percent in 2013 through
yesterday, while the  S&P 500  advanced 16 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  