-- Structured Notes Tied to BofA Lead Single-Stock-Linked Increase
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-10-10T17:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/structured-notes-tied-to-bofa-lead-single-stock-linked-increase.html
Sales of U.S. structured notes tied
to  Bank of America Corp.  have soared this year as issuance of
securities linked to a single stock increases, with investors
accepting higher volatility for potentially greater gains.  Banks sold $259.2 million of notes tied to the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based lender this year through Oct. 4, more than
five times the $46.4 million during the same period in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Total U.S. issuance of
securities tied to single stocks rose 24 percent to $6.3
billion.  By betting on bank share prices, investors are putting
their faith in a U.S. recovery that has seen stock benchmarks
rise as Federal Reserve stimulus programs keep interest rates
between zero and 0.25 percent for an unprecedented  fifth year .
Terms such as for coupons are often better on notes tied to
single stocks rather than indexes, because buyers are
compensated for the risk of larger price swings.  “Bank of America is the most U.S.-centric of the biggest
institutions” and isn’t as exposed to international markets as
other large Wall Street banks, said  Andrew Marquardt , managing
director and head of bank research at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in
 New York . Investors also have become less concerned with the
bank’s older mortgage liabilities concerning representations and
warranties, and its ability to raise capital, he said.  The Fed has pledged for more than a year to press on with
$85 billion a month in asset purchases until the labor market
achieves sustainable gains.  Embedded Volatility  The greater volatility of single equities has helped banks
create more attractive notes at a time when price swings for
U.S. stocks, as measured using the price of options on companies
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, are about 30 percent below
the historical average. The  VIX (VIX) , as the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index is known, has averaged 14.4 this year.  “If you get the right ones, there’s a lot of volatility
embedded into these notes,” said  Donald Selkin , chief market
strategist for National Securities Corp. in New York.  The volatility gauge climbed to 19.6 yesterday from 15.5 on
Oct. 1 as Congress partially shut down the federal government
over a budget impasse. The  S&P 500  dipped 1.5 percent this month
to 1,656.4 during that time, though still increased 16 percent
in 2013.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is the most popular underlying stock tied to
U.S. structured notes this year, with $594.5 million in sales,
Bloomberg data show. Last year, it was also No. 1 at $1.12
billion of volume during the same period, as well as being the
second-most popular linked asset overall after the  S&P 500
Index .  Biggest Offering  Bank of America sold $148 million of notes tied to Apple on
May 16, the largest offering this year linked to one company.
The one-year securities, issued May 16, yield three times the
gains of the stock with returns capped at 27.65 percent and all
capital at risk, according to a prospectus filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The lender valued the
securities at 97.1 cents on the dollar at the time of sale.  Apple, the Cupertino, California-based company run by  Tim Cook , reached a high of $702.10 a share on Sept. 19 last year
and has since lost 31 percent of its value.  Besides Apple and Bank of America, 11 other companies have
been linked to more than $100 million of sales this year, up
from nine through the year-earlier period, Bloomberg data show.
They are Ford Motor Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co., U.S. Steel Corp.,
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., MetLife Inc., Cobalt
International Energy Inc., Las Vegas Sands Corp., Valero Energy
Corp., Amazon.com Inc., Citigroup Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  