-- SunTrust Mortgage Settlements to Cut Profit by $179 Million
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-10-10T22:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/suntrust-mortgage-settlements-to-cut-profit-by-179-million-1-.html
SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,  Georgia ’s
largest lender, said third-quarter earnings will be cut by $179
million, or 33 cents a share, after settlements with U.S.
officials over claims tied to faulty mortgages.  SunTrust will offer $500 million in consumer assistance and
a cash payment of $468 million as a result of an agreement with
the Justice and Housing and Urban Development departments, the
Atlanta-based lender said today in a statement. Those agreements
primarily will result in a $323 million charge in the third
quarter, the bank said.  The Federal Reserve also said it issued $160 million in
sanctions against SunTrust for “unsafe and unsound processes
and practices in residential mortgage loans servicing and
foreclosure processing,” the central bank said today in a
statement. SunTrust expects to satisfy that penalty through the
$500 million in consumer relief, according to a filing.  “SunTrust is pleased to have resolved a number of legacy
mortgage matters,” Chief Executive Officer William H. Rogers
said in the statement. “These settlements reduce uncertainty,
further improve our  risk profile , and enhance our ability to
focus on future growth.”  SunTrust fell 1.5 percent to $32.85 at 5:14 p.m. in
extended trading in New York after climbing 18 percent this year
through the close of regular trading.  Fannie Mae  The bank also reached an agreement with Fannie Mae, the
government-controlled mortgage buyer, to release SunTrust from
certain repurchase obligations for about 1.1 million loans
funded by the U.S.-backed firm from 2000 to 2012. The $373
million settlement will be adjusted for $145 million in credits
related to other repurchases, SunTrust said in the filing.  The agreement “is another sign of progress in addressing
outstanding issues so that the housing market can continue to
strengthen,” Bradley Lerman, Fannie Mae’s executive vice
president and general counsel, said in a  statement .  SunTrust agreed to sell mortgage-servicing rights on about
$1 billion of unpaid balance of primarily delinquent home loans,
according to the statement. The sale will contribute to a $96
million third-quarter charge, the bank said.  Profit for the three months ended Sept. 30 was expected to
decline 66 percent to 68 cents a share from a year earlier,
according to the  average estimate  of 30 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg before the settlements were made public. The bank is
scheduled to report results Oct. 18.  Tax Benefit  The agreement with the Justice Department and HUD covers
mortgage loans originated from Jan. 1, 2006, to March 31, 2012,
according to the filing.  SunTrust said earlier this month it agreed to a $65 million
settlement with Freddie Mac covering refunds for faulty
mortgages. That deal included a one-time cash payment of $40
million to the government-sponsored enterprise and $25 million
in credits for prior repurchases, the bank said Oct. 1.  Because of the Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae settlements, the
bank added $63 million to its mortgage repurchase provision in
the quarter.  SunTrust previously disclosed that it would recognize a tax
benefit in the third quarter after a reorganization of
subsidiaries. That will result in a $113 million gain, according
to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  