-- U.K. Stocks Jump Amid Signs of Compromise on U.S. Debt
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-10-10T15:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/u-k-stocks-advance-amid-signs-of-compromise-on-u-s-debt.html
U.K. stocks  surged the most in three
months amid signs that U.S. lawmakers may agree on a compromise
deal to avoid a sovereign-debt default.  Hays Plc (HAS)  climbed 2.2 percent after the recruitment company
said quarterly fees increased in its European markets.  WH Smith
Plc (SMWH)  jumped the most in six months after raising its final
dividend and saying it plans to repurchase an additional 50
million pounds ($80 million) of shares.  Melrose Industries Plc (MRO) 
added 1.8 percent after KKR & Co. said it will pay about $1
billion for two of its U.S. industrial-products companies.  The FTSE 100 Index advanced 92.58 points, or 1.5 percent,
to 6,430.49 at the close of trading in  London , halting a three-day losing streak after falling to a three-week low yesterday.
The equity benchmark  has lost  2.9 percent from a high on Sept.
19 as a standoff between U.S. lawmakers led to the first partial
government shutdown in 17 years. The broader FTSE All-Share
Index also added 1.5 percent today, as did Ireland’s ISEQ Index.  “If they do not agree, and the U.S. has automatic spending
cuts, that will lead to a German-style austerity and the U.S.
will go straight into recession,”  Alain Bokobza , head of
strategy at Societe Generale SA told Francine Lacqua on
Bloomberg Television. “The probability of this happening is
very small.”  The volume of shares changing hands in FTSE 100-listed
companies today was 10 percent lower than the daily average in
the past 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Ceiling  House Republican leaders are presenting their members with
a proposal to raise the $16.7 trillion U.S.  debt limit  for six
weeks without policy conditions, said a congressional aide
familiar with the details. The world’s biggest economy will
exhaust its borrowing authority by Oct. 17 without a deal,
according to the Treasury Department.  The Republican proposal wouldn’t end the partial government
shutdown, said the aide, who asked for anonymity to discuss
strategy. Obama will meet House Republican leaders at 4:35 p.m.
in  Washington .  The  Bank of England  held its key  interest rate  at 0.5
percent and kept its asset-purchase program unchanged today,
matching predictions in two separate Bloomberg News surveys.
Governor  Mark Carney  has said the central bank won’t consider
raising its benchmark rate at least until unemployment falls to
7 percent, which it forecasts may not happen until late 2016.  Hays climbed 2.2 percent to 118.1 pence. Comparable fees
rose 8 percent in the U.K. and Ireland region for the three
months ended Sept. 30, the company said today. Fees rose 7
percent in  Germany  from last year, contributing to a 2 percent
increase for the group in the period.  Dividend Increase  WH Smith rallied 5.6 percent to 882 pence, its biggest
increase since April 11 and the highest price since the chain-store split its units in 2006. The retailer proposed a  final
dividend  of 21.3 pence per share, up from last year’s 18.6 pence
a share.  Melrose rose 1.8 percent to 295.2 pence after KKR, a New-York based private-equity firm, said it will buy Crosby Group
and Acco Material Handling Solutions from the U.K. company.
Melrose, based in London, bought the manufacturing companies in
2008 with the intention of improving their performance and
selling them.  Whitbread Plc (WTB)  added 4.1 percent to 3,114 pence, its largest
advance since September 2012. Oriel Securities Ltd. raised its
 rating  on the shares to buy from hold, citing improvement in the
U.K. hotel market.  Talvivaara Mining Co. Plc slumped 20 percent to 6.86 pence,
extending losses so far this year to 75 percent. The Finnish
commodity producer said it is assessing all options for
additional funding to offset low prices and output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  