-- U.K.’s Ofgem Plans Winter Consultation on Energy-Company Profits
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-10T17:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/u-k-s-ofgem-plans-winter-consultation-on-energy-company-profits.html
U.K. energy regulator Ofgem will
consult with stakeholders including consumer groups and the
industry on how to make energy-company profits more transparent
in winter, a spokesman said.  Ofgem is preparing to publish a consultation document after
Parliament’s multi-party Energy and Climate Change Committee in
July said the regulator was failing to improve transparency of
profits by the so-called Big Six energy companies, which include
 SSE Plc (SSE) , Scottish Power Ltd. and  RWE AG. (RWE)   “The select committee has asked us to look again at
whether we can make further steps increasing transparency and we
have said that we will do that,” Ofgem spokesman Chris Lock
said today by phone. “That’s why we will be consulting on that
a bit later in the winter.”  SSE Plc today said it will raise household energy prices by
an average of 8.2 percent, reigniting a political dispute over
energy bills and government intervention. The Conservative-led
government is pushing for a more competitive market to reduce
prices with legislation giving ministers some powers to make
companies switch consumers to cheaper tariffs. The opposition
 Labour Party  has pledged to cap bills until 2017.  “We recognize consumers remain concerned as to whether
current profit levels are justified and we acknowledge the
Committee’s views on the need for further action,” Ofgem said
today its response to the ECCC report. The consultation will
include potential improvements to information made publicly
available about energy company profits, it said, though won’t be
limited to this.  The ECCC said in July the “complex vertically integrated
structure of these companies means that working out exactly how
their profits are made requires forensic accountants.”  Energy companies have several units to generate, trade and
supply energy and when reporting profits include the different
arms, making it difficult to understand supply-side profits,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  