-- U.S. Regulator Seeks Order Enforcing Barclays Energy Fine
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-10-10T21:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/u-s-energy-regulator-seeks-court-order-on-barclay-fine.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  failed to pay $488
million in fines and disgorgement demanded by the U.S. Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission for rigging California electricity
prices, the agency said in a court petition seeking to enforce
the July order.  The agency asked a federal judge in  Sacramento  yesterday to
affirm the penalties, as more than 60 days had passed since they
were imposed. The regulator alleged the U.K.-based bank and its
employees engaged in a “fraudulent scheme to manipulate
electricity prices” between 2006 and 2008.  The FERC on July 16 fined Barclays $435 million and ordered
it to surrender $34.9 million in profits for gaming energy-markets in the western U.S. It also directed four former traders
to pay $18 million, including a $15 million penalty for the
alleged ringleader of what the FERC has described as a
“coordinated, fraudulent scheme.”  The U.S. move means a judge will review the agency’s
justification for the penalties against Barclays for “engaging
in a fraudulent scheme to manipulate electricity prices in and
around  California .”  The court may reduce, or increase, those penalties.  Maintain Innocence  Also named in the petition are ex-Barclays energy traders
Daniel Brin, Scott Connelly, Karen Levine, and Ryan Smith. The
bank and the traders have denied any wrongdoing.  “We strongly disagree with the allegations made by FERC
against Barclays and its former traders,” said Marc Hazelton, a
spokesman for the bank, who added that Barclays will fight the
petition seeking enforcement of the fine. “The penalty
previously assessed by the FERC is without basis.”  The defendants have 21 days to respond to the complaint,
according to a court filing today.  Congress in 2005 expanded the FERC’s enforcement powers,
allowing the agency to better police energy markets. Under
chairman Jon Wellinghoff, the agency has enlarged its
enforcement office and investigated trading units of banks
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Deutsche Bank AG for
allegedly manipulating markets.  The FERC in January resolved its investigation of
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank for $1.6 million, and on July 30
settled its probe of New York-based JPMorgan for $410 million.
Neither bank acknowledged wrongdoing in the settlements.  Barclays Investigation  In its investigation of Barclays, the FERC’s staff
determined that the company’s employees made transactions on
fixed-price products in power markets, where electricity is
traded, with the intent of moving an index to benefit the bank’s
other bets on swaps.  In 2007, multiple participants in energy markets in the
western U.S. called the FERC’s enforcement hot line to alert the
commission of potentially manipulative trading by Barclays, the
agency said in its court petition.  The FERC said its staff reviewed e-mails, instant messages
and voice memos among traders as part of its probe.  “The hotline callers alleged Barclays may have been
trading electricity uneconomically in physical markets” to
affect settlement prices on the Intercontinental Exchange Inc.,
the agency said.  The case is  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  v.
Barclays Bank Plc, 13-01158, U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  