-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Rise for the First Time in Five Weeks
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-10T14:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/u-s-mortgage-rates-rise-for-the-first-time-in-five-weeks.html
U.S. mortgage rates rose for the
first time in five weeks as a partial government shutdown
delayed some borrowers from getting a loan.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage climbed to
4.23 percent from 4.22 percent, Freddie Mac said in a statement
today. The average 15-year rate increased to 3.31 percent from
3.29 percent, according to the McLean, Virginia-based company.  The shutdown has lengthened the wait for some borrowers
seeking mortgages backed by the Federal Housing Administration
and Department of Agriculture. It also has postponed the release
of economic-data reports, including the Department of Labor’s
monthly employment figures, which Federal Reserve officials use
to determine whether to continue stimulus efforts.  “We’re working blind in a very murky environment right
now,” Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH.com, a mortgage-data firm in Riverdale, New Jersey, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “The longer this drag persists from the
government shutdown, the less likely it is that the Fed is going
to make a move at the end of the month.”  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last month
that more signs of lasting improvement in the economy are needed
before the central bank cuts its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases. Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Sept.
17-18 meeting, released yesterday, show most policy makers
indicated that budget cuts and an increase in borrowing costs
were a drag on economic growth.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan jumped to a two-year high of 4.58 percent in August from a near-record low of
3.35 percent in early May.  Refinancing Applications  Homeowners are taking advantage of the recent drop in rates
to reduce their monthly loan payments. The Mortgage Bankers
Association’s index of  refinancing  applications rose 2.5 percent
last week, the fourth consecutive gain. A measure of  purchases 
slipped 0.7 percent, the Washington-based group said yesterday.  While the federal shutdown is proving to be an
“inconvenience” for the housing recovery, it may “become more
problematic if the deadline for raising the debt ceiling passes
without Congress reaching an agreement,”  Paul Diggle , property
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in a
research note yesterday.  If the U.S. doesn’t raise the debt limit by Oct. 17, the
country’s borrowing authority would lapse. Treasury yields and
mortgage rates would rise if the government were to run out of
money, Diggle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  