-- U.S. Stocks Extend Gains After Rally as Gold, Oil Tumble
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-10-11T20:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/u-s-futures-slip-amid-debt-talks-as-dollar-pares-gains.html
U.S. shares rallied for a second day
following the biggest jump since January and gold plunged to a
three-month low as lawmakers discussed a potential agreement to
extend the nation’s borrowing authority. Treasuries erased early
gains while the yen weakened and oil slid.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.6 percent to
1,703.20 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after jumping 2.2 percent
yesterday. The Stoxx 600 Europe Index gained 0.4 percent and the
benchmark index for  emerging markets  extended its two-day
advance to 1.9 percent. U.S. 10-year Treasury yields climbed one
basis point at 2.69 percent, reversing a four basis-point drop,
while the dollar and yen weakened against major peers. Corn slid
to a three-year low on concern demand may shrink if the
government scales back the biofuel mandate. Gold futures fell
2.2 percent to $1,268.20 an ounce, while oil lost 1 percent on
forecasts for rising North American production.  The S&P 500 erased losses since the partial government 
shutdown began on Oct. 1 and added 0.8 percent for the week.  
Democrats and Republicans were moving toward an agreement to 
extend the nation’s borrowing authority before an Oct. 17 
deadline even as they remained at odds over terms for reopening
the government. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . 
began the earnings season for banks. Confidence among U.S. 
consumers fell to a nine-month low amid the budget impasse.  ‘Market Volatility’  “We continue to look at the overall situation in
 Washington  and see how that’s evolving,” Cam Albright, director
of  asset allocation  at Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors,
said in a phone interview from Wilmington. His firm oversees
about $20 billion. “I suspect we may still be at least several
days away from getting any sort of final resolution and it may
create some market volatility as we go forward.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, the
benchmark gauge of options prices known as the VIX, slipped 4.6
percent to 15.72 today, extending its three-day retreat to 23
percent for its biggest decline over similar time frames since
April.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
consumer sentiment index of decreased to 75.2 this month from
77.5 in September. Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a
drop to 75.3, according to the median estimate.  Gauges of energy, technology and consumer stocks rose at
least 0.8 percent today to lead an advance in all 10 of the main
industry groups in the  S&P 500 .  Market Movers  Johnson & Johnson advanced 1.9 percent as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. boosted the stock’s rating. An index of homebuilders
climbed 2 percent amid analyst upgrades. Cognizant Technology
Solutions Corp. climbed 5.5 percent after Infosys Ltd. raised
its sales forecast. Gap Inc. dropped 6.7 percent, its worst loss
of the year, after September sales missed analyst estimates.  JPMorgan closed down 1 cent after reporting its first
quarterly loss under Chief Executive Jamie Dimon amid a $7.2
billion charge to cover the cost of litigation and regulatory
probes. Earnings adjusted for one-time items were $1.42 a share,
compared a $1.30 average of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Wells Fargo & Co. also closed little changed after its  earnings (JPM) 
results showed weakness in new mortgage lending.  With few government economic reports available during the
shutdown, investors are watching third-quarter corporate
earnings. Profits for companies in the S&P 500 probably
increased 1.4 percent during the three months while sales rose 2
percent, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Major Accidents’  House Republicans  offered a plan to raise the U.S. debt
limit and end a partial government shutdown that would require
the president to accept policy conditions attached to a spending
measure, said two congressional aides.  Republicans sent a list of policy options to the White
House following a meeting yesterday, said the aides, who spoke
on condition of anonymity. President  Barack Obama  has insisted
that he won’t accept conditions for ending the shutdown, which
is in its 11th day.  “The debt-ceiling debate will be resolved without major
accidents,” Nicola Mai, senior vice president and sovereign
credit analyst at Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s
biggest manager of bond mutual funds, said in an interview with
Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”
“Politicians realize there are significant consequences to this
and that’s why last night we saw some opening on the part of
Republicans and Democrats in debt negotiations.”  The Stoxx 600 extended its two-day rally to 2.1 percent,
its biggest gain since July. The index rose 0.6 percent this
week.  Royal Mail Group Ltd., the U.K.’s 360-year-old postal
service, jumped 38 percent on the first day of trading after its
initial public offering. Swedish Match AB sank 4.2 percent as
the maker of Longhorn snuff said full-year earnings at its U.S.
cigars and chewing tobacco unit will decline.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 1 percent, extending
this week’s advance to 1.6 percent. India’s S&P BSE Sensex
jumped 1.3 percent after Infosys Ltd. raised its annual sales
forecast. The Shanghai Composite Index added 1.7 percent as the
Shanghai Securities News reported the city may reform state-owned enterprises. Benchmark gauges in  Turkey ,  South Korea  and
the  Philippines  advanced at least 0.7 percent.  The yen declined 0.6 percent per euro and slipped 0.4
percent to 98.50 per dollar as it depreciated against all 16
major peers. Europe’s 17-nation common currency advanced 0.2
percent to $1.3550 as the  U.S. dollar  weakened against 12 of 16
major peers.  The rate on $93 billion in Treasury bills due Oct. 24 was
at 0.26 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data, after
climbing as high as 0.52 percent yesterday. It was zero as
recently as Sept. 19. The rate on bills due Nov. 29 was at 0.17
percent, the highest since the security was issued.  ‘Done Deal’  “The fact that it’s far from a done deal and it seems that
we’re only talking about a six-week delay means certainly for
the bond markets it doesn’t amount to a great deal of relief,”
said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America
Corp. in  London . “You’ve seen a small decline in the distress
in late October Treasury bills but it has just spilled over into
those maturing in November and December.”  Credit-default swaps on  U.S. Treasuries  retreated for a
second day after reaching a seven-month high. The contracts
declined 0.8 basis points to 34.2 basis points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 21 basis points
last month and 65 basis points in 2011, the last time Congress
played brinkmanship over the nation’s debt limit.  Swaps on Treasuries were the ninth most traded of 1,000
entities tracked by the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. in the
week through Oct. 4, up from 147th two weeks before, with 87
trades covering a gross $2.3 billion of debt.  There are now 953 contracts covering a net $3.6 billion of
Treasuries outstanding, the most in a year and up from a more
than two-year low of $3.1 billion on Sept. 20.  Bonds Gain  Italy’s two-year note slipped six basis points to 1.59
percent as the nation sold 6 billion euros ($8.1 billion) of
securities due between 2016 and 2028 today, its maximum target.
Spain’s 10-year yield dropped five basis points to 4.29 percent.
German bunds of similar maturity were little changed, leaving
the yield at 1.86 percent.  Corn fell to the lowest level since August 2010, losing 1.1
percent to $4.3325 a bushel, as the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency is considering scaling back requirements on
the use of ethanol next year. Corn is used to make ethanol in
the U.S. Corn has already dropped 38 percent this year on a
record U.S. harvest, heading for the biggest annual decline
since at least 1960.  Oil, Gold  West Texas Intermediate crude oil retreated 1 percent to
$102.02 a barrel, capping a fourth loss in five weeks. The
 International Energy Agency  said that oil producers outside
OPEC, led by the U.S.,  Canada  and  Kazakhstan , will probably
bolster supplies next year by the most since the 1970s.  Gold capped a second straight weekly retreat.  Gold analysts have turned the most bearish in a month on
increased confidence that U.S. lawmakers will avoid a sovereign
default and evidence that Asian demand for physical bullion is
weakening. Fifteen analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  expect
prices to decline next week, eight are bullish and four neutral,
the highest proportion of bears since Sept. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  