-- U.S. Reaches Deal to Provide Vietnam Civilian Nuclear Power
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-10-10T07:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/u-s-reaches-deal-to-provide-civilian-nuclear-power-to-vietnam.html
The U.S. reached an agreement to
sell nuclear fuel and technology to  Vietnam  in a move aimed at
boosting its former adversary’s civilian nuclear program while
curbing proliferation of atomic weapons.  The agreement was initialed by U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Vietnam Foreign Minister Pham Binh Minh on the
sidelines of an East Asia summit in Brunei today. It prohibits
Vietnam from enriching or reprocessing plutonium or uranium
while developing nuclear energy, according to a U.S.
administration official who asked not to be identified, citing
government policy.  The deal reflects warmer ties nearly 40 years since the end
of the Vietnam War as the Obama administration counters  China ’s
rising influence with a strategic rebalance toward Asia. The
U.S. has also made nuclear nonproliferation a priority as it
seeks to rein in atomic programs in  Iran  and North Korea.  “As we have seen in North Korea and  Syria , the violation
of the international nonproliferation regime breeds
instability,” Kerry said in Brunei today. “We are working with
partners around the world to reinforce the system of rules and
norms that prevents the use and proliferation of these heinous
weapons.”  Vietnam has contracts with  Russia  to build two nuclear
power plants and with  Japan  for two more, according to the
official. Under today’s agreement, U.S. companies will be
allowed to export nuclear-related fuel, expertise, reactors and
equipment for the Japanese plants or any future power plants
Vietnam may need, the official said.  Modern Technology  “It will open up opportunities for Vietnam to have the
best and most modern technology,” Tran Chi Thanh, Hanoi-based
head of the Vietnam Atomic Energy Institute, said by phone
today. “One key issues is that we must train personnel. The
agreement will hopefully give us opportunities to do so.”  The deal, which took more than a year to negotiate, is
subject to a 90-day Congressional review once President  Barack
Obama  signs it. Kerry said Vietnam’s nuclear power market is
expected to grow to $50 billion in 2030 from $10 billion today.  “This agreement will create numerous opportunities for our
businesses between our two countries,” Kerry said during a
meeting with Vietnam Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung. “Vietnam
has the second-largest market, after China, for nuclear power in
East Asia, and our companies can now compete.”  Vietnam has said it plans to build as many as 13 nuclear
power stations with a capacity totaling 16,000 megawatts over
the next two decades. Russia agreed in 2010 to build two
reactors in Vietnam by 2020, while Vietnam also agreed the same
year to make Japan a partner in building nuclear plants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Bandar Seri Begawan,  Brunei  at  ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  