-- U.S. Cities See First Revenue Increase Since ’06: Survey
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-10-10T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/u-s-cities-see-first-revenue-increase-since-06-survey.html
U.S. cities are projecting their
first increase in revenue since 2006, though they say it’s not
enough to keep pace with spending as pension and health-care
costs increase.  By the end of 2013, collections from taxes, fees and
federal and state aid are expected to rise by 0.1 percent as
spending grows by 1.5 percent, according to an annual survey
released today by the Washington-based  National League of
Cities .  A revenue boost would be a boon to cities that haven’t
recovered from the 18-month recession that ended in 2009.  “Cities are starting to see improvement, but we know that
it’s tenuous,” Christiana McFarland, one of the survey’s
authors, said in an interview. “Given the climate at the
federal level, cities have reason to be cautious going
forward.”  A partial U.S. government shutdown threatens to decrease
cities’ revenue projections, she said. On Oct. 1, the federal
government shut down when Congress couldn’t strike a budget
deal. The spending fight, and another over raising the U.S.
government’s debt ceiling, may damper the economy and leave
federal aid that cities rely on in limbo.  Projections for a 2.3 percent increase in income tax
revenue by cities and a 1 percent increase in sales tax
collections were offset by drops in property taxes and federal
and state aid, McFarland said.  Filing Bankruptcy  This year,  Detroit  became the biggest municipality to file
for bankruptcy in U.S. history, pushed over the brink by pension
costs. California cities Stockton and San Bernardino confronted
insolvency for similar reasons last year.  Of the 350 cities that responded to the National League of
Cities survey between April and June, at least seven in 10
listed health benefits and pension costs as having a negative
effect on their budgets, according to the survey.  The gap between revenue and spending led 38 percent of
cities to freeze hiring, and at least one in five to reduce
employee health-care benefits, according to the survey. As of
August, total local government employment was more than 500,000
jobs below the August 2008 level, the survey said, citing the
U.S.  Bureau of Labor Statistics .  The 1 percent growth in sales taxes projected for 2013
follows a 6.2 percent increase in 2012, when adjusted for
inflation. The projected growth in income taxes for this year
follows a 4.4 percent jump last year.  Budget Talks  The Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government has said
that a similar rise in income-tax revenue at the state level may
slow in the second half of 2013 because taxpayers shifted income
and dividends into 2012 to avoid higher federal taxes imposed as
part of last year’s budget agreement in  Washington .  With budget negotiations under way again in Washington,
further instability for local income tax collections may be
ahead, McFarland said.  “The federal government shutdown and the fight over the
debt ceiling are going to continue to negatively impact
income,” she said. “Longer term, that’s something cities are
going to be dealing with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ; 