-- U.S. Retailers’ September Sales Miss Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-10-11T00:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/u-s-retailers-same-store-sales-slump-as-discounts-fail.html
U.S. retailers including  Gap Inc. (GPS) 
and  L Brands Inc. (LTD)  posted September same-store sales that trailed
analysts’ estimates as a lack of new products failed to draw
shoppers who are restraining spending in the choppy economy.  Same-store sales for the more than 10 retailers tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics Inc. rose 2.3
percent last month, excluding results from drugstores. Analysts’
had estimated a 3.4 percent gain.  The results, driven in part by a lack of new products from
retailers, signal consumers are still holding back spending amid
higher taxes, uncertainty about the implementation of the
Affordable Care Act and the first government shutdown in 17
years. September also was warmer than usual, damping sales of
fall merchandise.  “The lack of product newness drives weak mall traffic,
which drives ongoing promotions,” Simeon Siegel, a New York-based analyst at Nomura Securities, said in a phone interview.
“Couple that with unseasonable weather when you want to be
selling seasonable products and that leaves you with less-than-exciting results.”  Gap, the largest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer, said
today in a statement that same-store sales fell 3 percent, while
the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Retail Metrics
was for a 1.8 percent gain. Shares of the San Francisco-based
company fell 5.1 percent to $37.64 in extended trading after the
results were disclosed. The stock had gained 0.5 percent to
$39.68 at the close in  New York .  Warm September  L Brands, which owns the Victoria’s Secret and Bath & Body
Works brands, said in a statement earlier today that comparable-store sales rose 1 percent, missing the estimate for a 2.1
percent increase. Shares of the Columbus, Ohio-based company
fell 4.1 percent to $56.60 at the close.  September was warmer and wetter than last year, according
to data compiled by Siegel, which may have kept shoppers out of
stores pushing sweaters and jeans. To clear fall merchandise for
colder-weather and holiday items, retailers deepened discounts,
many offering items for 25 percent to 40 percent off the
original price, according to Retail Metrics.  Warehouse club  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , which boosted August
sales results as shoppers sought durable goods, trailed
estimates this month, posting a 3 percent sales increase,
compared with a forecast for 3.4 percent growth.  Most chains tally same-store sales using locations open at
least a year, making the figure a closely watched gauge of a
retailer’s health because it tracks only established stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  