-- U.S.-South Korea Hold Drills That North Calls Rehearsal for War
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-10-10T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/u-s-south-korea-begin-exercises-that-led-to-threats-from-north.html
U.S., South Korean and Japanese
forces hold their second day of naval exercises that have
prompted threats of retaliation from North Korea, which
denounced the drills as preparation for nuclear war.  U.S. sailors from the USS George Washington Strike Group
are leading the exercises to practice search and rescue
operations and natural-disaster response. The two-day exercises,
which were due to start on Oct. 8 and were delayed because of a
typhoon, will finish today, Defense Ministry spokesman Wi Yong
Seob said at a briefing in  Seoul  yesterday.  “The U.S. should know that our army is ready to
confidently confront whatever turbulences and perilous
provocations with powerful military forces,” the official
Korean Central News Agency reported on Oct. 8, citing an
unidentified Army official. In another statement on Oct. 9, KCNA
called the drills “nuclear war exercises.”  North and South Korea remain divided along one of the
world’s most fortified borders 60 years after the Korean War
ended in a stalemate. Tensions on the peninsula have heightened
since February, when North Korea tested its third nuclear device
and then threatened first strikes against the U.S. and South
Korea over United Nations sanctions imposed after the Feb. 12
blast.  Park’s Firmness  Secretary of State John Kerry discussed North Korea with
South Korean President Park Geun Hye yesterday at the meeting of
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in Brunei. Kerry
praised Park for being “firm” with the North and said that he
hopes  China , the North’s biggest ally, will continue to work for
denuclearization.  “China always insists on realizing denuclearization and
maintaining peace and stability in the Korean Peninsula, and
solving the issue through dialogue and negotiations,” Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a briefing in Beijing
yesterday. “We urge all parties to do things that will help
ease tensions and not the opposite.”  The exercises after a South Korean lawmaker this week
confirmed that the North has restarted its Yongbyon nuclear
facility, much of which had been mothballed under an agreement
in 2007 as a result of talks that aimed to end its nuclear
program in return for aid. In 2009, North Korea formally pulled
out of the talks, which included the South, the U.S., Russia,
Japan and China, and months later held its second nuclear test.  Plutonium Production  Yongbyon, the country’s main nuclear facility, is capable
of producing enough plutonium to make one bomb a year, according
to the U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University’s School
of Advanced International Studies, which reported on Sept. 12
that the plant had restarted, based on satellite imagery.  North Korea followed its threats of first strikes in March
with an announcement on April 2 that it would restart all
facilities at Yongbyon to produce energy and bolster its
“nuclear armed force both in quality and quantity.”  The naval exercises are being held a little more than a
week after the U.S. and South Korea signed a new joint-defense
strategy that would allow for first strikes against North Korea
to counter any possible threat of nuclear attack. The agreement
affirmed a U.S. commitment to use “the full range of military
capabilities” to deter North Korea, the two governments said in
a communique after the Oct. 2 signing.  Leadership Changes  The exercises also coincide with signs that North Korean
leader Kim Jong Un has replaced his army chief of staff for the
third time since taking over the country and its 1.2-million
strong military less than two years ago. KCNA referred to Ri Yong Gil yesterday as Chief of General Staff of the Korean
People’s Army in a report about a public appearance by Kim,
indicating Kim Kyok Sik no longer holds the post.  Ri, who reports say is in his 60s, is believed to have been
named to the post in August, when Kim’s name and image stopped
appearing in the North Korean press. Kim, who has been described
as a hardliner, led the military unit that South Korea suspects
of carrying out two attacks in 2010.  South Korea said the North sunk one of its patrol ships in
March 2010, killing 46 sailors. In November of that year, North
Korea lobbed artillery shells at Yeonpyeong Island near the
border, killing two marines and prompting South Korea to return
fire and mobilize fighter jets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Hong Kong at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  