-- UBS Asset Management Taps Derivatives to Hedge U.S. Debt Risk
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-10-10T11:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/ubs-asset-management-taps-derivatives-to-hedge-u-s-debt-risk.html
UBS Global Asset Management, a  money
manager  that oversees $644 billion, said it bought Treasury
options to protect against losses from a U.S. default should
lawmakers fail to agree on raising the nation’s debt ceiling.  The company bought puts on two-year Treasuries and sold
those on German two-year note futures to mitigate the risk,
according to Brian Fehrenbach, the company’s Chicago-based co-head of U.S. multi-sector fixed income. Puts grant investors the
right to sell an asset.  “That’s part of our defensive strategy and it’s something
we hope will not be tested,” Fehrenbach, a former derivatives
trader for Bank of America Corp., said in an interview in  London 
yesterday. “The uncertainty in  Washington  doesn’t promote
confidence. The longer they go without a resolution, the more
risk there is for a last-minute mistake.”  U.S. lawmakers are yet to break a deadlock on the debt
limit, which Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said would be
reached on Oct. 17. Politicians yesterday embraced for the first
time the possibility of a short-term deal. Failure to reach an
agreement could lead to delays in payments to Treasuries
holders.  Rates on one-month  Treasury bills  rose to the highest since
2008 on Oct. 8 as the U.S. government entered its second week of
a shutdown caused by the collapse of Congressional talks on a
 federal budget .  The one-month  TED spread  showed the U.S. government is
paying more to borrow money than banks for the first time since
Bloomberg started collecting the data in 2001. It was at minus
10 basis points after reaching minus 16 two days ago  ‘Tail Risk’  “There is a tail risk,” said Fehrenbach. “We perhaps
give a higher probability for mistakes happening than other
market participants, but I still think the base case that makes
sense to us is that at the 11th hour a solution will be found.”  UBS Global Asset Management said it prefers European bonds
to Treasuries regardless of the debt-ceiling debate given the
U.S. Federal Reserve is closer to reducing stimulus in the
economy than the  European Central Bank .  “We have a net-short duration position in the U.S. and
net-long duration in European  interest rates ,” said Fehrenbach.
“The base-case scenario for us is for the ECB to be on hold for
a while, and we can probably argue they should cut rates. The
U.S. is closer to rate normalization than in  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  