-- UN Moves Toward Backing Central African Peacekeepers
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-10-10T16:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/un-moves-toward-backing-central-african-peacekeepers.html
The  United Nations  Security Council
took the first step toward deploying a UN peacekeeping force in
the Central African Republic, in an effort to prevent the
mineral-rich nation from becoming a hub for terrorism and
Islamic extremism in the region.  The UN’s top governing body unanimously voted to have
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon submit a report within 30 days
outlining possible steps to support the  African Union ’s planned
Central African Republic peacekeeping mission, known as MISCA.  Today’s vote comes less than a week after U.S. special
forces raided a Somali town in search of a leader of the
Islamist group al-Shabaab, which said it carried out a deadly
attack on a shopping mall in  Kenya  last month.  The Central African Republic, a landlocked country rich in
diamonds and uranium, has a high potential to become the next
Somalia as “the breeding ground for all terrorists” if
lawlessness is permitted to continue without any action, French
Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius  told  reporters on Sept. 25.  The  Security Council  said in August that “a total
breakdown in law and order” in the Central African Republic
posed a threat to regional stability.  The Obama administration is “deeply alarmed” by the
prospect of the nation becoming “a safe haven for violent
extremists,” U.S. envoy to the UN Samantha Power  said  Sept. 25.
She referred to the Sept. 21 Westgate Mall attack in Kenya that
killed at least 67 people to illustrate “how terrorist groups
and other extremists take advantage of lawless or ungoverned
spaces.”  The Central African Republic has been plagued by violence
since independence from  France  in 1960, with at least five
battles for the capital, Bangui, taking place from 1996 to 2003.  ’State of Anarchy’  The nation descended into a “state of anarchy and total
disregard for international law” after former President
Francois Bozize’s government was deposed by rebel Seleka forces
earlier this year, according to the UN.  Seleka began its rebellion after accusing Bozize of failing
to honor peace accords, one of which had helped form a unity
government. The insurgents resumed combat in March, saying
Bozize had failed to meet a new set of demands.  The African Union in July approved a 3,600-member
peacekeeping force to help stabilize the country.  Ban’s report should outline “detailed options for
international support to MISCA, including the possible option of
a transformation of MISCA into a UN peacekeeping operation,
subject to appropriate conditions on the ground,” according to
the resolution passed today.  The Security Council will adopt a second resolution in mid-November deciding on the type of support to be provided to the
Central African Republic, France’s UN envoy  Gerard Araud  said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  