-- Thousands Throng Hanoi as Vietnam Mourns War Hero Giap
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-11T02:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/vietnam-bids-farewell-to-independence-war-hero-giap.html
Tens of thousands of Vietnamese are
streaming into Hanoi for two days of official mourning beginning
today for Vo Nguyen Giap, the revolutionary general of the army
that won independence from  France  and defeated the U.S.  The national funeral for Giap, who died Oct. 4 at age 102,
will take place tomorrow and his body will be transported to his
home province of Quang Binh in central Vietnam for burial on
Oct. 13, the government said. All public entertainment events
will be canceled between noon today and noon Sunday.  “There is nobody who has the stature that comes anywhere
close to Vo Nguyen Giap,” said Jonathan London, assistant
professor at the  City University of Hong Kong ’s Department of
Asian and International Studies.  As the general in charge of the Viet Minh and a confidant
of independence leader Ho Chi Minh, Giap led a “people’s war”
against French forces that culminated in victory at Dien Bien
Phu in 1954 and the peace agreement that divided  Vietnam  into
north and south. As Vietnam grapples with an economic slump
partly caused by mismanagement of state companies and its
leaders struggle to restore confidence, Giap came to serve as a
reminder of Vietnam’s independence struggles.  Even as Giap remained a charismatic figure to his soldiers
during the American war, his influence waned amid political
infighting within the  Communist Party , said Lien-Hang Nguyen,
associate professor of history at the  University of Kentucky .
Giap, who was a Politburo member from 1951 to 1982 and served as
deputy prime minister and defense minister, was sidelined during
the 1960s by Communist Party General Secretary Le Duan and
Politburo member Le Duc Tho, she said.  ‘Reckless Development’  “Eventually he was pushed out by Le Duan and Le Duc Tho,”
Nguyen said. “He never spoke about what happened to him.”  In his later years, Giap spoke out against “reckless
development” that damaged the environment and the
“unaccountability of state leadership,”  London  said in a phone
interview. “People at the highest level of authority of the
party and state didn’t necessarily care for him, but wouldn’t
dare say anything about him publicly.”  The nation’s leaders are grappling with an economic slump
as banks struggle with bad debt largely incurred by state
companies. Vietnam’s  economy  expanded 5.25 percent last year,
the slowest pace since at least 2005, government data show. The
Ministry of Planning and Investment forecasts the economy will
grow 5.4 percent this year and 5.8 percent next year.  In June, lawmakers cast historic confidence votes on senior
officials including Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung. While they
kept their jobs, Dung garnered a poor rating from almost a third
of lawmakers. Last year, Dung apologized in a televised
broadcast for “shortcomings and weaknesses of the government”
in managing state companies.  Last Farewell  Since his death, Vietnamese clutching yellow daisies and
umbrellas to shield against the hot afternoon sun have formed
lines outside his home on Hoang Dieu Street in Hanoi that
stretch nearly a kilometer to the Ho Chi Minh Mausoleum.  Old and young soldiers, college students and office workers
have traveled for hours, some arriving as early as 3 a.m., to
pay respects to Giap’s family. Young men hoisting a large
painting of Giap and Ho Chi Minh parade through the throng,
stopping so people can pose for photos next to the picture.  A  Facebook page  commemorating Giap was set up by his
family, the state-owned Thanh Nien newspaper said online Oct. 8.  “I came here to see him for the last time,” said a red-eyed Nguyen Ngoc The, a retired soldier wearing his uniform and
war medals who waited in line for four hours to pass through
Giap’s house. “I could not stop crying. My face was full of
tears. I consider Giap as my father.”  Military Career  Ngo Vinh Tuyen, 75, recalled meeting Giap during a battle
in 1972 when the general handed out cigarettes to soldiers.
“Giap was very thoughtful,” he said.  Giap is also remembered as a military leader whose
strategies caused the death of countless Vietnamese soldiers,
London said.  His military career started when he took charge of forming
guerrilla units after returning to Vietnam from  China , where he
had met Ho Chi Minh. Although lacking formal military training,
he took control of the military activities of the Doc Lap Dong
Minh Viet Nam, known to the Western world as the Viet Minh.  In September 1945, just after the end of World War II, Ho
Chi Minh declared Vietnam independent, which led to full-scale
war against France.  The “people’s war” led by Giap was an all-out societal
mobilization that included a willingness to sacrifice troops to
make it clear to the enemy that it was involved in a drawn-out
war of attrition. That culminated in the victory at Dien Bien
Phu in 1954 and the division of Vietnam.  American War  Within a decade of the French defeat, Vietnam was pitted
against another Western power, as U.S. involvement increased in
what is known locally as the American War.  “The aggressor army of the U.S. imperialists, although
over-supplied with arms and ammunition, cannot escape the doom
that has befallen the other invaders on this soil,” Giap wrote
in 1972.  In the eyes of many Vietnamese, Giap remains a symbol of
decisive leadership that brought independence to the country.  “We all love him,” said Dao Thi Hoai, 33, who took a day
off from her job at an airline ticket agency to visit Giap’s
house. “We are grateful to him.”  Tran Van Hien, 22, a student at the National Institute of
Education Management in Hanoi, spent an entire day standing
outside the gates of Giap’s home. “No one can replace him,” he
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  