-- Vinik Seeds Ex-Manager Iben’s Fund Firm With $20 Million
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-10-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/vinik-seeds-ex-manager-iben-s-fund-firm-with-20-million.html
Jeffrey Vinik, the money manager who
shut his hedge fund earlier this year after returns slumped, is
providing $20 million in startup capital for an investment firm
run by his former stock picker David Iben.  Vinik made a five-year, $5 million loan to Iben’s Tampa,
Florida-based Kopernik Global Investors LLC and invested $15
million in two of its private funds, the advisory firm said in a
U.S. regulatory filing approved in September. Vinik will keep
the money in the funds until July 2015, according to the  filing .  Vinik recruited Iben from Nuveen Investment Inc.’s
Tradewinds unit in June 2012, only to announce 11 months later
that he would shutter his fund to focus on Tampa Bay Sports &
Entertainment, the parent of the National Hockey League’s Tampa
Bay Lightning. More than half of Kopernik’s staff of 28 came
from Iben’s global value group at Vinik Asset Management LP,
said Paul Brodsky, a portfolio manager at the new firm.  “We think when we launch that we will get some of the
following that David has had over his 32-year career,” said
Brodsky, who recently folded the advisory firm he ran with Lee Quaintance, New York-based QB Asset Management Co., into
Kopernik.  Iben was unavailable for comment and Vinik, who now runs a
family office from Tampa, declined to comment. Brodsky said the
new firm was named for 16th century astronomer and mathematician
Nicolaus Copernicus, who was born in  Poland  as Mikolaj Kopernik.  Three Strategies  Kopernik has about $29.5 million under management,
including the $15 million invested by Vinik and more than $13
million contributed by employees, according to the Form ADV
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Aug.
23. The firm plans to manage separate accounts as well as
registered mutual funds and private investment partnerships, the
registration shows.  Iben will initially offer three strategies, including
global all-cap equity, a long-only fund that scours markets for
undervalued stocks of various sizes. The other strategies are
unconstrained equity, which will bet against stocks that appear
overvalued and invest in those deemed cheap, and real asset
equity, which will focus on sectors such as energy, food
products and natural resources, according to the SEC filing.  Before joining Vinik Asset management, Iben was the chief
investment officer of Nuveen’s Tradewinds Global Investors LLC,
where he oversaw a $2 billion global all cap fund and a $3.2
billion value opportunities fund.  Vinik, 54, a onetime manager of the  Fidelity Magellan Fund (FMAGX) ,
said he would shut down the hedge fund in May after its returns
had fallen almost 5 percent since the previous July. The fund
had delivered annualized returns of 17 percent from its
inception in 1996.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  