-- Vitamin D Supplements Don’t Boost Bone Density in Healthy Women
-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e
-- 2013-10-10T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/vitamin-d-supplements-don-t-boost-bone-density-in-healthy-women.html
Vitamin D supplements don’t help
boost bone density in healthy adults, judging from a review of
23 studies that suggests the supplement should be limited to
people with a documented deficiency to fight osteoporosis.  Almost half of adults older than 50 years take vitamin D,
researchers led by Ian Reid of the  University of Auckland’s
Department of Medicine  said in an article published in The
Lancet medical journal today.  A review of studies encompassing as many as 4,082 patients,
most of them women, taking the supplement for an average of two
years found little difference in bone density measured at key
points in the skeleton such as the hip, the forearm or the
lumbar spine. The researchers did note a difference in one
place, the femoral neck, but said the benefit didn’t translate
elsewhere.  “The negative findings of our analysis contrast with the
widely held perception that vitamin D works directly on bone
cells to promote mineralization,” the scientists wrote. “This
perception is probably incorrect.”  The review comes amid conflicting signals on the nutrient’s
health benefits. Researchers last year found that people 65 and
older who took 792 to 2,000 units of the vitamin daily had a 30
percent lower risk of hip fractures, supporting a recommendation
by the U.S.  Institute of Medicine  that older people take at
least 800 units of the nutrient a day. Doctors often use bone
density as a surrogate measure of fracture risk.  A targeted approach to the use of the vitamin would save
money that could be used in other areas of health-care, Reid and
colleagues wrote in the paper, which belongs to a form of study
of research known as a meta-analysis.  The Health Research Council of  New Zealand  funded the
study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marthe Fourcade in Paris at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  