-- Vodafone Faces Fivefold Spectrum-Fee Jump in Proposed U.K. Rules
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-10-10T09:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/vodafone-faces-fivefold-spectrum-fee-jump-in-proposed-u-k-rules.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , Telefonica SA
and others may have to pay bigger fees to the U.K. for rights to
use spectrum after regulators increased the amount based on
money raised in recent air-wave auctions.  Under the proposed rules, fees for Vodafone and
Telefonica’s O2 unit will increase fivefold. They’ll owe 83.1
million pounds ($132.4 million) per year for rights to use the
900 megahertz and 1800 megahertz spectrum bands, up from 15.6
million pounds previously, regulator Ofcom said in a  statement 
today.  The new rules are expected to take effect next year,
pending a consultation period that ends in December, Ofcom said.
The British government asked Ofcom to recalculate the fees to
reflect “full market value” after carriers spent billions on
new licenses worldwide. This year, the U.K. raised 2.34 billion
pounds in a spectrum auction for airwaves that would carry high-speed mobile  Internet traffic .  “Spectrum is a valuable and finite national resource, and
charging for it can incentivize the optimal use of
frequencies,” Ofcom said in the statement.  Mobile network operators pay 64.5 million pounds a year
total to use the two bands, which carry voice calls as well as
third- and fourth-generation mobile data signals, according to
the statement. The proposed fee increase would bring that to
308.9 million pounds.  The fee increase isn’t as steep for EE, a joint venture of
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Orange SA (ORA) , and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s
Three. EE will pay 107.1 million pounds, up from 24.9 million,
and Three’s annual bill will rise to 35.7 million pounds from
8.3 million pounds.  Their figures relate to the companies’ holdings after EE’s
sale of spectrum to Three, which is expected to be completed in
2015, Ofcom said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  