-- Wal-Mart Faces Setback to India Retail Foray
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-10-10T14:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/wal-mart-faces-setback-to-india-retail-foray.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s ambitions to
open a chain of supermarkets in India hit a roadblock after the
world’s largest retailer ended a six-year local partnership with
billionaire Sunil Mittal.  Wal-Mart will for now have to content itself with running a
chain of wholesale stores in the country until it finds a new
Indian partner to open supermarkets. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company yesterday agreed to buy the stake held by Mittal’s
Bharti Enterprises Pvt. in their joint venture.  “Wal-Mart is clearly the loser here,” said Rakesh
Gambhir, vice president at industry group Food & Grocery Forum
India. “They will have to go back to the start and build the
business on their own.”  The breakup is a setback for the retailer’s plans to expand
overseas as U.S. shoppers’ reluctance to buy more than the bare
necessities prompted the company in August to cut its annual
profit forecast. Wal-Mart is facing troubles in  India , where
it’s being investigated by the government and is conducting an
internal probe on possible violations of U.S. anti-corruption
laws.  “A lot of the players are going to look at this breakup,
as something that happened because of Wal-Mart’s internal
issues,” said Harish Bijoor, founder of retail consultancy
Harish Bijoor Consults Inc.  Wholesale Stores  Wal-Mart will gain full control over the 20 so-called cash
and carry stores and their supply chain after the transaction is
completed. The U.S. retailer plans to continue to expand this
business in the country, according to yesterday’s statement.  These stores supply to neighborhood shopkeepers and
businesses, and the segment “has huge potential,” said Saloni Nangia, vice president at consultant Technopak Advisors Pvt.  Foreign companies need a local partner to run supermarket
chains in India. Under recently relaxed rules, such retail
operations will have to buy 30 percent of manufactured products
from small- and medium-sized local firms with less than $2
million invested in factories and machinery. Earlier rules were
even stricter, defining “small and medium” companies as those
with investments of under $1 million.  Even after these changes, the entry barriers for foreign
retailers “aren’t workable,” Scott Price, head of Wal-Mart’s
Asia operations, said in an Oct. 5 interview. The rules still
don’t provide a level playing field for international retailers
compared with local rivals, he said.  Price also said that the company isn’t talking to other
partners and its relationship with Bharti was “very good.”
Wal-Mart yesterday declined to comment further on partnerships
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Easy Day  The two companies also said they are discontinuing their
agreement in the retail business. Bharti Retail runs a network
of more than 210 large and medium-sized supermarkets in India
called Easy Day.  Wal-Mart had invested 4.56 billion rupees ($74 million) in
compulsory convertible debentures in a Bharti unit that controls
the Easy Day stores. As part of the deal announced yesterday,
Bharti will buy the debentures from Wal-Mart. The companies
didn’t provide a transaction value.  The wholesale joint venture, which opened its first store
in the northern city of Amritsar in May 2009, operates cash-and-carry outlets where only businesses with valid sales tax
documents are allowed to shop after becoming members. Both
companies own a 50 percent stake each in the venture, according
to its website.  Experience Gained  The two partners will now probably become competitors.  Bharti plans to open its own chain of wholesale stores,
said two people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
identified because they are not authorized to speak to the
media. Bharti, in an e-mailed statement, declined to comment.  The tie-up with the world’s biggest retailer would have
given Bharti a lot of expertise in running retail chains, and
the Indian company will be well placed to grow that business,
Technopak’s Nangia said.  Because the Indian company now has an established retail
business, other foreign retailers may be interested in
partnering with it, the consultant Bijoor said.  Wal-Mart has lost top executives in India over the past
year. In June, its chief executive officer of the India joint
venture, Raj Jain, left the company amid government and internal
investigations. His departure came seven months after the
venture’s chief financial officer was suspended.  Jain will join Bharti Group as an adviser, the company said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  An Indian government agency is investigating allegations
that Wal-Mart violated rules governing foreign investment in the
retail industry, Anand Sharma, minister for commerce and
industry, said in December. A separate probe into allegations
that Wal-Mart lobbied Indian government officials ended without
any conclusions, according to a government document obtained by
Bloomberg.  Reluctant to Invest  While the nation changed laws in September last year to
allow foreign companies to own majority stakes in multibrand
retail chains, no global retailer has sought such licenses yet.
The government also eased rules covering sourcing,
infrastructure investment and store location in August, in an
effort to woo Wal-Mart,  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and other global chains to
open retail stores.  The reluctance of overseas companies to invest in retail
operations has been a blow to the government of Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh, which has battled capital outflows and a
plunging currency this year.  Foreign investment “in multibrand retail is pretty much
stuck now. No companies have outlined a clear plan even a year
after government opened things up,” Dhvani Bavishi, an analyst
at ICICI Direct, said. “Wal-Mart was expected to be the first,
and now that’ll get delayed a lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  