-- Warsaw to Vote in Mayoral Recall Ballot in Tusk Support Test
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-10-11T05:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/warsaw-to-vote-in-mayoral-recall-ballot-in-test-of-tusk-support.html
Warsaw residents will vote this
weekend on whether to recall Mayor Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, a
test for Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s ruling party as it seeks
to shore up its dwindling support.  Tusk and Gronkiewicz-Waltz, second-term Warsaw mayor,
sought to discourage voters from taking part in the Oct. 13
referendum to render it invalid. Of the 37 percent of people
planning to participate, 66 percent want to recall the mayor,
according to a Sept. 23-27 survey of 1,000 adults by the polling
company TNS Polska. No margin of error was given.  Gronkiewicz-Waltz, a deputy chairman in the ruling  Civic
Platform , has angered Varsovians with utility-price increases
and delays in public works such as construction of a new metro
line. Her support is dropping as backing for the party, the
first to win back-to-back elections since the fall of communism
in 1989, dropped below the opposition Law and Justice for the
first time in six years.  “Losing the referendum would hurt the ruling party’s
prestige in a big way,” Anna Materska-Sosnowska, a political
scientist at the  Warsaw University , said in a phone interview on
Oct. 9. “It could open the way for the opposition to bid for
power.”  If the recall succeeds, the prime minister is required by
law to appoint a commissioner to replace the mayor until an
election can be held. A turnout of 389,430, or 29 percent of
Warsaw’s registered voters, is required to validate the vote.
The percentage of voters planning to take part in the
referendum dropped to 37 percent last month from 63 percent in
June, according to TNS.  Economy, Pensions  Poland ’s economy is poised to grow at its weakest pace
since at least 1997 while the  unemployment  rate was 13 percent
in August, up from 12.4 percent a year earlier. With a plan to
cancel government debt held by private pension funds angering
urban voters, Tusk’s ruling coalition is clinging to a two-seat
majority in parliament.  Snap parliamentary elections before the scheduled 2015
ballot are possible, according to Tusk, who spent the past two
weeks squashing speculation that the ouster of Finance Minister
 Jacek Rostowski  was imminent, a sign of discord in the
coalition.  Discounts, Beltway  Since the referendum was announced on Aug. 20, Gronkiewicz-Waltz has campaigned door-to-door, canvassing support and
promising discounts for public transport and other city
amenities to people who pay taxes in Poland’s richest and most
populous city. Tusk last month said the government will provide
funding to complete a previously shelved beltway around Warsaw.  “When the main opposition party is calling this a
credibility check for the government, it’s no longer a local
matter,” Andrzej Halicki, who leads Civic Platform’s Warsaw-area organization, said today on Polish Radio One.  Poland’s capital, with per-capita income of three times the
national average and home to 1.7 million of the country’s 38.4
million residents, has overwhelmingly voted for the current
ruling party in every election since 2005.  That allegiance will be tested in votes for local
governments and the European Parliament next year and general
elections in late 2015.  “No matter who wins, we’re going to see political
infighting heat up next year,” Materska-Sosnowska said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  