-- Westpac Buys Lloyds Assets as Rules Encourage Asia Retreat
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-10-11T15:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/westpac-buys-lloyds-s-australian-assets-for-a-1-45-billion.html
Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  agreed to buy
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Australian assets as tighter capital
rules following the 2008 financial crisis prompt European and
U.S. lenders to retreat from the Asia-Pacific region.  The transaction valued at A$1.45 billion ($1.37 billion)
includes an A$8.4 billion leasing and corporate loan portfolio,
Sydney-based Westpac, Australia’s second-largest lender by
market value, said today in a statement.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) 
and Pepper Australia Pty also made bids for the assets,
according to people with knowledge of the offers.  The deal allows Westpac, prevented from merging with its
three biggest rivals, to broaden a business dominated by
mortgages. Lloyds, bailed out by the U.K. government in 2008,
joins firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  that have raised
more than $15 billion since 2012 by selling shares in Asian
institutions as new banking regulations make it more expensive
to hold minority stakes.  “Given capital implications, banks globally will be less
willing to hold minority stakes as they think about returns,”
said Mark Nathan, managing partner at Sydney-based Arnhem
Investment Management, which manages about $3.8 billion. “In
this deal, it was more of a bank-specific pressure to exit a
market, which played into Westpac’s hands, given the low-growth
environment.”  Today’s transaction is Westpac’s biggest acquisition since
Chief Executive Officer Gail Kelly bought St. George Bank Ltd.
for A$18.5 billion in 2008. Westpac shares closed 2.5 percent
higher at A$32.99 in Sydney, their biggest  advance  since June
14. Lloyds closed at 76.02 pence in  London , up 1.5 percent.  Cash Earnings  The assets are expected to add A$100 million to cash
earnings by fiscal 2015, according to the statement. The
purchase price includes about A$1.19 billion of net tangible
assets and A$260 million in goodwill. Westpac expects pretax
integration costs of A$130 million and pretax savings of A$70
million per year.  The acquisition is “closely aligned to Westpac’s small and
medium enterprises and corporate target segments,”  Standard &
Poor’s  said in a statement today. “Westpac will benefit from
the synergies created through the acquisition in the future.”  Shareholder Benefit  Westpac will gain A$2.9 billion in equipment finance, A$3.9
billion in motor vehicle finance, A$1.6 billion in corporate
loans and 28 corporate customers, it said. The transaction will
reduce Westpac’s common equity tier 1  capital  ratio by 38 basis
points. The lender’s common equity tier 1 capital ratio stood at
8.7 percent as of March 31, according to filings on May 3.  “The transaction meets our strict acquisition criteria and
shareholders will see a benefit to earnings per share” in the
year to September 2014,  Kelly said in a statement to the stock
exchange. “Our strong capital position has allowed us to expand
our business without having to raise additional equity.”  The deal isn’t subject to regulatory approvals and is
expected to be completed on Dec. 31, according to the statement.
Westpac has notified the Australian Competition & Consumer
Commission of the transaction and is co-operating with its
informal merger review process, the bank said.  “We believe the transaction doesn’t substantially reduce
competition,” Westpac Chief Financial Officer Philip Coffey
said on a conference call with analysts.  The regulator asked for comments on the acquisition from
“interested parties” by Oct. 30, the ACCC said in a  posting  on
its website. Goldman Sachs is advising Lloyds on the sale with
Credit Suisse AG, people familiar with the process have said.  Country Exit  Kelly, who ran  St. George  before the Westpac takeover,
agreed in May to pay a special dividend for the first time since
1988 after first-half cash earnings rose 10 percent. Westpac
 shares  have risen 21 percent since she took over on Feb. 1,
2008, the second-best performance among the four biggest
Australian lenders.  Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, is strengthening
its  balance sheet  by selling assets and cutting costs following
its 20 billion-pound ($32 billion) bailout in 2008. The British
government started selling part of its  stake  in the bank last
month as part of a move to full private ownership.  Lloyds International Pty, the London-based lender’s
Australian unit, reported a loss of A$148.3 million in 2012,
after a shortfall of A$1.2 billion the previous year, according
to company filings. The division reduced assets by 24 percent to
A$12.2 billion last year, the documents show.  “The sale will enable our country exit from  Australia ,
which will be effected a short time after completion, although
we will continue to support core U.K.-linked clients in
Australia,” Lloyds said in a statement.  Global Rules  The transaction is expected to lead to a gain on disposal
of about 20 million pounds, while the group will write down a
related deferred tax asset of about 350 million pounds, Lloyds
said. Fully-loaded common equity core tier 1 capital ratio is
expected to increase by about 20 basis points as the sale
reduces risk weighted assets, Lloyds said.  Some European and U.S. banks are selling their holdings of
shares in Asian lenders as new rules set by the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  require capital deductions for holding
minority investments in other financial institutions.  Bank of America Corp.  sold its remaining shares in  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  for $1.5 billion in September. Goldman
Sachs offloaded its final stake in  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. (601398)  in May for $1.1 billion, capping a seven-year
investment in the nation’s largest lender.  Citigroup sold its stake in  Shanghai Pudong Development
Bank (600000)  in March 2012, nine years after buying it, for an after-tax
gain of $349 million. In February, HSBC completed a $9.4 billion
sale of shares in  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318)   Outstanding Loans  U.S. regulators are also pushing for bigger cushions
against potential losses, proposing in July that lenders’
leverage ratios, or capital as a percentage of total assets, be
pegged at 5 percent for holding companies, 2 percentage points
more than the international minimum.  Westpac , established in 1817 as the Bank of New South
Wales, is Australia’s oldest lender. It had 1,273 branches
across the country as of June 30, the Australian Prudential
Regulatory Authority said Aug. 21.  Mortgages represented 69 percent of the lender’s
outstanding loans in Australia as of March 31, according to a
company filing. Business lending accounted for 27 percent.  Outstanding mortgages in Australia rose 4.7 percent in the
year to Aug. 31 and business credit climbed 1.4 percent,
according to central bank data. Housing loans advanced on
average 10.8 percent annually over the past decade while
business lending grew 7.5 percent, the data show.  Australia’s so-called four-pillar policy prevents the
largest four lenders --  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) ,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , National Australia Bank
Ltd. and Westpac -- from buying each other.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  