-- Whole Foods Selling 365 Brand Single-Serve Coffee Cups
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-10-10T20:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/whole-foods-selling-k-cups-in-challenge-to-green-mountain.html
Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  started
selling organic private-label coffee pods that fit into  Green
Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ’s Keurig machines, providing more
competition for the single-serve coffee company’s K-Cups.  A 12-pack of 365 Everyday Value brand K-Cups is $8.99 at
U.S. Whole Foods stores, and there are five varieties, Emily
Wright, a spokeswoman for the Austin, Texas-based company, said
in an e-mail. Whole Foods, the largest natural-goods grocer in
the U.S., has no relationship with Green Mountain, she said. A
24-pack of Green Mountain brand French Roast K-Cups sells for
$16.49 on its website.  Competition for Green Mountain’s K-Cups has been increasing
as grocers including  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and Kroger Co. introduce
private-label brands of single-serve pods to be used in the
company’s Keurig brewers. Yesterday, shares of the Waterbury,
Vermont-based coffee company slid the most in 10 months after
William Chappell, an analyst at  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  in Atlanta,
said in a note that Green Mountain’s owned K-Cup sales
“decelerated meaningfully” in September.  Sales growth of Green Mountain-owned K-Cup brands slowed to
5.1 percent in the four-week period ended Sept. 28, compared
with 13 percent growth in August, Chappell said, citing Nielsen
data. The trend is “concerning,” he said.  Green Mountain shares fell 2.5 percent to $67.16 at the
close in New York. The company has  gained  62 percent this year,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has increased 19 percent.
Whole Foods advanced 2.4 percent to $59.81 today.  Green Mountain has introduced higher-end coffee makers that
brew milk-based drinks such as the Vue and Rivo to attract
customers and boost  sales . The company also is working on a cold
beverage system to make carbonated and energy drinks, teas and
juice, Chief Executive Officer Brian Kelley said at an investor
conference in September.  Whole Foods started selling the single-serve cups last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  