-- Winsway Buys Back Debt After Investors Agree Sweetened Bond Deal
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-10-10T02:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/winsway-buys-back-debt-after-investors-agree-sweetened-bond-deal.html
Winsway Coking Coal Holdings Ltd. (1733) , a
Chinese importer of coal for steelmakers, is buying back debt
for as little as a third of its issue price after bondholders
agreed to a sweetened tender offer.  Bondholders of the company, which Moody’s Investors Service
warned in September had a liquidity buffer of less than three
months, tendered $153.6 million, or 33 percent, of its
outstanding 8.5 percent notes due April 2016 for repurchase,
according to a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange
yesterday. About 68.6 percent of holders agreed changes to the
bond’s covenants after Winsway last month modified terms of the
buyback and extended its deadline. The company needed at least
50 percent to agree to complete the deal, it said Sept. 25.  Winsway, whose Hong Kong-listed stock plunged as much as 72
percent from a January high, offered as little as 32.5 percent
of the debt’s value at issue to buy back the bonds, according to
an earlier statement dated Aug. 20. The buyback “is expected to
provide a better recovery rate for the holders than in
liquidation,” the coal provider said in a document to
bondholders obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The company on Sept. 25 amended its offer, allowing
investors to agree changes to the note’s terms while keeping
their bonds. Under the earlier plan, bondholders couldn’t
consent without tendering. Holders of some 35.3 percent of
Winsway’s bonds picked this option, yesterday’s release shows.
Such investors receive $25 for every $1,000 of bonds, regulatory
filings show.  Mounting Losses  Winsway rose  6.5 percent , the most in a month, to 65 Hong
Kong cents as of 10:07 a.m. local time. The benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  was little changed.  The changes involve bond indenture amendments removing
terms that limit debt and dividends, tender documents show.  Uncertainty about the company’s capacity to repay the
principal on the notes because of a sustained decrease in coking
coal prices triggered the buyback plan, Winsway said in
documents to bondholders obtained by Bloomberg News in August.
The company reported a first-half net loss of HK$763 million
($98.4 million), according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Noteholders wishing to keep some of their notes were slated
to receive $325 for every $1,000 tendered, and could retain 25
percent of the bonds, the company said in the Sept. 25
statement. Alternatively, they could receive $425 for every
$1,000 of principal, with the company buying back all the
tendered notes, the filing shows. Both would receive additional
fees.  Weak coal prices put companies including Winsway at an
increased risk of default, Moody’s said in a Sept. 24 report.
The rating services company is “particularly concerned” about
Hong Kong-based Winsway, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  