-- Won Extends Fall From Eight-Month High as Dollar Buying Seen
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-10T01:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/won-extends-fall-from-eight-month-high-as-dollar-buying-seen.html
South Korea ’s won fell for the third
day, extending its decline from an eight-month high, on
speculation importers are buying dollars to take advantage of
the local currency’s recent gains.  The won advanced 1.3 percent in the two weeks through Oct.
4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has
been appreciating “fast” and the government is closely
monitoring the market, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok told
reporters on Sept. 27. The  Bank of Korea  held its benchmark
repurchase rate at 2.5 percent today, as forecast by all 18
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,076.68 per dollar as of 10:13
a.m. in Seoul from Oct. 8, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency strengthened to 1,067.07 on
Oct. 7, the highest level since Jan. 24. Domestic financial
markets were closed yesterday for a public holiday.  “ Oil companies  are likely buying dollars to take advantage
of the won’s recent strength,” said Jude Noh, chief currency
trader at Suhyup Bank in Seoul. “The authorities’ warning on
the pace of the currency gains also pulls down sentiment.”  Political tensions rose in the peninsula with  North Korea 
saying it has put its troops on high alert and is “ready to
confront” the U.S. and the South over naval drills set for this
week. The exercises come after the U.S. and South  Korea  signed a
new joint defense strategy that would allow for first strikes
against the North to counter any possible threat of nuclear
attack. The North has also restarted its Yongbyon nuclear
reactor, a South Korean lawmaker said yesterday.  The won’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
27 basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 6.99 percent.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign notes due
June 2016 declined one basis point to 2.84 percent, Korea
Exchange Inc. prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in  Seoul  at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  