-- World’s Top Oil Exporter Keeps Faith in U.S. Debt
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-10-11T13:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/world-s-top-oil-exporter-keeps-faith-in-u-s-debt.html
Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest
oil exporter, isn’t changing its “positive” view on the U.S.
Treasuries market even as Democrats and Republicans quarrel over
the debt ceiling, central bank chief Fahad Almubarak said.  “The U.S. current crisis will go away and we think its
effect won’t be lasting on our investments,” Almubarak said
after a speech in  Washington  yesterday, where he is attending
the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the
World Bank. “Our long-term view is positive.”  Oil exports have helped Saudi Arabia accumulate $700
billion in foreign asset reserves, the world’s third-largest
after China and  Japan , according to central bank figures and
data compiled by Bloomberg. More than $500 billion are invested
in foreign securities, including Treasuries. Failure by U.S.
politicians to raise the debt ceiling limit risks a default.  “We are long-term investors,” said Almubarak, a former
Morgan Stanley banker who was named head of the Saudi Arabian
Monetary Agency in 2011.  Almubarak also joined central bank and finance chiefs from
other  emerging markets  in urging a gradual, measured withdrawal
of stimulus policies introduced by advanced nations.  Monetary Policy  “Quantitative easing is an emerging monetary policy,” he
said in his speech, referring to the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
program of bond-buying to spur growth. “It has resulted in
unintended consequences for emerging-market economies and
hopefully it will be withdrawn in a measured way to avoid
disruption to the financial markets.”  Saudi Arabia, a member of the Group of 20 large economies,
pegs its currency to the dollar and its monetary policy tracks
the U.S. Federal Reserve. The country has maintained its
benchmark reverse repo rate at 0.25 percent since 2009.  Almubarak said the central bank can use tools such as
“cash management and capital adequacy control” to offset
unwanted side-effects of low interest rates.  The governor questioned the effectiveness of a call for
more coordination among G-20 members, saying policy makers will
struggle to reconcile domestic mandates with efforts to limit
spillover effects of their actions on other economies.  “Central banks are mandated with domestic objectives
toward price stability, employment and financial stability,” he
said. “It may be challenging for local authorities to also be
responsible for spillovers to other countries that may suffer
from unintended consequences of unconventional monetary
policy.”  Saudi Arabia’s benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  has gained
17 percent this year amid speculation that regulators will allow
more access to foreign investors. The market’s capitalization of
about $427 billion makes it the largest in the Arab world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Washington at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  