-- WTI Rebounds on Signs U.S. Will Increase Debt Ceiling
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-10-10T19:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/wti-brent-differential-reaches-widest-level-since-june.html
West Texas Intermediate rose from a
three-month low on signs that lawmakers were getting closer to
an agreement to increase the U.S. debt ceiling. Brent’s premium
over WTI widened to a four-month high.  WTI rose 1.4 percent, advancing with equities as House
Republican leaders proposed a short-term increase in the  debt
ceiling  that would push off the lapse in U.S. borrowing
authority through Nov. 22. Brent outgained WTI as the detention
and release of  Libya ’s leader sparked concern that renewed
instability may further curb the country’s exports.  “There is clearly a positive impact from  Washington  on all
the markets, including energy,” said Tom Finlon, director of
Energy Analytics Group LLC in Jupiter,  Florida . “The proposal
gives them some time to hash something out. The increasing value
in Brent was clearly driven by the issues with Libya’s prime
minister.”  WTI for November delivery advanced $1.40 to settle at
$103.01 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Yesterday’s settlement of $101.61 was the lowest since July 3.
Volume was 28 percent above the 100-day moving average at 2:38
p.m. WTI is up 12 percent this year.  Brent for November settlement climbed $2.74, or 2.5
percent, to $111.78 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The volume of all futures traded was 44 percent
above the 100-day average. The North Sea crude’s premium over
WTI ended the day at $8.77, the most since June 6.  Government Shutdown  House Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan, which would continue the
government shutdown, marks the first sign that the parties may
be able to resolve the impasse without the catastrophic economic
consequences that the Treasury Department said would stem from a
default.  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said that
President  Barack Obama  would support a short-term increase in
the U.S. debt limit with no “partisan strings attached,”
though he prefers a longer extension.  Republicans have called for repealing or defunding Obama’s
health-care law as a condition of lifting the debt ceiling. The
Obama administration has said it won’t negotiate over funding
the government or raising the debt ceiling, arguing that those
are basic functions of Congress and shouldn’t be used as
leverage.  “It looks like they are making some progress in
Washington,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the
Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “The spread is widening as
Brent is supported by the problems in Libya.”  Brent Gains  Brent, a benchmark for more than a half of global traded
oil, increased as much as 2.2 percent after Libya’s Prime
Minister Ali Zaidan was released hours after being seized by a
militia at a Tripoli hotel.  Zaidan has been “liberated” and is in good health, the
state-run Libyan  News Agency  reported, citing Mohamed Kaabr,
government spokesman. The group that took Zaidan did so based on
false information that the public prosecutor had issued an
arrest warrant for him, said Hashem Beshr, head of the Supreme
Security Committee for Tripoli.  His detention came four days after U.S. forces seized Abu
Anas al-Libi in Libya on suspicion of conspiracy to kill U.S.
nationals and to conduct attacks against American interests
worldwide. Militia violence, which has plagued Libya since the
capture and death of former leader  Muammar Qaddafi  in 2011, has
intensified in recent months with groups refusing to heed
government calls to disband.  Output Disruptions  Protests have disrupted Libya’s oil production and exports.
Output fell to 300,000 barrels a day in September, the least
since the same month in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “I don’t view Libya as a functioning country and it’s bad
for oil production,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist
at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion. “It does matter for Brent but it’s not a big deal
for WTI. We are well supplied. WTI is probably going to remain
under pressure.”  The protests cut the country’s production by an average of
1.2 million barrels a day last month, the Energy Information
Administration said in a monthly report on Oct. 8. The total
global outage averaged 3 million, unchanged from the revised
August estimate, which was the highest level since EIA started
keeping the statistic in January 2011.  OPEC Output  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said the
group’s output dropped to the lowest level in almost two years
amid losses in  Iraq . The organization is responsible for 40
percent of global oil supplies.  Its 12 members pumped 30.05 million barrels a day last
month, the least since October 2011, OPEC said today in its
monthly market report. Output from Iraq slumped by 370,300
barrels a day to 2.8 million amid maintenance at the Basrah
terminal.  “Another thing that’s pushing up Brent is the drop in Iraq
production,” Flynn said.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
December was 19.8 percent, down from 21.4 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 689,091
contracts as of 2:42 p.m. It totaled 637,412 contracts
yesterday, 7.50 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.86 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  