-- Yellen Fed to Stick With Tougher Rules for Riskiest Banks
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-10-10T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/yellen-fed-to-stick-with-tougher-rules-for-riskiest-banks.html
As  Federal Reserve  vice chairman,
 Janet Yellen  played a supportive role in the biggest overhaul of
financial regulation since the 1930s. As chairman, she will lead
the drive for those policies while monitoring their costs for
borrowers and banks.  Since Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act in July 2010, the
Fed has pursued a mission of boosting capital and liquidity
standards for the largest, riskiest banks to make them more
resilient against economic shocks and less reliant on taxpayer
bailouts if they do collapse. Yellen, 67, became vice chairman
in October that year and has supported the central bank’s
initiatives.  “The Fed has got a course in play; she’s participated in
those discussions, she’s voted for them, so I can’t see any
major changes,” said Ernie Patrikis, a former general counsel
at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and now a partner at
White & Case LLP in New York. “To stand up and say we should
back off -- I just can’t see that happening.”  President  Barack Obama  nominated Yellen yesterday to
succeed  Ben S. Bernanke , 59, when his term expires Jan. 31. She
mentioned a “strong and stable financial system” as another
goal Congress entrusted to the Fed during her acceptance speech
at the nomination ceremony.  While estimating economic and social cost is a routine part
of the central bank’s analysis in financial rule-making,
Yellen’s policy approach probably will give it greater emphasis,
said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner at Federal Financial
Analytics Inc., a Washington regulatory research firm whose
clients include the world’s largest banks.  Financial Consequences  “Where you will see a difference is not in toughness on
systemic risk, capital surcharges or the deep concern” over
markets in which financial institutions pledge securities in
exchange for short-term cash, Petrou said. “She will look to
see what the financial consequences of a rule are or will it
have adverse effects from an economic-development perspective.”  As delinquencies  rose  to more than 18 percent of total
subprime-mortgage loans in the first quarter of 2008, for
example, Yellen said in a  speech  that she worried about the
impact on low-income communities.  That’s consistent with a focus in her macroeconomics work
on the ability of government policy to help restore economic
equity. During the six years she served as president of the San
Francisco Fed, Yellen asked questions underscoring the “human
element” of a problem, according to Mary C. Daly, a senior vice
president at the district bank who has worked there as an
economist since 1996.  Jobless Recovery  Yellen routinely went beyond abstract issues such as the
prospect of a  jobless recovery , encouraging members of the staff
to dig into the individual consequences of unemployment,
including how people without work would support themselves and
what difficulties they would face in returning to the labor
market, Daly said.  Such emphasis won’t disrupt the Fed’s current approach of
forcing the largest institutions to adopt tougher standards. If
Yellen wins Senate confirmation, she will take over with much of
the central bank’s regulatory efforts in mid-course.  “Janet Yellen understands the importance of supervision
and regulation over the financial system,” said Deborah Bailey,
managing director of Deloitte LLP’s banking and securities
regulatory practice in  New York  and until 2009 the deputy
director of the Fed Board of Governors’ supervision and
regulation division. “When done effectively, it is critical to
achieving and maintaining a strong economy.”  Leverage Ratio  Yellen supported the Fed’s decision in July to adopt a
 leverage ratio , which measures capital as a flat percentage of
assets, eschewing formulas that let banks hold less capital for
assets deemed less risky.  She also agreed with a December decision to require large
foreign banks with significant U.S. operations to establish
holding companies the Fed would supervise.  Indeed, Yellen has supported all of the Fed board’s major
regulatory initiatives in 2012 and 2013, according to the
central bank’s website, including a proposed rule to adopt the
codification of the Fed’s commitment to the global capital
accord known as Basel III.  “This means all engines forward as Dodd-Frank continues to
get implemented, just as if Bernanke was still chairman,” said
 Jaret Seiberg , a senior policy analyst with Guggenheim
Securities LLC’s Washington Research Group. “There shouldn’t be
any radical departure from what we’ve been seeing.”  ‘Unaddressed Risk’  Like  Daniel Tarullo , the Fed governor in charge of
supervision and regulation, Yellen has deep concerns about
lightly regulated markets for short-term securities financing.
These include transactions in the repo market, which she called
“a major source of unaddressed risk” in a June speech.  Congress has bipartisan interest in assuring that the
largest banks can fail without taxpayer support, and senators
probably will press Yellen for details on her views during her
confirmation hearing before the Senate Banking Committee.  “My biggest question to Ms. Yellen will be, will she
actively push for higher  capital requirements  for mega-banks
than regulators have announced,” said  David Vitter , a
Republican from  Louisiana , who has proposed legislation that
would break up the largest financial institutions. “My biggest
concerns are that she won’t, continuing to support too-big-to-fail and bailouts as needed.”  ‘Unique’ Challenges  Senator  Mike Crapo  of  Idaho , the ranking Republican on the
committee, said the next Fed chairman faces a “unique set of
challenges” that includes “implementing a long list of
unfinished rules under Dodd-Frank without over-regulating the
community banking sector.”  Regulation has been a top concern for the committee’s 12
Democrats as well. Five of them signaled they would not support
former Obama adviser  Lawrence Summers  for Fed chairman because
of his push in the 1990s to loosen financial rules as a Treasury
Department official under President  Bill Clinton . Yellen hasn’t
drawn any opposition from the Democrats on the committee.  “The Federal Reserve has much work left to do to
accelerate our economic recovery, finish the important work of
financial reform that began with the historic passage of the
Dodd-Frank Act and dial down the risk of future financial
crises,” said Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts
Democrat who has had a combative relationship with the banks
since calling for creation of a consumer-protection bureau. “I
have great confidence in Janet, and I am delighted by her
historic nomination.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  