-- Hymn to Egypt Army Evokes Love, Anger as Takeover Splits Nation
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-10-10T23:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/hymn-to-egypt-army-evokes-love-anger-as-takeover-splits-nation.html
One song dominates Egypt’s airwaves,
blaring from radios and television sets nationwide. It’s a  hymn
of praise  to the army, which overthrew President Mohamed Mursi
three months ago, and the emotions it evokes show how the
country remains polarized by that intervention.  Distressed that the song was played at her daughter’s
school, Jihen Maher went there to complain. Maher, whose family
joined protests where hundreds of Mursi supporters were killed,
found herself whisked away by police, according to her sister.
At the other extreme is Azza Ibrahim in Cairo, who says the
melody evokes only joy, and who sometimes kisses her wallet-sized photo of army chief Abdelfatah al-Seesi.  When it comes to Egyptian attitudes toward their army
commanders, there’s not much middle ground between adulation and
anger. Those fiercely held allegiances may leave little room for
the compromises needed to end the violence that has killed
hundreds since the overthrow of Mursi and the crackdown on his
Muslim Brotherhood, or to build the inclusive democracy that the
army-backed interim government is promising.  “This has become an existential battle for both sides,
with no room for consensus,” Amr Ezzat, a researcher at the
Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights and columnist for the
independent Al Masry Al Youm newspaper, said by phone. “One
side talks about a coup and the other about terrorism. How can
they sit together?”  Mursi Picture  The division widened after security forces forcibly broke
up sit-ins of Mursi supporters in Cairo and nearby Giza, leaving
hundreds dead. Since then, a cycle of protest and reprisal has
unfolded alongside signs of a growing militant insurgency, while
the economy is barely  outpacing   population growth .  Maher, who lives in Mursi’s home base in the Nile Delta
province of Sharqiya, was later released on bail, according to
her 31-year-old sister Youmna. Teachers said they would drop
their complaint if she apologized, agreed never to visit again,
and removed a picture of Mursi from her home, Youmna Maher said
by phone.  “How do you think we feel when they play the song saluting
the people who killed our children?” said Youmna, who attended
the pro-Mursi sit-ins. “It’s like you want to create a civil
war.”  In Cairo, Ibrahim lauds the crackdown on Islamists led by
al-Seesi. “This country needs someone powerful, fearless. El
Mozzah is the one,” she said, using an Egyptian slang term for
handsome. “Look what he’s doing to the terrorists. Isn’t that
proof enough?”  New Constitution  Amid the rise of the U.S.-trained al-Seesi,  Egypt ’s
Islamists, who won parliamentary and presidential elections
after Mubarak’s fall, have seen their hold on power neutered.
Many senior Muslim Brotherhood leaders are in detention.  Mursi, Egypt’s first freely elected civilian president,
hasn’t been seen in public since his July 3 removal, which
followed mass protests against him. He’s due to go on trial next
month on charges of inciting killings while he was president.  As supporters denounce Mursi’s removal as a coup, and hold
rallies to demand his reinstatement, the army-backed government
that replaced him is erasing reminders of the Islamist’s year in
power. The constitution that he pushed through a referendum is
being amended. Critics said it failed to guarantee basic
freedoms, and showed how Mursi was advancing Islamist interests
at the expense of the country.  Brotherhood ‘Terrorists’  The army has also started a campaign in the Sinai targeting
what it describes as terrorists -- the same term sometimes used
to describe the Brotherhood. Militants have killed dozens of
security personnel, including three soldiers and a policeman in
an attack yesterday.  “The military is going full force on a security-focused
approach,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the
Brookings Doha Center. “There is no longer any real talk of
national reconciliation, of reintegrating Mursi supporters into
the political process.”  The government says it’s committed to holding free
elections, while insisting that those linked to violence must be
held accountable.  Excluding the Brotherhood “from the political process
until they rid themselves of their ugly authoritarian heritage
is a protection of democracy,” said Ezzedine Choukri Fishere, a
political science professor at the American University in Cairo.  The bloodshed in Egypt has hurt some of its international
ties. The U.S. said Oct. 9 it will cut military aid, including
$260 million in cash and deliveries of F-16 fighter jets and
helicopters, until the government takes steps toward restoring
democracy.  Gulf Support  Other countries, especially in the oil-rich  Persian Gulf ,
have supported the army takeover.  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and the
 United Arab Emirates  pledged $12 billion after Mursi’s fall.  That aid has helped replenish Egypt’s  currency reserves  and
stabilize the pound. The benchmark  stock index  neared a one-year
high this week. Persistent violence and political instability,
though, remains a deterrent to investment and tourism, vital for
economic recovery.  In resort cities like the Red Sea diving haven of Sharm el-Sheikh, the Brotherhood’s fall was initially welcomed. Now, that
feeling is being supplanted by concern that the unrest will keep
tourists away.  At the resort’s Hard Rock Café, Mustafa Kamal, 27, pointed
to two men grinding on the dance floor, and a young woman whose
skirt flew up as she danced to a tune by American singer
Pitbull. “What do you think would have happened to them if
Sharm had been Brotherhoodized?”  ‘For How Long?’  He paused for a minute. “We’re dancing now, but for how
long?” he said.  Hours later, a suicide bomber detonated a car packed with
explosives inside a security base in El-Tour, a short drive from
Sharm El-Sheik, killing at least four policemen.  As violence threatens to deepen Egypt’s economic slump, it
may be hard for any leader to retain popularity for long,
including al-Seesi. Supporters are urging the general to run for
president next year, though he told Al Masry Al Youm newspaper
this week that the “time isn’t right” to discuss a bid.  “It won’t take long before people begin to question and
complain about any leader who doesn’t deliver food and drink,”
said Fishere. “Egypt has changed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  