-- Yuan Gains Most in Eight Weeks on Swap Deal, Yellen Nomination
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-10-10T09:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/yuan-gains-most-in-eight-weeks-on-swap-deal-yellen-nomination.html
China’s  yuan  gained the most in
eight weeks as authorities agreed on a currency swap line with
the  European Central Bank  and after  Janet Yellen ’s nomination as
Federal Reserve chief signaled policy continuity.  The ECB and the People’s Bank of China agreed to set up a
three-year swap of a maximum 350 billion yuan ($57 billion), the
ECB said in a statement today. President  Barack Obama  nominated
Yellen, currently Fed vice chairman, to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke 
in January. The appointment means there will be a “prolonged
period of appreciation” for the yuan because of a “relatively
longer period” of expansionary U.S. monetary policy, former
PBOC academic adviser  Li Daokui  said in an interview.  “The ECB swap line could be a trigger for yuan purchases
as it signals the currency’s outlook remains positive,” said
 Liu Dongliang , a senior analyst at China Merchants Bank Co. in
Shenzhen.  The yuan rose 0.09 percent, the most since Aug. 15, to
close at 6.1158 per dollar in Shanghai, China Foreign Exchange
Trade System prices show. The PBOC lowered its daily  fixing  by
0.04 percent, the most since Sept. 6, to 6.1452. The yuan was
0.48 percent stronger than the PBOC’s reference rate, within the
1 percent limit.  Averting Default  U.S. congressional leaders are open to a short-term
increase in the nation’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling to avert a
default, according to Republican and Democrat aides who spoke on
the condition of anonymity. As the Fed’s No. 2 official, Yellen
has articulated the case for maintaining highly accommodative
monetary policy. In a series of 2012 speeches, she outlined why
rates could remain near zero into late 2015.  “Investors are in wait-and-see mode, given the uncertainty
over the U.S. debt ceiling,” said  Daniel Chan , a director at
China Silver Global Investment Consultant Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“It looks like lawmakers are working to avoid chaos. Yellen is
known to be more dovish, so tapering under her leadership will
be gradual. That would be positive for the yuan.”  Foreign investors can remit offshore yuan to invest in
domestic financial institutions in China, according to a
statement by the PBOC today.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan climbed 0.03
percent to 6.1112 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.09
percent to 6.1807, a 1.1 percent  discount  to the onshore rate.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.22 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  