-- Zambia Probe Chairman Says No Graft in Rabobank’s Zanaco Deal
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-10-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-10/zambia-probe-chairman-says-no-graft-in-rabobank-s-zanaco-deal.html
Zambia’s sale of a 49 percent stake
in the country’s biggest lender to Rabobank Groep didn’t involve
corruption, according to the chairman of a commission of inquiry
that President Michael Sata ordered to probe the deal.  “What the commission found was that it was all done above
board,” Sebastian Zulu, a former justice minister, said in an
Oct. 9 interview in Lusaka, the capital. “There was no
corruption involved.”  Three months after Sata was elected president in September
2011, he ordered an investigation of Dutch lender Rabobank’s
2007 purchase of a stake in Zambia National Commercial Bank Plc.
Another probe into a state asset sale under the previous
government led to the reversal of the acquisition of Zambia
Telecommunications Co. by Libya’s LAP Green.  While Zulu said his commission of inquiry handed its report
on the Zanaco sale to the cabinet secretary last year, the
government has yet to make its findings public.  Milou Verhaegh, a spokesman for Utrecht, the Netherlands-based Rabobank, said the lender had no comment and was unaware
of the outcome of the commission. Zanaco didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The state still holds 25 percent of the bank, with Rabobank
owning 45.6 percent after selling 3.4 percent to a farmers’
group in 2008.  The inquiry’s report “has been overtaken by time,” the
Lusaka-based Post Newspaper reported on Aug. 1, citing Finance
Minister Alexander Chikwanda.  The inquiry found there were “issues” over the under-representation of minority Zambian shareholders in Zanaco, Zulu
said.  Sata replaced Zulu, who heads Lusaka law firm Zulu & Co.,
as justice minister with Wynter Kabimba in August last year.
Kabimba couldn’t be reached for comment when called on his
mobile phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  