-- Madoff Trustee, Arbitration Ruling, Taxes: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-21T11:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/madoff-trustee-arbitration-ruling-taxes-compliance.html
Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & (JPM)  Co.
and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  can’t be sued by the Bernard Madoff firm’s
liquidator for $30 billion, an appeals court ruled.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  had appealed lower court
rulings that barred him from demanding damages from banks that
allegedly ignored Madoff’s fraud for the sake of fees. Federal
district judges  Colleen McMahon  and Jed Rakoff, both in
Manhattan, had said Picard can’t accuse the banks of fraud
because he’s the trustee for a fraudulent enterprise, citing a
legal principal called in pari delicto.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York agreed yesterday.
“Picard stands in the shoes of BLMIS and may not assert claims
against third parties for participating in a fraud that BLMIS
orchestrated,” according to the ruling by three judges
including Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs.  BLMIS is the former securities firm of Madoff, who
orchestrated the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history, reporting
a mostly fictitious $65 billion in assets. His fraud cost
customers an estimated $17 billion in principal.  Picard’s defeat yesterday means that Madoff’s customers
will have a smaller pot from which to recover their remaining
losses, and some investors who bought discounted claims on the
con man’s estate may lose the bets they made.  Picard is reviewing the decision, spokeswoman Amanda Remus
said in an e-mail. He has about $4 billion of other claims
against the banks that he is “vigorously” pursuing, she said.  Two other appeals courts have ruled that a trustee
liquidating a fraudulent business can’t accuse other parties of
fraud. A court in Richmond, Virginia, in May said a bank
allegedly holding Ponzi customers’ money couldn’t be sued, and a
Chicago court in April 2012 said a trustee couldn’t sue
accountants for not detecting a Ponzi scheme.  The New York appeal judges said at the end of their ruling
that they would leave it to Congress to change the law if
legislators wanted to empower trustees to bring such lawsuits.  Picard has so far paid investors almost $4.8 billion from
the Madoff estate’s customer fund, out of about $17 billion of
estimated lost principal, according to his website.  The bankruptcy case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  The appeal is In re Bernard L. Madoff, 11-05175, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Arbitration Backed as High Court Rules for American Express  The U.S.  Supreme Court  reinforced companies’ power to
funnel legal disputes into arbitration, ruling in favor of
 American Express Co. (AXP)  in an antitrust clash with retailers over
the credit cards they must accept.  The justices, voting 5-3, said merchants seeking to sue
American Express are bound by an agreement they signed to pursue
disputes individually before an arbitrator. A federal appeals
court had refused to enforce the arbitration accord, saying its
bar on class actions would make it infeasible for the merchants
to press their claims.  Writing for the majority, Justice  Antonin Scalia  said
courts must respect arbitration agreements -- and bans on class
actions -- even when the cost of pressing an individual case
would exceed the potential damages.  In dissent, Justice Elena Kagan said the ruling would let
wrongdoers immunize themselves against lawsuits. She said
American Express had used its market clout to foist the contract
on retailers.  Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and  Stephen Breyer  joined
Kagan in dissent. Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , who was involved with
the case as an appellate judge, didn’t take part in the Supreme
Court’s decision.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Anthony Kennedy,
 Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito  joined Scalia in the majority.  The decision extends a 2011 Supreme Court ruling that said
companies can use arbitration accords to block employees and
consumers from pressing claims as a group. Both cases turned on
the 1925 Federal Arbitration Act, which says courts must enforce
arbitration accords the same as any other contract.  Yesterday’s ruling “preserves the availability of
arbitration as a fair, efficient and cost-effective way to
resolve disputes,” American Express said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The decision is catastrophic for the antitrust laws, as
well as for civil rights, consumer rights and many other
statutory rights,” said Paul Bland, an attorney with Public
Justice, a Washington-based advocacy group.  The case is American Express v. Italian Colors Restaurant,
12-133.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Credit Suisse, Baer Seen Facing Delay in U.S. Tax Settlement  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Julius Baer  Group Ltd., the
largest Swiss banks embroiled in a U.S. tax-evasion probe, may
face delays in reaching settlements after the Swiss Parliament
rejected a bill that would have freed the industry to send
information to the U.S.  The two Zurich-based banks, among at least 14 Swiss
financial firms investigated by the Department of Justice since
2011 for allegedly helping Americans hide money from the
Internal Revenue Service, are seeking to strike individual
agreements to avoid or defer prosecution by the U.S.  The government bill, supported by Swiss banks, was aimed at
helping firms not yet part of the U.S. probe avoid an indictment
like that of Wegelin & Co., which pleaded guilty in January to
helping American clients dodge taxes. While Credit Suisse and
Julius Baer can already share some data with U.S. authorities,
lawmakers’ rejection of the bill June 19 in Bern may complicate
matters for them.  Switzerland, the world’s largest center for cross-border
wealth, is trying to shed its reputation as a haven for
undeclared funds. Credit Suisse and Julius Baer are in talks
with the U.S. authorities to resolve the probes after  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
the biggest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution in 2009 by admitting
it aided tax evasion, paying $780 million and handing over
client names.  Both banks have previously said they expect to pay fines
and provide client names to resolve the U.S. probes after the
 Justice Department  indicted bankers and requested the firms give
up the names of former clients with undeclared offshore wealth.  Julius Baer is seeking to resolve the matter by the end of
this year with an “affordable” settlement, Chief Executive
Officer  Boris Collardi  said May 30. Credit Suisse Chairman Urs
Rohner told Swiss paper Neue Zuercher Zeitung in an interview
published May 28 that “to believe that one can just postpone
this problem and that it will solve itself isn’t realistic.”  For more, click here.  Bank Traders, Brokers Worked With Hayes on Libor, SFO Says  Tom Hayes, the former UBS AG and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  trader,
conspired with employees of at least five other banks and three
interdealer brokers over a four-year period to manipulate yen
Libor rates, prosecutors said.  Hayes appeared at a London criminal court for the first
time yesterday where prosecutors laid out the charges against
him. The 33-year-old was charged with working with employees at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , HSBC
Holdings Plc, Rabobank Groep and Deutsche Bank AG, as well as
Tullett Prebon Plc, ICAP Plc and RP Martin Holdings Ltd., the
U.K. Serious Fraud Office said in documents read out yesterday.  The charges come almost a year after Barclays Plc became
the first of three banks fined as part of global regulators’
probes into the London interbank offered rate and other
benchmarks. Hayes has also been charged by the U.S. Justice
Department, which is running a parallel criminal investigation.  Hayes tried to manipulate rates “with the intention that
the economic interests of others would be prejudiced and/or to
make personal gain for themselves or another,” U.K. prosecutors
said in the indictment yesterday.  Hayes faces eight counts of conspiracy to defraud in the
case, four covering the period from Aug. 8, 2006, until Dec. 3,
2009, while he worked at UBS, and the other four from Dec. 1,
2009 until Sept. 7, 2010, when he was at Citigroup.  Hayes, a British national who worked in Tokyo, was arrested
in the U.K. probe on Dec. 11 along with two employees of the
brokerage RP Martin. Hayes was charged on June 18 with eight
counts of conspiracy to defraud after he answered police bail in
central London.  Hayes joined UBS in 2006 and worked at the Swiss lender
until 2009, when he joined Citigroup. He was dismissed by
Citigroup less than a year later for involvement in suspected
rate-rigging, a person with knowledge of the matter said in
October. He worked at Edinburgh-based  RBS (RBS)  from 2001 to 2003.  The SFO said on June 18 that their probe into rate-rigging
is continuing.  For more, click here.  Google Gets 3 Months to Fix Privacy or Face French Fines  France gave  Google Inc. (GOOG)  three months to amend its policy
regarding Internet users’ data to avoid fines, and said five
other European countries will follow suit by the end of July.  The U.S. search engine giant is breaching French laws
because it “prevents individuals from knowing how their
personal data may be used and from controlling such use,”
France’s National Commission for Computing and Civil Liberties,
the country’s data protection watchdog known as CNIL, said
yesterday in a  statement  in Paris. It ordered Google to comply
with the French Data Protection Act.  Google faces probes across Europe over changes to harmonize
privacy policies for more than 60 products last year. Global
data protection regulators this week wrote to the Mountain View,
California-based company urging Chief Executive Officer  Larry
Page  to contact them about possible issues with its web-enabled
eyeglasses, called Google Glass.  “Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to
create simpler, more effective services,” Al Verney, a
spokesman for Google in Brussels, said by phone. “We have
engaged fully with the data protection authorities involved
throughout this process and will continue to do so going
forward.”  For more, click here.  Delta Wins U.S. Antitrust Approval for Virgin Atlantic Stake  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  won U.S. Justice Department approval
of its proposed equity investment in Richard Branson’s Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd. and of the carriers’ related trans-Atlantic joint venture.  The department’s antitrust division announced yesterday
that it had closed its investigation into the deal, allowing it
to proceed. European regulators have also signed off on the
transaction.  “The facts and circumstances did not warrant further
investigation or action,” the Justice Department said in an e-mailed statement.  Delta, based in Atlanta, agreed on Dec. 11 to buy a 49
percent stake in the U.K. carrier for $360 million to boost its
share of the trans-Atlantic travel market. The agreement
included a joint venture on 31 daily round-trip flights between
North America and the U.K. Virgin Group retains a 51 percent
stake.  Delta also won European Union approval for the transaction,
according to an e-mailed statement from EU regulators yesterday.  “The division and the European Commission cooperated
closely throughout the course of their respective
investigations, with frequent contact between the agencies,”
the Justice Department said. “This cooperation, facilitated by
the parties, made for a more efficient review process.”  Apple Denies Fixing E-Book Prices in Antitrust Trial Closing  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  made a final pitch to defend itself against U.S.
charges it led publishers in a scheme to fix the prices for
electronic books, with the company’s lawyer telling a judge that
it did nothing wrong.  “Apple did not conspire with a single publisher to fix
prices in the e-books industry,”  Orin Snyder , Apple’s lawyer,
told U.S. District Judge Denise Cote yesterday in his closing
argument at the end of a civil antitrust trial in Manhattan.
“Apple acted lawfully and did not violate the antitrust laws.”  The government claims Apple and five of the biggest book
publishers conspired to move the e-book market to a model that
raised prices and harmed consumers. The trial focused on
December 2009 and January 2010, when Apple was rushing to sign
contracts with the publishers and build an iBookstore in time
for the introduction of the iPad.  Snyder, in his 2 1/2-hour argument, told Cote that Apple’s
entry into the e-book market, which had been dominated by
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , lowered prices overall and helped consumers by
bringing innovation and competition. He argued that the
government “overreached” in its suit against Apple, claiming
that a ruling for the U.S. Justice Department would be
“unprecedented and dangerous” for companies.  Cote, who will decide the case without a jury, interrupted
Snyder repeatedly with questions. In a court conference before
the trial, Cote told lawyers for both sides her “tentative
view” was that the government has evidence Apple “knowingly
participated in and facilitated a conspiracy to raise prices of
e-books.”  Mark Ryan, a lawyer for the Justice Department, followed
Snyder yesterday, arguing that Apple headed up “an old-fashioned, straightforward price-fixing agreement.”  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Virginia Lawyer Gets 15 Years for Small Business Loan Fraud  A Virginia lawyer yesterday was sentenced to 15 years and
eight months in prison for his role in a scheme that resulted in
more than $100 million in losses on loans backed by the  U.S.
Small Business Administration .  Joon Park, 43, of Falls Church, was sentenced in federal
court in Baltimore. He admitted that from 2003 to October 2011,
he and his co-conspirators submitted SBA loan applications with
fraudulent documents including counterfeit cashier’s checks and
falsified bank statements and tax returns, U.S. Attorney Rod Rosenstein of Maryland said yesterday in a statement.  Park arranged for 124 fraudulent loans with 17 commercial
lenders ranging from $100,000 to $14.5 million, according to a
superseding indictment returned March 7 by a federal grand jury.  Four other participants in the scheme have already been
sentenced to prison and a fifth conspirator has pleaded guilty
and is awaiting sentencing.  The case is U.S. v. Park, 11-cr-00600, U.S. District Court,
District of Maryland (Baltimore).  OBIC Faces 8.85 Million Yen Fine for Misstatements, SESC Says  OBIC (4684) , the Japanese provider of computer system integration
and services, faces a fine of 8.85 million yen ($91,000) for
misstating reports, Japan’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance
Commission said.  The commission made the announcement in a statement
distributed to the press in Tokyo.  Compliance Policy  FTC Chief Ramirez Calls on Agency to Probe ‘Patent Trolls’  U.S. Federal Trade Commission Chairwoman Edith Ramirez said
the agency should conduct a broad probe of patent-assertion
entities, known as “patent trolls” to those who accuse them of
abusing the system.  Ramirez yesterday said she would like to see a full-fledged
inquiry to determine whether the entities’ activities hamper or
encourage innovation and competition. President  Barack Obama 
earlier this month announced a crackdown on patent litigation in
an effort to protect technology, finance and retail companies
from lawsuits and demands for fees.  The crackdown includes five executive actions and seven
recommendations that require congressional action. A White House
commission report said more than 100,000 companies were
threatened with claims of infringement last year by patent-assertion entities, whose sole business is to obtain patents and
use them to extract royalties from other businesses.  The entities are “driving the increase in patent
litigation and targeting firms in a growing slice of the
economy,” Ramirez said yesterday at a workshop sponsored by the
Washington-based American Antitrust Institute and the Computer
and Communications Industry Association, a trade group whose
members include Google Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  “The costs to
consumers from PAE activity appear increasingly tangible and
direct.”  EU Says Merger-Rules Overhaul May Focus on Minority Holdings  Revamped European Union merger-control rules may lead to
scrutiny of deals that involve minority shareholdings, EU
regulators said as they sought views on ways to bolster the
merger-review process.  “A minority stake owned by a firm in a company that
supplies an important input to the acquirer’s competitors may
lead to supply problems for those competitors,” the Brussels-based commission said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The
current merger regulation applies only to transactions leading
to an acquisition of control over a company.”  The commission said it’s also weighing changes to
streamline the referral of merger reviews from national
regulators to the EU regulator and vice versa, “provided none
of the authorities involved objects to the referral.”  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  last month
briefed lawmakers at the European Parliament of the proposals to
revamp the merger-review process. The commission said the
consultation process on the overhaul will end on Sept. 20.  In the Courts  HSBC Unit Liability on 2009 Verdict $1.5 Billion, Court Told  HSBC Holdings Plc unit once known as Household
International Inc. is liable for about $1.5 billion in damages
to shareholders who a Chicago federal court jury found in 2009
were misled by the company and three executives, a plaintiffs’
attorney said.  The lawyer, Michael J. Dowd, told U.S. District Judge
Ronald A. Guzman at a hearing yesterday in Chicago that an
independent claims examiner reviewed and approved investor
claims approaching that amount, for which the attorney seeks
entry of a partial judgment.  That $1.48 billion in allowed claims from about 10,000
stockholders may be augmented by pre-judgment interest in the
11-year-old lawsuit or wiped out by post-trial motions, Dowd
said in an interview outside the courtroom. Still more claims
remain to be resolved, he said.  Noting the litigation has gone on “for years and years,”
Guzman said from the bench, “it’s got to come to an end.”  Jurors in May 2009 decided the company, former Chief
Executive Officer William Aldinger and two other people made
recklessly misleading comments 16 times and in one instance
involving Aldinger, did so knowingly.  While the jury determined that stockholder losses from
March 23, 2001, to Oct. 11, 2002, could be as much as $23.94 a
share, it made no lump-sum award. The ensuing claims evaluation
process has lasted four years.  Household was acquired by London-based HSBC in March 2003
for $15.5 billion.  The case is Lawrence E. Jaffe Pension Plan v. Household
International Inc., 1:02-cv-05893, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  Comings and Goings  Senate Panel to Question SEC Nominees Stein, Piwowar June 27  Two U.S. Senate aides nominated to join the Securities and
Exchange Commission will get a confirmation hearing before the
Senate Banking Committee on June 27, according to a Senate
announcement yesterday.  Michael S. Piwowar and Kara M. Stein will face questions
posed by their current and former bosses on the committee.
Piwowar, a Republican, is the chief economist for the
committee’s Republican members. Stein worked for the committee
under Senator  Jack Reed , a Rhode Island Democrat who previously
led a securities subcommittee.  A vote on their nominations will be held at a subsequent
hearing, the banking committee said in a news release. Full
Senate approval could come as early as July.  President Barack Obama nominated Piwowar and Stein to join
the commission on May 23. Stein would replace Democrat Elisse B.
Walter, whose term has expired. Piwowar would succeed Republican
Troy A. Paredes, who will leave the commission after serving one
five-year term.  Ex-SEC Boston Chief Joins LPL Financial as General Counsel  LPL Financial Holdings Inc. (LPLA) , the brokerage fined last month
for systemic failures and misstatements, hired the former head
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s Boston office
as its general counsel.  David Bergers, who starts work on Aug. 5, will also be
managing director for legal and government relations at Boston-based  LPL Financial , which specializes in the technology and
service businesses, the firm said in a statement yesterday. He
will also serve on the management and risk oversight committees.  LPL Financial has been faulted in recent years by the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the brokerage industry
self-regulator, and securities watchdogs from at least seven
states, according to public filings with Finra.  The hiring of Bergers, 45, comes about a month after LPL
Financial agreed to pay $9 million to resolve Finra claims that
it failed to supervise employees’ e-mails and made misstatements
to investigators. LPL said it regretted the lapses and that the
firm had taken steps to redesign its compliance program.  “I’ve been impressed with LPL’s recent investments in
people and technology and the steps the company is taking to
improve its compliance functions and risk oversight,” Bergers
said in an e-mail. “I look forward to helping the firm provide
the highest quality advice and service to investors.”  Interviews  SEC Chairman White Sending Right Signal, Levitt Says  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo
White is sending the right signal by saying the agency will seek
more admissions of wrongdoing in enforcement cases, said  Arthur
Levitt , a former SEC chairman.  “Mary Jo did exactly what she should have done,” Levitt,
82, said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg radio. “She’s
going to be selective in terms of egregious cases where she’s
really going to go for the gold.”  White, a former Debevoise & Plimpton LLP partner who took
over the SEC in April, said on June 18 that the regulator would
seek more admissions of misconduct as a condition of settling
cases. Typically, the SEC allows subjects to settle cases
without either admitting or denying wrongdoing, a practice that
has drawn fire from lawmakers, consumer groups and jurists.  “What she’s saying is, we’re going to pick a case and make
an example of it,” said Levitt, who is an adviser to Promontory
Financial Group LLC and a Bloomberg LP board member. “I don’t
think that means that 50 percent of cases will get litigated, we
may be talking about 2 or 3 percent. She’s sending exactly the
right signal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  