-- Aeroflot Proposes Delay Selling Shares Until Market Has Improved
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2013-06-21T07:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/aeroflot-proposes-delay-selling-shares-until-market-has-improved.html
OAO Aeroflot is proposing to delay
selling shares until the market improves, according to the head
of  Russia ’s largest airline.  “We think Aeroflot should be privatized later depending on
the market,” Chief Executive Officer Vitaly Savelyev said in an
interview  at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum
today. Aeroflot’s shares are about 40 percent undervalued, he
said, citing analyst estimates. Aeroflot fell 2.9 percent to
52.77 rubles yesterday in Moscow, the biggest drop since May 23.
The stock is 51 percent below its high in February 2008.  The Russian government plans to give up its controlling
stake in Aeroflot by 2016 as part of a plan to raise 427 billion
rubles ($13 billion) through state asset sales to help balance
the budget and reduce state influence in the economy. Russia may
offer investors about 1.5 percent of Aeroflot as early as this
year, Olga Dergunova, the head of the Federal Property
Management Agency, said in April.  The Moscow-based airline, which has bought modern Airbus
SAS jetliners and SuperJet 100 regional planes to upgrade its
fleet, is able to grow independently and its shares should not
be sold to a competing carrier, Savelyev said.  “A company developing its competitor is not very
realistic,” he said. Aeroflot also aims to support local
aviation companies, “which may be an issue for a private
investor.”  The carrier isn’t holding talks with  Alexander Lebedev , who
finances the Evening Standard and Independent in the U.K., about
buying the businessman’s remaining 4.5 percent stake.  Aeroflot has no plans to buy assets in  Europe  because of
antitrust rules that don’t allow companies to consolidate
controlling stakes, Savelyev said. Last week, the Italian
newspaper la Repubblica reported that Aeroflot considered the
possibility of acquiring Alitalia SpA.  “We are not holding talks, and have not received any
offers,” Savelyev said in response to the report. “We are not
looking for a company in Europe.”  For Related News and Information:
Aeroflot Plans London,  New York  Trading Before Share Sale  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Denis Maternovsky at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net  