-- Tahiti Earns Biggest Cheers in Record 10-0 Soccer Loss to Spain
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-21T03:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/tahiti-earns-biggest-cheers-in-record-10-0-soccer-loss-to-spain.html
Even after falling to a tournament-record 10-0 loss to world champion Spain at the Confederations
Cup, Tahiti’s soccer team left the field feeling like heroes.  The 138th-ranked Pacific islanders were cheered from start
to finish in the mismatch by a crowd of almost 72,000 at Rio de
Janeiro’s Maracana stadium yesterday, as four goals from
Fernando Torres and three from David Villa helped Spain rack up
the biggest victory margin in the competition’s nine editions.  “I’m still in the stars,” Tahiti goalkeeper Mikael Roche,
a 30-year-old qualified sports teacher, told reporters. “The
Brazilian crowd has been such a wonderful crowd, they’ve been
cheering for us although we’re just small players, a small team.
I’ll never forget what they did for us.”  A Tahiti squad containing only one professional player had
booked its spot at the eight-nation tournament, a warm-up event
for the 2014 World Cup in  Brazil , by winning last year’s Oceania
Football Confederation Nations Cup.  Spain, which successfully defended its European
Championship title last year after securing its first World Cup
in 2010, responded to coach Vicente del Bosque’s pre-match
request to show respect to Tahiti by not letting up even after
taking a 4-0 halftime lead.  “We focused like we were playing a final,” said striker
Torres, who also missed a second-half penalty kick. “Spain have
shown respect from the first minute to the last minute and
that’s important.”  The result lifted Spain atop Group B with six points from
two matches, although it’s not yet guaranteed a semifinal spot.
Uruguay beat Nigeria 2-1 last night to join the African team on
three points ahead of the final round of games in two days. Host
nation Brazil and  Italy  have already secured a berth in the
final four and meet tomorrow to decide the Group A winner.  Record Rout  Tahiti lost 6-1 to Nigeria in its competition opener on
June 17 and Spain’s players were repeatedly asked in the leadup
to yesterday’s match how many goals they expected to score. The
10-0 scoreline set a record for the biggest victory margin at a
senior FIFA tournament, eclipsing  Hungary ’s 10-1 thrashing of El
Salvador at the 1982 World Cup.  After giving the Spanish players necklaces and emblems
before the game, the Tahitians gifted them the ball at the kick
off as striker Marama Vahirua, who plays professionally for
Greek team Panthrakikos, blasted the ball into touch.  Spain, which made 10 changes from its 2-1 victory against
Uruguay on June 16, scored within five minutes when Torres beat
Roche at his near post. The crowd willed Tahiti on, cheering
every touch, and it took 31 minutes before Spain got its second
goal through David Silva. Torres and Villa added a goal each
before half time.  ‘Serious Manner’  “We talked as we did before the game in a very serious
manner,” Del Bosque said about the mood in the locker room at
the interval. “We were trying to get the best result possible,
there’s was no other way. In sports you have to do your best.”  Villa and Torres grabbed their hat tricks within 20 minutes
of the restart, and such was Spain’s dominance that Villa’s
teammates didn’t bother to join him in celebration for his third
goal after 64 minutes.  Roche pounded his fists into the turf when a mistake
allowed Juan Mata to score Spain’s eighth goal two minutes later.
The goalkeeper’s reaction earned approval from the crowd, which
used chants usually dedicated for Brazilian teams in support of
the Tahitians.  ‘Overwhelming Support’  “It’s astounding what’s happened to us in Brazil,” said
Tahiti coach Eddy Etaeta, who used artificial crowd noise to
prepare his team for the tournament. “In spite of the lopsided
score and the numbers of goals we conceded, every minute we had
an overwhelming support from the public in the Maracana.”  The loudest cheer came in the 77th minute when Torres, who
cost English club Chelsea a U.K.-record transfer fee of 50
million pounds (77.5 million) in 2011, missed a penalty kick. He
found the net a minute later before Silva completed the rout.  At the end of the match, Tahiti’s players formed a guard of
honor for the victors before raising their arms aloft and taking
one final ovation from the crowd. They then posed for photos
with the Spanish players after the game.  “I’m a Tahiti supporter now,” Torres said. “We’ve spent
some time with them and you can only admire the spirit they
showed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Maracana Stadium in Rio de Janeiro at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  