-- AIG Revives Plane-Unit IPO After Extending Sale Deadline
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-21T21:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/aig-revives-plane-unit-ipo-plan-after-extension-of-sale-deadline.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
revived plans for an initial public offering of its plane-leasing unit after the insurer extended a deadline for a group
of Chinese investors to buy the business.  International Lease Finance Corp., the plane business owned
by AIG, updated the registration statement yesterday for a
potential IPO. The New York-based insurer had shelved the IPO
plan last year after striking a deal to sell 80 percent of ILFC
to a group led by New China Trust Co. Chairman Weng Xianding for
about $4.2 billion.  “If AIG Capital completes the sale of ILFC’s common stock
to the purchaser, we will not proceed with the offering” of
ILFC shares, according to the filing.  AIG granted a second extension to the buyer group this
week, saying it has until July 31 to complete a deal. The
deadline had been pushed back to June 14 from May 15. As part of
the extension, the insurer has the right to pursue other offers
or prepare for an IPO.  “The probability of a termination is rising, as the deal’s
approvals and closing continue to be delayed,” Josh Stirling,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a research
note this week. “AIG does have other options for ILFC.”  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
were selected to lead an ILFC offering, according to the filing.
Steven Lipin, who represents the buyers at Brunswick Group,
declined to comment, as did AIG’s Matt Gallagher.  The filing updates ILFC’s financial results through the end
of March. The previous IPO filing was on Nov. 28 and included
results from the third quarter of 2012.  Revenue Decline  Revenue from leasing aircraft fell 9.7 percent in the first
quarter of 2013 from a year earlier, ILFC said in the filing,
contributing to a drop in net income to $49.6 million from $99
million.  “Recent challenges in the global economy, including
uncertainties related to the Euro zone, with the most recent
economic  crisis in Cyprus , political uncertainty in the Middle
East, and sustained higher fuel prices, have negatively impacted
many airlines’ profitability,” ILFC said in the filing.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  has said he
wants to sell the plane-leasing unit as AIG seeks to lower risk
and simplify its business. To pursue an IPO, the insurer would
have to be “pretty confident” it could sell more than 51
percent of the business, he said at an investor conference on
June 4.  AIG divested more than $60 billion in assets to repay a
U.S. bailout that began in 2008. Benmosche, who took over in
2009, repaid the government last year. He is focusing on U.S.
life insurance and global property-casualty after selling Asia
life units and a consumer lender.  Debt Reduction  Benmosche said selling ILFC is part of the insurer’s plan
to reduce debt, which he considers essential before resuming
share repurchases. The unit had about $24.1 billion in borrowing
as of March 31, according to the filing.  AIG acquired ILFC in 1990 for $1.16 billion from founder
Steven Udvar-Hazy, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Under AIG’s
ownership, the unit had been able to borrow money at lower
rates, an advantage that evaporated when the insurer was hobbled
by losses tied to subprime mortgages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  