-- AirAsia X Completes $308 Million Malaysia Share Sale
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-06-21T04:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/airasia-x-said-to-raise-308-million-after-braving-equities-rout.html
(Corrects to clarify total proceeds from the IPO in first
paragraph.)  AirAsia X, the long-haul arm of
Asia’s biggest budget carrier  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , overcame a stock-market rout to complete a 988 million ringgit ($308 million)
share sale in Kuala Lumpur.  The airline priced its initial public offering at 1.25
ringgit per share for both institutions and individuals,
according to a Kuala Lumpur stock exchange filing today. The
Sepang, Malaysia-based company had marketed shares to
institutional investors at 1.15 ringgit to 1.45 ringgit.  AirAsia X’s IPO survived market turmoil brought on by
concerns that the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce stimulus and
 China ’s economic slowdown may deepen as a cash crunch worsens.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which tumbled by the most in two
years yesterday, is now at its lowest level in six months.  AirAsia, which listed in  Malaysia  in November 2004, has
more than doubled from its offer price and is up 19 percent this
year.  Asia Aviation Pcl (AAV) , the parent of Thai AirAsia Co. Ltd.,
has risen 40 percent since its May 2012 IPO and is up 9.5
percent this year.  Nok Airlines Co. (NOK) , a budget carrier controlled by Thai
Airways International Pcl, is up 5.8 percent from its offer
price after its shares debuted in Bangkok yesterday.  Deals Pulled  Other share sales have fallen victim to swings in equities.
Macau Legend Development Ltd., a casino operator, today delayed
its $788 million Hong Kong IPO because of volatile markets, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Malaysian iron-ore producer CAA Resources Ltd. postponed an
$80 million IPO earlier this month.  Budget airlines in  Southeast Asia  ordered at least 1,000
new aircraft in the past five years as economic expansion across
the region enables more people to start flying in countries such
as Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam. Some 15 low-fare carriers
started flying in the past decade across Asia-Pacific, the most
profitable region worldwide for at least the fourth consecutive
year, according to the  International Air Transport Association .  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., Malayan Banking Bhd., Credit
Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley are joint global coordinators
for AirAsia X’s offering. Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA,
Citigroup Inc., CLSA Ltd. and HSBC Holdings Plc are helping
manage the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  