-- Mali Civil Society Group Rejects Touareg Peace Deal Over Weapons
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   R i h o u a y   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-06-21T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/mali-civil-society-group-rejects-touareg-peace-deal-over-weapons.html
A coalition of civil-society groups
in Mali opposed a peace deal between the government and ethnic
Touareg rebels because the fighters aren’t yet required under
the agreement to disarm.  “We say no to talks with an armed group that refuses to
lay down its weapons,” Mamoutou Diabate, head of the Forum of
Civil Society Organizations, said by phone from Bamako, the
capital, yesterday. “We don’t want this accord.”  Mali, which vies with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-biggest
gold producer, has been riven with conflict for more than a year
after ethnic-Touareg insurgents with the National Movement for
the Liberation of Azawad, known by its French acronym MNLA,
allied with groups linked to al-Qaeda to gain control of the
north. In January, France began airstrikes on the Islamists,
while the MNLA retained a stronghold in Kidal.  The preliminary peace deal, signed on June 17 in
Ouagadougou, the capital of neighboring Burkina Faso, provides
for an immediate cease-fire with the MNLA and enables the Malian
army to enter Kidal, 1,500 kilometers (930 miles) north of
Bamako.  The fighters won’t disarm until a definite peace accord has
been reached following presidential elections scheduled for July
28, according to the deal.  Mali ’s government said in a statement
on June 5 it can’t organize elections if Kidal remained under
the control of insurgents.  “We are ready for the consolidation of peace,” Mossa Ag
Attaher, an MNLA spokesman, said by phone from Ouagadougou.
“Sixty days after the next president has been elected, we will
engage in talks to discuss what status is to be given to
Kidal,” he said.  Revenge Attacks  Negotiations took more than three weeks as civil society
groups and politicians in the south rejected talks with armed
rebels whom they hold responsible for a crisis that cut off the
arid north of Mali from the government and led to the
displacement of hundreds of thousands of people. The MNLA
refused to give up Kidal because they said the Malian army may
carry out revenge attacks on ethnic Touaregs. The government has
denied the allegations.  Most MNLA fighters left Kidal earlier this week and there
are no armed men seen in the area, Mahamadou Alassane, a
coordinator for the emergency medical aid group Medecins du
Monde Belgique, said by phone from the city of Gao today.  Still, the insurgents “are unlikely fully to disarm,”
Hannah Waddilove, an analyst at U.K.-based  Oxford Analytica ,
said in an e-mail. The cease-fire “will remain fragile and
reversible before elections but will probably substantially
hold” and the vote now looks “more likely than not,” she
said.  As many as 11,200 United Nations peacekeepers and a special
counterterrorist unit are being deployed to Mali as  France 
withdraws. About 7,000 African troops that are already in the
country will become part of the UN force.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois Rihouay in Bamako via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  