-- Alstom Chief Says Markets Are Tough as Mature Economies Struggle
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   R y a n   C h i l c o t e
-- 2013-06-21T11:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/alstom-chief-says-markets-are-tough-as-mature-economies-struggle.html
Alstom SA (ALO)  Chief Executive Officer
Patrick Kron said markets are “tough” as mature economies
struggle, making it hard for the French maker of trains and
power equipment to predict continued growth in its backlog.  “We’ve been 10 quarters in a row with orders exceeding
sales, and that has been great,” Kron said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in  St. Petersburg . “Whether it continues,
we’re going to see, but I mean, today, markets are tough.”  Kron in May lowered his forecasts for sales and margin
growth by 2015, citing slower global economic expansion. Alstom,
which has cut  jobs  in Europe and the U.S. to adjust to lower
demand from utilities in recent years, is now shutting plants to
adapt to falling prices of onshore  wind turbines  and power-grid
equipment, the CEO has said.  “Mature markets are in wait-and-see attitude because there
is no economic growth, and we see demand moving in emerging
markets in general,” the CEO of the company based in the Paris
suburb of Levallois-Perret said today.  New orders at Alstom jumped 9.5 percent to 23.8 billion
euros ($31.4 billion) in fiscal year ended March 2013, helped by
a rebound in demand for regional trains and power-transmission
equipment, the company said on May 7. Sales climbed 1.7 percent
to 20.3 billion euros as some grid and hydro projects were
delayed.  BRIC Partnerships  Alstom, which bought 25 percent of Russian trainmaker
Transmashholding last year, is seeking to adapt to a shift in
demand by building plants and forging partnerships in countries
such as  Brazil , Russia, India and China.  “There’s a massive need of modernization and development
of Russian railways,” from freight locomotives to intercity and
suburban trains to metros and tramways, Kron said today. “All
markets are tough; Russia is tough because we have
competition.”  He said a potential escalation in the trade dispute between
the European Union and China may hamper growth.  “Any problems which lead to some limitation in exchanges
is bad for us,” Kron said. “There has to be fair competition,
reciprocity; that means that Chinese companies are welcome in
Europe, subject that we are welcome in China.”  The French company ranks behind  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE)  in the power-equipment industry. Alstom
also competes with Siemens and Montreal-based  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  on
train cars, and with Siemens and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  on power-transmission
markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Chilcote in London at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  