-- American Equity Withdraws Bond Offering on Rise in Yields
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-06-21T20:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/american-equity-withdraws-bond-offering-on-rise-in-yields.html
American Equity Investment Life
Holding Co., the seller of fixed annuities, withdrew a $250
million bond offering as investors demand higher rates.  “Conditions in the debt capital markets led us to the
conclusion that we should not proceed,” Chairman D.J. Noble
said today in a statement from the  West Des Moines , Iowa-based
insurer. “We will continue to monitor developments and may
return to the market when conditions are more favorable.”  Yields on speculative-grade debt in the U.S. jumped 26
basis points yesterday to 6.86 percent, the highest level since
December, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index data.
Borrowing costs for junk-rated companies had reached a record-low 5.98 percent on May 9.  The rise in the cost of borrowing accelerated after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 that growth
could be strong enough to allow policy makers to stop buying
bonds. He said the central bank may begin dialing down
quantitative easing this year and end it in mid-2014.  American Equity declined 0.9 percent to $16.01 at the close
in  New York  and has surged 31 percent this year.  American Equity announced its $250 million bond offering on
June 18. JPMorgan Chase & Co. had been selected to manage the
offering of senior unsecured notes due in 2021. The insurer said
it had planned to use the proceeds to repay debt and for other
expenses. American Equity is rated  BB+ (AEL)  at  Standard & Poor’s , one
level below investment grade.  Odebrecht SA and Yankee Candle Co. also halted debt
offerings this month. Odebrecht, a Salvador, Brazil-based
construction and engineering firm, postponed a $1.9 billion sale
while Yankee Candle, based in South Deerfield, Massachusetts,
terminated a $450 million offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  San Francisco  at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  