-- AmEx Awards New CFO Campbell $16 Million in Bonuses
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-06-21T20:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/amex-awards-new-cfo-campbell-16-million-in-bonuses.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
U.S. credit-card issuer by customer purchases, will award
incoming Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey C. Campbell $16 million
in his first month on the job.  Campbell, 52, whose hiring from  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  was
announced yesterday, will also receive a $1 million annual
salary, New York-based AmEx said today in a filing. All of the
$16 million in bonuses will either vest or pay out later than
this year, according to the filing.  Campbell is currently CFO of San Francisco-based McKesson,
the biggest U.S. health-care services company. He succeeds Dan Henry, 64, who announced in May that he was retiring after more
than 20 years with AmEx. Before joining McKesson in 2003,
Campbell served as CFO of American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)   “Jeff is among the most respected leaders in finance, with
deep experience as the CFO of large organizations in complex
industries,” AmEx Chief Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault,
62, said in yesterday’s statement. “He knows how to generate
 shareholder value , facilitate growth, develop strong teams and
build flexible financial models.”  Campbell will receive $12 million in new hire awards,
including a $4 million cash payment that will be paid out
equally around his first and second anniversaries. He will also
receive a $1.5 million deferred cash award that is tied to the
firm’s performance this year and the next two, and a $2.5
million equity grant that includes some options.  While Campbell will join AmEx between July 8 and July 15,
he won’t become CFO until the company files its second-quarter
regulatory filing, which must happen by Aug. 9, according to his
offer letter included in today’s filing.  Henry was awarded $6.7 million for his 2012 performance,
according to a filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  