-- Manchester United Agrees on Terms With Thiago: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-21T06:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/manchester-united-agrees-on-terms-with-thiago-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  United Nears Thiago  Manchester United  is close to signing Barcelona’s Thiago
Alcantara for 17 million pounds ($26.3 million) after agreeing
on personal terms that will pay the midfielder 5 million pounds
a year, the  Daily Mail reported .  United still has to complete a deal with Barcelona for
Thiago, 22, and discussions between the teams will continue over
the weekend, the newspaper added.  Release Clause Cut  Bayern Munich and Chelsea entered the race to sign Thiago
after it emerged his lack of game time for Barcelona last season
had cut the release clause in his contract to 15 million pounds,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  Bayern coach Pep Guardiola gave Thiago his first
professional contract at Barca and his decision to move for the
player may prove decisive, the newspaper added.  Four-Year Contract  Real Madrid striker Gonzalo Higuain reached an agreement in
principle to join Arsenal on a four-year contract worth about
130,000 pounds a week, the  Guardian reported .  The final obstacle in the way of the Gunners signing
Higuain for a club-record fee of at least 20 million pounds is
for Real’s yet-to-be-appointed new manager to sanction the
trade, the newspaper added.  Carroll’s Payoff  Liverpool paid striker Andy Carroll about 1 million pounds
to make his season-long loan to West Ham United permanent, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Carroll, who signed a six-year contract with the Hammers
two days ago, is said to have been stalling on the 17.5 million-pound switch and Liverpool feared he would not move unless it
made the payment, the newspaper added.  Wanyama Fee  Southampton agreed to pay Celtic 10 million pounds to sign
Kenyan midfielder Victor Wanyama, the  Daily Mail reported .  Arsenal, Liverpool and Inter Milan are also interested in
the 21-year-old, who has one year remaining on his contract, and
may make rival bids for him, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  