-- Mandela’s Health Improving, Says Former President Mbeki
-- B y   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-06-21T12:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/mandela-s-health-improving-says-former-president-mbeki.html
Nelson Mandela’s health is improving
after a two-week stay in a South African hospital where he is
receiving treatment for a recurring lung infection, former
President Thabo Mbeki said.  “I maintain very close contact with the family and doctors
about Nelson Mandela’s condition,” Mbeki said in an interview
on Johannesburg-based PowerFM radio yesterday. “I don’t think
anybody should entertain some wrong notion that Nelson Mandela
is going to die tomorrow. He’s not going to.”  Mandela, who turns 95 next month, was admitted to the
intensive care unit on June 8, his fourth hospitalization since
December. The last official update on his health was on June 16,
when President Jacob Zuma said Mandela’s condition remains
“serious,” though he is recovering.  “We really need to feel comforted that we still have him
with us now and will have him with us in future,” Mbeki said.  Mandela may be discharged from the hospital soon, the
Johannesburg-based  Star  newspaper reported today, citing his
grandson, Ndaba Mandela. The family will continue to celebrate
him “as long as he can still hear and understand what is said
to him, and talk to us,” the newspaper quoted Ndaba as saying.  Mbeki, who became South Africa’s second black president
when he succeeded Mandela in 1999, stepped down nine years later
after the youth league of the ruling African National Congress
helped Zuma oust him as party leader in 2007.  Mandela, who was imprisoned for 27 years for opposing white
minority rule under apartheid, took office in 1994 after the ANC
won the first all-race elections. Known by his clan name Madiba,
Mandela won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993 together with former
President F.W. de Klerk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  