-- Anil Ambani’s Reliance Halts Gold Sales in India to Cut Imports
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-06-21T08:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/anil-ambani-s-reliance-halts-gold-sales-in-india-to-cut-imports.html
Reliance Capital Ltd. (RCAPT) , the financial
services company owned by Indian billionaire Anil Ambani, has
stopped sales of gold as the world’s biggest consumer of the
metal tightens import rules to curb demand that’s contributed to
a record current-account deficit.  Reliance will suspend sale of gold in physical form as well
as an investment product, the company said in an e-mailed
statement. It has also stopped gold loans facility and halted
new subscriptions in its gold savings fund.  India , grappling with a record current-account deficit,
partly due to a surge in gold imports, has tightened import and
financing norms in a bid to cut purchases. Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram appealed to Indians to “resist the
temptation to buy gold,” saying reduced imports may help tackle
the current-account gap and the weakness in the rupee.  “Investment demand has come off a bit,” Gnanasekar Thiagarajan, a director at Commtrendz Risk Management Services
Pvt., said by phone. “Demand will pick up once there is
stability in the international prices so the move by Reliance is
not a cause for worry for the industry and will not reflect on
other companies.”  Imports surged in the last two months as buyers thronged
shops for ornaments, coins and bars after bullion entered a  bear
market  in April. The shortfall in the current account, the
broadest measure of trade, was $32.6 billion in the last quarter
of 2012 and is the biggest risk to the $1.9 trillion economy,
according to the central bank.  The rupee has dropped 8.5 percent this year making it
 Asia ’s worst performing currency.  Exchange-Traded Funds  Reliance Capital’s assets under management in its gold
savings fund were 29.26 billion rupees in the financial year
ended March 31, and coin sales were nearly 5 metric tons, the
company said.  India’s assets under management in exchange-traded funds
backed by physical gold fell for a second month in May to 105.8
billion rupees from 106.3 billion rupees a month earlier, data
from the  Association of Mutual Funds in India  showed on June 10.
Assets have declined from a record 120.6 billion rupees in
January, it said.  “There is a genuine problem with gold and the flows have
come down,” R.S. Srinivas Jain,  executive director  and chief
marketing officer of SBI Mutual Fund, which also manages a gold
exchange-traded fund, said by phone.  India, which allowed trading in gold ETFs in 2007,
currently has 14 such funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  