-- Apple CEO Adjusts Bonus in Shift to Performance Rewards
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/apple-ceo-adjusts-bonus-in-shift-to-performance-rewards.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s board is linking more
of Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook ’s compensation to the
company’s stock performance, seeking to reassure investors who
have seen the shares drop 41 percent from a record in September.  Cook, who received one of the largest stock-reward packages
on record in 2011, requested the modification to his bonus,
Apple’s board said in a filing yesterday. The change means about
third of the CEO’s stock rewards will now be subject to a drop
in value, the directors said.  Cook was given 1 million Apple shares vesting over a decade
after succeeding  Steve Jobs  as CEO in 2011. As a result of the
new plan, part of that bonus will now be based on stock
performance, rather than just on Cook remaining at the iPhone
maker. Investors including the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System  have urged Apple and other companies to link
pay more to the stock price.  “There is quite a bit of pressure from the investor
community on firms to put plans like this in place,” said Allan
McCall, co-founder of executive-compensation consulting firm
Compensia Inc. in  San Francisco . The move indicates “how much
pressure there is that Apple, which has historically done its
own thing with respect to compensation, seems to be responding
to these things.”  Apple is facing heightened competition from  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and others in the smartphone and
tablet markets. Apart from an updated line of MacBook Air
laptops, Apple hasn’t introduced a new product since October,
increasing pressure on Cook to release a new hit device that can
live up to the success of the iPhone and iPad.  Performance Link  The size of Cook’s future stock awards will depend in part
on how the company performs compared with other companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Of the 1 million shares Cook was
awarded two years ago, half were to vest in 2016 and the rest in
2021. After the changes, Cook will receive 100,000 shares in
2016 and another 100,000 in 2021 if he remains with the company,
while the rest will be given out in annual increments.  “He’s gone out of his way to put stuff back on the table
and you have to give him points for that,” said Brian Foley, an
executive compensation consultant at Brian Foley & Co. “But the
numbers are so large that the worst that could happen is he only
gets 672,000 shares. You and I could live on that.”  Cook will get as many as 80,000 shares each year, half of
which is tied to the stock price. If Apple’s share performance
is in the top third of Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies
that year, Cook will receive the full amount. If it’s in the
middle third, he’ll get 60,000 shares, and 40,000 for any year
that Apple is in the bottom third.  Fresh Start  “Mr. Cook is leading this initiative by example and has
the full support of the board of directors,” the board’s
compensation committee said in the filing. The changes are
effective June 21, Apple said.  Apple fell less than 1 percent to $413.50 at yesterday’s
close in  New York , leaving it down 22 percent this year. The
 drop  in the stock price may make it easier for Cook to succeed
under the new stock plan, according to Foley.  “He has a fresh start,” Foley said. “Some of the hype
has been taken out of the stock.”  Stock rewards for several Apple executives also vested
yesterday, according to regulatory filings.  Phil Schiller ,
Apple’s marketing chief,  Peter Oppenheimer , chief financial
officer, Jeffrey Williams, head of operations, and Bruce Sewell,
general counsel, each received 75,000 shares. Bob Mansfield,
Apple’s senior vice president of technologies, received 28,414
shares.  “Our executive team is incredibly talented and they are
all dedicated to Apple’s continued success,” Steve Dowling, a
spokesman for Apple, said. “Most of the executive team has
worked together for more than a decade and have been extremely
effective by any measure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  