-- Apple Wins Suit Against Samsung in Japan on Screen Effects
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-06-21T09:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/apple-wins-patent-suit-against-samsung-in-tokyo-on-touch-panels.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a patent lawsuit in
Japan, as a Tokyo judge ruled that  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
smartphones and a tablet computer infringed on its visual
effects for touch panels.  Tokyo District Court Judge Shigeru Osuga hasn’t ruled on
the amount of damage compensation and didn’t give a timeframe
for providing one, according to a statement from the court.  Samsung and Apple, the world’s two biggest smartphone
makers, have each scored victories in patent disputes fought
over four continents since the maker of the iPhone accused
 Asia ’s biggest electronics maker of “slavishly copying” its
devices. The companies, are competing for dominance of a global
mobile-device market estimated by researcher  Yankee Group  at
$346 billion in 2012.  Samsung spokesman Nam Ki-yung said the company would review
the ruling and then decide if it will appeal. Takashi Takebayashi, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Apple, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  Samsung infringed Apple’s patent on the way an iPad or
iPhone screen seems to bounce when a user scrolls to the end of
a file, the Cupertino, California-based company said in the
lawsuit.  In August, Tokyo District Judge Tamotsu Shoji ruled against
Apple in a lawsuit that claimed Samsung smartphones and tablet
computers infringe on an invention for synchronizing music and
video data with servers.  Tablet Shipments  The Tokyo District Court in February rejected Samsung’s
request to suspend sales of iPhones and iPads in the nation.  Shipments of tablet computers in  Japan  jumped 104 percent
to 5.68 million units in the year ended March, according to
Tokyo-based MM Research Institute Ltd. Apple controlled 53
percent of the market, while Samsung ranked fifth with a 4.3
percent share, the researcher said  last month .  Smartphone shipments rose 4 percent to 6.81 million units
in Japan during the first three months of 2013, according to
research company IDC. Apple had 40 percent of sales, while
Samsung didn’t rank in the top five, the researcher  said  last
week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  