-- Apple Awaits E-Book Decision With More Suits in Wings
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/apple-awaits-e-book-decision-with-more-suits-in-wings.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will find out sometime in
the coming weeks whether it’s legally responsible for an alleged
scheme to fix prices for electronic books, after an unusual
three-week civil antitrust trial in Manhattan.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote, who heard the trial
without a jury, will rule on U.S. claims that Apple, the world’s
biggest technology company, led a conspiracy of five publishers
to raise the retail price of e-books and to force  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) , the No. 1 e-book seller, to change its pricing model.  At stake for Cupertino, California-based Apple is a
possible court finding that, as the government claims, it broke
the law and forced its customers to pay more for e-books than
they would in a free market. States and consumers could use the
judge’s findings to bolster their own cases against the company.  “Apple did not conspire with a single publisher to fix
prices in the e-books industry,”  Orin Snyder , Apple’s lawyer,
told Cote in his closing argument June 20. “Apple acted
lawfully and did not violate the antitrust laws.”  Snyder told Cote that a ruling for the Justice Department
would be “unprecedented and dangerous” for companies. Apple’s
entry into the e-book market lowered prices overall and helped
consumers by bringing innovation and competition, he said.  The U.S. sued Apple and the five publishers in April 2012.
The government claims Apple pushed publishers to sign agreements
letting it sell digital copies of their books under what’s known
as the agency model. Under that model, publishers, and not
retailers, set prices for each book, with Apple getting 30
percent.  $329 Million  Horace Dediu, an Apple analyst with Asymco in Helsinki,
estimated that Apple sold 217 million e-books in 2012. Apple
took in $329 million in e-book revenue last year, he estimated,
assuming it sold most of the books using the agency model that
gives it its 30 percent of each sale. Apple’s total  sales  in
fiscal year 2012 were $156.5 billion.  The U.S., which didn’t ask for money damages in the case,
is seeking a court order prohibiting Apple from using agency
pricing for two years. It’s also seeking a five-year bar
preventing Apple from using a contract provision with publishers
that allowed it to match lower retail prices offered by Amazon
and other e-book sellers.  The government also said it wants Cote to require antitrust
training for Apple executives and to appoint a monitor to
oversee the company’s compliance.  The effect of the proposed remedies is limited by the fact
that the publishers, who have already settled, agreed to
restrictions on agency pricing.  Private Plaintiffs  A group of states is also seeking fines and unspecified
damages. If Apple is found liable, damages will be determined in
a separate proceeding. A win for the government may fuel class
actions by private plaintiffs seeking triple damages permitted
under antitrust law.  In a court conference before the trial, Cote told lawyers
for both sides her “tentative view” was that the government
has evidence Apple “knowingly participated in and facilitated a
conspiracy to raise prices of e-books.”  Keith Hylton, a law professor at Boston University, said,
“It’s pretty aggressive of Apple to go forward with the case
when they judge is saying, ‘Hey you guys might be in trouble
here.’”  Cote told the parties before the trial that she had drafted
an opinion. She didn’t say when she will rule. Whatever the
outcome, chances are good it will be appealed, Hylton said.  IPad Introduction  The trial focused on December 2009 and January 2010, when
Apple was rushing to sign contracts with the publishers and
build an iBookstore in time for the introduction of the iPad.  Cote heard testimony from top publishing executives and
from Eddy Cue, the senior Apple executive on the negotiations.
The government also introduced e-mails from Steve Jobs, the
company’s deceased co-founder.  Cue, who took the stand for two days, testified that he
felt pressure to put together the iBookstore in time for Jobs’s
introduction of the iPad, because of the failing health of Jobs,
who died in October 2011.  Snyder said Apple negotiated with each of the publishers
independently for its own advantage, over the course of six
weeks. Jobs and Cue were strangers to the publishing world and
weren’t ringleaders of a publishers’ price-fixing conspiracy, he
argued.  Doesn’t Know  In response to a question from Cote, Snyder said Apple
isn’t in a position to know whether the publishers conspired
with one another without Apple’s participation.  Snyder challenged an exhibit introduced by the government
to show a “spider web” of phone calls from Cue to the chief
executive officers of the publishing houses. Snyder removed from
exhibit calls of less than a minute and those that took place
after the government claims the conspiracy was already in place.
Only a handful of calls remained.  Apple is the last defendant remaining in the case after the
five publishers sued by the government avoided trial by
settling.  The settling publishers are Verlagsgruppe Georg von
Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,
 Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book Group,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit
and News Corp.’s HarperCollins. The No. 1 publisher, Random
House Inc., isn’t involved in the U.S. suit.  Five Publishers  Mark Ryan, a lawyer for the Justice Department, followed
Snyder June 20, arguing that Apple headed up “an old-fashioned,
straightforward price-fixing agreement.”  Ryan said Apple took advantage of the publishers’ dislike
of Amazon’s practice of selling new e-books for $9.99, less than
their cost, offering a scheme that would fix their “Amazon
problem” by forcing the Seattle-based online retailer to switch
to agency pricing.  “The price that was set in a competitive marketplace was
not a price they liked,” Ryan said.  The scheme had two objects, Ryan said: to raise e-book
prices from $9.99 to $12.99 and $14.99 and make it harder for
retailers to compete on price. Consumers lost in the process, he
argued.  Ryan told Cote she should disregard the testimony of Cue
and other Apple witnesses as not credible. He said Apple used
pricing tiers and the provision allowing the company to match
any lower book prices charged by other retailers to ensure that
the publishers would force Amazon to switch to agency pricing.  “Why does it care, once it has price protection, whether
or not the publishers follow through on what they said they
wanted, which is to take control of pricing?” Cote asked Ryan.  “Pricing’s clearly an advantage for Amazon,” he answered.
Forcing a switch to agency would “level the playing field,”
allowing Apple to compete more effectively in the e-book market,
he said.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 