-- Astor’s Son Jailed More Than 3 Years After His Sentencing
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/astor-s-son-jailed-more-than-3-years-after-his-sentencing.html
The son of late  New York 
philanthropist and socialite Brooke Astor was taken to jail
yesterday, more than three years after he was convicted of
defrauding his mother.  Anthony Marshall, 89, was convicted in October 2009 of
grand larceny and other charges for changing his mother’s will
while she was incompetent. He was sentenced to one to three
years in prison for acts that included giving himself a $1
million raise for managing his mother’s money.  Marshall in February 2010 moved to vacate his conviction,
claiming juror misconduct. State Supreme Court Justice A. Kirke Bartley Jr. upheld the conviction of Marshall and his co-defendant, lawyer Francis X. Morrissey, in July 2010. Marshall
appealed.  A midlevel state appellate court affirmed the decision in
March and New York’s highest court this month declined to hear
the case. Bartley this week refused to let Marshall stay out of
jail because of poor health and denied him a new trial based on
the alleged juror misconduct.  Morrissey was taken to jail yesterday and Marshall
surrendered in  Manhattan  this afternoon to begin serving his
sentence. As his wife, Charlene, watched from the front row in
tears, Marshall was taken out of court in a wheelchair by
security officers following a brief appearance before Bartley.  ‘No Pleasure’  Marshall declined an opportunity to speak to the court. The
judge, saying he took “no pleasure” in fulfilling his duties,
read a letter from Marshall’s estranged son Alex supporting his
father and asking Bartley to spare him from jail.  “I strongly urge you to receive your son back into your
life before it’s too late,” Bartley said. “Life is too short.
I’m sure I don’t have to tell you that. I’ll leave that up to
your consideration. I wish you the best.”  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said in a
statement that the prosecution of Marshall and Morrissey
“raised public awareness of the silent epidemic of elder
abuse.”  “The needs and rights of older Americans are too often
forgotten or ignored, and their voices silenced,” Vance said.
“This week, two defendants convicted of multiple felonies
against an elderly victim have surrendered and will finally
begin serving their sentences.”  Health Issues  Marshall’s attorneys, Kenneth Warner and John Cuti, said in
a statement that the law imposing mandatory jail time for their
client is “senseless and cruel.” Marshall has  Parkinson’s
disease  and congestive heart failure and wakes up every night
“gasping for air,” requiring an external oxygen supply, his
lawyers said.  Marshall can’t walk, bathe, shave, dress or clean himself
after using the toilet, “is subject to disorientation and
confusion throughout the day and night and is at constant risk
of falling if unattended.”  “He has suffered far more than enough,” his lawyers said
in a statement. “Incarceration will simply make his final days
more tortured and undoubtedly fewer in number. There is truly no
just purpose for this punishment.”  Social Prestige  Astor, who suffered from  Alzheimer’s disease , died in 2007
at the age of 105. She was one of the last of the American
branch of the Astors, a family whose financial and social
prestige was once equal to that of the Rockefellers and the
Morgans. Marshall, the product of her first marriage, is her
only son.  Her third husband was Vincent Astor, who died in 1959. He
was heir to the fur and real-estate fortune amassed in the 19th
century by John Jacob Astor, who in his time was the wealthiest
man in the U.S.  Marshall’s inheritance was cut by more than half, to $14.5
million from $31 million, in a settlement over his mother’s
estate reached in March 2012 that provides $100 million to
charities including  Central Park , the  New York Public Library 
and the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art.  Marshall was accused of taking advantage of his mother
partly by trying to obtain millions of dollars she intended for
charity. He was motivated by fear that Charlene wouldn’t be left
with enough money when he died, prosecutors said. Astor, who
didn’t like her son’s wife, left her only coats and jewelry,
they said.  Sworn Statement  One of the jurors in the case, Judi DeMarco, at the time an
employee of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , told the
judge she had been intimidated by another juror into convicting
Marshall and Morrissey, according to Bartley’s July 2010
decision.  Bartley wrote in his 22-page ruling that the lack of sworn
statements from her and the other jurors as well as her conduct
after the verdict “all lead to the inevitable conclusion that
her verdict was not a product of force or coercion and that the
defendants received a trial by a fair and impartial jury.”  Marshall had asked the appeals court to throw out his
first-degree grand larceny conviction, which carries a mandatory
prison term, arguing that the durable power of attorney executed
by his mother allowed him to “make unlimited gifts to himself,
without regard to whether they were in the principal’s best
interest,” according to the appeals court decision.  The appellate panel in March said the charge didn’t allege
that Marshall abused his power to make gifts to himself but that
he improperly authorized a “significant” raise in his
compensation disproportionate to the salary his mother had
authorized.  Nonviolent Conduct  Marshall had also asked the appeals court to throw out the
first-degree grand larceny count because of his age, health,
military service, public service, lack of prior criminal history
and the nonviolent nature of his criminal conduct.  The appellate panel said the state Legislature has provided
a way for terminally ill people to be released from prison on
medical parole. It also disagreed with Marshall’s argument that
the “substantial restitution” paid to resolve a dispute over
Astor’s will is a “compelling factor.”  Marshall last week asked Bartley to keep him out of jail
because of his poor health and moved for a new trial, citing a
sworn statement from DeMarco that her guilty verdict was the
result of “fear and intimidation.”  Defense attorneys said his poor health and a jail sentence
could result in his imminent death, while prosecutors argued
that the jails are equipped to give him the care he needs.  No Reprieve  Bartley denied both motions, saying he was unmoved by
DeMarco’s statement, and ordered Marshall to report for
sentencing yesterday barring a last-minute reprieve from the
appeals court that was denied late yesterday.  “I know something about fear and intimidation,” Bartley
said yesterday, citing his prosecution of mob boss John Gotti in
the 1980s. “It simply does not exist in this case.”  Marshall will first go to the infirmary at Rikers Island,
the New York jail complex, Kenneth E. Warner, one of his
attorneys, said outside court.  The New York State Department of Corrections and Community
Supervision has medical staff standing by to evaluate Marshall
before deciding where to send him so he can serve his sentence
and receive medical care, Tom Mailey, a spokesman for the
department, said in a phone interview.  The case is People v. Marshall, 06044-2007, New York
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  