-- Bakken Boom Cutting West Coast Imports of Crude: Energy Markets
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-06-21T20:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/bakken-boom-cutting-west-coast-imports-of-crude-energy-markets.html
The West Coast is bringing in record
amounts of crude from the interior of the U.S., cutting the
price of foreign supplies and heralding the end of some overseas
imports by next year.  California , the world’s ninth-largest economy, shipped via
rail more oil than ever in February from North Dakota’s Bakken
formation, while  Russian imports  to the region slid to 713,000
barrels from a June 2012 record of 6.53 million. The  premium  for
Russia’s East Siberia-Pacific Ocean oil has retreated 60 percent
against U.S. benchmark West  Texas  Intermediate since Feb. 20.  The drop in foreign purchases underscores the U.S.’s
shifting needs as soaring output in states such as North Dakota
and Texas put the country on course for energy self-sufficiency
for the first time since  Harry Truman  was president in 1952. The
West coast, home to  17 percent  of the nation’s refining
capacity, may be able to dispense with overseas light, sweet oil
even as output from Alaska’s North Slope and California wanes.  “The crude supply on the West Coast is changing as we
speak,” said Hege Dammen, a Weston, Connecticut-based solutions
manager at Spiral Software, an oil-trading and refining software
provider, and former crude trader for Norwegian  Norsk Hydro ASA. (NHY) 
“There’s been a lot of focus on getting oil by rail to the Gulf
Coast, and the West Coast is moving forward now.”  ESPO Crude  ESPO crude, a light grade shipped by pipeline from fields
in eastern Siberia to the Pacific port of Kozmino for export,
dropped $1.79, or 1.7 percent, to $103.67 a barrel today, the
lowest since June 13, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The oil
has declined 12 percent from this year’s peak of $118.36 a
barrel reached on Feb. 14.  The premium for Arab Light crude against WTI weakened to 85
cents a barrel, the lowest level since January 2011 and less
than a 10th of what it was a year ago. It has averaged $10.56
this year.  Oil imports to the West Coast in the week ended June 14
averaged 1.2 million barrels a day, 9.5 percent below a year
earlier, according to the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm. The western region,
classified by the EIA as PADD 5, covers Alaska,  Arizona ,
California, Hawaii, Nevada,  Oregon  and Washington.  California, PADD 5’s largest refiner, received an
unprecedented 206,172 barrels of Bakken crude by rail in
February, eight times the volume from a year ago. The state took
in 94,695 barrels of Bakken crude in March, up from 70,706 a
year earlier, according to the latest data available from the
 California Energy Commission .  Last year, Bakken oil began arriving in California on
marine vessels for the first time, totaling 89,462 barrels,
according to the commission’s data.  Oregon Terminal  A complex along the Columbia River in Oregon, owned by
Waltham, Massachusetts-based  Global Partners LP (GLP) , began in
November off-loading trains of oil to send it by water to
markets along the Pacific Ocean.  “Global Partners is getting some of this Bakken from rail-cars onto the water, and a number of California’s refiners are
willing to buy it from them, just to get a taste of it,” Dave Hackett, president of energy consulting firm Stillwater
Associates in  Irvine , California, said by telephone. “It’ll
back out the foreign stuff. That’s the first stuff that gets
knocked out.”  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  and Savage Companies, based in Salt Lake City,
are planning a similar rail-to-water project at the Port of
Vancouver in Washington that could move as many as 120,000
barrels of oil a day from railcars onto marine vessels.  Tesoro Shipments  Tesoro, based in San Antonio, is already using rail to
bring 50,000 barrels a day of Bakken to its Anacortes refinery
in Washington and 5,000 barrels to the Golden Eagle plant in
Northern California.  Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ) ,  Phillips 66 (PSX) ,  BP Plc (BP/) 
and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  are planning rail-offloading stations at
their West Coast refineries.  Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA) , based in Houston, plans to
start taking oil off railcars at a 140,000-barrel-a-day complex
near Bakersfield, California, in the first half of 2014 and ship
it by pipeline to refineries in the state.  The West Coast will more than double rail unloading
capacity to about 600,000 barrels a day by the end of 2014 from
250,000 barrels a day currently, according to  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  The boom in oil production, driven largely by a combination
of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling, helped the U.S.
meet 84 percent of its energy needs last year, the highest
annual level since 1991, EIA data show.  Sending Bakken by rail to the West has proven so affordable
that  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) , based in Houston,
suspended a proposal last month to build a pipeline that would
have carried oil from Texas’s Permian Basin to California after
failing to attract enough interest from shippers.  Rail Costs  Carrying crude from the Bakken formation on railcars costs
about $9.75 a barrel to Washington state, $13 to Northern
California and $14 to the Los Angeles area,  Tesoro Logistics LP (TLLP) 
estimated in a presentation June 7.  The increasing volume of domestic oil making its way to the
West Coast will drive light oil imports out of the region by the
end of 2014, Paul Y. Cheng, an analyst at  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
investment-banking unit in New York, said.  “The entire non-imported West Coast crude slate could
undergo a $3- to $4-a-barrel downward shift as the marginal
price-setting barrel switches from Alaska North Slope or
imported light to Bakken crude rail on a spot basis,” Cheng
said in a research note.  Crude Blending  West Coast refineries, capable of running crudes more sour
and heavier than the light, sweet oils coming out of U.S. shale
plays, are blending Bakken and Canadian heavy in attempts to
come up with Alaska North Slope “look-alikes,” said Dammen,
the software solutions manager for Cambridge, England-based
Spiral.  “When you blend them, you can actually come fairly close
to ANS, maybe even having the same yield curve,” she said.  Alaska North Slope crude, about a 10th of California’s oil
diet, is trading near a 16-month low  against  the U.S. benchmark
West Texas Intermediate crude, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The oil was unchanged versus WTI today at a premium
of $9.40 a barrel.  California’s Kern River and Midway-Sunset grades both
weakened to 18-month lows versus WTI futures last week.  Saudi Arabia , the largest oil exporter to the West Coast,
supplied 207,000 barrels a day in March, the lowest for that
month since 2010, EIA data show. Arab Light crude to the U.S.
dropped $2.28, or 2.4 percent, to $94.44 a barrel today, a two-month low and down 12 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Record Output  Bakken crude  for delivery at Clearbrook,  Minnesota , was
unchanged at $1 a barrel below WTI today, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. North Dakota’s  output  of the oil climbed to a
record 727,149 barrels a day in April, preliminary data compiled
by the state’s Industrial Commission show. Production was up 33
percent from a year earlier.  West Coast refineries may eventually reach a limit to the
amount of light, sweet domestic oil they can blend and run,
according toAndrew Layton, a consultant with Walton-On-Thames,
England-based  KBC Advanced Technologies Plc. (KBC)   Mixing the wrong kinds and percentages of light, shale oil
with other crudes such as heavy Canadian can produce elements
that damage plant equipment, a phenomenon known as
“incompatibility,” Layton said. A “cocktail” of chemicals
injected into crude blends can also corrode refinery equipment
if not handled and monitored properly, he said.  “Individually, they may look innocuous,” Layton said.
“Together, they may cause a problem.”  Equipment Upgrades  To push past the blending limits, the region’s plants could
consider equipment upgrades, Hackett said. The refiners would
have to weigh any long-term investments against increasing
environmental regulation, particularly in California, he said.  The state’s cap-and-trade program regulates greenhouse-gas
emissions from industrial plants including oil refineries with a
goal of cutting pollution roughly 15 percent by 2020.
California’s low-carbon fuel standard punishes fuel
manufacturers who use crudes requiring more carbon to produce
and transport than others.  “Investing in new equipment presumes that refiners still
want to invest here,” Hackett said. “If they wanted to make
changes to run more light, they could, but it’s kind of a bridge
too far to say they will just yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  