-- Banxico Says Alert to Slowing Growth, Global Monetary Policies
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-06-21T14:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/banxico-says-alert-to-slowing-growth-global-monetary-policies.html
Mexico ’s central bank will be alert
to how global monetary policy, particularly in the U.S., affects
inflation, according to the minutes of this month’s meeting.  The central bank’s board members were unanimous in their
decision to leave the benchmark rate at a record-low 4 percent
on June 7 after cutting borrowing costs in March for the first
time since 2009, the minutes published today show. Inflation
will slow slightly in June and more quickly starting in July,
policy makers said.  Economists no longer expect the central bank to cut
interest rates this year, according to a survey yesterday by
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit, as inflation remains above the
target range and the peso weakens. At the same time, analysts
have reduced forecasts for growth in Latin America’s second-largest economy to below 3 percent after industrial production
contracted in the first quarter and government spending slowed.  The central bank “will be attentive to the implications on
the inflation outlook of economic activity and Mexico’s relative
monetary policy with respect to the rest of advanced nations,
particularly the United States,” policy makers said. “It will
be watchful that the recent changes in relative prices don’t
have second-order effects on the process of price formation in
the economy.”  Prices rose 4.63 percent in May from the year earlier,
above the central bank’s target range of 2 percent to 4 percent
for the third consecutive month.  Peso Slump  The peso was little changed at 13.3698 per dollar at 9:42
a.m. in Mexico City and has fallen 7.7 percent in the past
month, the second-worst performer among major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The peso fell to an almost 11-month low yesterday
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S.
central bank may phase out one of the most aggressive easing
strategies in its history, damping fund flows to  emerging
markets .  Yields on six-month Mexican  interest-rate swaps  climbed
five basis points yesterday to 4.40 percent, indicating traders
see no chance the bank will lower rates by December. As recently
as May 21, the likelihood was about 68 percent.  Economists now say Banxico’s next rate move will be a
quarter-point increase in June 2014, according to the median
estimate in yesterday’s Banamex survey. In the previous biweekly
poll, they estimated a half-point cut in September of this year.  The survey also showed economists slashed their 2013 growth
expectations to 2.7 percent from 3 percent, less than the
government’s 3.1 percent forecast. The government cut its own
forecast last month from 3.5 percent after expansion slowed more
than expected to 0.8 percent in the first quarter as industrial
output contracted.  Economic growth will quicken as the government increases
spending in the second half of the year, Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said in a June 17 interview. Expansion was at the
slowest pace in more than three years in the first quarter after
spending was contained when a new government took over in
December, Videgaray said. President Enrique Pena Nieto took
office on Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  