-- Barracuda Said to Pick Morgan Stanley for Initial Offering
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-06-21T20:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/barracuda-said-to-pick-morgan-stanley-for-initial-offering-1-.html
Barracuda Networks Inc., a provider
of Internet security and data-protection systems, hired Morgan
Stanley to lead an initial public offering that would seek to
raise $100 million to $150 million, three people with knowledge
of the matter said.  The offering will happen later this year, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the information is
private.  Barracuda Networks, based in Campbell,  California , is
seeking to go public after it raised $130 million in  venture
capital  from  Sequoia Capital  and  Francisco Partners  in October.
The company provides spam-filtering and storage systems to more
than 150,000 customers including Oracle Corp., CBS Corp. and AOL
Inc., according to its  website .  Barracuda Networks, founded in 2003, is profitable and
generates hundreds of millions of dollars in annual revenue,
Chief Financial Officer David Faugno said in October. The
company, known for its advertisements in airports, had 1,000
employees in 16 countries, Faugno said at that time.  William “BJ” Jenkins was named chief executive officer of
Barracuda Networks in November, succeeding co-founder Dean
Drako, who remains on the board.  Sales, Acquisitions  Barracuda Networks planned to use the cash it raised from
the venture firms last year to expand sales, and possibly for
acquisitions, Faugno said at the time. Last month, the company
 announced  it had bought SignNow, a provider of mobile-signing
and document-storage technology. Terms of the sale weren’t
disclosed.  Competitors of Barracuda Networks include Palo Alto
Networks Inc., the company that raised $299 million in an IPO in
July including an over-allotment option. Palo Alto Networks,
which surged as much as 71 percent in its first two months of
trading, has given back those gains and closed more than 2
percent below its IPO price in  New York  trading today.  Akhilesh Raina, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, and Mary
Catherine Petermann, a spokeswoman for Barracuda, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  