-- Brazil Delivers First Coffee to ICE as Record Harvest Picks Up
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-06-21T12:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/brazil-delivers-first-coffee-to-ice-as-record-harvest-picks-up.html
Brazil, the world’s largest coffee
producer, delivered beans to ICE Futures U.S. for the first time
since the bourse started accepting bags from the South American
nation as this year’s harvest picks up.  The New York-based exchange approved 320 bags of Brazilian
coffee this week and the beans are stored at a warehouse in the
city, ICE  data  showed. Brazil will harvest 53 million bags of
coffee in the 2013-14 season, a record for a year in which trees
enter the lower-yielding half of a two-year cycle,  Kona Haque ,
an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London estimated in a
report e-mailed today. ICE started accepting beans from Brazil
in March this year. A bag of coffee weighs 132 pounds.  “Brazilian growers are probably sending bags to grading as
the new crop is starting and beans are beginning to flow,”
 Andrea Thompson , the Belfast, Northern Ireland-based head of
research and analysis at CoffeeNetwork, a unit of broker INTL
FCStone Inc., said by phone today. “A weaker real could be a
factor but I don’t think it’s very significant.”  Coffee neared a four-year low in New York yesterday amid a
markets rout that erased more than $1.8 trillion from the value
of global equities. Prices slumped as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the  Federal Reserve  may end economic stimulus should risks
to the  U.S. economy  continue to decrease. A weaker Brazilian
real also helped push prices lower, Carsten Fritsch, an analyst
at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said in a report today. A lower
real makes sales of coffee priced in dollars more attractive.  Currency Depreciation  The Brazilian real dropped to a four-year low yesterday,
prompting the central bank to intervene for a third day this
week to stem the selloff. The currency slid for a fifth day,
depreciating 1.5 percent to 2.2575 a dollar yesterday, the
weakest on a closing basis since April 2009. The real and the
Mexican peso are the biggest losers in the past month among 24
emerging-market dollar counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  The grading of Brazilian beans to be delivered to the
exchange comes after an exporters’ group said last month it may
ask ICE to review the price it pays for the beans. Coffee from
the South American nation is delivered at a discount of 9 cents
a pound against the bourse’s benchmark arabica futures contract.
That compares with a 4-cent discount for supplies from the
 Dominican Republic  and  Ecuador  and a 2-cent premium for beans
from  Colombia , the world’s second-biggest arabica grower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  