-- Brazil Real Rises From Four-Year Low After Currency Intervention
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-06-21T22:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/brazil-real-rises-from-four-year-low-after-currency-intervention.html
The real climbed from its weakest
level since 2009 after the central bank intervened for a fourth
day this week to stem a selloff.  The currency appreciated 0.7 percent to 2.2422 per dollar
at the close in Sao Paulo after falling for five straight days.
Swap rates due in January rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 9.16 percent, extending their increase
since June 14 to 41 basis points.  The real pared its weekly decline to 4 percent, the worst
performance among 16 major dollar counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg after the Mexican peso and Norwegian krone. The
central bank sold currency swap contracts today for $1.8 billion
in its eighth day of intervention in three weeks.  “The swap auctions have been good to bring the real more
in line with other currencies,” Ronaldo Patah, the
superintendent of fixed income at Itau Asset Management, said in
a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “The interventions have been
positive and with reasonable frequency, which is important for
foreign investors.”  Brazil  sold 1.9 billion reais ($838 million) of bonds and
bought back 25 million reais of inflation-linked debt at an
auction called to ease a six-week market rout.  The Treasury sold 88 percent of the zero-coupon bonds it
offered while issuing 17 percent of the fixed-rate securities
and 67 percent of the inflation-linked bonds.  Violent Protests  The buyback offer, the fourth such unscheduled auction
since June 13, forms part of the government’s effort to support
its bonds amid a global market rout that has intensified in
Brazil as nationwide anti-government protests against inflation
and corruption turned violent. The Treasury said it will offer
to buy back more bonds on June 24.  The real tumbled yesterday to a four-year low of 2.2575
after the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled on June 19 that it may
taper a stimulus program that has buoyed demand for emerging-market assets.  Swap rates surged this week on speculation a weakening real
will spur the central bank to sustain the pace of increases in
borrowing costs to curb inflation.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 0.38
percent in the month through mid-June, the national statistics
agency reported today. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 0.36 percent.
Annual inflation accelerated to 6.67 percent, higher than the
6.50 percent upper level of the central bank’s target range.  The  central bank  raised its target lending rate by 50 basis
points on May 29 to 8 percent to curb inflation, surprising 38
of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, who had expected a
second straight increase of 25 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  