-- Brazil May Job Creation Less Than Half Economists’ Forecasts
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-06-21T18:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/brazil-may-job-creation-less-than-half-economists-forecasts.html
Brazil ’s economy created in May less
than half the number of jobs forecast by economists, as the
world’s second-largest emerging market struggles with slow
growth and high inflation.  Brazil’s economy registered 72,028 new formal jobs  last
month , the Labor Ministry said today in a report posted on its
website. Economists had forecast a gain of 150,000 posts.  President Dilma Rousseff’s administration is caught between
inflation above the central bank’s target range and economic
growth that has fallen short of economists’ projections for five
straight quarters. Public discontent over government policies
prompted 1 million protesters to march last night in Brazil’s
streets denouncing corruption and rising prices and demanding
better public services.  Civil construction jobs in May fell by 1,877, compared with
the creation of 14,886 a year ago, according to ministry
statistics. The service sector created 21,154 jobs, roughly half
the 44,587 positions generated in May 2012.  Annual inflation through mid-June reached 6.67 percent, the
fastest pace since November 2011, even after officials cut
energy tariffs and raised the benchmark interest rate this year
to cool price increases. First-quarter  growth  decelerated to
0.55 percent from 0.64 percent during the last four months of
2012 as family consumption dropped.  Government-registered job creation number is a balance of
posts created minus job eliminated. Registered jobs, so-called
formal work, assure employees a range of benefits such as
unemployment insurance, bonuses and retirement payments by the
government.  Year-ago job numbers do not take into account jobs
registered with delays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  