-- Brazil’s June Inflation Rises More Than Forecast Amid Protests
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-06-21T12:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/brazil-s-june-inflation-rises-more-than-forecast-amid-protests.html
Brazil ’s consumer prices rose more
than forecast in the month through mid-June, led by bus prices
that have sparked a nationwide protest against corruption,
allocation of public funds and the higher cost of living.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15  price index  rose
0.38 percent, the national statistics agency said in a report
published on its website today. That was more than the median
forecast of 0.36 percent from 29 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Annual  inflation  accelerated to 6.67 percent,
exceeding the 6.5 percent top of the central bank’s target
range, from 6.46 percent in mid-May.  President  Dilma Rousseff  has attempted to revive growth in
the world’s second-biggest emerging market with a series of
stimulus measures that this month included subsidized credit for
furniture and appliances. Accelerating inflation after six
months of record low borrowing costs prompted the central bank
in April to shift its focus to combating price increases by
raising the benchmark Selic interest rate 0.75 percentage point
over two monetary policy meetings.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 9.08 percent at 9:36 a.m. local time. The
real weakened 0.3 percent to 2.2643 per  U.S. dollar .  Exchange Rate  The real has weakened 10 percent in the past month, the
worst performance among the 16 most traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The drop in the currency could further fuel inflation
by raising the cost of imports.  “The actions of the central bank are meant to consolidate
lower inflation and mitigate the effects of the dollar’s
strengthening in relation to the real,” bank President
Alexandre Tombini told members of Congress in Brasilia on June
18. “A flexible exchange rate regime and the adequate
management of monetary policy reduce the possible pass-through
of  currency depreciation  to inflation.”  Annual inflation rose to its highest level since November
2011. Urban bus prices rose 1.83 percent in the month through
mid-June, and made the greatest impact on inflation of all
components.  Economists in the latest weekly central bank survey
forecast 5.83 percent inflation and 2.49 percent economic
expansion in 2013, cutting the growth estimate for the fifth
straight time. The analysts forecast the benchmark rate at 9
percent at year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  