-- Buffett Deputies Join Heinz Board as Lynnn Swann Departs
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-06-21T14:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/buffett-deputies-abel-britt-join-heinz-board-after-swann.html
Gregory Abel and Tracy Britt, two of
Warren Buffett’s deputies who have been adding responsibilities
at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , were selected by the billionaire to
join him as directors of HJ Heinz Co.  Jorge Paulo Lemann , whose 3G Capital bought the ketchup
maker this month with Berkshire for $28.8 billion, also is on
the board with two representatives of his firm, Alexandre Behring and Marcel Herrmann Telles, according to a regulatory
filing last week. They replaced directors including Lynn Swann,
the former wide receiver for the  National Football League ’s
Pittsburgh Steelers.  The board oversees Chief Executive Officer Bernardo Hees,
who announced a management shakeup yesterday, including the
departure of Heinz’s North America CEO David Moran. Britt is
chairman of at least two Berkshire units that replaced their
CEOs last year, and Abel has been building the company’s energy
business through acquisitions.  “For Greg Abel, it broadens his exposure, and it certainly
now raises the question, ‘Is he high up on  Warren Buffett ’s
list’” for succession, said  David Kass , a professor at the
University of  Maryland ’s Robert H. Smith School of Business, who
has accompanied students to meet the billionaire.  Buffett, 82, is preparing the company he built over more
than four decades for an eventual  leadership  transition. He has
said his roles could be split among the next CEO; his son
Howard, who could serve as non-executive chairman; and
investment managers Todd Combs and Ted Weschler.  Holding Company  Monitoring Berkshire’s stake in Heinz may fall to the next
CEO. Buffett’s company and 3G each paid about $4 billion for
half of the equity in a new holding company for the ketchup
maker. Berkshire committed an additional $8 billion for a
preferred stake that pays a 9 percent dividend and has the
option of adding an additional 5 percent of the holding company.  Buffett has said 3G is taking operating responsibility for
Heinz. Lemann’s firm already had made management changes at the
ketchup maker before yesterday, naming Hees as CEO and Paulo Basilio as chief financial officer. They replaced William Johnson, Heinz’s CEO of 15 years, and former CFO Art Winkleblack
who stepped down when the deal was completed June 7.  Heinz said 11 other executives were leaving yesterday,
while naming 10 managers to the senior leadership team alongside
Hees and Basilio. Most were previously at the ketchup maker.
Andy Keatings, the chief quality officer who has worked at Heinz
since 1994, will have a “dotted-line reporting relationship”
to the  board  chairman, according to the statement.  Legal Standard  Heinz didn’t specify what role the directors will play.
There’s no different legal standard that applies to public
versus private company directors, said John Sorkin, a New York-based partner at Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP who
specializes in cross-border mergers and acquisitions, leverage
buyouts and  corporate governance  work.  “It’s all situational,” he said, while declining to
comment specifically on Heinz or its directors.  Britt, a graduate of  Harvard Business School , is among the
youngest executives at Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire. Last
year, she was named to Forbes’s list of 30 top finance
executives under 30 years old.  “Being young is not a disqualification,” said Sorkin.
“You can be young, incredibly talented and bring an incredible
amount value to a board.”  In addition to serving as Buffett’s financial assistant,
she’s chairman of four of the company’s subsidiaries, including
paintmaker Benjamin Moore and Johns Manville, which produces
building supplies. Both units replaced their CEOs last year.  Near Abdication  “She takes care of all kinds of things that come up,”
Buffett said of Britt last month at an event held by Fortune
magazine in Omaha, where Berkshire is based. “These four
companies, they are her responsibility.”  Buffett oversees most of Berkshire’s more than 80 operating
units, including railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  and auto
insurer Geico. Managers at the businesses make most day-to-day
decisions at their operations, freeing time for Buffett to hunt
for  acquisitions  and make  investments . He has quipped that his
role is to “delegate almost to the point of abdication.”  The Heinz post will give Britt “more experience at a
pretty high level,” said  Jeff Matthews , a Berkshire shareholder
and author of books about the company. Abel may prove useful if
the new owners of Heinz use it as a platform for further
buyouts, he said. Over the past two decades, he’s helped build
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. through acquisitions and last
month agreed to buy a Nevada utility for $5.6 billion.  “Abel brings more of the real world, day-to-day experience
of buying and integrating a major acquisition than probably
anyone else at Berkshire Hathaway,” Matthews said.  Super Bowl  A member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame  Class of 2001 ,
Swann, 61, played with the  Steelers  from 1974 to 1982. The team
won four championships in that span, and Swann was the most
valuable player of  Super Bowl  X following the 1975 season.  The president of the Swann Inc. marketing and consulting
firm since 1976, Swann became a Heinz director in 2003 and is on
the board of casino operator  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  He ran
as a Republican for Pennsylvania governor in 2006 and lost to
incumbent Democrat  Ed Rendell .  Britt and Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment
sent to Buffett’s assistant. Abel declined to comment through
Abby Bottenfield, a spokeswoman for MidAmerican. Swann declined
to comment through a spokeswoman at Swann Inc. The board changes
previously were reported by the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.  Burgers, Beer  Lemann,  Brazil ’s richest man, helps control Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV with Telles and Carlos Alberto Sicupira. They took over
fast-food chain Burger King Holdings Inc. in 2010. Behring is a
managing partner at New York-based 3G.  Charles Elson , director of the John L. Weinberg Center for
Corporate Governance at the  University of Delaware , said
directors of private companies typically hold less sway than
board members of public corporations, especially when they
disagree with the owners.  “Boards in that situation are really more like icing on
the cake,” he said. “If you don’t do what they say, you get
replaced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  