-- Bullard Says Fed May Boost QE If Inflation Slows Further
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-06-21T17:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/bullard-says-fed-may-boost-qe-if-inflation-slows-further-2-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the central bank may need to
increase monthly asset purchases above the current $85 billion
pace if inflation slows further below its 2 percent goal.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “will face a decision if
inflation continues to decline,” Bullard said today in a
telephone interview from  Washington . “Then the committee will
have to make a decision about how to provide more
accommodation.”  Bullard, 52, dissented from the FOMC’s June 19 decision to
maintain the pace of asset purchases, saying the panel should
“signal more strongly its willingness to defend its inflation
goal.” In a statement earlier today, he said the Fed
“inappropriately timed” a plan to start trimming bond
purchases later this year, saying it should have waited for
signs the economy is strengthening and inflation is picking up.  The FOMC should have highlighted low inflation in its
statement and indicated that “we can be more accommodative than
we otherwise would have been,” he said in the interview.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , at a June 19 press conference
following the statement, said the Fed may start “to moderate
the monthly pace of purchases later this year” and end the
program around mid-2014 if the economy performs as forecast. The
bond buying will be cut by $20 billion at the Sept. 17-18 policy
meeting, according to 44 percent of economists, a plurality, in
a Bloomberg News survey released yesterday.  Personal Expenditure  Prices as measured by the personal consumption expenditures
index, a gauge watched by the Fed, rose 0.7 percent for the year
ending April. Excluding food and energy, the index rose 1.1
percent, matching the lowest in the 53 years of record-keeping.  Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields rose above 2.5 percent for
the first time since 2011 amid concern the Fed will cut bond
purchases. The rate on the benchmark 10-year note jumped seven
basis points to 2.48 percent at 1:30 p.m. in  New York . The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent, paring its  three-day plunge to 3.7 percent.  While Bernanke called the decline in inflation
“transitory,” Bullard said policy makers’ forecasts released
this week show inflation won’t return to target until 2015 or
later.  Commodities Prices  Commodities prices, which influence the cost of food and
energy, have moved lower on reduced worldwide demand, Bullard
said.  “The committee’s forecasts make it look like it is not”
transitory, he said. “ Europe  is in recession -- one of the
biggest economies in the world.  China  has been slower than
expected.” Identifying what will cause prices to move higher as
the FOMC expects is a “great question,” he said.  Announcing a plan to taper bond buying is at odds with
slower growth and a decline in inflation, Bullard said. While
U.S. growth may pick up from 1.5 percent to 2 percent this
quarter, it would be prudent to wait and see if that occurs, he
said.  One influence on the FOMC “that is really hurting” may
have been the timing of quarterly press conferences, Bullard
said. The committee may feel obligated to make major changes in
policy only during meetings when there is a press conference
rather than at any meeting, he said.  Media Briefings  “I have urged the chairman to change that policy” and
hold media briefings after each meeting, he said. “I think it
is an important limit and it is a bureaucratically imposed
limit.”  Rising U.S. Treasury yields partly reflect signs of
stronger growth, as well as investors’ expectations of a sooner-than-expected pulling-back of bond buying, Bullard said. Rising
inflation-adjusted  interest rates  represent a tightening of
financial conditions that could slow economic growth, he said.  “I do think it is a risk,” Bullard said.  Bullard said the FOMC is too focused on  unemployment , which
is largely affected by elements outside of its control and has
fallen faster than the Fed expected.  The St. Louis Fed president lowered his forecasts for this
year’s pace of economic growth to 2.6 percent from 3 percent. He
predicted the jobless rate would fall to 7.1 percent at the end
of the year from 7.6 percent in May.  Possible End  While Bernanke outlined a possible end to asset purchases
in midyear 2014 when the jobless rate is projected to be about 7
percent, a faster decline in the rate could create uncertainty
about Fed policy and is a “looming issue,” Bullard said.  “We should get back to focusing on what we can do in the
medium term, which is keep inflation close to target, and put
less weight on labor-market outcomes,” he said.  Bullard said the potential for asset price bubbles, which
has been raised by Kansas City Fed Bank President Esther George
among others, “is a concern” though “there just isn’t enough
tangible evidence” for that to sway policy now.  The U.S. central bank began its third round of large-scale
asset purchases in September by buying $40 billion a month of
mortgage-backed securities. It added $45 billion of Treasury
purchases in December. The FOMC has said since September that it
will buy bonds until seeing signs of substantial labor-market
improvement.  Since 2010, Bullard has expressed concern that slowing
inflation could lead to deflation, or a broad decline in prices,
and Japanese-style economic stagnation. He has also said the
FOMC needs to safeguard the credibility of its inflation target,
defending the goal when price gains are either too high or too
low.  ‘North Pole’  Bullard, who calls himself the “ North Pole  of inflation
hawks,” has been viewed as a bellwether for investors because
his views have sometimes foreshadowed policy changes. He
published a paper in 2010 entitled “Seven Faces of the Peril,”
which called on the central bank to avert deflation by
purchasing Treasury notes.  The St. Louis Fed leader said the paper remains relevant
today.  “We are at the juncture where further declines in
inflation would start to really raise the possibility that we
have some deflation,” he said.  At the time, he also called for the Fed to engage in open-ended bond purchases, without a set goal or ending date. That
approach has been adopted in the latest round of purchases.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois ,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  