-- Bumi Still in Talks With U.K. Regulator as Stock Remains Halted
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-06-21T09:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/bumi-still-in-talks-with-u-k-regulator-as-stock-remains-halted.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the Indonesian coal
producer trying to recover $201 million in missing funds,
remains in talks with the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority to
end a two-month suspension of its stock trading in London.  Bumi is seeking to resume trading “as soon as possible”
after the June 26 annual general meeting of shareholders, the
London-based  company  said today. Talks with the regulator have
focused on work to “enhance its internal systems and controls”
at one if its two Indonesian investments, PT Berau Coal Energy,
Bumi said.  A review of Berau’s finances found $201 million of spending
with “no clear business purpose,” Bumi said May 31 after
delaying its full-year results by more than two months. Pensions
& Investment Research Consultants Ltd., which advises
institutional investors with combined assets of more than 1.5
trillion pounds ($2.3 trillion), this week said it had concerns
that corporate governance at Bumi was inadequate and recommended
shareholders vote against ChairmanSamin Tan.  Bumi has been at the center of a battle for control between
co-founders Nathaniel Rothschild, scion of a centuries-old
British banking dynasty, and  Indonesia ’s Bakrie family since the
$3 billion deal that brought them together started to sour in
late 2011. Bumi said today it is sticking to a plan to separate
from the Bakries and will provide an update at next week’s AGM.  “The share suspension is a smoke-screen designed to divert
investors’ attention from the grim reality that the Bakries and
their ally Samin Tan are controlling this process,” Rothshcild
said today in e-mailed comments. His NR Investments Ltd. plans
to vote against the reappointment of most of the board next
week, the statement shows.  PIRC Report  PIRC also said it is unable to support the approval of
Bumi’s annual report and accounts “on the basis that the
auditors have qualified the accounts and a substantial sum of
money is not accounted for and proper records have not been
kept,” it said June 18.  Bumi shares, which plunged 69 percent last year, closed at
259.3 pence on April 19, the last day they were traded, giving
the company a market value of 625 million pounds ($968 million).  The creation of Bumi brought together Rothschild and the
Bakries, a family-owned palm oil-to-property empire founded in
Sumatra in 1942. Waning coal prices, board infighting and probes
in  London  and Indonesia including an investigation by
Macfarlanes LLP into alleged financial irregularities have
weighed on the stock.  The Bakries have proposed exchanging their 23.8 percent of
Bumi Plc for 29.2 percent of Bumi Resources in a cash-and-share-swap deal, leaving Bumi Plc in control of Berau Coal. Bumi
shareholders were previously scheduled to vote on the deal at
the AGM.  Remains Committed  The company hopes to complete the vote “before autumn,”
Chief Executive Officer Nick von Schirndingsaid in an 
interview last month. The board remains committed to the plan 
and talks are continuing, Bumi said today.  The company has previously sought assurances from the
Bakries that they will be able to fund the cash component of
their offer, and Von Schirnding said last month he’ll be
enforcing the terms of the original October proposal, which
included a $278 million cash component.  The Bakrie Group have made an initial $50 million payment
and has said the remaining funds are available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  