-- Canada Inflation, Retail Sales Advance Less Than Forecast
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-06-21T19:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/canada-inflation-retail-sales-advance-less-than-forecast.html
Canada’s  inflation  rate accelerated
less than economists forecast in May as a jump in natural  gas
prices  was partly offset by a drop in transportation costs,
while retail sales for April also rose less than expected,
adding to evidence consumers are less able to drive growth.  The  consumer price index  rose 0.7 percent in May from a
year ago, following a 0.4 percent April gain that was the
slowest since October 2009, Statistics Canada said today from
Ottawa. The  core  rate, which excludes eight volatile products,
advanced at a 1.1 percent pace for a second month. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast that total inflation would be 0.9
percent and the core rate would be 1.2 percent.  Canada’s dollar fell to the lowest in 19 months, capping a
week where Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz said that the
economic recovery needs “patience” and that he has flexibility
in how fast he brings inflation back to his 2 percent target.
The bank has kept its key lending rate at 1 percent since
September 2010 and Poloz said business investment and exports
must take over from consumers as the major source of demand.  “We don’t think it’s likely that the Canadian economy can
lean on the consumer to generate much growth going forward,”
Ian Pollick, a senior fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada’s capital markets unit, said by telephone from Toronto.  The Canadian dollar fell 0.7 percent to C$1.0460 per  U.S.
dollar  at 3:52 p.m. in Toronto after touching C$1.0489, the
weakest since Nov. 25, 2011. One dollar buys 95.60 U.S. cents.  Food Costs  Food prices rose 1.3 percent in May from a year ago
compared with a 1.5 percent April gain,  Statistics Canada  said.
Natural gas costs jumped 15.4 percent, the most since December
2008, with the third gain in four months following 25
consecutive declines.  Transportation costs declined 0.5 percent from a year
earlier, following a 2.1 percent drop in the previous month.
Retail gasoline prices fell 1.5 percent in May, less than
April’s 6 percent decrease.  The central bank sets  interest rates  to keep inflation in
the middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent band, and prices have
been below the 2 percent midpoint since April 2012.  Inflation will average 0.9 percent this quarter and reach
1.6 percent in the last three months of the year, according to a
Bloomberg economist survey taken June 7 to June 12.  Tim Hortons Inc. (THI)  Chief Executive Officer Paul House told
investors June 4 that sales at its Canadian coffee and donut
shops have slipped because of layoffs in manufacturing regions
such as Ontario.  More Discounting  “We see in some of those kinds of markets that our
consumer is still coming to us but maybe not as frequently as
they were,” he said. “In the last couple of years we have done
more discounting than we have historically just to respond to
the competitive environment that we find ourselves in.”  On a monthly basis, both the total  inflation  and core rates
advanced 0.2 percent in May. Those results also trailed
economists forecasts for total monthly prices to rise 0.4
percent and the core rate to advance 0.3 percent.  The seasonally adjusted inflation rate rose 0.1 percent in
May while the adjusted core index was unchanged.  In a separate report, Statistics Canada said that  retail
sales  rose 0.1 percent in April to C$39.5 billion ($38.1
billion). Economists forecast a 0.2 percent gain in a Bloomberg
survey with 23 responses.  Little Power  “There is some commonality in inflation and retail,” said
 Doug Porter , chief economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.
“The big story is pricing power remains very soft because the
consumer doesn’t have a lot of spending power.”  Purchases  excluding  the motor vehicle and parts category
fell 0.3 percent for a second month, while economists had
forecast they would be little changed.  Sales excluding the impact of price changes, which gives a
better indication of the sector’s contribution to growth, rose
0.5 percent in April, according to the report.  From a year earlier, retail sales rose 1.5 percent in
April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  