-- Carbon Falls for First Time in Six Weeks as Traders Close Bets
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-06-21T16:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/carbon-falls-for-first-time-in-six-weeks-as-traders-close-bets.html
European Union carbon permits fell
for the first time in six weeks as traders cut bets on higher
prices after lawmakers agreed on a watered-down proposal to
combat a surplus of allowances.  Permits for December declined 1.1 percent to close at 4.38
euros ($5.74) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London. That’s the lowest since June 11 and took this week’s
decline to 8.2 percent. The amount of outstanding contracts, or
open interest, in the benchmark future has fallen 7 percent from
a record on June 6.  “It seems that in the short term carbon won’t go higher,”
Milan Hudak, an analyst at Virtuse Energy sro in  Prague , said
today by e-mail. “Prices are falling due to profit taking and
slightly weaker Germany July power.”  The European Parliament’s environment committee approved on
June 19 a compromise version of a measure to temporarily delay
the sale of some permits after the original plan was rejected by
a plenary vote in April. The amended proposal will return to the
European Parliament on July 3, when the entire assembly is
scheduled to vote on the plan.  Open interest for December carbon has fallen 43.5 million
tons in the past two weeks to 579 million, according to ICE
data. Falling open interest in a weakening market can indicate
traders are closing bets that prices will rise.  The drop in permit prices has come in tandem with European
power, where German electricity for July dropped 2.3 percent
this week to 30.05 euros a megawatt-hour. Lower power prices
reduce utilities’ incentive to sell electricity forward, cutting
the need to hedge with carbon futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in  London  at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  