-- CBRE Plans to Invest in Chinese Office Market Even as Rents Slow
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-06-21T02:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/cbre-plans-to-invest-in-chinese-office-market-even-as-rents-slow.html
CBRE Global Investors, which manages
more than $90 billion of property assets, is seeking to invest
in offices in  China  as foreign companies expand in the country,
even as rents fell in some cities amid oversupply.  CBRE Global is looking at office projects in Beijing,
 Shanghai , Guangzhou, and in as many as 10 second-tier cities,
including Chengdu, Wuhan, and Suzhou, the fund’s Greater China
Country Manager Richard van den Berg said at a conference in
 Hong Kong  yesterday.  CBRE Global is planning to add to its investment in a
Shanghai tower, its only current office project in China, van
den Berg said. Prime office rents in the country fell an average
2 percent in the first quarter from three months earlier to 337
 yuan  ($55) per square meter per month, the first decline since
the third quarter of 2009, according to Chicago-based commercial
realtor  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   The fund would consider investing in cities with at least 2
million square meters (21.5 million square feet) of
“investment-grade  office space ,” said van den Berg. The cities
must also have demand for space from international companies and
tenants whose businesses are based outside the cities’
boundaries, he said.  “Although second-tier cities are rapidly developing their
office markets, many still don’t meet our criteria,” he said.  CBRE Global Investors acquired a majority of ING Groep NV’s
real estate investment business in 2011. The company managed
about $3.7 billion of assets in the Asia-Pacific region as of
the end of the first quarter, according to its  website .  No Bubble  Home prices  in major Chinese cities rose at the fastest
pace in more than two years in May, defying the govenrment’s
three-year campaign to cool the real estate market. The country
will widen property tax trials, which have only been introduced
in Shanghai and Chongqing, the State Council said in a May 24
statement.  While there is no bubble in China’s real estate market,
there are some cities with oversupply of new properties that are
clearly overpriced, van den Berg said.  “Fundamentals are still very favorable in many sub-markets,” he said. “With the market corrections having taken
place over the past few years, they now offer very interesting
investment conditions especially for mixed use developments.”  CBRE expects 2013 and 2014 is “a good time” to invest in
China’s property market as it slows due to the government’s
tightening policies, van den Berg said in an interview in April
last year.  Its partners in China have included Longfor Properties Co.,
controlled by the nation’s third-richest woman Wu Yajun, and
 China Vanke Co. (000002) , the country’s largest developer by market
value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  