-- McConnell Says Obama's Bureaucracy Intimidates Opponents
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-21T15:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/mcconnell-says-administration-has-culture-of-intimidation.html
Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  said President  Barack Obama ’s administration is
fostering a “culture of intimidation” that encourages
government workers to suppress free speech.  McConnell said the controversy over the  Internal Revenue
Service  scrutinizing Tea Party groups is validating his long-held concerns over how government power can be abused.  “What we are dealing with here is larger than the actions
of one agency or a group of employees,” he said in a speech
today at the  American Enterprise Institute , a free-market group
in Washington. “This administration has institutionalized the
practice of pitting bureaucrats against the very people they’re
supposed to be serving, and it needs to stop.”  McConnell, 71, of  Kentucky , has long been one of Obama’s
fiercest critics. Senate rules allow him and other Republicans
in the minority to obstruct the administration’s agenda or
insist that it be scaled back.  He criticized public-sector labor unions and defended tax
rules that allow “social welfare” groups such as  Karl Rove ’s
Crossroads GPS and the Sierra Club environmental group to be
involved in politics and avoid disclosing their donors.  ‘Legitimate Reason’  “There’s a very good and legitimate reason that courts
have protected folks from forced disclosure —- because they know
that failing to do so would subject them to the kind of
harassment that we’ve been seeing here the past few years,”
said McConnell, who is running for a sixth term next year.  McConnell said he didn’t expect investigations to reveal
direct White House involvement in the IRS decision to give extra
scrutiny to anti-tax Tea Party groups.  “The president himself has been demonizing these people”
in groups opposed to him, he said. “It’s not surprising that
the bureaucracy would pick up on that and think that maybe
that’s what they’re supposed to do.”  He said the investigations in the House should continue to
uncover facts about the IRS’s actions.  “I don’t think we ought to jump to any conclusions,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  