-- China Money Rates Drop From Records on PBOC Cash Boost
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-21T07:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/china-money-rates-drop-from-records-on-pboc-cash-boost.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rates
tumbled from record highs after the central bank injected funds
to alleviate the worst cash crunch in at least a decade.  The overnight repurchase  rate  dropped 442 basis points, or
4.42 percentage points, to 8.43 percent in  Shanghai , according
to a daily fixing compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. That is the biggest drop since October 2007 and follows
an unprecedented 527 basis point jump yesterday. The seven-day
 rate  fell 227 basis points today to 8.50 percent, the largest
decline since January 2012.  “The worst is over; the PBOC is likely to serve as a last
resort and intervene to calm the markets and avoid such huge
volatility,” said Chen Qi, a rates strategist at UBS Securities
Co. in Shanghai. “Although a reduction in  interest rates  or
reserve ratios is not likely in order to avoid confusing policy
signals, we do think reverse repos are very likely to be resumed
and PBOC will use window guidance as well. We expect liquidity
tightness to persist.”  Interbank lending rates spiked this week as the monetary
authority refrained from using open-market operations to address
a cash crunch in the world’s second-largest economy. The
People’s Bank of China added funds to the financial system via
short-term liquidity operations yesterday, according to Hao Hong, chief China strategist at Bank of Communications Co. in
Hong Kong. The central bank did not respond to faxed questions
seeking comment.  Targeted Injections  The PBOC used reverse-repurchase agreements to inject funds
into selected banks, Hexun reported today, citing an
unidentified person close to the central bank.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398)  and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  were among
lenders that received funds, and the total was less than 400
billion yuan, the financial news website said. An ICBC spokesman
declined to comment on the report, while a Bank of China Ltd.
spokesman was unavailable.  “The PBOC did not inject liquidity across the board, so if
any injections were made, they were likely explicitly targeted
at specific banks facing liquidity problems,” Zhiwei Zhang,
chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong ,
wrote in a report today. “We believe that recent action by the
PBOC reflects the government’s determination to take aggressive
action to contain financial risks.”  An intra-day  gauge  of the overnight repo rate touched a
record 30 percent yesterday and was 9.27 percent as of 2:14 p.m.
today in Shanghai. There were five transactions recorded
yesterday after 3:30 p.m. at rates of 4.11 percent to 4.35
percent, while the average for the whole day was 13.94 percent,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. For seven-day
contracts, there were five  trades  after 3:55 p.m. at rates of
4.72 percent to 4.75 percent, compared with the day’s average of
12.61 percent.  ‘Stable’ Liquidity  Maturing notes  added  a net 28 billion yuan to the financial
system this week, down from 92 billion yuan last week. Chinese
banks need to step up efforts to support economic reforms and do
more to contain financial risks, the State Council said June 19
after a meeting led by Premier  Li Keqiang .  The central bank may make open-market adjustments to keep
“reasonable and stable” interbank liquidity, Financial News
reported today, citing an unidentified analyst. China’s economic
slowdown may deepen in the short term as policy makers pursue a
prudent monetary policy to control financial risks, the report
in the PBOC-controlled newspaper said.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, dropped 30 basis
points to 4.40 percent in Shanghai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It reached an all-time high of 5.06 percent
yesterday. The seven-day repo fixing, a gauge of interbank
funding availability, has averaged 6.70 percent this month, the
most in National Interbank Funding Center data going back to the
start of 2004.  ‘Market Stability’  The cash injection “is exactly what I would expect,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Societe Generale SA
said yesterday. “Market stability should always be the top
priority of regulators and central banks.”  Banks paid 6.5 percent for 40 billion  yuan  of six-month
deposits from the  Finance Ministry  at an auction yesterday, the
highest rate since March 2012 and up from 4.8 percent at the
previous sale on May 23. The yield on top-rated commercial
banks’ six-month debt was 5.87 percent yesterday, the highest
since 2007 and 199 basis points more than at the start of this
month, ChinaBond  data  show.  ‘Punish’ Banks  The monetary authority has refrained from conducting
reverse-repurchase agreements, which inject funds, since
February. Bill and repo redemptions, which also add capital to
the banking system, will decline to 25 billion yuan next week,
from 32 billion yuan this week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Redemptions will total 46 billion yuan in the first
two weeks of July, the data show.  Policy makers could be taking advantage of tight funding to
“punish” some small banks, which previously used low interbank
rates to finance purchases of higher-yielding bonds, Bank of
America Merrill economists led by Lu Ting wrote in a report
yesterday. Tight interbank liquidity could last until early
July, according to the report.  “Some smaller banks that are liquidity constrained will
face higher funding costs,” analysts including  Mike Werner  at
Sanford C. Bernstein and Co. in Hong Kong wrote in a report
today. “They may need to offload assets at unfavorable prices
if they fail to secure short-term funding.” Bernstein has
underperform ratings on the shares of  China Merchants Bank Co. (3968) 
and China Minsheng Bank Corp.  ‘Highly Speculative’  Industrial Bank Co. (601166) , Ping An Bank Co. and Huaxia Bank Co.
are all rated ‘b’ in terms of viability by  Fitch Ratings , the
15th highest of 20 rankings. The grade suggests “highly
speculative fundamental  credit quality ” with weak prospects,
according to Fitch’s rating definitions. China Citic Bank Corp.
and  China Everbright Bank Co. (601818)  are rated one step higher at ’b+’,
according to a June 18 report by Fitch that showed Everbright
Bank had the highest reliance on loan repayments to meet short-term cash obligations as of mid-2012.  Chinese regulators are forcing trust funds and wealth
managers to shift assets into publicly traded securities as they
seek to curb lending that doesn’t involve local banks, so-called
shadow banking, according to Fitch.  The cash crunch brought about by the PBOC is “certainly a
lot more swift and arguably more effective in reining in the
growth of shadow credit but it does create a lot of repayment
risk,” Charlene Chu, Fitch’s head of China financial
institutions, said today on the sidelines of a conference in
Sydney. “There is potential for unintended consequences and
policy missteps.”  The cost of insuring China’s sovereign debt using five-year
credit-default swaps increased 31 basis points, the most since
November 2008, to 134 yesterday in  New York , according to data
provider CMA, which compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  