-- China’s Stocks Post Steepest Weekly Loss in Four Months
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-06-21T07:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/china-s-stock-futures-fall-as-indexes-head-for-weekly-decline.html
China’s stocks fell, capping the
benchmark index’s biggest weekly loss in four months, amid
concerns a cash crunch may curb economic growth and the U.S.
 Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus.  China Construction Bank Corp. (601939)  slid 3.8 percent, leading
declines for lenders. Everbright Securities Co. sank 6 percent
after it received a notice from the regulator that it was
probing the brokerage on a planned initial public offering.
PetroChina Co., the biggest energy producer, fell 1.6 percent,
while Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. slid a further 4.9 percent for a
15 percent loss this week. Gemdale Corp. rose the most in three
weeks after winning housing land at auctions.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  declined 0.5 percent to
2,073.10 at the close. The gauge slumped 4.1 percent this week,
the most since Feb. 22.  Money-market rates  tumbled after jumping
to records yesterday as the monetary authority refrained from
using open-market operations to address a cash squeeze.  “The economy’s not performing within expectations, the Fed
is causing volatility among global markets and our shortage of
liquidity is creating a big issue,” Deng Wenyuan, an analyst at
Soochow Securities Co., said by phone. “There may only be a
rebound in the market at the start of July when the credit
crunch is likely to improve.”  The CSI 300 Index declined 0.2 percent to 2,317.39 today,
while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index retreated 0.3
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index tumbled 3.6 percent
yesterday as global equities fell after the Federal Reserve said
it may phase out stimulus.  Repo Rates  The  Shanghai  index’s trading volumes were 19 percent below
the 30-day moving average today, while 30-day volatility was at
16.7, compared with this year’s low of 13.7 set on June 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Shanghai measure
has slumped 15 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 6.  China Construction Bank paced losses for lenders. The
shares fell 3.8 percent to 4.08  yuan , adding to a 13 percent
loss this week. Industrial Bank Co. retreated 1.2 percent,
extending its drop this week to 6.4 percent.  The one-day  repo rate  decreased 3.84 percentage points to
7.90 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. That is the
biggest drop since 2007. The seven-day rate fell 351 basis
points to 8.11 percent. They touched record highs yesterday of
13.91 percent and 12.45 percent, respectively.  The People’s Bank of China used reverse-repurchase
agreements to inject funds to selected banks, Hexun reported
today, citing an unidentified person close to the central bank.
Hexun is a financial news website in  China .  Stable Liquidity  The PBOC may increase open market adjustments to keep
“reasonable and stable” inter-bank liquidity, the Financial
News, which is published by the People’s Bank of China,
reported, citing an unidentified market analyst. China’s
economic slowdown risks may rise in the short term as
policymakers may keep prudent policies to control financial
risks, according to the report.  “The current level of tightness in real market rates is
excessive and, if continued, may disrupt growth rather than make
it more balanced,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist in  Hong
Kong  at Credit Agricole CIB. “Balancing growth would be
achieved easier by boosting consumption, not by restricting
credit. I think they will ease monetary settings soon, via open-market operations or reserve-requirement ratio cuts.”  Combat Fraud  PetroChina lost 1.6 percent to a record low 7.88 yuan.
Yanzhou Coal slumped 4.9 percent to 10.71 yuan. West Texas
Intermediate crude was poised for the biggest weekly drop since
April on speculation the U.S. may scale back economic stimulus.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will cut the central bank’s
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases by $20 billion at the
Sept. 17-18 policy meeting, according to 44 percent of
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Everbright retreated 6 percent to 10.96 yuan. The brokerage
said it’s being investigated by China’s securities regulator for
an IPO it advised on as authorities crack down on brokerages for
inadequate due diligence in listings.  The CSRC handed out punishments last month to Ping An
Securities Co., Minsheng Securities Co. and Nanjing Securities
Co. as part of efforts to combat fraud. The regulator, which
stopped IPO approvals in October as China’s benchmark stock
index fell, will restart listings after rules aimed at boosting
investor protection go into effect, a CSRC official with
knowledge of the matter said this week.  Gemdale Corp. rose 1.8 percent to 6.66 yuan. The developer
will pay 2.87 billion yuan ($470 million) for a parcel of land
in Nanjing city and 122.5 million yuan for land in Zhengzhou
city, the company said in a statement.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  