-- China Funds Lose Most in Fifth Week of Asian Outflow
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-21T04:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/china-funds-lose-in-fifth-week-of-asian-outflows-citigroup-says.html
International money managers pulled
a combined $1.2 billion from Asian funds this past week, a fifth
straight week of outflows, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   China funds posted the biggest losses with $558 million of
net withdrawals in the week ended June 19, followed by regional
funds at $521 million, Citigroup’s  Hong-Kong  based chief Asian
strategist  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a note to clients today.
Foreigners net sold Asia by $3.6 billion in the week, with South
Korea and Taiwan taking up the largest shares, he wrote.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.9 percent as of 11:59
a.m. in Hong Kong, adding to yesterday’s 4.1 percent slump after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
may end bond purchases by the middle of next year if the  U.S.
economy  improves in line with Fed projections.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , also known as the H-share index, has fallen 25 percent from its Feb. 1 high, with a
20 percent decline considered the threshold for a  bear market . A
crackdown on illegal capital inflows, efforts to rein in shadow
banking and a campaign to control  home prices  have contributed
to increased borrowing costs and a slump in equity prices.  Inflows into Asia have slowed to $1.1 billion this year
from the peak of $9.4 billion in March, Rosgen wrote. Foreigners
bought a net $518 million of Japanese shares in the week, he
said. Overall, bond funds saw $7.5 billion of outflows, while
equity funds posted $4.8 billion of inflows, with most of that
money going to North America, the report said.  ASEAN Stocks  Benchmark indexes in South Korea and Taiwan dropped at
least 1.7 percent today. Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  slid 2.7 percent,
poised for its lowest close since December. Foreign investors
sold a net $1.35 billion of Thai shares in June through
yesterday, the most for a month since August 2011, according to
exchange data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Thai stocks measure has plunged 16 percent since May
22, when Bernanke said U.S. policy makers may scale back
stimulus efforts if the employment outlook improves
sufficiently. The Fed may reduce the $85 billion monthly bond
purchases by $20 billion at the end of its September policy
meeting, a Bloomberg survey of economists showed.  In Indonesia, overseas investors sold a net $128 million of
stocks yesterday, their 20th day of selling, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The Jakarta Composite Index tumbled 3.2 percent
today, heading for the lowest close since February 5. The gauge
has lost 14 percent after reaching a record on May 20.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  