-- China Poses Global Growth Risk as Li Squeezes Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-21T22:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/china-poses-global-growth-risk-as-li-squeezes-credit-binge.html
China ’s effort to balance its
economy without breaking it puts global growth at risk should
policy makers fail.  Premier  Li Keqiang ’s three-month-old government is allowing
the tightest squeeze on credit in at least a decade to wean the
nation off a cash binge that threatened to destabilize the
world’s second-largest economy.  The aim is to deliver sustainable, more-even economic
 expansion  closer to 7 percent than the rates faster than 9
percent witnessed in recent years. The risk is that getting the
transition wrong will stifle credit and hurt activity at home
and abroad just as the Federal Reserve pivots toward withdrawing
stimulus.  “I wasn’t too worried up until this week,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd, which manages the equivalent of more than $119
billion. “Things are quite a lot different in China than might
have been expected. It does potentially pose risks for global
growth.”  Oliver is among investors and economists from Barclays Plc
to HSBC Holdings Plc who are lowering their outlook for the
Chinese economy. They say it may fall short of the government’s
full-year growth target of 7.5 percent.  That’s a challenge to countries from  Australia  to Brazil
that increasingly relied on China after developed nations
struggled to recover from the worst international recession
since World War II. China was responsible for about a third of
global growth last year, according to Darius Kowalczyk, a
strategist at  Credit Agricole  CIB in  Hong Kong .  China Exports  “The world economy would suffer from China’s slowdown as
China has been adding more to global growth than any other
economy,” said Kowalczyk. “ Commodity (CRY)  demand would suffer in
particular and Asian markets relying on China for exports growth
would be hit.”  Concerns about Chinese officials getting it wrong threaten
to roil global financial markets, said  David Hensley , director
of global economic coordination at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York.  “If people get scared about China that could be a global
event that would weigh on sentiment and reinforce negative
forces in the markets,” said Hensley.  The danger of over-doing the pullback is magnified by the
fact it comes as investors contend with the prospect of reduced
stimulus from the Fed. Emerging-market stocks are headed toward
their steepest weekly loss in 13 months, with the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index sinking 0.9 percent to 900.54 yesterday in New
York. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, the
so-called VIX, surged on June 20 to its highest since December.  Fed Impact  “We’ve relied on the Fed and China so much over the last
few years so any signs that either might be less supportive is
taken negatively -- and we got both of those over the past
week,” said Oliver at AMP.  China’s benchmark money-market rates raced to record highs
this week before sliding yesterday after the central bank
finally injected funds. The overnight repurchase rate dropped
442 basis points, or 4.42 percentage points, to 8.43 percent in
Shanghai, according to a daily fixing compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. That is the biggest drop since October
2007 and follows an unprecedented 527 basis point jump on June
20.  Among those likely to suffer the most from a weaker China:
commodity exporters, which will experience a “double-whammy”
of falling exports and prices, according to  Tim Condon , head of
Asia research at ING Groep NV in Singapore.  Under Pressure  That puts Brazil, South Africa and Australia under
pressure. They all count China as their biggest trading partner.
Data from China’s General Administration of Customs show
Brazilian exports to the country fell 11.8 percent in the first
five months of the year.  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and Sibanye Gold Ltd. were among the South
African mining companies to decline this week. Brazilian oil
producer  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  fell as did BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company.  Asian neighbors will likely also be pinched, with Kowalczyk
of Credit Agricole estimating Taiwan and South Korea rely on
China to buy about a quarter of their exports.  China’s policy drive reflects a new departure in its
economic management. Officials are more reluctant than they were
in the past to loosen monetary or fiscal policies to check an
economic slowdown. Instead, they are emphasizing the need for
more-balanced growth in the longer term and policy changes to
achieve it.  Growth Quality  That reflects a focus on “the quality of growth rather
than the quantity,” said  Stephen King , London-based chief
economist at HSBC. HSBC on June 19 cut its forecast for Chinese
growth this year and next to 7.4 percent from previous forecasts
of 8.2 percent and 8.4 percent.  A slower China may be a price worth paying if it results in
an economy with more even growth that’s less prone to shocks,
says Ken Courtis, founder of Tokyo-based advisory company Next
Capital Partners and former Asia vice chairman at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  China’s private debt soared to 168 percent of gross
domestic product in the third quarter of last year, from 119
percent four years previously, according to Citigroup Inc. That
jump is bigger than those of the U.S. and euro area in their
pre-crisis years. The  country  also faces the potential for non-performing loans after lending a record 17.5 trillion  yuan  in
2009-10.  China “is imposing the type of tough medicine it needs to
squeeze excesses out of the system,” said Courtis. “You can’t
build long-term, sustainable growth if the system is not
cleansed of excesses.”  Steadier Economy  It’s a view shared by David Loevinger, former senior
coordinator for China affairs at the  U.S. Treasury Department 
and now an  emerging markets  analyst in  Los Angeles  at TCW Group
Inc.  “Slowing the growth in credit now increases the prospects
for strong and steady growth later,” said Loevinger. “This is
good for China and the world.”  Accelerations in the U.S. and Japanese economies also mean
the world is “in a much better position to support a slowing
China” these days, said Manoj Pradhan, an economist at Morgan
Stanley in London. “A more-balanced China is something the
global economy can absorb right now.”  If it helps ease commodity prices it also could help reduce
the inflation elsewhere in the world which is eating into
consumers’ spending power, said Tim Drayson, global economist at
Legal & General Investment Management Plc in London.  There may still be a pain barrier. While China’s leaders
have been willing to let growth slow by more than some
economists thought, a weakening to 7 percent would likely force
a response, says ING’s Condon. Hensley at JPMorgan said possible
responses to an extended soft patch could be lower  reserve
requirements  or  interest rates .  “I would be surprised if they allow this to go on much
longer,” Nobel laureate  Michael Spence  said in an interview in
Shanghai yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  