-- Chivas Regal Says No to Offer Coppola Couldn’t Refuse
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-06-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/chivas-regal-says-no-to-offer-coppola-couldn-t-refuse.html
For the winery started by the
director of “The Godfather,” it was a matter of paying for
protection.  Sued for patent infringement in 2012 over the laminated
boxes used for its bottles of Sofia Mini Blanc de Blancs,
Francis Ford Coppola’s vintner decided to quickly settle rather
than rack up legal bills.  Other companies refused to pay royalties to Lamina
Packaging Innovations LLC, a patent-licensing entity, and now
face a possible ban on U.S. imports of their products. These
include  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) ’s  Bop It XT  toy, Pernod Ricard SA’s Chivas
Regal Scotch whisky and  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) ’s Remy Martin cognac.  The case at the U.S. International Trade Commission in
Washington has become central to a broader debate over whether
to limit complaints by companies whose sole business is to
obtain patents and seek royalties on them.  “The ITC was not designed to protect the theoretical
patent rights of people who were not developing products in
commerce or moving society or civilization forward,” said
lawyer Claude Stern, who represented  Francis Ford Coppola
Presents LLC  in the settlement.  Congress, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, and President
 Barack Obama  have proposed to curb litigation by companies known
as non-practicing entities or by the pejorative “troll.” One
proposal would restrict cases such companies could pursue at the
agency, which defends U.S. markets from unfair competition.  Domestic Market  After Lamina filed claims against 15 companies in February,
the ITC ordered an expedited hearing on whether Lamina met its
requirement that patent owners who file complaints prove the
existence of a domestic industry. Lamina, instead of citing a
manufacturing plant or products, argues its settlements are that
proof.  Lamina, which told the ITC it has two employees and five
consultants, shares a Longview, Texas, office building with a
church, radio station, debt collection agency and landscaping
company.  It was created in 2010 by  Medici Portfolio Acquisition LLC ,
a licensing company based in a  Washington  suburb that acquired
the patents of a Wisconsin businessman who, according to
Lamina’s ITC complaint, was “unable to make significant
progress in commercialization” because of rampant copying of
his ideas.  Michael Connelly, Medici’s chief executive officer, had no
immediate comment for this story. Lamina’s lawyer, Gregory Love
of Stevens Love in Longview, didn’t return a message seeking
comment.  Dr. Dre  In May, ITC Judge Theodore Essex heard testimony from both
sides on whether Lamina meets the standard for a domestic
market. His findings are due July 5. A ruling against Lamina
could end the case. Otherwise, a trial on the patents will be
held in December.  Pernod Ricard, Remy and Hasbro, which deny infringing the
patents, argued the dispute belongs in federal court, where it
would come down to a fight over whether they owe Lamina
royalties. Other companies resisting Lamina include Beats
Electronics LLC, the headphone maker founded by rapper Dr. Dre,
and liquor companies  Diageo Plc (DGE)  and  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA. (LVMUY)   In addition to the Coppola winery, in Geyserville,
 California , Lamina last year reached settlements with
candlemaker Lafco Enterprises Inc. and Sara Happ Inc., maker of
a lip scrub popular with actresses in Hollywood. Since filing
its ITC case, Lamina has struck accords with cosmetics producer
 L’Oreal SA (LRLCY)  and Grey Goose vodka distributor Sidney Frank
Importing Co., commission records show.  Bad Odds  No patent-licensing company that didn’t invent the
technology underlying an infringement claim has won an import
ban since at least 2006. In an April 15  report , the ITC said 20
percent of the 301 cases instituted between 2006 and the first
quarter of 2013 were by non-practicing entities. Only four won
import bans, and all of them had invented the technology, the
agency said.  There’s nothing wrong with using the ITC to push companies
into licensing agreements, said Bill Merritt, chief executive
officer of InterDigital Corp., which has pending cases against
Nokia Oyj, Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp. over smartphone
technology.  Merritt said companies like his, with about 290 employees
and a continuing research budget, are the type of firms Congress
had in mind when it passed a 1988 law allowing licensing
agencies to file complaints at the ITC.  “What’s the ITC’s job?” Merritt said. “Protect jobs and
create jobs.”  Lamina Settlements  The commission’s decision to order the expedited look at
Lamina was part of the agency’s harder stance on the domestic-industry rules, said Lyle Vander Schaaf, an ITC lawyer with
Brinks Hofer in Washington.  Lamina objected to the expedited hearing, saying in an ITC
filing that it’s been unfairly singled out for a new procedure.  Dirk Thomas, of McKool Smith in Washington, who specializes
in ITC cases, said the company may have a difficult time proving
its argument. “The licensing activity can’t be your litigation
budget,” he said. “If that’s all they’ve got, they’ve got a
hard road.”  Lamina filed four lawsuits last year. Three companies
settled within months. The holdout, Monsieur Touton Selection
Ltd., a  New York  wine distributor, told a judge March 21 that
Lamina’s lawsuits were intended to create licensing agreements
“in order to manufacture a domestic industry under its
patents.”  The judge dismissed the case.  Settling came cheap, said Coppola attorney Stern, managing
partner of Quinn Emanuel in Redwood Shores, California. A
typical patent lawyer working on an ITC case would bill about
$700 an hour, so a 40-hour week would equal $28,000 for each of
the many lawyers assigned to the case, he said.  The fees incurred by defendants in all three settlements
“cost less collectively than any one respondent in the ITC case
has paid for a week of litigation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  