-- CommonWealth Investors Say Shareholders Back Board Ouster
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-06-21T20:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/commonwealth-investors-say-shareholders-back-board-ouster.html
 Corvex Management LP and Related
Cos., the investors who want to replace  CommonWealth REIT (CWH) ’s
board, said that holders of more than 70 percent of the
company’s shares gave their consent to oust the trustees.  Corvex, founded by activist investor Keith Meister, and
Related, a New York-based property developer, are soliciting
votes to remove the trustees, claiming that an overlap in board
membership and the ownership of an external management firm has
led to conflicts of interest and mismanagement. The investors
own about 9.6 percent of the real estate investment trust’s
shares, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The dispute between the investors and Newton,
Massachusetts-based CommonWealth is in arbitration. The REIT has
said the solicitation isn’t valid under its bylaws, and urged
stockholders on June 17 to take no action on it.  “I was pretty sure they were going to get to 70 percent,”
John Guinee, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore,
said in a telephone interview. “This is still in arbitration,
which is a three-to-10-month process.”  Corvex and Related, in a statement today, called on
CommonWealth to hold a special meeting of shareholders to elect
new trustees.  Shareholder Support  “This is a tremendous victory for all CommonWealth
shareholders and reflects overwhelming support for immediate
change,” Meister and Jeff Blau, CEO of Related, said in the
statement. “We encourage the remaining officers and former
trustees to stop their efforts to disregard the clear mandate
from holders of over 70 percent of CommonWealth’s shares and put
an end to the unrelenting waste of company resources to advance
the Portnoys’ personal agenda.”  CommonWealth’s president, Adam Portnoy, and his father,
Barry, a company founder, sit on its five-member board and are
owners of the external management company, Reit Management &
Research LLC.  “Today’s announcement by Corvex/Related is yet another
attempt to mislead and confuse CommonWealth shareholders,” Tim Bonang, a CommonWealth spokesman, said in a statement. “The
validity of the Corvex/Related consent solicitation depends upon
an arbitration panel making a number of findings, including that
certain of CommonWealth’s bylaws are invalid.”  CommonWealth  shares  rose 4.5 percent to $22.88 at 2:39 p.m.
in  New York  before trading was halted. The halt wasn’t lifted
before the end of regular trading.  Proxy-advisory companies Institutional Shareholder Services
Inc. and  Glass Lewis  & Co. have recommended that CommonWealth
shareholders vote to remove the entire board.  “The effectiveness of the current solicitation remains
subject to, among other things, the ongoing arbitration
proceedings,” Glass Lewis said in a June 17 report. It made its
recommendation “in recognition of the possibility that the
current solicitation may be indefinitely delayed, rescheduled or
declared invalid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  