-- Congressmen Warn Credit Raters Against Repeating History on CDOs
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-06-21T21:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/congressmen-warn-credit-raters-against-repeating-history-on-cdos.html
The top executives of Standard &
Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings were warned
by three members of Congress against granting inflated grades to
the same type of securities that helped trigger the credit
seizure.  “It has been well documented that your institutions
contributed to the financial crisis by underestimating the
extraordinary risk inherent in CDOs,” Vermont’s Peter Welch,
Luis Gutierrez of  Illinois  and Keith Ellison of  Minnesota , wrote
in the June 18 letter.  “It’s vitally important that you get it right this time
around,” according to the letter from the three Democrats,
which cited a June 5 story in the Wall Street Journal on how
synthetic collateralized debt obligations were being assembled
for investors. Bloomberg News reported in March that the
securities were making a comeback.  Synthetic CDOs, derivatives that pool credit-default swaps
to make magnified bets on corporate debt, enabled securitization
to expand even as the home-loan market dried up six years ago
before the market seizure, the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Committee wrote in a 2011 report.  Analysts at the three ratings firms were pressured to give
their stamp of approval to complex investments to win lucrative
business from Wall Street banks, the U.S. Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations said in an April 2011 report.
CDOs that packaged home-loan securities and were given top AAA
ratings by S&P wiped out investors in a matter of months, the
Justice Department said in a Feb. 4 lawsuit against the firm.  ‘Numerous Changes’  “S&P has taken to heart the lessons learned from the
financial crisis,” Ed Sweeney, a spokesman for the world’s
largest credit rater, said today in an e-mail, “Based on what
we learned, we changed the way we rate almost every type of
security that was affected.”  Michael Adler, a Moody’s spokesman, said in an e-mail that
the company reviews the credit quality of transactions it is
asked to rate and doesn’t allow “commercial considerations” to
influence the process.  “Fitch has made numerous changes to strengthen its
business since 2008, and we have not rated any synthetic CDOs
since the crisis,” spokesman Daniel Noonan, said in an e-mail.  The letter was sent to Douglas L. Peterson, president of
S&P; Raymond McDaniel, the president and chief executive officer
of Moody’s; and Paul Taylor, president and CEO of Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in  New York  at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  