-- Czech Main Ruling Party’s Popularity at Record Low Amid Spy Case
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-21T14:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/czech-main-ruling-party-s-popularity-at-record-low-amid-spy-case.html
Support for the Civic Democrats, the
 Czech Republic ’s largest governing party, fell to a record low
after a scandal over illegal spying and graft charges forced out
Prime Minister Petr Necas, an opinion poll showed.  The Civic Democrats would get 8 percent in an election,
compared with the 20 percent it received in the 2010 ballot, the
Prague-based polling company PPM Factum said in a report today.
The opposition Social Democrats increased their lead and would
get 29 percent, compared with their 22 percent election result,
according to the June 14-20 poll of 945 people. No margin of
error was given.  The spying scandal added to public discontent with
 austerity  measures that hurt household spending while cutting
borrowing costs to record lows. Since Necas quit June 17, the
Civic Democrats and their allies have been maneuvering to
prevent a snap election sought by the opposition. The Social
Democrats pledged higher taxes and more spending to bring the
$217 billion  economy  out of recession.  “The survey is reflecting the impact of the government
crisis that led to the resignation of Premier Necas’s
government,” PPM Factum said in the e-mailed report.  The Civic Democrats proposed Parliament Speaker Miroslava Nemcova to replace Necas. She needs the approval of President
Milos Zeman and the parliament’s confirmation to become the
country’s first female prime minister.  Zeman, who has the right to name the next head of the
Cabinet, won’t automatically accept any nomination and early
elections are a possibility, he said before the largest ruling
party announced its candidate.  Meetings Today  Zeman, the Czech Republic’s first directly elected head of
state, who has criticized the government’s handling of the
recession, will hold meetings with parliamentary parties
starting today and plans to announce his decision at a June 25
news conference, his office said.  While the European Union’s second-largest ex-communist
economy is enduring a record-long  contraction , Necas credited
his austerity policies with cutting the yield on the state 10-year koruna bond to an all-time low of 1.48 percent on May 17,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield has risen 7
basis points since the current crisis started, to 2.16 percent
today, holding below comparable U.S. Treasuries.  The Czech Republic’s political turmoil erupted June 13
after nighttime police raids resulted in the detention of eight
people including the head of the premier’s office.  The current coalition, which controls 98 seats in the 200-member parliament, needs to secure a simple majority in the
assembly to install a new government. It has relied on the votes
of former coalition deputies who defected their parties to pass
legislation.  The  Social Democrats , led by Bohuslav Sobotka, promised to
raise some income taxes to pay for higher spending the party
says is needed to revive the economy. Sobotka may need to rely
on the Communist Party to pass some bills if he doesn’t win an
outright majority in parliament or fails to find other coalition
partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  