-- Detroit Swap Banks Go First as Bankruptcy Looms: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-06-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/detroit-swap-banks-go-first-as-bankruptcy-looms-muni-credit.html
Wall Street firms that sold
interest-rate swaps to  Detroit  as part of $1.4 billion of
pension-bond issues stand to get paid before investors and the
retirees the borrowings were supposed to help.  In 2009, the companies --  UBS AG (UBSN)  and SBS Financial Products
Co. -- could have forced the city to pay a fee to end the
agreements, which were designed to cut the cost of the debt.
Instead, the firms struck a deal giving them a claim on
Detroit’s gambling-tax revenue, guaranteeing they’ll get paid
$50 million a year.  Under Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr’s proposal last week to
restructure the insolvent city’s finances, the payments get
priority over promises to retirees and holders of unsecured
debt, including the pension borrowings. Being ranked among
secured creditors gives the banks the same protection as
investors in water and sewer bonds or general obligations
secured by liens on state aid.  “Providers of derivatives have been very careful to make
sure they’re at the front of the line,” said  Robert Brooks , a
professor of risk management at the  University of Alabama  in
Tuscaloosa. “The idea is to get to be first in line if you’re
worried about a bankruptcy.”  Last Resort  Orr has said filing for protection from creditors is a last
resort. Detroit, with about $17 billion of liabilities, would be
the largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy.  The $50 million in bank payments, equivalent to almost 5
percent of Detroit’s annual general-fund revenue, could go
toward public safety and street lights in the city of 701,000.
The population has dropped about 25 percent since 2000.  Bill Nowling, a spokesman for Orr, didn’t respond to a
request for comment. The derivatives obligations are “subject
to negotiation with holders,” Orr said in last week’s proposal.  Under Orr’s plan, gambling levies from the Greektown Casino
and two other sites go toward paying the derivatives, known as
 interest-rate swaps . In contrast, at least $5.58 billion in
general-obligation, pension and other debts are backed only by
the city’s promise to pay.  Paying Banks  Municipal borrowers nationwide, including Detroit’s
utilities and  Louisiana , have paid at least $4 billion to banks
to end interest-rate swaps that were supposed to lower borrowing
costs. In the contracts, a locality and bank agree to exchange
interest payments. If Detroit needed to unwind the swaps today,
it would have to pay about $343.6 million, according to
documents in Orr’s plan.  “The biggest winners of all in this are the sharks in the
municipal-bond market,” said Greg Bowens, a spokesman for Stand
Up for Democracy, a Lansing, Michigan-based group that
campaigned last year to repeal the law allowing appointment of a
financial manager.  Detroit’s unionized workers were pressing to safeguard
their pensions when the city borrowed in 2005 and 2006, anchored
by swap agreements with Zurich-based UBS and SBS Financial
Products. The goal was to invest the proceeds and use the
profits to bolster its pensions.  The agreements swapped floating-rate payments into fixed
ones to protect against the possibility that  interest rates 
would rise. The strategy backfired when interest rates sank
during the recession that ended in 2009 as the  Federal Reserve 
reduced its benchmark borrowing rate near zero.  ‘Not Unusual’  SBS Financial, created by some owners of New York-based
Siebert Brandford Shank & Co., provides swap agreements to the
bank’s clients. Through a credit agreement, Merrill Lynch & Co.,
now part of Bank of America Corp., backed up SBS under the
contracts.  Karina Byrne , a UBS spokeswoman; Thomas Butler, a spokesman
for SBS; and  William Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment.  “It’s not unusual for banks to come out ahead,” said
 Darrell Duffie , a finance professor at  Stanford University  in
Stanford,  California , who has studied derivatives markets.
“They’re experts on handling restructuring.”  In 2009, facing a possible swap-termination fee equal to
one-fourth of its budget, the city pledged the gambling-tax
revenue as collateral. Since then, the city has been paying
about $50 million a year, with $878.7 million expected through
2035, according to Orr’s report. The city budgeted about $57
million for public lighting this year.  Oakland’s Attempt  Swap providers have been reluctant to let municipalities
out of termination payments or other promises under the
contracts, said  Peter Shapiro , managing director with Swap
Financial Group LLC in South Orange,  New Jersey . The firm
advises municipalities and other entities on swaps.  Oakland, California, officials are considering firing
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. from underwriting bond issues because
the company has refused to end a 1998 swap without a
$14.8 million termination fee.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. was an exception, in the case of
Jefferson County,  Alabama , Shapiro said. In 2009, the bank
agreed to pay $75 million and forgive $647 million in derivative
fees to settle with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
over undisclosed payments to local bankers.  Municipal investors traditionally have seen unsecured
general obligations as less risky than special-revenue bonds, a
category that is considered secured debt and includes the swaps
contracts.  Bond Value  “Outside of bankruptcy, the municipal markets place great
value on general-obligation bonds because they are backed by the
full-faith-and-credit promise of the government,” said Patrick Darby, a bankruptcy attorney in Birmingham, Alabama, at Bradley
Arant Rose & White LLP who represents Jefferson County. “If you
are in Chapter 9, that means you don’t have enough money to keep
your promise.”  In bankruptcy, investors in unsecured bonds run the risk
that the municipality will force them to take less than they are
owed, with no minimum recovery. Special-revenue debt must be
repaid using the funding stream pledged as collateral, such as
water fees, Darby said.  “Unsecured creditors need to understand that they’re
really at the back of the line if there are derivatives in
play,” said Brooks at the University of Alabama.  In the $3.7 trillion municipal market,  Los Angeles  is set
to sell about $1.3 billion of notes next week, the biggest offer
on the local-debt calendar. The securities mature in February.  Local debt is trailing Treasuries this month and is on pace
for its biggest monthly decline this year. Munis have lost about
1.8 percent this month as of June 19, compared with a 0.7
percent loss for Treasuries, Bank of America data show.  At  2.33 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with  2.41 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the interest rates, a gauge of relative value,
is about 97 percent, down from above 110 percent last week. The
lower the figure, the more expensive munis are compared with
federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  