-- Did NSA Take a Page From Domesday Book on Data Hoarding?
-- B y   A l e x   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-06-21T19:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/did-nsa-take-a-page-from-domesday-book-on-data-hoarding-.html
When it comes to collecting huge
amounts of personal data, the National Security Agency had an
ancient and illustrious model. One of the first iterations of
the idea can be seen in the  National Archives  in  London , in a
special chest that looks like it was meant for a pirate’s
treasure. Its parchment pages are worn, but still perfectly
legible for those who can decipher its 900-year-old Latin
script.  Its ominous name -- the  Domesday Book  -- is derived from
the medieval spelling of doomsday and refers to the belief that
its contents were final and without appeal, like the supposed
judgments of the Lord at world’s end.  Its purpose, however, wasn’t to pronounce on the fate of
souls, but to record more quotidian information about property.
The 2 million handwritten words in the 900-plus-page book
represent an attempt to list every sheep, slave, house, barn and
tract of land in 11th century  England , and to establish who it
was owned by or rather, who could have use of it, under the
king.  It is the paradox of private property that only a public
record, open to all, can prove ownership. The  Domesday Book  was
such a record and it has set a standard and a methodology for
registries ever since. It is an essential element of the
development of property as a primary building block of our
economic system. The dusty property ledgers that still reside in
city halls, and now their online equivalents, are descended from
the Domesday Book.  Norman Conquest  The tomes began to be compiled and written in 1086 by
 William the Conqueror , two decades after his band of Normans
came over from  France  and conquered England in 1066. The book
was expanded and revised under his son, William II. Its purpose
was to tell the monarch what he owned, and thus could tax or
use. The king’s men went far and wide, and attempted to write
down everything of value, down to individual pigs.  As with so many key historical developments, war or the
threat of war was the impetus for its creation. After William
conquered England, the Danish in Scandinavia were threatening to
try to force him out. William needed to know how much tax
revenue he could raise, and how many knights he could call on.
The barons and churchmen who had rights to land or other
property didn’t own it in the modern sense; they had use of it
at the king’s pleasure, in return for services. They, in turn,
made  land and property  available to more common people, again in
exchange for certain duties.  All these relationships are recorded in the book. By modern
standards, it is both very detailed -- individual livestock is
often recorded -- and primitive. Land is often measured
in “ploughs,” which is the area a team of eight oxen could plow
in a day.  Although it was produced for the crown, over time, the book
and its edited successors and copies became references for
anyone involved in a property dispute. People would talk
of “going to the book.”  In his “ Concise History of the Common Law ,” the historian
Theodore Plucknett wrote that during the Middle Ages, the
Domesday Book “was so respected that it was called simply ’the
record,’ so great was its authority. The land was described
county by county, village by village, the owners and their
subtenants were listed and their holdings valued, even the farm
stock was recorded, with a view to settling clearly the rights
of the Crown and the taxable resources of the country.”  Property Records  The book belongs to a long line of events and developments
that created the concept of “property” in the contemporary
sense, meaning something that can be bought, sold and freely
traded for money. Today, people are accustomed to the idea of
ownership and give little thought to the various legal and
conceptual developments that made it possible. Along with public
records, there was the creation by governments of standardized
systems of measurement. There were also cultural changes. Over
time, people began to think of ownership as a right, rather than
part of a web of mutual obligations.  The Domesday book was originally two works, the “little
Domesday Book,” which covered Norfolk, Essex and Suffolk, and
the “Greater Domesday Book,” which covered the rest of England
and parts of  Wales , but not London, which had its own set of
records. The volumes, produced before the advent of printing
presses, required exquisite care -- which is perhaps why they
still exist. Over the centuries, they have resided in the royal
treasury and the  Palace of Westminster . Careful procedures had
to be followed to consult them. The special chest that guards
the volumes today was created relatively recently -- in the
1600s -- and was closed with three locks, whose keys were kept
by three separate officials and all had to be present to gain
access to the book.  There is now an  online version  -- displaying both the
original handwritten Latin and a translation in modern English -
- that can be searched for information about properties in
England or Wales.  ( Alex Marshall  is the author of “The Surprising Design of
Market Economies,” and a senior fellow at  Regional Plan
Association  in  New York  City.)  Read more from  Echoes  online.  To contact the writer of this post:
Alex Marshall at  alex@rpa.org   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  