-- The Sun Editor Mohan Steps Down to Take News Corp. Senior Role
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-06-21T16:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/the-sun-editor-mohan-steps-down-to-take-news-corp-senior-role.html
The Sun, the U.K. newspaper owned by
 News Corp. (NWSA) , said Dominic Mohan quit after four years as editor
to take a senior role in Rupert Murdoch’s publishing empire.  Mohan will report to Robert Thomson, the newly appointed
chief executive officer of News Corp.’s publishing business, and
will explore strategic opportunities for the company in Europe,
according to a statement. The print unit began trading as a
separate stock this week and will become an independent company
on June 28.  David Dinsmore, the director of operations at News Corp.’s
U.K. division, will replace Mohan starting on Monday.  “I am confident the Sun will go from strength to strength,
and now look forward to a new challenge of helping a brand new
company find its feet and build a strong future for its
journalism across the globe,” Mohan said in the statement.  News Corp. is cleaving the publishing group, which includes
The Sun as well as other newspapers across the News Corp.
empire, from its growing television and film businesses. The
print company, which will retain the News Corp. name, had a
market value of around $9.1 billion after its first day of
trading this week. The entertainment group, to be called 21st
Century Fox, was valued at around $65 billion by investors.  Mohan, who had been at the paper for 17 years, has steered
The Sun through a difficult period. Some newspaper staff members
have been implicated in the phone-hacking scandal that
originated at sister paper News of the World. Murdoch shut down
News of the World in 2011, shortly after news of the scandal
broke, to try and quell the uproar.  The scandal continued today as two Sun journalists were
charged with conspiring to bribe public officials. A spokesman
for News Corp.’s U.K. unit declined to comment on the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  