-- Electronics Use Limits on Planes Seen Easing at U.S. FAA
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/easing-electronics-use-on-planes-seen-by-advisory-panel.html
Broader in-flight use of electronics
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Kindle readers
may be possible, a panel advising U.S. aviation regulators says
in a draft report that stops short of calling for ending current
restrictions, according to three people familiar with its work.  The Federal Aviation Administration advisory committee’s
recommendations still aren’t final and must be approved by the
FAA. The agency must consider potential interference from
electronic signals and how to deal with safety issues associated
with having scores of metal devices loose during a crash
landing, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to discuss the committee’s work.  On June 20, the agency gave the panel two extra months to
complete its report, making it due in September.  “The FAA recognizes consumers are intensely interested in
the use of personal electronics aboard aircraft,” the agency
said in a statement. “That is why we tasked a government-industry group to examine the safety issues and the feasibility
of changing the current restrictions.”  Calls to allow broader use of e-readers and smartphones on
airliners have grown as lawmakers, including Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat, have pressed for the change.  A survey of airline passengers by groups including the
 Consumer Electronics Association , an Arlington, Virginia-based
trade group, showed four in 10 wanted to use the personal
devices during landings and takeoffs. Airlines now prohibit
their use at altitudes below 10,000 feet.  Modern Aircraft  Almost a third -- 30 percent -- of passengers in the same
poll said that they had accidentally left a device turned on
during periods when use was prohibited.  The aviation rulemaking committee, chartered last year by
the FAA, won’t recommend allowing in-flight mobile-phone calls,
the people said. The Federal Communications Commission bans such
phone use because at higher altitudes, the signals can interfere
with ground towers in cellular networks.  The committee believes that more modern aircraft are better
protected against interference from signals emitted by
electronic devices, the people said.  Airlines may perform tests to show that use of personal
devices during all phases of flight is safe, the people said.
The report will outline how such tests can be done, they said.  Tests of device use at lower altitudes, when flights are at
higher risk of an accident, would be more rigorous, one of the
people said.  Many devices broadcast radio signals on multiple
frequencies, such as on Wi-Fi and mobile-phone wavelengths, and
have been shown to interfere with aircraft electronics in lab
tests, according to tests by  Boeing Co. (BA) , the world’s biggest
plane maker, and the U.K.’s  Civil Aviation Authority .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  