-- LeBron James Legacy Grows as Heat Win Second Straight NBA Title
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-21T05:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/lebron-james-legacy-grows-as-heat-win-second-straight-nba-title.html
LeBron James  made good on his pledge
to deliver multiple championships to the  Miami Heat , winning a
second straight National Basketball Association title with an
eye on more.  James scored 37 points and grabbed 12 rebounds last night
in Miami as the Heat beat the San Antonio Spurs 95-88 in Game 7
of the NBA Finals. It was the 18th decisive seventh game in the
66-year history of the championship series, with home teams now
owning an 15-3 record.  The Heat prevented the Spurs from winning their fifth NBA
title in 15 years and  Tim Duncan  from joining John Salley as the
second player to win championships in three decades. The victory
also furthers the legacy of James, who joins  Michael Jordan  and
Bill Russell as the only players to win NBA Most Valuable Player
awards and championships in back-to-back seasons.  “The vision I had when I decided to come here is beginning
to come true,” said James, who joined the Heat before the 2010-11 season after seven seasons with the  Cleveland Cavaliers . “To
win back-to-back championships is an unbelievable feeling. This
is what it’s all about.”  James hit a 19-foot jump shot with 27 seconds left to give
the Heat a 92-88 lead after Duncan missed a pair of shots at
close range that could have tied the score. James then had a
steal and made a pair of free throws with 23 seconds remaining
to seal the victory and earn the NBA Finals MVP trophy, which he
received after the game from Russell.  Wade Stats  Dwyane Wade  added 23 points and 10 rebounds for the Heat,
while  Shane Battier  matched his season high with 18 points off
the bench by hitting 6-of-8 3-point shots.  “It’s better to be timely than good,” Battier said at the
trophy presentation ceremony as confetti fell at midcourt.  James, who later cradled the championship trophy as he was
sprayed with celebratory champagne in the Miami locker room,
joins Elgin Baylor as the second NBA player to score 30 or more
points in four straight postseason Game 7’s.  “It became time,” Heat coach  Erik Spoelstra  said of
James’s performance. “He always rises to the occasion when it
matters the most, when the competition is fiercest.”  James’s Game 7 playoff scoring average of 34.4 is the
highest of all-time. Jordan, who won six NBA titles with the
 Chicago Bulls , has the second-highest at 33.7.  James has now won his past two trips to the NBA Finals
after losing his first two -- with the Cavaliers in 2007 and
following his first season with the Heat in 2011.  ‘Special Player’  Duncan, whose Spurs in 2007 swept the Cavaliers, told a
then 22-year-old James that “the league is going to be yours
soon.” James, now 28, has made that prediction a reality. The
Heat beat the Oklahoma City Thunder in five games a year ago and
this season fought past a Spurs team that had won all four of
its previous appearances in the NBA Finals.  “The story is still yet to be seen what he’s going to end
up with,” Wade said. “He’s a special player. We enjoy having
him here and what he brings every night is unbelievable.”  When James joined the Heat in July 2010 he said his plan
was to win more than one title. “Not two, not three, not four,
not five, not six, not seven,” James said at the time before
13,000 fans at AmericanAirlines Arena.  “The question going forward is how many he’ll win,” said
former point guard Greg Anthony, who’s now an NBA TV analyst.
“That is an impressive group to be with, the two greatest
winners in our game:  Bill Russell  and Michael Jordan. Now he’s
in that conversation in the right way, by winning championships,
winning Most Valuable Player awards.”  2014 Favorites  The Heat, who also won a title in 2006, are already listed
as 3-1 favorites to win next season’s championship, according to
online handicapping information website Pregame.com.  Miami’s Game 7 win last night came two days after the Heat
rallied twice in the fourth quarter before beating the Spurs
103-100 in overtime. After some Miami fans left the arena, the
Heat in Game 6 hit two 3-pointers in the final 20.1 seconds of
the fourth quarter to erase a five-point deficit.  “We had a great chance in Game 6,” said Spurs point guard
 Tony Parker , who had 10 points last night on 3-of-12 shooting.
“Tonight we gave it a great fight, but couldn’t get over the
hump. After Game 7, of course you’re going to think about how
close we were in Game 6.”  The Heat and Spurs showed signs of nerves in the first
quarter last night, combining for 34 points after averaging 48.8
between them in the opening quarter the first six games of the
series. The Heat were held to 10 points over the first 10
minutes and closed the final two minutes of the first quarter
with an 8-0 scoring run to take a 18-16 lead.  Duncan’s Effort  The teams went back and forth after that, with a series of
lead changes and ties, and neither team led by more than six
points until a free throw by Wade with 16 seconds left. As the
final buzzer sounded, Wade first went to exchange a hug with the
37-year-old Duncan, whose 843 career wins rank fifth in NBA
history. Duncan led the Spurs with 24 points and 12 rebounds,
while Kawhi Leonard had 19 points and 16 rebounds.  “T.D. is one of the greatest players of all time,” Wade
said. “That guy is a warrior and I just wanted to pay my
respects to one of the game’s greats.”  Chris Bosh , who joined the Heat with James before the 2010-11 season and is the third member of Miami’s “Big Three,”
failed to score last night.  Mario Chalmers  added 14 points for
the Heat, including a 3-pointer he banked in off the backboard
to end the third quarter.  Miami is the first team to successfully defend since the
2010  Los Angeles Lakers . The last club to win three straight NBA
titles was the Lakers from 2000-02.  “I want to be one of the greatest, if not the greatest
ever, to play this game.” James said with the championship and
MVP trophies at his side. “I will continue to work for that and
continue to put on this uniform and be the best I can be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  