-- Mediobanca Selling Generali Stake to Boost Profit
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-06-21T14:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/mediobanca-to-cut-generali-stake-to-focus-on-main-business.html
Mediobanca SpA (MB) , Italy’s biggest
listed investment bank, will sell stakes in companies including
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  and  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , as it seeks
to become profitable again.  Mediobanca plans to raise 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) by
selling shares in Telecom Italia and  RCS MediaGroup SpA (RCS) , and
reducing by about 3 percent its 13.2 percent interest in
Generali over three years, the Milan-based company said in a
 statement  today.  “We would have preferred a more aggressive approach to
reducing the equity portfolio, especially a larger stake in
Generali,” Christian Carrese, a Milan based analyst at
Intermonte SIM, wrote in a note today. Mediobanca  fell  as much
as 7 percent, the biggest decline since April 19, and was the
worst performer on Milan’s benchmark FTSE MIB index.  Mediobanca has used holdings in  Italy ’s biggest companies
to dominate the nation’s deal-making, a grip it’s losing after
some of the investments soured. Chief Executive Officer Alberto Nagel is selling stakes in businesses as Italy’s longest
economic slump in 20 years hurts its corporate business and
increases losses from soured loans.  “The strategy is aimed at achieving, over the medium term,
a business model which is simpler, more value-creating, focused
on specialized banking activities,” Nagel said at a
presentation in Milan. The timing of the disposals depends on
market conditions, he said.  Quarterly Loss  The sale is part of a three-year plan targeting revenue
from banking activities of 2.1 billion euros by 2016. The bank
said all publicly-traded securities will be marked to market,
writing down their value by 400 million euros in the fiscal year
ending June 30.  Mediobanca, which posted a fiscal third-quarter loss after
booking losses from equity stakes, expects a 200 million-euro
loss in the year to June, after writing down some of its
holdings.  “After writing down holdings this year we see no further
need of impairments over the plan period,” Nagel said.
Mediobanca will exit investor partnerships, such as Telco SpA,
the main shareholder in Telecom Italia. “This will allow
Telecom to participate in the consolidation under way with more
options.” The bank will leave the Telco investor group in
September and intends to sell its 2.6 percent stake in Telecom
Italia within three years.  Dividend Payout  The lender said it will boost its international corporate
and investment banking business by hiring bankers at its offices
abroad, as it seeks to expand in growth markets such as  Latin
America ,  China  and  Turkey . The share of revenue from abroad will
increase to 45 percent in three years from 30 percent, the bank
forecast in the plan.  Mediobanca’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial
strength, will stabilize at about 11 percent to 12 percent over
the three-year period from 12 percent at the end of the first
quarter, it said. The bank, which hasn’t commented on whether it
will pay a dividend this year, plans a 40 percent payout ratio
in 2016 and return on equity of 10 percent to 11 percent.  The company will develop its wealth management business by
setting up Mediobanca Alternative Asset Management, which will
focus on private equity and debt.  Executives may consider small acquisitions in private
banking and asset management, Nagel and General Manager Saverio Vinci told analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  