-- EIB Mulling Options to Lend 100 Billion Euros to Small Business
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2013-06-21T10:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/eib-mulling-options-to-lend-100-billion-euros-to-small-business.html
The  European Investment Bank  is
considering options presented by the European Commission that
could generate up to 100 billion euros ($132 billion) in new
lending to small and medium-sized businesses.  “The commission and the EIB are also working with the ECB
to develop an EU strategy to alleviate the financing constraints
for SMEs,” the Luxembourg-based bank said in a report to
European leaders obtained by  Bloomberg News . One of the options
could “leverage up to 100 billion euros depending on the scale
of participation by member states.”  The EIB and the commission, along with the Frankfurt-based
 European Central Bank , are investigating ways to ease the credit
crunch faced by small businesses particularly in the parts of
the euro area worst affected by the region’s debt crisis and
longest-ever recession. Loans to the private sector have
contracted for at least 12 straight months, and ECB President
 Mario Draghi  has called the lending crunch the area’s biggest
challenge.  Hinging on the level of changes required to draft
regulations, the commission’s three proposals offer different
leverage ratios on public funds that could create lending of 58
billion euros, 65 billion euros or 100 billion euros.  The 100 billion option foresees creating a joint
securitization instrument, combining national and joint public
funds, packaging portfolios of existing and new loans to SMEs.
The possibility of pooling risks would also exist under this
option, the report said.  The collaboration with the commission and the ECB aims to
secure “sufficient funding for the banking sector directed
specifically to SME lending,” as well as providing sufficient
funding for the banking sector directed specifically to SME
lending,” the report said.  “The key to unlocking the leverage effects for such joint
instruments is the widest possible participation by  member
states ,” according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Luxembourg at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Luxembourg at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  