-- Emerging Stocks Cap Biggest Weekly Decline in 13 Months
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-21T21:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/emerging-stocks-head-for-steepest-weekly-decline-in-13-months.html
Emerging-market stocks capped the
steepest weekly tumble in 13 months, bonds retreated and South
Korea’s won paced declines in currencies amid speculation the
Federal Reserve will pare economic stimulus.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.9 percent to 900.54,
extending its weekly drop to 5.6 percent. The measure has
tumbled 17 percent from its Jan. 3 high. Poland’s WIG20 index
sank to the lowest since Aug. 30, while  Brazil ’s  Ibovespa (IBOV) 
dropped to four-year low. The won posted the biggest weekly
slump in 21 months. The premium investors demand to own
emerging-market rather than U.S. Treasuries rose this week by
the most in a year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  More than $6.9 billion left funds investing in developing-nation debt in the four weeks to June 19, the most since 2011,
according to Morgan Stanley, citing EPFR Global data. The exodus
is reversing the $3.9 trillion of cash that flowed into emerging
markets in the past four years. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said June 19 that the central bank may taper its bond purchases
later this year and halt them around mid-2014 as long as the
world’s largest economy performs in line with its projections.  “The Fed potentially withdrawing liquidity doesn’t help,”
Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of asset allocation for ING
Investment Management which oversees $180 billion, said by phone
today. “It’s not clear how much of the run up in markets
overall was caused by the Fed providing liquidity, so that’s
going to make people skittish.”  Biggest Losses  Nine of  10 groups  in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell
today, led by a gauge of utility and consumer companies. The
measure of developing-nation stocks is trading at 9.4 times
estimated earnings, an 11-month low, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Shares in the MSCI World Index of developed
markets are valued at  12.9 times  projected profits.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 1.4 percent to $37.41. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 5.3 percent to 33.61 after surging 34 percent yesterday.  Brazil’s Ibovespa dropped 2.4 percent as a report showing
consumer prices increased more than forecast added to concern
that inflation will sap the economic recovery. Cia. Paranaense
de Energia, a Brazilian utility known as Copel, tumbled the most
on record after giving in to the Parana state governor’s demands
that it suspend an electricity rate increase.  The Mexican IPC Index surged 1.4 percent, the best
performance among major emerging market gauges. Mining company
Industrias Penoles SAB jumped the most since January 2009.  Russian Stocks  The Micex Index climbed for the first time in three days in
Moscow and OAO Novatek jumped after the natural gas producer
signed a liquefied natural gas deal with China National
Petroleum Corp.  Poland’s WIG20 index tumbled 2.8 percent, while  Turkey ’s
bond yields rose to the highest in a year after the central bank
did not provide funding in its one-week repo auction for a third
day and sold dollars. The rand gained for the first time in six
days as a rally in metal prices boosted South Africa’s export
prospects.  The Shanghai Composite Index extended this week’s slump to
4.1 percent, the most since Feb. 22. Everbright Securities Co.
sank 6 percent after it received a notice from the regulator
that it was probing the brokerage on a planned initial public
offering. Money-market rates tumbled after jumping to records
yesterday as the monetary authority refrained from using open-market operations to address a cash squeeze. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index slid 0.3 percent.  South Korea  South Korea’s won posted the biggest decline since the five
days ended Sept. 23, 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on the 2.75 percent government bonds due
March 2018 rose 28 basis points this week and 10 basis points
today to 3.26 percent, prices from Korea Exchange Inc. show.
That was the biggest weekly increase for a benchmark five-year
note since October 2010.  India ’s rupee completed its biggest weekly loss since
September 2011 after plunging to a record yesterday. The stock
benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  added 0.3 percent after slumping the
most in 21 months yesterday. Infosys Ltd. increased the most in
three weeks.  The extra yield for emerging-market debt over U.S.
Treasuries slid five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
342 basis points, cutting this week’s increase to 0.2 percentage
point, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  