-- Endo Health Unit Pays $55 Million in Vaginal Mesh Accord
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-06-21T02:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/endo-health-unit-pays-55-million-in-vaginal-mesh-accord.html
An  Endo Health Solutions (ENDP)  Inc. unit
agreed to pay $54.5 million to settle some lawsuits alleging its
vaginal-mesh implants eroded in some women and left them
incontinent and in pain.  Officials of Endo’s  American Medical Systems Inc.  said in a
securities filing today the medical-device maker is paying to
resolve an unidentified number of suits over the company’s
vaginal-mesh devices, which include the  Perigee, Apogee and
Elevate  implants.  The settlement doesn’t affect the majority of about 5,000
vaginal-mesh suits filed against AMS that have been  consolidated 
for pre-trial proceedings before a federal judge in West
Virginia. The first trial of a federal AMS case is set for
December, according to court filings.  AMS executives “intend to continue to vigorously defend
themselves in the remaining mesh product liability cases and in
any new cases that may arise,” company officials said in the
filing with the  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission .  Moody’s Investors Service in March  lowered  its outlook on
 Chadds Ford , Pennsylvania-based Endo, maker of the painkillers
Percocet and Lidoderm, after noting the company’s increasing
exposure to vaginal-mesh lawsuits.  Mounting Lawsuits  Endo officials said earlier this year suits filed over the
implants had risen to about 5,100 from more than 2,900 it
tallied last year. AMS’s products are designed to treat the
collapse of pelvic organs as well as urinary incontinence. Endo
acquired AMS for $2.9 billion in 2011.  Blaine Davis, an Endo spokesman, declined to comment on the
settlement beyond the  SEC filing . “As a matter of company
policy, we do not comment on ongoing litigation,” he said in an
e-mailed statement.  Endo is one of four companies facing a total of 29,000
suits by women who claim the vaginal implants injured them.
Those cases have been consolidated before U.S. District Judge
Joseph Goodwin in Charleston, West Virginia.  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR)  is
set to face its first trial over the devices before Goodwin
starting July 8.  A California jury last year found  Murray Hill , New Jersey-based Bard liable for $3.6 million in damages over a woman’s
injuries tied to its Avalta Plus vaginal implant. It was the
first case over a Bard device to go to trial.  An Atlantic City jury decided in February  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
and its Ethicon unit must pay more than $11 million in damages,
including more than $3.3 million in punitive damages, to a woman
who blamed the company’s Gynecare Prolift implant for her
injuries.  JNJ officials pulled four of its lines of vaginal implants
off the worldwide market last year in the face of rising numbers
of suits over the devices.  Small Settlement  AMS’s settlement resolves claims filed by a small group of
plaintiffs’ lawyers representing women who filed cases both in
federal and state courts, said  Fred Thompson , a South Carolina-based lawyer and a leader of a group of plaintiffs’ attorneys
overseeing the cases consolidated in  West Virginia .  Thompson said the majority of the women whose AMS cases
were settled in the $54.5 million accord were represented by
 David Matthews , a Houston-based plaintiffs’ attorney.  Matthews didn’t immediately respond after regular business
hours to a call seeking comment on the settlement. Davis, Endo’s
spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment on
whether the settlement involved Matthews’ cases.  “There’s no universal settlement,” Thompson said.“We are
still pressing ahead with the process of getting the rest of the
cases ready for trial.”  A  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  report in August 2011
found vaginal-mesh products should be classified as posing high
risk to patients based on a review of side-effect reports from
January 2008 to December 2010. Women’s groups are demanding that
the devices be recalled.  Reduced Profits  The FDA last year ordered 31 manufacturers, including Endo,
Bard and J&J, to study rates of organ damage and complications
linked to the implants. The companies must conduct three years
of safety studies, regulators said.  Endo officials this month announced the company would
reduce profit and revenue forecasts for the year and said it
would cut 15 percent of its global workforce.  The company cut its 2013 revenue forecast to $2.65 billion
to $2.8 billion from $2.8 billion to $2.95 billion and cut its
projected profit excluding some items to $4.10 to $4.40 a share
from $4.40 to $4.70.  FDA officials ruled last month that generic copies of
Endo’s Opana ER may remain on the market without abuse-deterrent
technology. The competition may reduce sales by as much as $120
million and cut profit by 55 cents a share, Endo executives
said.  The consolidated AMS cases are In re American Medical
Systems Inc. Pelvic Repair Systems Products Liability
Litigation, 12-md-02325, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of West Virginia (Charleston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  