-- Enron’s Skilling to Exit Prison Early If Deal Approved
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-06-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/enron-s-skilling-to-exit-prison-early-if-deal-approved.html
Former Enron Corp. Chief executive
Officer  Jeffrey Skilling  is set to appear in court to learn how
much longer he’ll stay in prison for spearheading the fraud that
destroyed the world’s largest energy trader.  Under terms of a deal with prosecutors, Skilling, 59, could
see his 24-year prison sentence cut by as much as 10 years,
freeing him as early as 2017, if a U.S. judge approves it at a
hearing today in federal court in Houston.  In exchange for a shorter sentence, Skilling agreed to
forfeit $45 million, drop his bid for a new trial and end
litigation over his 2006 conviction and sentence. The former
CEO’s prison term was already set to be reduced by nine years,
thanks to a 2011 appellate-court ruling that sentencing
guidelines were incorrectly applied in his case.  “This agreement ensures that Mr. Skilling will be
appropriately punished for his crimes and that victims will
finally receive the restitution they deserve,”  Peter Carr , a
spokesman for the  Justice Department ’s criminal division, said
in an e-mail last month when the deal was announced.  Seized Assets  Prosecutors agreed to ask U.S. District Judge Sim Lake III
to knock another year off if Skilling dropped his appeals and
released assets seized by the government after a Houston jury
convicted him and Enron’s former Chairman  Kenneth Lay  of
manipulating the company’s financials and misleading investors.
Lay died before he had the chance to appeal, and the verdicts
against him were erased.  “The proposed agreement will bring a certain finality to a
long, painful process, although the recommended sentence for
Jeff would still be more than double that of any other Enron
defendant, all of whom have long been out of prison,” his
lawyer,  Daniel Petrocelli , said in a phone interview last month.
“Jeff will at least get the chance to get back a meaningful
part of his life.”  Former Enron employees and shareholders have contacted the
court to express disapproval of the deal, Lake said in a May
court order. The judge didn’t specify how many letters he’s
received or how many people he will let speak at the re-sentencing hearing today under the Victims’ Rights Act, which
requires judges to hear from victims before sentences are
pronounced.  Supreme Court  Skilling fought all the way to the U.S.  Supreme Court ,
which agreed in 2010 that his convictions were based in part on
an invalid legal theory known as the “theft of honest
services.” The high court ordered an appeals court to review
Skilling’s case to see whether the tainted theory required his
convictions to be thrown out.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans  reviewed his case
in 2011 and determined there was “overwhelming evidence”
presented at trial to convict Skilling without the flawed legal
theory. The appellate court upheld the verdicts against Skilling
and ordered the trial judge to recalculate his term, as the
appeals court previously had determined that sentencing
guidelines were improperly applied.  Skilling has served more than six years for his conviction
on 19 counts of conspiracy, fraud,  insider trading  and lying to
auditors. He is expected to receive the standard 15 percent
sentence reduction given all federal prisoners for good
behavior, as well as a one-year credit for completing an inmate
substance-abuse program.  2020 Release  These deductions, coupled with the added reduction
negotiated with prosecutors, could shave Skilling’s total
sentence to about 10 to 13.5 years, releasing him from prison no
later than 2020. If Lake rejects the deal, the terms of which he
can’t alter, Skilling will resume litigation and could remain
incarcerated until 2028.  Skilling’s lawyers have been pressing Lake for a new trial
on claims prosecutors improperly withheld evidence Skilling
contends might have undermined testimony by a key witness
against him, former Enron Chief Financial Officer Andrew Fastow.  Skilling claims Federal Bureau of Investigation agents
didn’t turn over notes of their early interviews with Fastow, in
which Fastow’s account of his dealings with Skilling and other
Enron executives allegedly differed from his trial testimony.
Skilling’s attorneys have argued in hearings and court papers
that these notes could have been used to undermine Fastow’s
credibility with jurors, who knew Fastow had cut a deal with the
government in exchange for leniency.  Fastow Testimony  Fastow pleaded guilty to securities and wire fraud in 2004
and forfeited almost $24 million stolen from Enron through side
partnerships he created. He testified extensively against
Skilling at trial and was sentenced to six years in prison, four
years less than he’d agreed to serve in his plea deal with the
government.  Enron used Fastow’s off-books partnerships to hide billions
of dollars in losses and debt, distorting the company’s true
financial performance and inflating its share price. When the
partnerships were revealed, Enron’s stock nosedived, plunging
the company into insolvency in a matter of weeks.  More than 5,000 jobs and $1 billion in employee retirement
funds were wiped out overnight when the company filed for
 Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in December 2001.  The case is U.S. v. Causey, 4:04-cr-00025, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in federal court in Houston at
   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  