-- Merkel Shuns Russia Exhibition Opening in Looted-Art Spat
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-06-21T11:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/merkel-shuns-russia-exhibition-opening-in-looted-art-spat.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  and
President Vladimir Putin canceled the joint opening of a Russian
exhibit of art looted from Germany, inflaming a spat dating from
the Nazi regime’s collapse at the end of World War II.  The German and Russian leaders had planned to speak at St.
Petersburg’s Hermitage museum today during Merkel’s visit to the
Russian city for a business conference. The plan was ditched
after Russia said there wasn’t enough time for Merkel to give
her opening remarks, German government spokesman Georg Streiter
said. Merkel might have alluded to Germany’s stance that Russia
is holding the art illegally and should return it, he said.  “President Putin apparently didn’t have the option to
stage an opening that included speeches, so that was that,”
Streiter told reporters in Berlin. “Opening remarks would have
been needed to put this exhibition, with its special background,
into context.”  Merkel, who is running for re-election on Sept. 22, hasn’t
pushed  Russia  on looted art in the past. While the two countries
are linked by trade, including Russian energy supplies to
Germany, Merkel has criticized Russian treatment of civil-society groups and differed with Putin on ending the fighting in
 Syria .  The exhibition “Bronze Age -- Europe Without Borders,”
showing at the Hermitage from June 21 to Sept. 8, includes about
600 objects taken to Russia from Berlin either during or at the
end of World War II, when Stalin’s Red Army rolled into the
defeated Third Reich’s capital.  Museums Emptied  After the war, museums in Soviet-occupied eastern Germany
were left with almost nothing. About 2.5 million items were
packed up and sent to the Soviet Union. In an act of friendship
to communist East  Germany  in 1958, 300 train cars from Moscow
and St. Petersburg brought back art treasures including the
Pergamon Altar, now in Berlin’s Pergamon Museum.  Yet 1 million artworks are still missing, including the
Bronze-Age gold treasure of Eberswalde, which is to be exhibited
at the Hermitage show for the first time since the war ended in
1945, alongside treasures from Werder, Sonnewalde, Weissagk and
Dieskau, all in eastern Germany.  A replica of the Eberswalde gold is on display in the Neues
Museum on Berlin’s Museum Island. A label next to it explains
that the original is still in the Pushkin Museum in Moscow.  Germany has been pressuring Russia for the return of the
missing art ever since German reunification in 1990 -- sometimes
gently, sometimes more insistently. Yet many Russians, including
museum directors, view the booty as legitimate compensation for
Soviet treasures looted or destroyed by Adolf Hitler’s troops.
Under Russian law, German art taken by Stalin’s Soviet Trophy
Commission is Russian state property.  Merkel and the German government “maintain the position,
backed by international law, that the objects brought to Russia
should be returned,” Streiter said. “Russia has a different
view.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  