-- Tesla Says Bill Backed by Dealers Will Kill N.Y. Sales
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-06-21T22:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/tesla-says-bill-backed-by-dealers-will-kill-n-y-sales.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the maker of
electric cars run by  Elon Musk , said legislation in  New York 
pushed by car dealers seeking to block direct auto sales would
put the company out of business there.  The bill introduced in the legislature this month would
prevent car manufacturers from selling directly to consumers and
keep new vehicles bought out of state from being registered in
New York. The measure is set for an Assembly vote today, said
Michael Whyland, a spokesman for Speaker Sheldon Silver, a
Manhattan Democrat. It isn’t on the Senate’s agenda for today.  “The bottom line for New York consumers and New York
suppliers is that if this bill passes, special interests in
Albany will once again have gotten their way while robbing  New
Yorkers  of choices,” Diarmuid O’Connell, a Tesla vice
president, said in a statement. “Tesla will be put out of
business in New York.”  Tesla, which sells its products directly through its own
stores, faces growing opposition from auto dealers across the
country. Since last year,  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla has
faced lawsuits in New York and Massachusetts to block direct
sales, and legislation prohibiting the practice in  Texas  and
other states.  “From the beginning, Tesla’s goal has been to catalyze the
market for electric vehicles and selling through intermediaries
at this stage of the company will not work,” O’Connell said in
the statement. “If we are kept out of New York, it forestalls
progress and defeats innovation.”  Job Cuts  If passed, the New York bill would make purchasing Tesla
automobiles in the third-most-populous state impossible under
the company’s current operating model, said Shanna Hendriks, a
spokeswoman for the manufacturer. It also would have to close
facilities in  New York City  and northern suburbs, Hendriks said.  The company, which posted its first profit in this year’s
first quarter, intends to deliver 21,000 of its Model S
rechargeable sedans this year.  Senator Lee Zeldin, the Long Island Republican who
sponsored the bill in the upper chamber, said it probably won’t
come up for a vote there today, which would effectively kill it
for the year. He said he has proposed a separate measure that
would carve out an exception for Tesla, letting it operate as it
currently does in the Empire State, even if the ban passes.  “Our goal is not to adversely impact any business
operating in the state of New York,” Zeldin said in an
interview in Albany.  Tesla fell 1.1 percent to $99.55 at the close in New York.
The shares have almost tripled this year, compared with a 12
percent price  gain  for the  Russell 1000 Index. (RIY)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  