-- EU Battles Over Rules on Investor Losses When Banks Fail
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-21T16:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/eu-battles-over-rules-on-investor-losses-when-banks-fail.html
European Union finance ministers are
battling in  Luxembourg  over how they’ll set rules for assigning
losses when banks fail.  The new rules will set standards for how to prop up or shut
down failing banks, along with requirements for the kind of
backstops each country must have in place. During staff-level
talks this afternoon, nations were considering requiring a
certain level of losses on bank creditors before they could
shield specific investors from writedowns, according to two EU
officials.  Finance ministers also sought to bridge differences between
countries inside and outside the 17-nation  euro zone .  Austria 
and the European Commission sought common rules for all 27 EU
members, while the U.K.,  Sweden  and others argued for rules that
grant more freedom to non-euro nations.  Lithuanian Finance Minister Rimantas Sadzius said there are
“objective differences” between countries inside and outside
the currency bloc. At the same time, there are banks that
operate in both regions.  “If we want this so-called level playing field, or fair
competition, we must look at what could distort this competition
and somehow compensate for it,” Sadzius said in an interview.
He said regulators must weigh methods of financing of lenders,
“when they can have liquidity from the  European Central Bank  or
must ensure liquidity from somewhere else.”  ECB Oversight  European leaders are struggling to reassure investors that
they will break the cycle of contagion between banks and
sovereign debt by creating a banking union. Five of the euro
zone’s 17 nations have sought rescues during more than three
years of financial crisis, prompting leaders to call for unified
bank supervision within the currency zone.  The ECB, now slated to take up bank supervision powers next
year, insists that nations need procedures to handle failing
banks -- including financial backstops -- before the transition
takes place.  One track of the talks involves how to allow the U.K. to
pursue separate financing procedures for setting aside funds
when banks fail. The U.K. already collects crisis-cleanup fees
from its banks and has budget arrangements in place to handle
banking-sector woes.  France  and the U.K. want regulators to have broad powers to
choose which investors should be protected when banks fail if
wiping them out would spark contagion.  Denmark ,  Finland  and the
 Netherlands  counter that all nations need to follow the same
rules, or risk driving up funding costs for banks in nations
with stricter procedures or weaker public finances.  ‘Certain Limits’  “France wishes flexibility,” French Finance Minister
 Pierre Moscovici  told reporters as talks began. “We are willing
to consent to certain limits.”  Under drafts of the bank-failure rules, presented last year
by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, losses at
a crisis-hit bank would be absorbed first by wiping out its
capital, then writing down holders of unsecured debt in order of
seniority.  Holders of secured debt, such as covered bonds, would be
shielded. Finance ministers also are considering a full
exemption for short-term inter-bank lending, a move supported by
the ECB.  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said that current
bail-in proposals are “too rigid” and would create
“illiquidity risks” for his country’s banks. Speaking to
reporters at the start of today’s meeting, he called for a
“dramatic increase” in the flexibility offered to non-euro
countries.  Unsecured Debt  Governments are also split over whether the law should
force systemically important banks to issue a minimum amount of
unsecured debt and other liabilities that could be written down
in a crisis.  While such an approach has been advocated by the U.K.,
Netherlands and Finland, on the grounds that it would make
creditor writedowns more effective in practice, it faces
opposition from a group of other nations led by Germany and
France. Nations resisting the move argue that no assessment has
been carried out of the impact the plan would have on bank
funding costs, and also that different banks may require
different targets.  Ministers are in for “a long day,” ECB Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen told reporters on his way into the
meeting. EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said there was a “fair chance” of a deal while acknowledging
the scale of the task ahead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Luxembourg at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Luxembourg at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  