-- EU Finance Chiefs Debate Fresh Bank Investor-Loss Rule Proposal
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-21T19:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/eu-finance-chiefs-debate-fresh-bank-investor-loss-rule-proposal.html
European Union finance ministers
battled over newly proposed rules for imposing losses on
investors at troubled banks, as talks on the legislation dragged
into the evening in Luxembourg.  The latest text, distributed to ministers at about 8 p.m.
and obtained by  Bloomberg News , would require EU national
authorities to follow a strict formula for imposing losses on
private-sector creditors of 8 percent of a bank’s liabilities,
after which they could choose how to assign further writedowns.  “In practice, under this proposal capital and subordinated
debt would always be fully wiped out when losses were high
enough,” according to the proposal from Ireland, which holds
the EU’s administrative presidency. Losses on senior creditors
such as bondholders, uninsured corporate depositors and inter-bank lending would depend on the composition of bank balance
sheets.  European leaders are struggling to reassure investors that
they will break the cycle of contagion between banks and
sovereign debt by creating a banking union. Five of the euro
zone’s 17 nations have sought rescues during more than three
years of financial crisis, prompting leaders to call for unified
bank supervision within the currency zone.  The ECB, now slated to take up bank supervision powers next
year, insists that nations need procedures to handle failing
banks -- including financial backstops -- before the transition
takes place.  One track of the talks involves how to allow the U.K. to
pursue separate financing procedures for setting aside funds for
when banks fail. The U.K. already collects crisis-cleanup fees
from its banks and has budget arrangements in place to handle
banking-sector woes.  A proposal that would allow the U.K. to use its own
backstop financing procedures was on the table when ministers
reconvened this evening. The Irish-backed compromise sets out a
list of conditions for deviating from the regulation’s
requirements for nations to set up a standing fund to finance
bank resolution costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Luxembourg at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Luxembourg at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  