-- EU Finance Ministers Sign Off on Anti-VAT-Fraud Plan
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   K a r l   S t a g n o   N a v a r r a
-- 2013-06-21T12:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/eu-finance-ministers-sign-off-on-anti-vat-fraud-plan.html
European Union finance ministers
agreed on a proposal to combat fraud related to value-added
taxes, in a meeting in Luxembourg today.  The plan spells out how and when to allow reverse charges
on VAT, a  consumption tax  usually paid by purchasers. Fraud is a
particular concern for mobile phones, tablet computers, gas,
electricity and cereals and other industrial crops.  EU leaders had called on finance ministers to adopt the
anti-VAT-fraud measures “by the end of June 2013 at the
latest” as part of a  10-point plan  to crack down on  tax
avoidance .  “VAT fraud in  Europe  costs literally billions if not
trillions and action has been awaited for quite a long time now,
and we have got that particular one over the line,” Irish
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  told reporters in Luxembourg
today as the meeting began.  Ten European power and gas groups, including Eurelectric,
Eurogas and London Energy Brokers’ Association, welcomed the
decision, which they say will help prevent further abuse of the
markets for criminal purposes.  “It is now important that all EU member states make
appropriate use of the possibility of applying the reverse-charge mechanism to qualifying electricity and gas transactions
in their national markets in order to actively eradicate VAT
fraud and to prevent significant losses,” they said in a joint
statement.  Tax Fraud  The package approved today includes the possibility of
introducing the reverse-charge mechanism to certain goods at a
national level. The EU already took some regulatory steps to
fight  tax fraud  in the region’s carbon market in 2010, after
reports that some sellers of emission allowances pocketed VAT
collected from buyers and disappeared before submitting the
money to the treasury.  The agreement today will also create a quick reaction
mechanism that will allow immediate measures for a maximum of
one year in case of major fraud attack. That mechanism will
apply until the end of 2018 and any renewal will require further
regulatory approvals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Luxembourg at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Stagno Navarra in Luxembourg at 
 ksnavarra@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  