-- EU Lifts Hungary Budget Monitoring as Orban Prepares for Polls
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-06-21T11:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/eu-lifts-hungary-budget-monitoring-as-orban-prepares-for-polls.html
The European Union granted Hungary
an exit from monitoring for budget offenders after nine years, a
victory for Prime Minister Viktor Orban before next year’s
parliamentary elections.  EU finance ministers voted in favor of releasing Hungary
from the excessive-deficit procedure at a meeting in Luxembourg
today, the EU said in a statement. The decision lifts the threat
of a cut in development funds from the 27-nation bloc.  Orban, who sacrificed  growth  to keep the budget shortfall
within the bloc’s limit of 3 percent of economic output, is
leading political rivals in all opinion polls even after his
backing has waned since he swept to power in 2010. The Cabinet
this week said it will boost corporate taxes in a continuation
of its policy of relying on special industry levies to plug
budget holes.  “This is a major accomplishment of the Fidesz government,
it improves economic fundamentals quite a bit,” Daniel Hewitt,
senior economist at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in  London , said in a telephone
interview yesterday. The Cabinet will keep the budget under
control to avoid being placed back in the monitoring process and
as they “seek larger independence from financial markets and
foreign investors.”  The forint plunged the most in three weeks yesterday,
depreciating 1.6 percent against the euro after Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the Fed may phase out its monetary easing
programs. That pared its gains in the past three months to 2.4
percent, the best performance among 31 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The Hungarian currency gained 0.1 percent to 299.06 per
euro by 1:33 p.m. in Budapest. The yield on the government’s
dollar bonds maturing in 2023 rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point to 6.09 percent.  Orban’s Priority  Orban has made an exit from EU fiscal monitoring a priority
to remove the threat of cuts in funding from the bloc, which
accounts for 95 percent of infrastructure investments.  The Cabinet said this week it will raise taxes on financial
transactions and phone calls and will require banks to pay a 7
percent charge on municipality debt taken over by the state to
keep the budget on track after inflation fell to the lowest
since 1974, cutting tax revenue.  The increases were unexpected after Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  last month announced a 92.9 billion-forint ($410 million)
spending freeze for both this year and next, adding that the
Cabinet is ready to save an additional 80 billion forint next
year to convince the EU that fiscal targets will be met.  ‘Budget Buffer’  The  deficit  will be 2.7 percent of gross domestic product
this year, widening to 2.9 percent in 2014, the European
Commission said before last week’s measures were announced. The
government estimates the gap will be  2.7 percent in each year.  “Special taxes work as a budget buffer and the government
has demonstrated that it’s ready to raise them if need be,”
 Daniel Bebesy , who helps manage $1.5 billion at Budapest Fund
Management, said by phone yesterday. Recently announced fiscal
steps prove that the government will only engage in election
spending to the extent that budget resources allow, he said.  The Cabinet’s reliance on extraordinary industry taxes
contributed to a  recession  last year and has been opposed by the
EU for damaging growth prospects.  The government last year backtracked on a pledge to cut a
bank levy by half and introduced a financial-transaction tax.
The EU and the International Monetary Fund had urged the country
to ease the bank burden to boost growth after squeezing lenders
to bolster the budget.  Orban has argued that the economy will expand more than the
commission’s 0.2 percent forecast, allowing him to keep the
shortfall within the bloc’s limit.  GDP grew 0.7 percent from the previous three months in the
first quarter, expanding for the first time since 2011. The
Cabinet forecasts 0.7 percent growth this year, with Orban
predicting expansion of as much as 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  