-- Europe Stocks Drop for Fourth Day on Greek Government Row
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-06-21T15:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/european-stock-index-futures-little-changed-after-drop.html
European stocks  fell, with the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index posting its biggest weekly decline in 13
months, as Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras lost one of his
two coalition partners and investors weighed the outlook for
Federal Reserve stimulus measures.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  plunged 11 percent as Greek
stocks tumbled the most since October. SAP AG lost 2.7 percent
after U.S. peer Oracle Corp. forecast quarterly profit at the
lower end of analysts’ projections. Groupe Eurotunnel SA slipped
6.5 percent as brokers cuts their ratings on the stock.  The Stoxx 600 fell 1.2 percent to 280.4 at the close of
trading. The equity benchmark retreated 3.7 percent this week,
its fifth weekly decline, and the longest streak of losses in
two years, as the Fed said it may end bond purchases next year
if the economy strengthens in line with forecasts. The gauge has
pared its yearly gain to 0.3 percent.  “The Greek party leaving the coalition today won’t do much
to help uncertainty,” Tobias Britsch, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $34 billion as European equities asset manager at
Meriten Investment Management GmbH, said by phone from
Dusseldorf,  Germany . “I don’t see  Greece  being a problem like
last year. New elections could be a bigger issue. The impact of
reduced Fed liquidity will continue to worry markets.”  In Greece, the Democratic Left party withdrew its ministers
from the coalition government amid disagreement over Samaras’s
decision to close the nation’s public broadcaster. The departure
of the party’s 14 lawmakers would leave the premier with a
parliamentary majority of only three seats.  Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis said he believes
Greece doesn’t need new elections and will support efforts to
keep the country in the euro, according to a statement read out
on Athens-based Skai TV.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes fell in 14 of the 16 western
European markets open today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slipped 0.7
percent and  France ’s CAC 40 lost 1.1 percent, while Germany’s
DAX tumbled 1.8 percent. Greece’s ASE Index slid 6.1 percent,
its biggest loss since October. Markets in Helsinki and
 Stockholm  were closed for the Midsummer’s Eve public holiday.  The volume of shares traded in companies listed on the
Stoxx 600 was 52 percent greater than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In China, benchmark money-market rates tumbled from record
highs after the central bank injected funds to alleviate the
worst cash crunch in at least a decade. The People’s Bank of
China added funds to the financial system via short-term
liquidity operations yesterday, according to Hao Hong, chief
 China  strategist at Bank of Communications Co. in  Hong Kong .  Bank Supervision  European Union finance ministers met today in Luxembourg to
discuss proposals for bank supervision, focusing on laws for the
resolution of failed banks.  The  European Central Bank  probably won’t take over as euro-area bank supervisor until the end of 2014, in part because of
German approval procedures, according to two European officials
who spoke on condition of anonymity. This contrasts with an
initial goal of moving to the new system in March, later pushed
back to July.  National Bank of Greece  fell 11 percent to 3.25 euros,
while bookmaker OPAP SA decreased 5.2 percent to 6.35 euros.  SAP AG declined 2.7 percent to 55.10 euros. Oracle, the
largest maker of  database software , late yesterday posted
quarterly sales that missed estimates and forecast profit for
the current quarter at the lower end of analysts’ projections.  Groupe Eurotunnel (GET) , which operates the tunnel connecting
England and France, dropped 6.5 percent to 5.14 euros, the
lowest price since January 2012, as Natixis and RBC Capital
Markets LLC cut their  ratings  on the stock.  Natixis cited regulatory risk for the company after the
European Commission sent a formal request to France and the U.K.
to comply with EU rules on rail fees.  Danone, which owns the Evian water brand, rallied 2 percent
to 56.23 euros. JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised the stock to
overweight, similar to a buy rating, from neutral, with analyst
Celine Pannuti predicting  earnings-per-share  growth of 10
percent from next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  