-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Drop in 13 Months
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-06-21T16:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-drop-in-13-months.html
European stocks  posted the biggest
weekly slide in 13 months as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the central bank may pare bond purchases, Greek
wrangling threatened to fracture the government and China’s cash
crunch worsened.  BHP Billiton  Ltd. and  Rio Tinto  Group led a  gauge of mining
companies  to the lowest level in almost four years. Saipem SpA
slumped 35 percent after  Italy ’s largest oil and gas engineer
cut its profit forecast. Konecranes Oyj, the Finnish maker of
shipyard and harbor equipment, fell 12 percent after also
trimming its earnings outlook.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index plummeted 3.7 percent
to 280.4 this week as all 19 industry groups dropped. The gauge
has declined for five straight weeks, the longest streak of
losses since June 2011. It has retreated 9.7 percent since May
22 after Bernanke said the Fed could start to reduce
quantitative easing if the  U.S. economy  improves sustainably.  “The market was facing the cold turkey of less QE steroids
and the result was a panic attack,” said Lorne Baring, who
helps oversee about $500 million as managing director of B
Capital SA in Geneva. “The result will be investors pushed back
to looking at equity fundamentals instead of the central bank QE
programs, which have been distorting markets.”  The Fed may “moderate” the pace of its $85 billion a
month in bond purchases later this year and could end them in
mid-2014 if the U.S. economy and labor market improve as
forecast, Bernanke said on June 19.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on benchmark 10-year
Treasuries climbed to 2.5 percent for the first time since 2011.  Volatility Jumps  The VStoxx Index, which measures the cost of using options
to hedge against swings in the Euro Stoxx 50, rallied 13 percent
to 24.05, the highest since February.  In  China , benchmark money-market rates climbed to records
yesterday as the People’s Bank of China refrained from using
reverse-repurchase agreements to address a cash crunch. The
seven-day repurchase rate rose 2.7 percentage points to 10.77
percent, the highest in data going back to March 2003.  As interbank borrowing costs surged, a report showed
China’s manufacturing is shrinking at a faster pace this month.
The preliminary reading of 48.3 for a purchasing managers’ index
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics compared with
the 49.1 median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
May’s final reading of 49.2 was the first below 50 since
October, indicating contraction.  Democratic Left  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras lost one of his two
coalition partners as the Democratic Left party’s ministers quit
over his closure of state broadcaster ERT, sparking concern
about the government’s stability. Without the 14 lawmakers from
Democratic Left, the alliance between Samaras’s New Democracy
and the Socialist Pasok party would control just 153 seats in
the 300-seat parliament.  “It feels like everyone is packing up everything they
can,” said Luis Benguerel, a trader at Interbrokers in
Barcelona. “People just want out. We’ve spent years patching up
holes in China rather than reforming that economy. One day it
will just blow up. And the last thing we need is a resumption of
the sovereign risk in Europe.”  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets this week, except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
dropped 3.1 percent,  France ’s CAC 40 lost 3.9 percent.  Germany ’s
 DAX Index (DAX)  declined 4.2 percent, the biggest slide in a year.
 Greece ’s ASE plunged 9.7 percent.  Miners, Automakers  Gauges of  resources stocks and automakers  tumbled the most
of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600. BHP Billiton and Rio
Tinto, the world’s biggest mining companies, retreated 6.3
percent and 4 percent, respectively.  Randgold Resources Ltd., a producer of the precious metal
in  Africa , and Fresnillo Plc, the world’s biggest primary silver
producer, each tumbled the most since 2008. The shares sank 14
percent and 17 percent, respectively, as gold and silver touched
the lowest levels since 2010.  PSA Peugeot Citroen, France’s biggest carmaker, declined 12
percent and Daimler AG lost 8.7 percent.  Saipem slumped 35 percent. The oil and gas engineer reduced
a forecast for earnings before interest and tax this year by as
much as 750 million euros, saying that it won’t be able to
recover rising costs for Algerian projects as talks with client
Sonatrach have failed.  Konecranes fell 12 percent after saying full-year operating
profit excluding restructuring costs will reach last year’s
level instead of improving.  Imtech, Nokia  Royal Imtech (IM)  NV slid 29 percent, the biggest drop in four
months. The Dutch infrastructure provider reported a first-quarter net loss of 59.6 million euros ($78.2 million), citing
the costs of a probe into fraudulent actions in Poland and
Germany as a primary cause.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  rallied 8.9 percent after the Wall Street Journal
reported the company held talks to sell its mobile-phone
business to Microsoft Corp. The discussions failed amid concern
over the price and Nokia’s market share, the newspaper said,
citing people familiar with the matter.  The Financial Times reported that China’s Huawei
Technologies Co. may be interested in buying Nokia. Huawei said
it has no plans to acquire the company.  Celesio AG rose 6 percent as people familiar with the
matter said the German pharmaceutical retailer held talks with
CVS Caremark Corp. on a possible collaboration, including a
potential acquisition. Manager Magazin reported that CVS
Caremark is prepared to buy Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH’s 50.01
percent stake in the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  