-- Evonik Said to Hire Boston Consulting to Boost Coatings Growth
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-06-21T09:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/evonik-said-to-hire-boston-consulting-to-boost-coatings-growth.html
Evonik Industries AG (EVK) , whose shares
have dropped 17 percent since its April initial public offering,
hired Boston Consulting Group Inc. to boost growth at its
coatings and additives business, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  Boston Consulting’s remit includes determining which
markets offer the best growth potential and improving cross-divisional cooperation, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as details of the project are private.  Evonik spokeswoman Alexandra Boy said that a global growth
strategy for the unit is being put together and that the Essen,
Germany-based company brings in external parties when required.
The project is not a restructuring program, she said. Boston
Consulting spokeswoman Tanja Nickels declined to comment.  Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Engel  is exiting Evonik’s
real-estate and energy businesses to focus on specialty
chemicals products used in areas such as cosmetics and plastics.
He said on May 8 that he has earmarked a mid-three-digit-million
sum for bolt-on acquisitions after owners  CVC Capital Partners 
and RAG-Stiftung sold 14.5 percent of their stake in the IPO.  The coatings and additives division produces polymers for
improving the weather resistance and color fastness of paints,
as well as ingredients for adhesives, sealants and engine
lubricants. The unit’s 2012 sales dropped 5 percent to 1.66
billion euros ($2.2 billion), representing 12 percent of total
revenue, after Evonik sold its colorants business.  Higher-Margin Additives  Engel is prioritizing higher-margin additives such as
resins rather than expanding into less-profitable binders, color
schemes and raw-material titanium dioxide, one of the people
said.  Other European coating companies include Amsterdam-based  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  and Ludwigshafen, Germany-based  BASF SE. (BAS)   Evonik, a candidate to join the benchmark DAX index when
enough shares are freely traded, today declined 1.2 percent to
26.51 euros in Frankfurt trading, valuing the company at 12.4
billion euros. Its 17 percent decline since the April IPO
compares to a 4.5 percent gain of the DAX.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  