-- Lewis Lapham: Was Lucrezia Borgia Slut, Killer? Maybe Not
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2013-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/lewis-lapham-was-lucrezia-borgia-slut-killer-maybe-not.html
She was a stunning blonde with
splendid breasts. She had a fabled ring, filled with poison,
which she used liberally. She was the incestuous lover of both
father and brother. These are among the legends that surround
Lucrezia Borgia.  (To listen to the podcast, click here.)  Even as a child, Lucrezia was used to advance the powerful
ambitions of the family. She was betrothed to two men before
being wedded at 13 to Giovanni Sforza in 1493.  When an alliance with the Sforza family became less useful,
the Borgias explored ways of ending the marriage, settling on
the claim that it was unconsummated owing to Giovanni’s
impotence.  Though he ultimately signed the documents, Giovanni
defended himself by accusing the Borgias -- including Pope
Alexander VI -- of wanting Lucrezia sexually for themselves.  According to G.J. Meyer, author of “The Borgias: The Hidden
History,” thus was born the legend of Lucrezia as an incestuous
vixen.  Meyer notes that at the time of her final separation from
Giovanni, she was a fun-loving 17-year-old. He also points out
that many of the long-accepted stories about the clan’s
unmitigated evil were creations of their worst enemies,
unsupported by fact.  I spoke with him on the following topics:  1. Spanish Nobles  2. Machiavelli’s “Prince”  3. Lucrezia’s Marriages  4. Blackening of Name  5. Borgia Dynasty  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for  Bloomberg News .)  Muse highlights include Zinta Lundborg on NYC  Weekend  and
 Greg Evans  on  movies .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in  New York  at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 