-- Ex-EA Madden Programmer Wins Verdict on Timing of Lawsuit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-06-21T22:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/ex-ea-madden-programmer-wins-verdict-on-timing-of-fraud-lawsuit.html
A former  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) 
programmer who wrote code for the earliest versions of the
company’s “Madden NFL” video game proved he didn’t know before
2005 that EA allegedly used his work on later Madden games, a
jury found.  The verdict in the first phase of a trial in federal court
in San Francisco will allow the jury to consider whether EA used
ex-programmer Robin Antonick’s source code without his knowledge
or consent and owes him millions of dollars in royalties, said
Stuart Paynter, his attorney.  Antonick is seeking compensatory damages of about $16
million and almost $200 million from EA’s pre-1996 game profits,
said Paynter. Damages for post-1996 games could be hundreds of
millions of dollars, he said.  “We are grateful that the jury saw though EA’s misleading
arguments and we look forward to recovering the maximum amount
the law allows for Mr. Antonick,” Paynter said in an e-mail.  EA has sold more than 85 million copies of the software,
resulting in revenue of more than $4 billion.  “While we’re disappointed that the trial will proceed, we
are confident that we will prevail on the merits once the
evidence is presented,” John Reseburg, an EA spokesman, said in
an e-mail.  Later Versions  EA attorney Susan Harriman told jurors June 17 that the
company didn’t use Antonick’s code to develop later versions of
Madden, and that Antonick waited too long to file a lawsuit.  Antonick claimed he didn’t realize until 2009 that EA used
his code. If he had known before 2005, the statute of
limitations, or deadline for filing his fraud and breach-of-contract lawsuit, would have expired.  The trial will resume July 1. Antonick is the chief
executive officer of MicroDonors Inc., a Boston company, and is
the former chief Web officer of the Christian Science Monitor
newspaper, according to his LinkedIn profile.  The case is Antonick v. Electronic Arts Inc., 11-cv-01543,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  