-- Exercise Turns Bad Fat to Good in Study Finding Benefits
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-06-21T21:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/exercise-turns-bad-fat-to-good-in-study-finding-benefits.html
Exercise can turn bad white fat into
its healthier, calorie-burning  brown  version, and may help keep
diabetes at bay, according to research.  Men who trained for 12 weeks on an exercise bicycle showed
a browning of their subcutaneous white adipose tissue in a study
presented today at the  American Diabetes Association  meeting in
Chicago. In a separate study in mice, brown fat was linked with
better glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity, suggesting the
substance may play a role in preventing diabetes.  The results build on earlier studies showing brown fat,
previously thought to be active only in babies and children,
contains calorie-burning properties and may help protect against
age-related weight gain. Today’s study also suggests that
exercise is beneficial even if it doesn’t result in  weight loss ,
researchers said.  “Our results showed that exercise doesn’t just have
beneficial effects on muscle, it also affects fat,” Kristin
Stanford, a postdoctoral fellow at  Joslin Diabetes Center  in
Lanham,  Maryland , said in a statement. “It’s clear that when
fat gets trained, it becomes browner and more metabolically
active. We think there are factors being released into the
bloodstream from the healthier fat that are working on other
tissues.”  To determine brown fat’s metabolic effects, researchers
transplanted fat from mice that ran on an exercise wheel for 11
days into sedentary, high-fat mice, and saw improvements that
lasted for at least 12 weeks. The fat that was more brown was
associated with better body composition, a reduction in fat mass
and improved insulin sensitivity and glucose uptake in mice.
Those effects in humans weren’t determined.  The studies were funded by the American Diabetes
Association and the  National Institutes of Health . The trial in
humans comprised 10 healthy men.  “Our work provides greater motivation than ever to get out
there and exercise,” Stanford said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  