-- Mexico Peso Posts Biggest Weekly Drop Since ’08 as Bonds Sink
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-06-21T21:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/mexico-peso-heads-to-biggest-weekly-drop-since-08-as-bonds-sink.html
Mexico’s peso posted its worst
weekly slump since the global financial crisis in 2008 as
speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will pare back monetary
stimulus damped demand for the Latin American nation’s assets.  The currency fell 4.5 percent this week to 13.3050 per  U.S.
dollar  at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, the biggest weekly decline
since November 2008. It recovered 0.5 percent today. Yields on
peso bonds due in 2024 rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 6.02 percent, pushing this week’s surge to
83 basis points.  Foreign investors, who had been buying Mexican peso bonds
as an alternative to near-zero  interest rates  in developed
countries, have been selling the securities as the Fed prepares
to scale back its bond-buying program. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 that policy makers could end the $85
billion in monthly bond purchases if economic risks in the U.S.,
Mexico’s biggest trading partner, abate.  “All the movement that we’ve seen is attributable to this
uncertainty that’s come about in the past month and that with
the message of the Fed has become clearer,”  Rafael Camarena , an
economist at Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB in Mexico
City, said in a telephone interview. “We should be thinking
that this is the end of an extremely accommodative monetary
policy cycle and that going ahead we should see a cycle of
normalization.”  Bernanke will cut the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases by $20 billion at the Sept. 17-18 policy meeting,
according to 44 percent of economists in a Bloomberg survey
released yesterday. That compares with just 27 percent who said
policy makers would start tapering in September in a June 4-5
poll.  Mexico’s central bankers were unanimous in their June 7
decision to hold the target lending rate at 4 percent, according
to minutes of their meeting released today. One policy maker
said investors had overreacted to the possible end of the Fed’s
bond-buying program, according to the minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  