-- Fairfax Financial Bets on Greece After Irish Investment Pays Off
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-06-21T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/fairfax-financial-bets-on-greece-after-irish-investment-pays-off.html
Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) ,
which has seen its 2011 investment in Ireland’s biggest bank
jump about 50 percent, is now focusing on Greece, betting that
the worst has passed for the recession-battered nation.  “In terms of the economy, the last four or five years have
been very tough for Greece,” Fairfax Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Prem Watsa  said in a June 19 telephone
interview. “The economy has come down very significantly,
unemployment is high. But on the other hand, we think that
perhaps a bottom has been reached.”  Fairfax said on Wednesday that it will invest about 164
million euros ($217 million) in  Eurobank Properties Real Estate
Investment Co. (EUPRO)  as part of a share capital increase, bringing the
Toronto-based firm’s stake in the Greek property company to 42
percent from 19 percent.  Watsa said Eurobank Properties is raising money at the
right time to take advantage of a “lot of opportunities in
Greece.” The country’s state-asset sales program, which
includes a large real estate portfolio, has the potential to
generate “significant growth” from private investors.  “We think that the prospects in Greece for Eurobank
Properties will be very significant in the next five years,
perhaps the next 10 years,” he said, without giving any
forecasts.  Eurobank Rally  Shares in Eurobank Properties have more than doubled since
falling to a low in June 2012, when the Athens Stock Exchange
General Index tumbled as inconclusive elections stoked fears
about a possible euro exit for the Mediterranean country. The
 ASE (ASE)  has since gained 56 percent.  Greece is now in its sixth year of recession, with
unemployment at 27 percent as it fired state workers, cut
pensions and wages, and raised taxes. The economy has shrunk by
about a fifth since 2008. The European Commission forecast gross
domestic product will contract 4.2 percent this year.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras has vowed to meet budget-cut
targets, implement structural reforms and speed up state-asset
sales to satisfy the conditions of a 240 billion euro loan
agreement with the euro area and  International Monetary Fund .  The yield on Greece’s 10-year bond stood at 10.66 percent
yesterday, down from 27.21 percent on June 25, 2012.  “ Greece  as a country is on a long road of stability and
growth from the very difficult times that it’s gone through,”
Watsa said.“ We think the Greek people have really had
tremendous hardship in the last few years but we do believe it’s
now perhaps at the end of the tunnel and that its worst days are
behind it.”  Greece, Ireland  Fairfax Financial also holds a 7.7 stake in  Sarantis SA (SAR) , a
distributor of cosmetics and household goods and a 5.4 percent
stake in  Jumbo SA (BELA) , Greece’s biggest toy and baby products
retailer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In July 2011, Fairfax Financial, WL Ross & Co., and
 Fidelity Investments  were among five institutions buying a
combined 34.9 percent stake in  Bank of Ireland (BKIR)  from the
government. Fairfax Financial holds a 9.9 percent stake in the
country’s largest bank, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The shares have risen about 50 percent since the deal was
announced.  Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  is aiming to exit the
country’s three-year international bailout on time at the end of
the year, with the Finance Ministry forecasting economic growth
of  1.3 percent this year and 2.4 percent in 2014.  “When we made our investment, the 10-year Irish bond rates
were running at 13, 14 percent,” Watsa said. “Eighteen months
later they dropped to 4 percent. A huge amount of foreign
investment now has come back into Ireland. It wasn’t at the
time. So we see the same type of activity happening in Greece.”  Buffett Model  Watsa, who was born in Hyderabad,  India , in 1950, founded
Fairfax Financial in 1985, modeling his management style after
 Warren Buffett , who buys the assets of out-of-favor securities.
Fairfax Financial almost doubled its stake in Research In Motion
Ltd. last July to 9.9 percent, making it the biggest investor in
the company now known as Blackberry.  In the 27 years the financial services holding company has
been operating, it has generated compound annual growth in book
value per share of 23 percent, according to a 2012 financial
report on its website. In 2012, book value per share grew by 6.5
percent “because of our very cautious view of financial
markets,” the company said. Common shareholders’ equity stood
at $7.7 billion at end of 2012.  When asked about threats of political instability in Greece
and the possibility of euro exit fears rekindling, Watsa cited
his experience in Ireland.  “We always look at the possibilities,” he said. “When we
invested in Ireland many people asked us why we put money into
Ireland at the time. We try to understand the facts, we try to
understand the company, we understand the people and we make our
own decisions so we’ve done that in this case and I must say
over the long term, we’re very excited about the prospects for
Greece.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  