-- Fiat Said Able to Triple Chrysler Payout After Funding
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2013-06-21T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/fiat-said-able-to-triple-chrysler-payout-after-funding.html
Fiat SpA (F)  stands to earn three times
as much from a Chrysler Group LLC dividend this year after the
U.S. carmaker refinanced debt and changed the terms attached to
the funding, people familiar with the matter said.  The new debt covenants place lower restrictions on the size
of the dividend Fiat can collect from Chrysler, which the
Italian company controls with a 58.5 percent stake, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the details have
not been announced. Fiat for 2013 may collect $936 million as a
result of the changes, up from a maximum of about $300 million
under the old terms. Chrysler and Fiat declined to comment.  Chrysler closed on the refinancing this week of $3 billion
that it borrowed in 2011 to repay loans from the U.S. and
Canadian governments given during the automaker’s 2009 bailout.  With the refinancing, Sergio Marchionne, chief executive
officer of both automakers, has taken another step in merging
the two into one trans-Atlantic carmaker. The move will also aid
the struggling Italian automaker since Chrysler has become the
group’s profit driver. Fiat reached a separate agreement
yesterday to refinance 2 billion euros ($2.62 billion) of its
debt.  Chrysler said in a statement yesterday its refinancing will
reduce annual interest costs of the term loan by about $50
million. The company also said “certain loan covenants” were
amended, without providing specifics. Investors received a one-time call premium of $29.5 million, according to the statement.  Under the new debt covenants at Chrysler, the automaker can
pay its owners, which are Fiat and the United Auto Workers
retiree health-care trust, a dividend of 50 percent of net
income, plus a one-time payment of $500 million in cash, the
people said.  Bigger Payout  Chrysler, based in Auburn Hills,  Michigan , is targeting  net
income  of $2.2 billion for this year. If the American
manufacturer awards its maximum dividend, plus the $500 million,
it would pay out $1.6 billion for 2013, one of the people said.  With its majority stake, Fiat could collect $936 million.
The UAW trust would get the rest. Chrysler’s board would have to
approve the dividend. The current debt has a covenant
restricting Chrysler’s dividend to Turin-based Fiat and the UAW
trust at $500 million.  The new debt covenants also waive a minimum cash balance
and cash flow requirement needed to pay a dividend. Since the
dividend is based on profit, Chrysler would only pay out money
if the company is profitable. The covenants were changed with
the refinancing of the debt to match similar terms to other
Chrysler debt instruments, the people said.  Marchionne’s Goal  The company may not elect to pay a dividend until after
Fiat buys the remaining ownership stake from the UAW trust, one
of the people said. If Marchionne waits to pay the dividend
until after a deal is struck with the trust, he would
consolidate cash within the Fiat and Chrysler coffers.  Marchionne, 61, has spent the past four years working to
unify Fiat and Chrysler so they can better compete with  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   First, he has to buy the rest of Chrysler from the union’s
retiree health-care trust. Marchionne said this month that Fiat
was in talks with the trust about buying its stake and is
seeking to complete a deal before a potential Chrysler initial
public offering requested by the trust is held. Marchionne said
that talks with the trust are “fundamentally” about price.  Last year, Fiat asked Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons to rule that a call-option agreement covering some
shares held by the union’s trust are worth $139.7 million. The
trust puts the value as high as $342 million. A decision, either
valuing the shares or forcing a trial, could come as soon as
next month, although there’s no solid deadline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  