-- Flybe Doubles Cost-Cut Goal as Full-Year Loss More Than Triples
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-06-21T08:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/flybe-doubles-cost-cut-goal-as-full-year-loss-more-than-triples.html
Flybe Group Plc (FLYB) ,  Europe ’s largest
independent regional airline, raised its targets for cost
reductions this year and next after its loss in the 12 months
through March more than tripled.  The company plans to save 40 million pounds ($62 million)
in the current fiscal year and 50 million pounds in fiscal 2015,
up from an earlier target of 25 million pounds, the Exeter,
England-based airline said today in a statement. The  shares 
gained as much as 9.7 percent, the most in more than a month,
and were up 7.9 percent at 44.5 pence by 9:02 a.m. in London.  Flybe has started a turnaround plan to cut costs and
improve its balance sheet amid reduced demand and high fuel
prices. It sold takeoff and landing slots at London’s Gatwick
airport to Europe’s second-largest discount carrier  Easyjet Plc (EZJ) 
for 20 million pounds and is delaying an order for new planes
from Brazilian manufacturer  Embraer SA. (EMBR3)  The airline has also
renegotiated pay terms with pilots to improve its financial
position.  “We have streamlined the business, reducing U.K.-based
headcount by more than 20 percent,” Jim French, Flybe’s
chairman and chief executive, said in the statement. The carrier
is making “major progress” in its recovery plan after
“disappointing” earnings, he said.  Flybe made an adjusted pretax loss of 23.2 million pounds
for the 12 months through March, compared with a 7.1 million
pound loss a year earlier, the company said. Full-year sales
rose 15 percent to 782 million pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  