-- Geothermal Power Tanzania Plans First Steam Generation Next Year
-- B y   S a r a   J e r v i n g
-- 2013-06-21T07:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/geothermal-power-tanzania-plans-first-steam-generation-next-year.html
Geothermal Power Tanzania Ltd. plans
to invest as much as $350 million to drill steam fields in the
country’s south and build its first geothermal plants with the
capacity to generate up to 140 megawatts by 2018.  The company began drilling two wells in Tanzania’s
southwestern Mbeya region this year and found there’s potential
to create power from steam within at least two systems in the
area, Chairman Graeme Robertson said in an interview today.  Tanzania, which doesn’t currently produce any geothermal
energy, lies in the same Rift Valley fault system as  Kenya ,
 Africa ’s biggest geothermal-power producer with an estimated
untapped resource of as much as 10,000 megawatts. Geothermal
energy harnesses steam and hot water from underground to power
turbines in facilities that generate electricity.  “In Kenya, it has taken about 20 to 30 years to develop
geothermal power into actual power generation,” Robertson said
by phone from Mauritius’s capital,  Port Louis . “Tanzania is
endeavoring to fast track geothermal development.”  Recurring power outages and unreliable electricity supplies
are hurdles to growth in East Africa’s second-biggest economy,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . Tanzania is trying
to increase renewable energy supplies and reduce its reliance on
rain-dependent hydro power as it targets electricity-generation
capacity of 1,722 megawatts by 2015 from 1,064 megawatts in
2010, according the Washington-based lender.  Changing Climates  “The country is facing a lot of drought because of  climate
change , which means we need an energy mix so we are not so
dependent on hydro power and non-renewable,” Jacob Mayalla, a
principal geologist at the Ministry of Energy, said yesterday in
an interview in the commercial hub,  Dar es Salaam .  Geothermal Power, which has six prospecting licenses in
Tanzania, may initially install a wellhead generator to provide
2 megawatts of power by the middle of next year. So-called
wellhead generators produce power once steam fields are ready,
much quicker than awaiting construction of full-fledged plants.  The company then plans to deploy generations units capable
of producing 5 megawatts to 10 megawatts within two years and
eventually 25-megawatt units, Robertson said. “The actual
potential will depended on the flow rates,” he said.  Geothermal Power is exploring options to raise funds
including approaching development lenders such as the  World Bank 
and  African Development Bank , Robertson said.  Geothermal Power Tanzania Ltd. is 70 percent  owned  and
managed by Mauritius-based Geothermal Power Ltd. The rest is
held by Tanzania’s National Development Corp. and Interstate
Mining & Minerals Ltd. in Tanzania, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Jerving in Nairobi at 
 sjerving@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  