-- Germany Trims Deficit Plan in Merkel’s Pursuit of Budget Balance
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-06-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/germany-trims-deficit-plan-in-merkel-s-pursuit-of-budget-balance.html
Germany trimmed next year’s federal
budget-deficit forecast by another 0.2 billion euros ($0.3
billion) compared with the government’s projection in March,
according to a Finance Ministry document.  The revised budget outline, given to reporters by ministry
officials in Berlin yesterday, reaffirms Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s goal of a “structurally” balanced budget next year
and no new debt in 2015, part of her effort to set an example of
fiscal discipline for the euro region. The federal government of
 Europe’s biggest economy  will probably post a structural surplus
of about 2.2 billion euros in 2014, the document shows.  Next year’s projected net new borrowing of 6.2 billion
euros compares with deficit projections of 6.4 billion euros in
the March medium-term  budget outline  and 13.1 billion euros last
November. The Finance Ministry plan would reduce the deficit
mostly by trimming spending.  Interest payments on the national debt were projected to
decline by 5.2 billion euros next year as  Germany  benefits from
record-low borrowing costs, reflecting its haven status as the
recession in the  euro area  extended to a record sixth quarter.  An 8 billion-euro bill for floods that engulfed Germany
this month will be added to the 2013 budget, according to the
document, which projects an average annual increase in German
government spending of 1.4 percent between 2015 and 2017.  Federal funding for Merkel’s plan to phase out nuclear
power and further boost renewable energy will increase by 650
million euros next year to compensate for a lack of revenue from
carbon-permit trading, according to the document.  The Finance Ministry data are the basis for spending plans
that the German government submits to lawmakers. Merkel’s
Cabinet will take up the budget plan on June 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  