-- Germany’s DAX Index Advances Amid Triple Witching
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-06-21T08:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/germany-s-dax-index-advances-amid-triple-witching.html
German stocks  gained, as the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  pared its third weekly loss, amid expiry of
European equity-related options and futures contracts.  SAP AG (SAP)  dropped 1.6 percent after Oracle Corp., the largest
maker of  database software , reported quarterly sales that missed
estimates.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  rose 1.9 percent after Goldman Sachs Inc.
advised investors to buy the shares.  The DAX Index added 0.3 percent to 7,952.66 at 10:33 a.m.
in Frankfurt. The equity benchmark is still heading for a 2.2
percent drop this week as investors prepared for a potential
paring of stimulus later this by the Federal Reserve. The gauge
is on track for its fourth consecutive quarterly advance. The
broader HDAX Index also increased 0.3 percent today.  “Triple Witching will be the key point today.” Soeren Steinert, who helps manage about $24 billion as associate
director for equities trading at Quoniam Asset Management GmbH
in  Frankfurt , wrote in an e-mail.  Stocks may have bigger swings than usual today as European
futures and options contracts expire in a process known as
witching.  SAP, the largest maker of business-management software,
dropped 1.6 percent to 55.70 euros. Oracle fell in U.S. trading
after posting sales below estimates as customers shifted
spending to rivals’ business tools delivered via the Web.  Merck KGaA, the German maker of cancer drug Erbitux, fell
1.6 percent to 121.15 euros after Goldman Sachs gave the stock a
sell rating in new coverage.  Bayer AG added 1.9 percent to 82.12 euros as Goldman Sachs
upgraded the shares to buy from neutral. The potential for
growth and returns improvement at the German drugmaker are still
under-appreciated, Goldman said in a note.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest supplier of auto
parts and OC Oerlikon, rose 1.2 percent to 99 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  