-- Greece’s Coalition Government Teeters Over Broadcaster Spat
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n ,   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2013-06-21T08:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/greece-s-coalition-government-teeters-over-broadcaster-impasse.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
may lose a coalition partner over his closure of the country’s
state broadcaster ERT, heightening concern about his
government’s stability.  Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis met with his
lawmakers this morning in  Athens  to decide whether to withdraw
from the government. He condemned Samaras yesterday for defying
a court ruling to reopen ERT, which Samaras shut down without
consultation on June 11. Kouvelis insisted on ERT reopening with
all 2,600 employees while Samaras’s other coalition partner,
Pasok party leader  Evangelos Venizelos , accepted a proposal by
Samaras for fewer workers.  “Today we close one year of government and three years
remain -- which we should complete for the sake of the Greek
people,” Samaras said in an address to the nation on Mega TV
after meeting with his coalition partners. “Kouvelis wants us
to return to a shameful status quo with excess workers where
nothing is changed and where there’s no hope that one day
something will change at ERT.”  The departure of Democratic Left and its 14 lawmakers from
the government would still leave Samaras with a parliamentary
majority. His New Democracy and Pasok deputies give him 153
seats in the 300-seat legislature. Samaras needs to be able to
convince the euro area and  International Monetary Fund  that he
has the broad support needed to pass the structural reforms and
budget cuts that are a condition for the country’s 240 billion
euros ($317 billion) of bailout loans.  Greek 10-year government bonds fell for a third day,
pushing the yield up 74 basis points to 11.4 percent at 9:04
a.m. London time, the highest level since April 29. The
benchmark Athens general index declined a third day, losing as
much as 1 percent at the start of trading.  A departure by Kouvelis’s Democratic Left would require
Samaras to replace that party’s ministers in the Cabinet,
precipitating a reshuffle that may include more lawmakers from
Pasok. Samaras doesn’t need to seek a vote of confidence from
Parliament unless he requests one or one is submitted by the
main opposition party, Syriza.  Even without Kouvelis, Samaras might be able to count on
support from some independent lawmakers.  “It’s not a political crisis, it’s turbulence,” Finance
Minister Yannis Stournaras told reporters in  Luxembourg  last
night after a meeting of euro-area finance ministers. “It’ll
pass.”  Venizelos said the government must re-establish the basis
of its cooperation without “surprises” and unilateral actions.
While Venizelos has criticized Samaras’s actions over ERT, he
reiterated last night that the country should avoid early
elections and that the government should serve the remainder of
its term.  With opinion polls showing Samaras only just ahead of anti-bailout party Syriza, and Pasok likely to win less than the 12
percent share the group gained in the June 2012 vote, a new
round of elections could lead to renewed turmoil.  Samaras shut down ERT even as his coalition partners
objected, saying he will replace it with a “modern” operation
employing fewer people. The move was necessary to allow  Greece 
to meet lender targets for public-sector job cuts, he said. The
decision was enacted by legislative act, sidestepping
Parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  