-- Ibovespa Futures Decline as Brazil Inflation Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-06-21T12:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/ibovespa-futures-decline-as-brazil-inflation-exceeds-estimates.html
Ibovespa  futures  dropped, a sign the
stock gauge may add to a weekly decline, as a report showing
 Brazil ’s consumer prices increased more than forecast added to
concern that inflation will sap the economic recovery.  Phone company Oi SA may be active after saying Chief
Financial Officer Alex Zornig and Chief Operating Officer James
Meaney have left the company. Iron-ore producer Vale SA may move
as metals advanced after money-market rates fell from record
highs in  China , the company’s main export market.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in August lost 0.5
percent to 48,080 at 9:31 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real dropped
for a sixth day, depreciating 0.2 percent to 2.2624 per dollar.  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA-15  price index ,
rose 0.38 percent in the month through mid-June, the national
statistics agency said today. The median forecast of  economists 
surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 0.36 percent.  Bonds, stocks and commodities fell around the world
yesterday after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
this week that the U.S. central bank may start reducing bond
purchases this year and end the program in 2014 should risks to
the  U.S. economy  abate.  The Ibovespa slumped into a bear market last week after
falling more than 20 percent from this year’s peak on Jan. 3,
and has since extended those losses to 24 percent. Brazil’s
benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.6 times analysts’  earnings
estimates  for the next four quarters, compared with 9.7 for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Foreign investors have pulled 5.55 billion reais from  Latin
America ’s largest equity market this month through June 17, data
from the exchange show. Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo 
was 12.2 billion reais yesterday, compared with a daily average
of 7.86 billion reais this year through June 18, according to
data  compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  