-- Jakarta Calm After Subsidized Fuel Prices Are Increased
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-06-22T12:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/indonesia-raises-subsidized-fuel-prices-amid-riots.html
The streets of  Indonesia ’s capital
Jakarta were quiet today after the government raised fuel prices
for the first time since 2008, compared with earlier this week
when protests erupted across the country.  The price of subsidized gasoline was increased by 44
percent to 6,500 rupiah ($0.65) a liter, while diesel is 22
percent higher at 5,500 rupiah a liter, Energy and Mineral
Resources Minister Jero Wacik said June 21 in a press briefing
in Jakarta. The changes are effective today.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s administration raised
prices to cut subsidy costs and boost confidence in the rupiah,
in a country where riots spurred by soaring living costs helped
oust dictator Suharto in 1998. Curbing energy subsidies could
reduce demand for oil imports, which have led to trade and
current-account deficits and contributed to the rupiah being one
of the worst performing currencies in  Asia  in the past year.  “We need to take steps to boost our economy,”
Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said at the
briefing. “In line with the revised state budget, the
government is taking the step of adjusting fuel prices,
realizing that this will affect inflation and people’s
purchasing power.”  Some Jakarta residents were thinking about how to save
money in other areas to compensate for higher fuel prices.  Supraman, 32, the owner and deliveryman of a bakery in
Hayam Wuruk, western Jakarta, uses a motorbike to deliver bread
filled with chocolate, coconut, cheese and minced meat made by
his wife that cost 12,000 rupiah each to a few restaurants in
the area. He said delivery makes up about 20% of his cost but he
doesn’t charge a service fee to his customers.  ‘More Expensive’  “What will happen is everything will get more expensive,”
Supraman, who uses one name, said in an interview. “Food,
clothes, everything gets somewhere using fuel so the prices of
everything will definitely rise. We aren’t increasing our prices
yet because we don’t want to shock our customers.”  Supraman said he and his wife are thinking about ways
maintain a profit without increasing prices.  “We have to do what we can to live,” he said. We will
probably find a way to cut costs somewhere; I don’t want to
raise prices so suddenly. Maybe we will reduce the filling a
little or make the bread a little smaller, I don’t know. We have
to think about it.’’  Consumer prices  rose 5.47 percent in May, with the pace of
gains slowing for a second month. The government predicts
inflation will quicken to 7.2 percent this year from an initial
estimate of 4.9 percent as a result of higher fuel prices.  Trade Balance  The fuel-price increase will strengthen the nation’s
currency and the  trade balance  as petroleum imports fall, while
removing the incentive for smugglers to sell subsidized fuel
abroad, Finance Minister Chatib Basri said in an interview June
19. Indonesia, an energy producer, is a net importer of oil and
until December 2008 was Asia’s only member of the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Subsidized gasoline and diesel were previously set at 4,500
rupiah a liter. The world’s fourth-most populous nation last
increased fuel prices on May 24, 2008. Indonesia also raised
prices twice in 2005, according to Basri.  The rupiah declined for a sixth week as of yesterday,
losing 0.6 percent to 9,930 per dollar, prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg show. It traded at a 4 percent premium to
one-month non-deliverable forwards, which slid 2.8 percent to
10,345, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Indonesian policy makers have struggled to contain the
rupiah’s decline, with the country’s currency reserves dropping
as the central bank sold dollars.  Rating Outlook  Yudhoyono had put off raising  fuel prices  since protests
derailed a planned increase last year. There were demonstrations
this week as lawmakers voted in favor of a compensation program
that the president made a precondition for raising fuel prices.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating outlook on Indonesia’s
debt to stable from positive in May, saying a stalling of reform
momentum and a weaker external profile had reduced the chance of
an upgrade over the next 12 months.  The government estimates that energy subsidies would have
ballooned to $30 billion this year if left unchanged, eating up
funds that could instead be spent on benefits for the poor or
infrastructure projects. Policy makers allocated 27.9 trillion
rupiah in compensation in the revised 2013 budget approved by
Parliament June 17.  “The retail fuel price hike definitely represents a step
in the right direction from a reform perspective,” Deyi Tan, a
Singapore-based economist at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a June 18
report after Parliament approved the revised budget. “However,
it will come with the short-term pain of higher inflation and
higher policy rates.”  The government is in an early stage of studying a new fuel
subsidy system, Minister Basri said yesterday. Among the options
being considered is to peg the subsidies at a certain amount
above which fuel prices will follow an index, he said, without
elaborating. Another option would be to make monthly price
adjustments, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  