-- Minsky Moment Alarm Sounded in China: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-06-21T09:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/minsky-moment-alarm-sounded-in-china-cutting-research-correct-.html
(Corrects debt service ratio in fifth paragraph. Sign up to
receive Cutting Research stories: SALT CUTTING)  China may be approaching a “Minsky
moment” -- a sudden fall in asset values bloated by credit.  Credit growth in the world’s most populous country has
outstripped economic expansion for five quarters, raising the
question of where the money has gone,  Societe Generale SA (GLE) 
economist Yao Wei wrote in two recent reports. In the first
quarter, for example, bank loans, shadow banking credit and
corporate bonds together accelerated more than 20 percent year-over-year, while gross domestic product grew less than half that
much. The gap has been widening since early 2012.  Yao says the answer to where the money is going is a
growing “debt snowball” which doesn’t contribute to economic
activity. The result is both companies and the public sector
face burgeoning interest expenses.  This fits with the theory first put forward by economist
Hyman Minsky of  Washington University  in  St. Louis . His
financial instability hypothesis showed how markets create waves
of credit expansion and asset inflation, followed by periods of
contraction and deflation.  Using methodology from the  Bank for International
Settlements , Yao estimated a debt burden of non-financial
companies and local government financing vehicles of about 150
percent of GDP at the end of 2012. Assuming an average interest
rate of 6.3 percent, Yao estimates a “shockingly high” debt
service ratio of 38.6 percent of GDP.  Similar ratios were evident in countries as they neared
financial and economic crises, including the U.S. and the U.K.
in 2009,  South Korea  in 1997 and  Finland  in the early 1990s.  “The logical conclusion has to be that a non-negligible
share of the corporate sector is not able to repay either
principal or interest, which qualifies as Ponzi financing in a
Minsky framework,” said Yao. “This is one more data point in
 China  that evokes the troubling thought of a hard landing.”  At the very least, Yao expects “the inevitable increase”
in non-performing loans and the need to deleverage to slow
Chinese growth over the coming years. She estimates expansion of
7.6 percent this year and 7.2 percent in 2014.  Colleague  Albert Edwards , a London-based global strategist,
said in a June 12 report that  Australia  would be hard hit by
such a weakening. “If China really is, as we believe, about to
have its ‘Minsky moment,’ there is no shadow of doubt in my mind
that Australia will wind up in a deep, deep recession,” he
said.  * * *  Investors are betting Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  walks the talk.  A June 12 study by Deutsche Bank AG economists led by  Peter Hooper  found financial markets tend to anticipate a bias toward
easing monetary policy when Bernanke holds one of his four-times-a-year press conferences after meetings of the  Federal
Open Market Committee . He last spoke to reporters June 19.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , for example, tends to rise
by about 1 percent more than average in the five days prior to
an FOMC gathering with a press conference. It tends to fall by a
similar magnitude ahead of meetings without a media address.  Still, the economists say that since the practice of
holding press conferences started in April 2011, there have been
almost as many important policy announcements made at FOMC
meetings without press meetings afterward as there have been at
those with them.  Co-author Torsten Slok said this week’s press conference
may also have been a “game changer” in that Bernanke used it
to signal the Fed is prepared to begin phasing out its asset-buying program later this year. “The market had come to expect
all communications to over-deliver in terms of dovishness and
now that’s changed,” said Slok.  * * *  Certain measures of global liquidity are a better early
warning signal of booms and busts in housing and equity prices
than gauges that include local data.  That’s the conclusion of a  study  from the Dutch central
bank, which monitored 20 advanced economies between 1970 and
2010. It found that looking at the liquidity of just the five
biggest economies offered better clues than a broader group of
26 countries or currency blocs, said author Beata Bierut.  For example, tracking so-called narrow money -- which
measures the amount of currency in circulation, deposits and
other liquid assets held by central banks -- provided tips for
booms in  house prices . Keeping an eye on private credit growth
helped spot equity booms.  * * *  Volunteering may be the key to landing a  job , according to
the Washington-based Center for Economic and Policy Research.  Pooling three years of data, its  report  found a positive
relationship between the probability of employment and
volunteering for more than 20 hours per year.  For example, the employment rate for non-working people who
volunteered between 20 and 49 hours per year was 57 percent
higher than those that didn’t, the report found.  * * *  The U.S. may have little reason to worry that an aging
population will make its economy more unproductive.  Research  funded by the  Social Security Administration  and
published this month by the Center for Retirement Research at
 Boston College  found over the past 25 years that age has been no
threat to productivity.  Indeed, improved education among those over 60 and delays
in retirement among the better-schooled have tended to boost the
earnings of older workers relative to younger ones, said Gary Burtless. He is a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution ,
which analyzes national public policy in  Washington .  For example, on one measure of individual worker
 productivity  -- hourly wages -- male employees aged between 60
and 74 earned an average 22 percent more in 2011 than workers
between 25 and 59.  The expectation that older workers reduce productivity may
be fueled by the perception the aged are less healthy, educated
and up to date in their knowledge than the young, said Burtless,
a former economist at the U.S. Department of Labor.  * * *  If you’re a pension-age American, stay away from the
grandchildren if you want to be happy.  Elderly Americans who live with people under the age of 18
enjoy their lives less than those who don’t. They also suffer
more anger and stress,  according  to Angus Deaton of  Princeton
University  and Arthur A. Stone of Stony Brook University.  While the negativity may relate to being forced to share
habitats, such as if the person is ill, controls still show the
elderly who live with children do worse, Deaton and Stone said
in a paper published last week by the National Bureau of
 Economic Research  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  In countries where fertility rates are higher, Deaton and
Stone found elders do not appear to have lower life evaluations
because such living arrangements are more usual.  “The misery of the elderly living with children is one of
the prices of the demographic transition,” the authors wrote in
the paper titled “Grandpa and the Snapper.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  