-- Italy National Soccer Team Confined to Hotel Amid Brazil Protest
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-21T19:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/italy-national-soccer-team-confined-to-hotel-amid-brazil-protest.html
Italy’s national soccer team, in
 Brazil  for FIFA’s Confederations Cup tournament, has been
forbidden from leaving its hotel in  Salvador  because of security
concerns over protests that have spread throughout the country.  Italy had allowed its players to travel around Rio de
Janeiro when the team arrived for the two-week tournament. The
team faces host Brazil tomorrow in Salvador. Yesterday one
million demonstrators across the country rallied for better
public services and an end to corruption.  “Of course during these recent days the situation has
changed,” Coach Cesare Prandelli told reporters at the Fonte
Nova stadium in Salvador. “While we were in Rio everything was
fine and we could go out. In Recife and here we’re forbidden
from leaving the hotel, so we have some concerns but to think
about going home, absolutely not.”  Prandelli spoke following reports in local media that
 Italy ’s team had asked soccer’s governing body to consider
scrapping the eight-team competition, a warm-up event for next
year’s World Cup in Brazil. Prandelli said it wasn’t true, and
that no member of his 23-member squad has asked to return home.  Italy’s manager said he didn’t expect there to be protests
at the match tomorrow, because it would be a “paradox” for
people to be cheering at the game in the stadium while their
countrymen were outside protesting.  “It would be a contradiction too strong and
unacceptable,” he said.  Marches took place in hundreds of cities across Brazil last
night in what began as a peaceful protest. Violence later
erupted with police battling mobs trying to storm the Foreign
Relations Ministry in Brasilia and Rio de Janeiro’s city hall.
Two deaths have been linked to the protests.  FIFA Bus  In Salvador yesterday, an empty bus with logos from FIFA,
the governing body for soccer, was among several parked vehicles
that protestors attacked with stones.  Prandelli also explained a statement he made about striker
 Mario Balotelli  being the only squad member allowed to leave the
hotel “because his skin is different to ours.”  Balotelli is the only black player in the team and has been
subjected to racist abuse when he’s played club soccer in Italy.
Prandelli said he made the remark as a joke, and that Balotelli
was allowed out because he was doing charity work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Fonte Nova Stadium in Salvador at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  