-- J&J’s Pump Automatically Adjusts Insulin for Diabetics
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-06-21T21:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/j-j-s-pump-automatically-adjusts-insulin-for-diabetics.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s experimental
pump automatically calculated and delivered the correct amount
of insulin diabetic patients needed to control their blood sugar
at night without their intervention, an early-stage study found.  The research involving 20 adults with Type 1 diabetes
focused on the 9 p.m. to 7 a.m. period, when episodes of low
blood sugar called hypoglycemia can be particularly dangerous.
The study presented today at the  American Diabetes Association ’s
annual  meeting  in  Chicago  found patients’ blood sugar was in the
recommended range for more than 90 percent of the night.  The results are another step toward automating insulin
delivery for diabetic patients who don’t naturally produce
enough of the hormone to convert their blood sugar to energy.
Typically, patients must test their blood repeatedly during the
day with finger sticks or a glucose monitor, then inject
themselves with the hormone using a needle or an insulin pump.  “Avoiding  hypoglycemia  during the overnight period is a
primary concern for people with diabetes,” said Ramakrishna
Venugopalan, director of research and development at J&J’s
division that’s developing the device, called Animas.
“Maintaining safe glucose levels during this time frame is
crucial in helping to not only achieve better control, but also
helps ease worry throughout the night.”  Computer Algorithm  The system from J&J’s Animas division uses a computer
algorithm and readings from a continuous glucose monitor to
calculate the amount of insulin a patient will need to ensure
their blood sugar remains in a safe range. Fewer than half the
volunteers had their levels drop into dangerous territory, when
complications including seizures, loss of consciousness and
death can occur. No unexpected safety issues arose.  “We are feeling very confident with the data we have
gotten so far in understanding the capabilities of the
algorithm, the risks associated with it and the features we
want,” said Venugopalan, in a telephone interview.  The study was conducted during a closely monitored
overnight visit using machines built for the clinical trial
process. Animas has received approval to conduct a third
feasibility study of its approach to look for any flaws before
it begins trials that will allow patients to live at home for
weeks or months with the automated system, Venugopalan said.  About 5 percent of the 25.8 million Americans with diabetes
have the  Type 1  form, where the body doesn’t produce insulin.
The condition is typically diagnosed in children and young
adults. Patients rely on regular injections of insulin, which is
used to covert blood sugar into energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  