-- Japan Government Pension Fund Says Holdings Close to New Targets
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a ,   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-06-21T06:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/japan-government-pension-fund-says-holdings-close-to-new-targets.html
Japan’s Government Pension
Investment Fund, the world’s No. 1 manager of retirement
savings, doesn’t need to adjust its holdings to meet new asset
allocation targets announced earlier this month, according to
President Takahiro Mitani.  GPIF, which oversaw about 112 trillion yen ($1.15 trillion)
at  Dec. 31 , won’t be discussing further changes to its portfolio
this year, Mitani said in an interview in  Tokyo  today. The fund
said June 7 it is cutting its target allocation for Japanese
government bonds to 60 percent from 67 percent, while the weight
of foreign and local shares will rise to 12 percent each, from 9
percent and 11 percent respectively.  The GPIF, which didn’t alter the structure of its holdings
during the worst global financial crisis in 80 years or in
response to Japan’s 2011 earthquake and nuclear disaster, is
making changes as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the central bank
pledge to achieve 2 percent inflation in two years, which will
erode the value of domestic bond holdings. The target
allocations announced this month are close to what the fund
already holds, Mitani said.  “We don’t have to make major changes,” 64-year-old Mitani
said. “When there are big changes in the market, we are
supposed to discuss if any changes are needed. We plan to keep
with our current portfolio for another year and nine months.’’  Benchmark 10-year government bond yields have swung from an
all-time low of 0.315 percent to as much as 1 percent since the
Bank of  Japan  announced in April a plan to double monthly debt
purchases to more than 7 trillion yen. The yield rose four basis
points to 0.89 percent today.  Yen Retreat  The yen slid to a more than four-year low of 103.74 per
dollar last month in the wake of the BOJ’s announcement. The
currency has since pared those losses, trading at 97.78 as of
3:26 p.m. in Tokyo.  The shift toward higher-yielding assets comes as the GPIF
is required to fund retirements in the world’s most elderly
population.  The BOJ is aiming to double the monetary base by the end of
next year in pursuit of a 2 percent inflation goal, while Abe
has promised government spending, freer trade and a more
flexible labor market to revive the economy.  The  Topix index , the nation’s broadest equity measure,
rallied 77 percent from Nov. 14, when elections were announced
that brought Abe to power, through May 22. Markets plunged on
May 23 after yields on government bonds touched 1 percent.  Declines deepened after Abe said on June 5 that a
legislative campaign to loosen rules on businesses, the so-called ‘‘third arrow” of his economic plan, won’t begin for
months. The Topix climbed 0.7 percent to 1099.40 today, 14
percent below the May 22 peak.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  