-- Jos. A. Bank Weighs Acquisitions to Accelerate Expansion
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/jos-a-bank-says-it-is-seeking-out-acquisitions.html
Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. (JOSB) , the
century-old retailer of men’s apparel, said it’s seeking
potential acquisitions to accelerate expansion.  The company is being assisted in considering strategic
options by Financo LLC, an investment bank specializing in the
consumer industry, the Hampstead, Maryland-based retailer said
yesterday in a statement.  Jos. A. Bank, which sells men’s suits, sportswear, shoes
and accessories, posted an 8.5 percent decline in same-store
sales in the first quarter, as fewer consumers spent less on
each purchase made, David Ullman, chief financial officer, said
on a conference call earlier this month. It plans to focus
growth of its core businesses “through internal initiatives”
such as opening stores and enhancing its Internet sites, it also
said yesterday.  Men’s Wearhouse Inc. (MW) , the retailer that this week ousted
its founder and spokesman George Zimmer, could be a target for
the company, said Donald Hodges, founder of Hodges Capital
Management Inc., which owns Jos. A. Bank shares and whose firm
has about $1.1 billion under management.  “That would be a great acquisition for them,” Hodges said
in a phone interview. “Men’s Wearhouse more and more has copied
the Jos. A. Bank formula for running discounts and sales. The
board just released the founder, and there must be something
behind that.”  Lucky Brand  Jos. A. Bank has bid for  Fifth & Pacific Cos. (FNP) ’s Lucky
Brand, according to a June 4 report by  Women’s Wear Daily , which
didn’t say where it got the information. New York-based Fifth &
Pacific’s Lucky Brand and Juicy Couture labels are attracting
interest from private-equity firms and strategic buyers and
Lucky Brand could raise at least $400 million in a sale, people
familiar with the situation said in April.  It may be difficult for Jos. A. Bank to complete a purchase
of a wholesaler such as Lucky Brand without expertise in that
area and the management doesn’t have experience with
acquisitions, Mark Montagna, an analyst for Avondale Partners
LLC, said in a phone interview.  “The idea of an acquisition is far-fetched,” said
Montagna, who has the equivalent of a sell rating on Jos. A.
Bank shares. “They’d have to acquire a retailer, and there’s
nothing available in what they do -- and they’re really good at
what they do.”  A merger of Jos. A. Bank with Men’s Wearhouse is unlikely,
given the overlap in store bases and the value-sale strategy
both brands employ, Montagna also said.  Men’s Wearhouse has 1,141 stores as of May 4, according to
a company filing.  Jos. A. Bank shares  rose  as much as 1.5 percent to $40.24
in extended trading after the statement was released yesterday.
The stock slipped 0.8 percent to $39.63 at the close in New
York, taking its decline this year to 6.9 percent compared with
a gain of 12 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  