-- Kerry to Defend Syria Policy to Middle East Allies
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/kerry-to-defend-syria-policy-to-middle-east-allies.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
will confront concerns tomorrow from Mideast and European allies
that a U.S. plan to send small arms won’t do enough to bolster
Syrian rebels battling Bashar al-Assad’s regime.  The top U.S. diplomat is to meet in Doha, Qatar, with
foreign ministers from 10 other countries backing the Syrian
opposition. Some, such as Saudi Arabia and  France , have pushed
to provide greater firepower to rebels who say they need anti-tank and anti-aircraft weapons.  “The administration has a big challenge,” said  Michael O’Hanlon , a defense analyst at the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington . “It’s not clear that a few arms can make much of a
difference. I see little evidence to back up that hope.”  Talks on Syria’s civil war, which has killed more than
93,000 people and driven more than 1.5 million refugees into
neighboring countries, will be just the start of Kerry’s 11-day
trip to seven countries. Efforts to revive Israeli-Palestinian
peace talks and to keep  Iran  from getting nuclear weapons are
among contentious issues on an itinerary that includes stops in
 Israel , Jordan, Saudi Arabia and India.  Kerry arrives in Qatar after a flap there this week stole
attention from the announcement of plans for talks with the
Taliban on a peace agreement in  Afghanistan . Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai  objected when the Taliban opened a Doha office
under the name it used when it controlled Afghanistan and
initially said his government wouldn’t participate in the
negotiations.  The Taliban changed the name of its facility and talks may
begin as early as this weekend, starting with a meeting between
U.S. and Taliban officials. Kerry won’t be seeing Taliban
representatives while in Doha, according to a State Department
official who briefed reporters on the secretary’s trip yesterday
on condition of anonymity.  Syria Debate  The White House has announced only that the U.S. would
expand military aid to the Syrian opposition. While President
 Barack Obama  has authorized providing small arms and ammunition,
he’s stopped short of backing air strikes against Assad’s
forces, a no-fly zone over Syria or heavier weaponry to battle
the regime’s tanks and aircraft, according to a U.S. official
familiar with the decision who asked not to be identified
discussing the move.  “Everyone knows we’re going to have to do a lot more, and
a lot more together, to get rid of Assad,”  Andrew Tabler , a
Syria analyst at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy,
said in an interview. “The question is how to get there.
Everybody is torn, but I think this is going to be an
interesting chat.”  No. 1 Topic  The lack of more aggressive action by the U.S. after two
years of fighting has angered Saudi Arabia and other Sunni
Muslim nations, according to another U.S. official who’s
familiar with the Arab reaction and agreed to speak on condition
of anonymity to discuss private diplomatic communications.  “It’s going to be the No. 1 topic in the Arab countries
that he visits,”  Richard Murphy , a former U.S. ambassador to
Syria who is now with the  Middle East  Institute in Washington,
said in an interview. “They’re all unsure of what the future
bodes for Syria. They’ll be weighing how a larger American role
might affect them.”  Allies will seek a clearer explanation of Obama’s Syria
policy at the Doha meeting, according to French officials who
spoke with reporters on condition of anonymity.  The head of the opposition’s Supreme Military Command,
Major General Salim Idris, has given friendly governments a wish
list that includes anti-tank and anti-aircraft weapons, the
officials said.  Not Friendly  After reversing his earlier opposition to the U.S. sending
any weaponry to Syrian rebels, Obama continued resisting calls
to provide heavy armaments.  “Some of the most effective fighters within the opposition
have been those who, frankly, are not particularly friendly
toward the  United States of America ,” Obama said in an
interview with PBS’s  Charlie Rose  that aired June 17, referring
to militants, some of whom are allied with al-Qaeda. “Arming
them willy-nilly is not a good recipe for meeting American
interests over the long term.”  Wasel al-Shemali, a member of the Syrian National Council
who sits on a committee that works with the opposition’s
military leadership, said in an interview that “the Americans
are obstructing efforts” by Saudi Arabia and other countries
that are willing to send more potent weaponry. “Based on our
experience with the Americans, I don’t expect we will receive
anything from them or expect them to keep their promises,” he
said.  U.S. Opinion  Obama, who ran for president in 2008 pledging to end the
war in Iraq, told Rose that “we know what it’s like to rush
into a war in the Middle East without having thought it
through.”  The president’s reservations have support at home, where 70
percent of Americans oppose sending arms to the Syrian rebels,
according to a Pew Research Center poll. Only 20 percent favor
such a move, according to the survey of 1,512 adults conducted
June 12 to 16, with a margin of error of plus or minus 2.9
percentage points.  Kerry’s travel plans show how events in the volatile Middle
East can undercut the administration’s goal of placing more
emphasis on Asia. The secretary postponed plans to visit the
Middle East last week to stay in Washington for meetings on
Syria policy. As a result, a trip that was originally scheduled
to focus solely on the Asia Pacific region was truncated so that
stops in the Mideast could be added.  Israeli-Palestinian Talks  Kerry’s tour includes his fifth visit to Israel in as many
months in an effort to revive Israeli-Palestinian talks that
have been moribund for almost three years amid disputes over the
expansion of Israeli settlements in the West Bank and East
Jerusalem. During stops in Jerusalem and Amman, Jordan, Kerry is
scheduled to meet with Israeli, Jordanian and Palestinian
Authority officials.  “We’re running out of time,” Kerry said to the American
Jewish Committee, a Washington advocacy group, on June 3.
“Let’s be clear: If we do not succeed now, and I know I’m
raising the stakes, we may not get another chance.”  That provocative comment was probably a mistake, said  Aaron David Miller , a former adviser to Republican and Democratic
secretaries of state who is now a vice president at the Woodrow
Wilson Center for Scholars in Washington.  “You can say it once, but you can’t say it more than
that,” Miller said. “It just makes us seem desperate.”  No ‘Ownership’  The danger of starting U.S.-brokered talks now, Miller
said, is that Israelis and Palestinians haven’t yet shown a
commitment, or sense of ownership, in the  peace process .  “The real problem here is the absence of ownership,”
Miller said. “I don’t understand how Kerry can get around that.
Rarely have I seen a secretary of state who seems so sure of
himself.”  In meeting with Israeli officials, Kerry also is sure to
hear concerns that an international coalition against  Iran’s
nuclear program  may weaken after the victory of President-elect
Hassan Rohani, a cleric backed by Iranian reformers, said  Karim Sadjadpour , an Iran analyst at the Washington-based Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace.  “For Israel and neighboring Persian Gulf countries, a
Rohani presidency is the equivalent of putting lipstick on a
pig,” Sadjadpour said. “They worry that Iran’s nuclear
ambitions will remain unchanged, but under a more moderate
leadership the international sanctions regime could unravel.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  “is extremely
suspicious and worried that a diplomatic outcome will allow the
Iranians to sneak a bomb through the back door,” according to
Miller, who said Kerry will “want to retain a certain amount of
independence from the Israeli view on this.”  Kerry also is scheduled to visit India, Kuwait and Brunei.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  