-- Narrowing of Swap-Rate Spread Endangers U.S. ‘Steepener’ Notes
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-06-21T19:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/narrowing-of-swap-rate-spread-endangers-u-s-steepener-notes.html
U.S. structured notes that make
payments based on the difference between short- and long-term
rates are declining in value after the  biggest drop  in the
spread in more than a year and a half.  The gap between five-year and 30-year constant maturity
swaps narrowed 13.7 basis points to 185.13 on June 19, after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  announced that the Federal Reserve may
begin reducing its $85 billion a month in bond purchases as long
as the  U.S. economy  performs in line with the central bank’s
projections.  A compression in the spread is pushing down the value of
so-called steepener notes that pay more if the difference
between long- and short-term rates increases. Banks have sold
$449.2 million of securities tied to the five- and 30-year
constant maturity swap-rate spread this year, making it the most
popular type of steepener, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The rate for five-year swaps climbed more than that for the
30-year because a decline in inflation expectations in the last
six weeks or so has limited the rise for long-term rates more
than for short-term, said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  The difference between the two swap measures shrank the
most in percentage terms since Sept. 22, 2011. That day, the
 Federal Reserve  announced Operation Twist, a plan to drive down
long-term bond yields by selling short-term debt and buying
long-dated debentures.  Largest Note  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  sold $64 million of 15-year
securities on March 1, the largest offering linked to the rate
pair since Sept. 17, 2010. The notes yield 9.25 percent for the
first year before switching to a variable payout, according to a
 prospectus  filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Investors receive four times the spread between the five-and 30-year rates after subtracting 0.2 percent, with returns
capped at 9.25 percent. The notes can be called after six
months. The bank valued the securities at 93.8 cents on the
dollar at issuance and distributed them for a 2.9 percent fee.  The notes traded for 97 cents on the dollar yesterday, 2.5
cents less than on June 10, the most recent prior day they
changed hands, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment on the note.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  