-- Nigeria’s Cocoa Mid-Crop Output Seen Up 40% on Weather
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-06-21T10:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/nigeria-s-cocoa-mid-crop-output-seen-up-40-on-weather.html
Cocoa output by farmers in  Nigeria ,
the world’s fourth-largest producer, may rise by as much as 40
percent at the end of the light-crop season in August on
favorable weather, an industry group said.  The cocoa harvest is forecast to be as much as 35,000
metric tons compared with 25,000 tons last year, Robo Adhuze,
spokesman for the Cocoa Association of Nigeria, said yesterday
by phone in Akure, in the western part of the country. Early
rains and sunshine are expected to boost production, he said.  “The rain is stable, which helped to reduce fungi
diseases,” Adhuze said. “Farmers have seen a good light crop
with bean weight of 270 to 290 grams, compared with 220 grams
last year.”  Nigeria ’s cocoa year is divided into two harvests. The
main-crop season begins in October and ends in January, while
the light-crop season, the smaller of the two, usually begins in
April and ends in June. The start and end dates of the two
seasons may vary each year depending on the weather.  The mid-crop may last longer this year because of the early
rains, Adhuze said. “By the end of August farmers may enter the
main crop harvest and if the rains remain favorable, output for
the main crop may reach 300,000 to 320,000 tons from 250,000
last year,” he said.  A warning by the nation’s meteorological agency for heavy
rains in the second half of this year “has prompted farmers to
equip their farms with chemicals against pests and diseases,”
to manage the situation, he said.  Many cocoa farms were submerged in water last year, leading
to high humidity and destruction of crops by black pod, a fungal
disease, Adhuze said.  Nigeria ranks behind  Ivory Coast ,  Ghana  and  Indonesia  as
the world’s largest cocoa producer, according to the London-based International Cocoa Organization.  Cocoa exports are the biggest foreign-currency earner after
oil for Nigeria,  Africa ’s leading crude producer and most
populous nation, according to figures published by the
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  