-- North Korea Envoy Says No Nuclear Cuts Without a Treaty
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-06-21T22:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/north-korea-envoy-says-no-nuclear-cuts-without-treaty.html
North  Korea  won’t surrender its
nuclear weapons without a peace treaty with the U.S. and an end
to American nuclear “blackmail,” the country’s United Nations
ambassador said.  North Korean Ambassador Sin Son Ho repeated his
government’s call for ending the UN military command in South
Korea and replacing the 1953 armistice, which halted the
fighting but didn’t end the war.  In a rare press conference yesterday in New York, Sin stuck
to a script that followed recent remarks from officials in
Pyongyang, the North Korean capital. He presented his comments
as an opening for peace, while at the same time calling the U.S.
“entirely responsible” for the “ever-worsening situation” on
the Korean peninsula that “can lead to another war at any
moment.”  “The DPRK will never give up its nuclear deterrent unless
the United States fundamentally and irreversibly abandons its
hostile policy and nuclear threat towards the DPRK and dissolves
the UN Command,” he said, using the initials of his nation’s
formal name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  Sin’s appearance, which included taking questions, came
days before South Korean President Park Geun-hye is due to visit
 China  on June 27-30.  Earlier this year, North Korea’s young dictator Kim Jong-Un
rattled nerves by declaring North Korea’s withdrawal from the
armistice, cutting military hot lines with the South, ordering
missile forces on alert, and threatening strikes.  U.S. Troops  The U.S.-led UN Command oversees the 60-year-old armistice,
including the heavily fortified demilitarized zone that divides
the Korean peninsula. The U.S. supports South Korea with about
28,500 troops stationed in the country.  North Korea awaits a U.S. response to its proposal to hold
talks on a peace treaty that also could include other subjects,
such as North Korea’s nuclear “deterrent,” Sin said.  While North Korea issued a statement June 16 proposing
direct talks with the U.S., President  Barack Obama ’s
administration has responded that North Korea should demonstrate
its seriousness by ending nuclear and missile tests and re-engaging in the six-party talks over denuclearization with
China, Japan, Russia, South Korea and the U.S..  “As we have made clear, our desire is to have credible
negotiations with the North Koreans, but those talks must
involve North Korea living up to its obligations to the world,
including compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, and
ultimately result in denuclearization,” National Security
Council spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said in a June 16 statement.  China Role  The U.S. has urged China to use its influence with
neighboring North Korea to stop military provocations and resume
the six-party negotiations. North Korea was a topic in the
meeting this month between U.S. President Barack Obama and
Chinese President Xi Jinping in  California .  Earlier this week, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said North
Korea is willing to return to those talks, which last took place
in 2008.  Still, Sin repeatedly said that progress in resolving
issues depends on direct U.S. talks on dissolving the UN Command
in Korea and a peace treaty. North Korea “will continue to
strengthen its deterrent” against all kinds of war “until the
United States makes the right choice,” he said.  North Korea denuclearization depends on dismantling the UN
Command, banning nuclear weapons in South Korea, and ending U.S.
nuclear “threats and blackmail,” he said.  He repeatedly referred to denuclearization extending to
South Korea. The U.S. removed all its nuclear weapons from South
Korea in 1991, although as a defense treaty ally, South Korea is
under the U.S. global nuclear umbrella.  Sanctions Issue  Sin sidestepped a question about whether China supports
North Korea’s stance, merely describing China-North Korea talks
as “very friendly discussions.”  Sin called for nations not to follow the “sanctions and
blackmail policy” against North Korea promoted by the U.S.
North Korea is subject to economic and other sanctions imposed
by the UN Security Council in response to North Korea’s
violations of the council’s prohibition on its nuclear and
missile tests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  