-- Norway’s Olsen Says Has No Krone Target in Interest Rate Policy
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-06-21T12:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/norway-s-olsen-says-has-no-krone-target-in-interest-rate-policy.html
Norwegian central bank Governor
Oeystein Olsen said he has no specific target for the krone even
as he acknowledged policy makers were aware they would trigger a
slump by yesterday lowering their interest rate outlook.  “We were aware of the fact that our decision would have an
impact in that direction based on the fact that our interest
rate path was below the corresponding money market path,” Olsen
said today at the Oslo-based Foreign Press Association. While
the krone is an important factor “we have no target for the
exchange rate,” he said.  The Norwegian currency tumbled against the euro after Olsen
yesterday kept the benchmark rate at 1.5 percent and signaled an
increased chance for a cut this year. The rate will remain below
the current level until the fourth quarter of 2014, he said.  After the announcement, the krone fell 3.3 percent to
7.9388 per euro, the weakest since May 2011. The currency has
slid 7 percent this year versus the euro as the bank also in
March warned rates may be cut. It’s still up 19 percent since
the end of 2008 after emerging as haven during Europe’s debt
turmoil.  The krone gained 0.2 percent to 7.917 per euro as of 2:53
p.m. in Oslo today.  Olsen has kept the rate unchanged for more than a year
while saying the central bank is ready to act to prevent krone
gains from undermining its inflation target and the economy.
Norges Bank, which targets 2.5 percent inflation, said
underlying inflation will be below 2 percent through 2016.  Norway’s $480 billion economy is starting to suffer from
the fallout of the euro area’s shrinking economy, pushing
unemployment to the highest since May 2010 as companies also
struggle with a surging krone and manufacturing labor costs that
are nearly 70 percent higher than the European Union average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  