-- Novartis Pregnancy Hormone Seen Lessening Heart Failures
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-06-21T06:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/novartis-pregnancy-hormone-seen-lessening-heart-failures.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  won “breakthrough”
status from U.S. regulators for an experimental drug to treat
acute heart failure, raising the prospect of faster approval.  Serelaxin, a man-made version of a hormone found in
pregnant women, reduced death rates by 37 percent in patients
with acute heart failure six months after treatment, according
to clinical trial results presented last year.  Also known as RLX030, The drug is Basel, Switzerland-based
Novartis’s second to receive the new designation from the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration after the lung-cancer treatment
LDK378. Faster approvals of the two drugs would provide a sales
boost for Novartis,  Europe ’s biggest drugmaker, just as the
company’s best-selling products are losing patent protection.  “Commonly used medicines for AHF only improve the
immediate symptoms, so the additional effect on survival
observed with RLX030 offers hope to patients and physicians,”
 David Epstein , division head of Novartis Pharmaceuticals, said
in a statement today.  Novartis’s Diovan hypertension drug started to lose patent
protection last year. Gleevec, a cancer treatment, will be open
to copies starting in 2015. Together, they generated $9.1
billion in sales last year. The company has filed for approval
of Serelaxin in the U.S. and the European Union.  Other therapies that have received the breakthrough
designation since it was established last year include Pfizer’s
breast-cancer drug palbociclib and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and
 Pharmacyclics Inc. (PCYC) ’s ibrutinib for certain types of blood
cancer. Xalkori was approved in 2011, before the FDA program was
introduced.  Acute heart failure  often occurs in the wake of other
ailments such as hypertension, diabetes or coronary artery
disease and may strike about  one in 10 people  over the age of
65. Doctors now use a mix of drugs and devices to help patients
feel better, yet half of those hospitalized don’t survive longer
than five years. RLX030 is a manufactured copy of relaxin-2, a
hormone whose levels rise during pregnancy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  