-- Novozymes Falls as UBS Sees Biofuel Pressure: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2013-06-21T08:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/novozymes-falls-as-ubs-sees-biofuel-pressure-copenhagen-mover.html
Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , the world’s largest
maker of enzymes for biofuel, was the biggest decliner in the
Copenhagen benchmark index today after UBS AG said investors
should avoid the stock as new U.S. legislation may hurt sales.  Novozymes  fell  as much as 1.7 percent to 183.70 kroner, the
lowest price since Feb. 1. The shares declined 1.2 percent to
184.60 kroner at 9:59 a.m. in the Danish capital, with volume at
16 percent of the three-month daily average. The stock was
today’s biggest loser in the  Nasdaq OMX Copenhagen 20 Index (KFX) ,
which fell 0.2 percent.  UBS said U.S. lawmakers face “significant” lobbying from
oil and food producers to limit the yearly volume of biofuels
required for blending with gasoline. The bank today added
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novozymes to its list of least
preferred European chemical company stocks and repeated a sell
 recommendation .  “In our view this is probably the strongest collection yet
of resistance to the increase in U.S. ethanol blends,” UBS
analysts, including Thomas Gilbert, said in a note to clients.
“Novozymes’ valuation implies long term top line growth of 18
percent. We see 13 percent growth at best.”  The U.S. Renewable Fuel Standard sets quotas for the use of
alternatives to gasoline or diesel, such as corn-based ethanol
and biodiesel. A panel of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee is set to hold a hearing on the program next week, as
Republicans such as Representative Bob Goodlatte of  Virginia 
push to scrap it.  Novozymes, which is lobbying for an increase in the use of
ethanol, provides about 60 percent of the enzymes used in global
biofuel production and generated 16 percent of its  revenue  from
that business last year, according to its 2012 earnings report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  