-- Nowhere to Hide as Dollar Posts Only Gain Amid Rout
-- B y   L u   W a n g ,   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-06-21T01:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/nowhere-to-hide-as-dollar-posts-only-gain-amid-rout.html
The dollar is proving to be
investors’ only haven as stocks, commodities, bonds and other
currencies fall in unison for the first time since 2011.  Concern governments will curtail aid to economies pushed
the MSCI All-Country World Index down 3 percent, spurred
declines of 2.5 percent or more in gold, copper and crude oil,
and sent bonds of all types to losses of 0.4 percent this week,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Index. Currencies from Australia to Mexico slipped against the
dollar.  Rallies that have lifted everything from Japanese banks to
Italian government debt during a four-year global expansion are
being revalued amid signs central bank stimulus through
quantitative easing, or QE, is poised to slow. Global equities
posted the biggest two-day retreat in 19 months after Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said he may phase out stimulus
and  China ’s cash crunch worsened.  “The old risk on/risk off trade is broken,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham,  Alabama . “The stress in the markets
as the result of the pullback in QE and concurrent higher rates
is causing the unwind of many kinds of trades. The liquidation
and the deleveraging forces more unwinding as asset prices
decline and the dollar strengthens.”  The world’s 10 biggest equity markets slumped yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They have fallen in
sync three times in the past two months, accounting for half of
the occurrences over five years.  Global Volatility  Price fluctuations are widening as investors exit stocks,
bonds and commodities at the same time. The  Chicago  Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, a gauge of projected market
swings derived from options on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
jumped 23 percent yesterday to the highest level this year.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE Index, a gauge of
Treasury volatility, and the JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index
rallied to the highest levels in 12 months.  “We are beginning to see repricing of assets given a
changing view on Fed policy,” Stephen Wood, who helps manage
about $152 billion as the New York-based chief market strategist
for North America at Russell Investments, said by telephone.
“Volatility is going to be a constant companion.”  Bernanke, speaking after a two-day meeting by the Federal
Open Market Committee, said on June 19 that the Fed may begin
dialing down its unprecedented bond-buying this year and end it
in mid-2014 if the economy achieves the Fed’s objectives.  Bond Purchases  The central bank will cut its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases by $20 billion at the Sept. 17-18 policy meeting,
according to 44 percent of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The rout in emerging markets came as China’s seven-day
repurchase rate, a gauge of interbank funding availability, rose
to the highest since at least 2006. The central bank has
refrained from using reverse-repos to inject funds into the
interbank market since Feb. 7.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  has plunged 3.9 percent since June 18 for the
biggest two-day loss since November 2011. Utility and telephone
companies, which offer more than 4.2 percent of their price in
dividends for the highest yield among 10 S&P 500 groups, slumped
5 percent over the past two days. An S&P index of homebuilders
tumbled 10 percent on concern higher interest rates may derail a
housing recovery.  ‘Panicked Selling’  “What you’re seeing is panicked selling,” Jeffrey Burchell, who helps manage about C$7 billion ($6.75 billion) at
Aston Hill Financial Inc., said by phone from Toronto. “When
people take a step back they’ll realize this is happening
because economic activity in the U.S. is favorable.” He said
his firm is buying stocks this week and has added holdings to
banks including Citigroup Inc. and global automakers.  Even after the declines this week, U.S. stocks are still up
11 percent this year and the VIX is 18 percent below the five-year average. Ten-year Treasury yields are 1.1 percentage points
less than the average since 2003, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the currency against those of six major U.S. trading partners,
has climbed 1.5 percent this week, on pace for its biggest gain
since July.  Leveraged investors have sold assets, sparking “big
moves” in currencies as the market saw Bernanke’s comments as
more hawkish than expected, Matt Eagan, co-manager of the Loomis
Sayles Bond Fund and the Strategic Alpha Fund in  Boston , said in
a telephone interview. Treasury 10-year  note  yields climbed to a
22-month high.  ‘Escape Velocity’  “It looks like the dollar could be very strong in this
environment if you believe that rates are going to stay up here,
if you believe the U.S. is at the vanguard in achieving economic
escape velocity,” said Eagan of Loomis Sayles & Co., which
oversees about $191 billion. “The jury is still out.”  Australia ’s dollar has weakened 2 percent in the past week,
the second-worst return among 10 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s currency
fell 1.6 percent and  Norway ’s krone weakened 3 percent, while
the U.S. dollar rallied 2.4 percent.  Mexico’s peso lost 4.9 percent against the greenback, the
most of the U.S. currency’s 16 most-traded counterparts. The
currency pair is also the worst performing carry trade during
that period.  Deutsche Bank AG’s G10 FX Carry Basket index fell to the
lowest level since September. It gained 6.8 percent in 2012
after declining the previous two years as weak economic data in
the U.S.,  Japan  and the euro region led to speculation that
central banks would keep rates low and inject money to boost
growth. With those conditions waning, volatility has increased,
which is negative for the carry trade because it depends on
predictable interest rates across jurisdictions.  Government Bonds  U.S. government bonds have fallen 0.8 percent this week and
have declined 0.7 percent this month as of June 19, on pace for
the second-straight drop, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Treasury Index. Global corporate debt has
fallen 0.6 percent this week including reinvested interest, a
separate Bank of America Merrill Lynch index showed. High-yield
bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s, have returned 0.15 percent.  The JPMorgan EMBI Global Index of developing-nation dollar
bonds has slipped 1.6 percent this week, poised for the worst
returns since May. Greek government bonds are the worst
performers among 26 sovereign markets tracked by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies this
week, losing 2.8 percent.  Emerging Flows  Investors are pulling money from  emerging markets  at the
fastest pace in two years as slowing economic growth and the
prospect of less global stimulus sink stocks, bonds and
currencies from  India  to  Brazil .  More than $19 billion left funds investing in developing-nation assets in the three weeks to June 12, the most since
2011, according to EPFR Global. Foreign investors dumped an
unprecedented $5.6 billion of Brazilian stocks and $3.4 billion
of Indian bonds this month, exchange data show. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index slid 4 percent yesterday while the rupee
and Turkish lira hit record lows.  The S&P GSCI Index fell the most since December 2011
yesterday as all 24 commodities tracked by the gauge declined.
Gold futures tumbled to as low as $1,275.40 an ounce, the lowest
level since September 2010. Crude oil for July delivery declined
2.9 percent, the most in seven months.  “For a long while, we had bonds up, stocks up, non-dollar
currencies up,” Jason Brady, a fund manager who helps oversee
about $89 billion at Thornburg Investment Management Inc. in
Santa Fe, New  Mexico , said by e-mail. “Now we have the
potential lessening of global stimulus, and the potential of
lower global liquidity means lower prices due to lower
leverage.”  -- With assistance from Eric Lam in Toronto, Moming Zhou, Katie
Brennan, Ye Xie in New York, Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago,
and Michael Patterson in Hong Kong. Editors: Michael P. Regan,
Lynn Thomasson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net 
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net 
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  