-- NSA Can Keep Data on U.S. Citizens’ Calls, Newspapers Say
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2013-06-21T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/nsa-can-keep-data-on-u-s-citizens-calls-newspapers-say.html
Documents from a secret U.S. court
show that the National Security Agency may retain telephone and
e-mail records on American citizens and legal residents under
certain conditions, according to two newspaper reports.  The classified documents from the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court detail procedures the NSA must follow when
monitoring of phone calls and e-mails by foreigners outside the
U.S. scoops up the Americans’ communications, according to
reports by the Washington Post and U.K.-based Guardian.  The court papers obtained by the Post and the Guardian mark
the latest revelations about U.S. government surveillance
programs aimed at thwarting terrorist plots and other national
security threats. Exposure of the programs in media reports
earlier this month has reignited a debate over the balance
between safeguarding the public from terror attacks and
protecting traditional U.S. civil liberties.  “These documents show indisputably that the legal
framework under which the NSA operates is far too feeble, that
existing oversight mechanisms are ineffective, and that the
government’s surveillance policies now present a serious and
ongoing threat to our constitutional rights,” Alex Abdo, an
American Civil Liberties Union lawyer, said in a statement.  Since the programs were exposed, President  Barack Obama ’s
administration has defended the surveillance techniques as
legal, limited in scope, and conducted under the supervision of
a federal court and members of Congress.  Ground Rules  The documents obtained by the Post and the Guardian provide
details on the rules governing when data collected on American
citizens and legal residents must be destroyed and the measures
analysts must take to ensure the targets of the surveillance are
outside the U.S.  A six-page document signed by U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder on July 15, 2010, said that procedures have been set to
prevent the “intentional acquisition” of communications data
from inside the U.S., the  Post reported  yesterday.  Still, policies approved by the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court let the NSA keep or use data containing
inadvertently acquired information on U.S. persons for as long
as five years, the Guardian reported. Circumstances that permit
keeping or using such data include when the information pertains
to criminal activity or intelligence matters.  ‘Positively Identified’  The documents also suggest that NSA analysts have leeway in
determining whether a targeted individual is outside the U.S.
For cases in which the agency has no specific information about
a person’s location, analysts are free to presume the individual
was overseas, the  Guardian reported , citing one court order
posted on its website.  “In the absence of specific information regarding whether
a target is a  United States  person,” the order cited by the
Guardian said, “a person reasonably believed to be located
outside the United States or whose location is not known will be
presumed to be a non-United States person unless such person can
be positively identified as a United States person.”  If later it appears that a surveillance target is in the
U.S., the Guardian reported, analysts are allowed to scan the
content of messages or listen to telephone calls, to determine
the person’s location.  Government officials have said the programs seek to
minimize the gathering of information on American citizens and
legal residents. Still, they have acknowledged that such data
might be collected inadvertently in the course of monitoring
foreign targets outside the U.S.  ‘Limited Criteria’  During a hearing of the House Intelligence Committee on
June 18, Deputy Attorney General  James Cole  said that data on
so-called U.S. persons can be kept only “under limited
criteria,” such as a link to foreign intelligence, evidence of
criminal activity or information on computer hacking.  “Other than that, we have to get rid of it,” he said. We
have to purge it, and we can’t use it.’’  The NSA’s director, Army General Keith Alexander, said at
the same hearing that the programs at issue are “limited,
focused, and subject to rigorous oversight.”  John Chris Inglis, the NSA’s deputy director, told the
committee that the agency approved counterterrorism inquiries on
fewer than 300 phone numbers in 2012.  The programs to monitor telephone call data and Internet
activity were exposed by former NSA contract worker Edward Snowden, who fled to  Hong Kong  before revealing himself as the
source. The U.S.  Justice Department  has opened a criminal
investigation into the leak and is expected to pursue Snowden’s
extradition.  Programs Confirmed  The Obama administration has confirmed the existence of a
program compelling  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  to provide the
NSA with customers’ telephone records. It also has confirmed the
existence of a separate program, called Prism, that monitors the
Internet activity of foreigners believed to be located outside
the U.S. and plotting terrorist attacks.  U.S. lawmakers and civil-liberties groups have sought more
information on the programs, including whether the initiatives
have helped halt terrorist activities on U.S. soil. Obama said
in an interview with  Charlie Rose  aired June 17 on PBS
television stations that the intelligence community, at his
instruction, is determining “how much of this we can declassify
without further compromising the program.”  Obama will meet today with an independent U.S. board
created to ensure that government surveillance in the wake of
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks doesn’t violate citizens’ rights,
according to a senior administration official.  ‘Significant Damage’  The meeting will be Obama’s first with the Privacy and
Civil Liberties Oversight Board and will cover the recent
disclosures of classified information, said the official, who
asked not to be identified.  Intelligence officials led by Alexander credited the
programs during the House hearing with thwarting more than 50
terrorist plots, including a plan to bomb the  New York  Stock
Exchange. Alexander said Snowden’s leaks have caused
“irreversible and significant damage to this nation” while
helping U.S. adversaries.  Snowden had worked at the NSA under government contractor
 Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , which fired him after his
role in disclosing the secrets was revealed. The 30-year-old’s
lawyers have been discussing possible asylum in Iceland with
advisers to Julian Assange, the founder and publisher of the
anti-secrecy WikiLeaks.org website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shepard in Washington at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  