-- Obama Nominating Ex-Bush Official Comey as FBI Chief
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-06-21T18:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/obama-said-to-announce-comey-as-fbi-pick-tomorrow.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’s
nominating James Comey, a former deputy attorney general in the
Bush administration, as director of the FBI.  “I’m confident that Jim will be a leader who understands
how to keep America safe as well as stay true to our founding
ideals no matter what the future will bring,” Obama said of
Comey in the White House Rose Garden.  Comey, 52, whose nomination is subject to Senate
confirmation, would replace  Robert Mueller  as head of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation. Obama called Mueller “one of
the finest directors in the history of the FBI.”  Comey would take over the agency at a sensitive time, as
officials manage inquiries into the  Boston Marathon bombings ,
Internal Revenue Service screening of small-government groups
and leaks about confidential government operations.  After he left the government in 2005, Comey was general
counsel at defense contractor  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and then
hedge fund Bridgewater Associates LP after he left the
government in 2005. Most recently he was appointed to the board
of London-based bank  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  as a nonexecutive
director.  Comey played a role in a dramatic episode during President
 George W. Bush ’s administration when he refused to reauthorize a
warrantless eavesdropping program after being pressured by White
House officials.  At the time, Attorney General John Ashcroft was
hospitalized, and Bush’s White House advisers were attempting to
persuade him to reauthorize the program. Comey, with Mueller,
went to his hospital room to intercept the White House aides
seeking Ashcroft’s approval. Ashcroft said he had concerns about
the legality of the plan and deferred the decision to Comey, who
refused the request.  In testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee in
2007, Comey called the experience “the most difficult time in
my professional life.”  The program was revised after Comey, Mueller and other top
Justice Department officials threatened to resign if it was
reauthorized without their sign-off.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  