-- Obama Adviser Says Political Solution Possible in Syria
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-06-22T04:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/obama-adviser-says-political-solution-possible-in-syria.html
One of President  Barack Obama ’s top
national security advisers said a political solution remains
possible in  Syria , even as the U.S. steps up its military
involvement in the country’s civil war.  “A political settlement is the best way forward,” said
Deputy National Security Adviser Tony Blinken in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend. “Of all of the answers out there, it’s for
sure the least bad one that we have.”  Blinken’s remarks came as U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  heads to the region for talks with foreign ministers from
10 nations backing the Syrian opposition. Some, such as  Saudi
Arabia  and  France , have pushed to provide greater firepower to
rebels who say they need anti-tank and anti-aircraft weapons.  The White House has announced only that the U.S. would
expand military aid to the Syrian opposition. While Obama has
authorized providing small arms and ammunition, he’s stopped
short of backing air strikes against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces, a no-fly zone over the country or heavier
weaponry to battle the regime’s tanks and aircraft.  Blinken said the U.S. was working “very carefully and very
deliberately” to make certain that American assistance doesn’t
wind up arming Syrian rebels who have links to terrorist
organizations.  “We want to make sure that extremists on any side of this
equation are not empowered as we work toward a political
transition,” he said.  Russian Involvement  Russian officials, who are helping Assad’s forces, have
said that by arming the rebels the U.S. is aiding terrorist
groups. Yet Blinken pointed to a decision by Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  at this week’s conference of the Group of Eight
nations to support an investigation into the use of chemical
weapons in the Syrian conflict as a sign that Russian support
for Assad is softening.  “The Russians got behind that” statement, he said.  The debate over Syria continues as the U.S. struggles to
get peace talks in  Afghanistan  moving with the Taliban.  Kerry’s trip was delayed by a dispute between the Afghan
government and Taliban leaders over the use of the Taliban flag
and formal name at a new office in Doha, Qatar. The Taliban
changed the name of its facility and talks may begin as early as
this weekend.  Blinken said U.S. officials anticipated “some turbulence”
at the start of the talks, adding that the U.S. will stick to
its 2014 timetable for withdrawing troops from the country, even
if security and peace discussions remain stymied.  “The war will be concluded by the end of 2014,” he said.  Government Surveillance  Blinken also addressed criticism about the bounds of
secretive government surveillance programs, saying it’s “very
rare” that U.S. officials collect personal communications from
American citizens. He reiterated the administration’s stance
that any Internet communications monitored by the National
Security Agency are targeting foreigners.  “When it comes to information from Americans that’s
incidentally collected, it’ very important to note that the
program in question is focused on non-Americans,” Blinken said.  His remarks followed the Obama administration’s
declassification of some details about the government’s
collection of U.S. telephone and international Internet records.
The president has pledged continuing efforts to lift some of the
secrecy surrounding the programs revealed in reports leaked by a
former national security contractor to the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper and The  Washington Post. (WPO)   “There are occasions -- very rare -- when information is
incidentally collected on Americans,” he said. “That
information is governed by very, very strict rules, and most of
it gets thrown out right away.”  Edward Snowden, the former contractor who worked for
McLean, Virginia-based Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp., has
been charged by federal prosecutors with espionage in a sealed
criminal complaint, according to two U.S. officials familiar
with the matter said yesterday. The Guardian has reported that
Snowden is in hiding in  Hong Kong .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  