-- Obama Aide Says Politics Accord Best for Syria (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 6 3 0 2 9 5 4 ]   D o n   F r e d e r i c k   [ ]
-- 2013-06-21T22:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/obama-aide-says-politics-accord-best-for-syria-transcript-.html
White House Deputy National Security
Adviser Tony Blinken, in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend, said “a
political settlement” remains best for  Syria  to resolve its
civil war even as the U.S. steps up its involvement in the
conflict.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  JULIANA GOLDMAN: Thanks for joining us. I’m  Julianna Goldman , filling in for Al Hunt. We begin the show with White
House Deputy National Security Adviser Tony Blinken. Tony, thank
you so much.  TONY BLINKEN: Thanks for having me.  GOLDMAN: I want to start by talking about the continuing
fallout from the government surveillance leaks. New documents
show that there are instances where Americans’ calls, e-mails
are incidentally collected. We already knew this, so doesn’t
this just bolster the argument for greater transparency in the
rules of these programs?  BLINKEN: First of all, when it comes to information from
Americans that’s incidentally collected, it’s very important to
note that the program in question is focused on non-Americans.
And in the course of that, there are occasions - very rare -
when information is incidentally collected on Americans. And
that information is governed by very, very strict rules, and
most of it gets thrown out right away, and there are very, very
limited instances -basically, if a crime is being committed or
if there’s a threat to security - where that information - in
very constricted ways - can be retained. The deputy attorney
general testified about it this week, but this is something that
is very, very carefully (inaudible).  But when it comes to transparency and when it comes to
moving forward on what the president said he would do, I think
it’s important to note a few things. First of all, he’s asked
the director of national intelligence to look to see if he can
put more information about these programs so Americans have a
better understanding of what they’re all about.  GOLDMAN: Do you know when we might see that information?  BLINKEN: That’ll be - I can’t give you - I can’t give you a
date on that, but that’s an instruction from the president.
Second, he asked his counterterrorism and homeland security
adviser,  Lisa Monaco , to look at the decisions of the foreign
intelligence court that governs this to see there, too, if more
information can be put out.  And finally, today, as we speak, the president is going to
meet for the first time with a privacy and civil liberties
oversight board, a board of five very prominent individuals,
named by the president, approved by Congress, and their job is
to make sure that as we make sure that Americans are safe, we’re
also taking into account privacy and civil liberties in the way
we conduct our efforts and also in the laws and regulations that
we propose.  GOLDMAN: So the president, others have said that Edward
Snowden leaking this information has done major damage to our
national security, to these programs. But, look, didn’t most
nations, terrorist groups already either know about this kind of
surveillance or assume that it was going on?  BLINKEN: Well, look, you’ll understand, I can’t comment on
an ongoing and specific investigation. But any time you have an
intelligence program, there are pieces of it that, were the
information to be known to the folks who are our enemies and are
trying to attack us, the details of how the programs are
conducted, they could use that information to get around them.
So there are specifics that, were they to get into the public
arena, would undermine the programs and make us less secure.  So that’s why there’s got to be a balance between the
transparency the president very much wants and making sure that
these programs that are there, designed to protect Americans,
are protected so they can’t be undermined and -and have the
folks that we’re trying to prevent from attacking us get around
them.  GOLDMAN: Former Vice President  Dick Cheney , he suggested
that Snowden is spying for the Chinese. Has this administration
ruled out that he might have been working for another
government?  BLINKEN: Again, I can’t comment on an ongoing
investigation.  GOLDMAN: All right. Let’s move to Syria. The president was
in  Northern Ireland  this week meeting with G-8 leaders, and he
said that everyone was united to see a negotiated political
settlement to end the conflict in Syria. But, look, there have
been nearly 100,000 deaths. Russia,  Iran , Hezbollah, they’re all
backing Assad. Why is this president, the administration
convinced that a political settlement is still possible?  BLINKEN: First, a political settlement is the best way
forward, because it’s the - probably the only way to keep Syria
intact, to keep its institutions intact, to make sure that
everyone has buy-in on a post-Assad Syria. Of all of the answers
out there, it’s for sure the least bad one that we have.  Second, if you look at what happened this week, the G-8,
the major economies in the world, including  Russia , signed up to
a statement that was very clear on the desire to get a political
settlement and the conditions for such a settlement, including
that power needs to be transferred to a transitional government
with full authority, including over the intelligence and
security services, and it has to be done by mutual consent,
which means that the opposition can make sure that the people
that are part of that transitional government are people it
approves of, just as any elements of the regime that are part of
that would have the same right. So the Russians got behind that
statement. That’s very important. And that’s - that remains the
best way forward.  GOLDMAN: Well, after meeting with Putin this week, what
other indications - or have you gotten any indications that his
support for Assad’s regime has softened at all?  BLINKEN: Two things. Again, the statement on a political
transition was very important, and the Russians signed up to it.
The other piece is this that came out of the G-8, chemical
weapons. As you know, we’ve made clear that we believe that the
Syrian regime has used weapons on a limited basis multiple times
in - over the past year. The G-8, including Russia, insisted
that there be an investigation of credible allegations of use
and that it be brought to the  United Nations . And the Russians
got behind that, as well.  GOLDMAN: Well, the Russian foreign minister said this week
that the U.S. move to arm Syrian rebels, he called it a disaster
and said that the U.S. was in danger of repeating the same
mistake it made back in  Afghanistan  back in the ’80s. What’s
your response to that?  BLINKEN: We have been working very carefully and very
deliberately in terms of the assistance we provide to the
opposition to make sure we know where it’s going, that it’s
getting into the right hands and staying out of the wrong hands.
And that’s why we’ve been very careful and deliberate about it.  In fact, one of the groups that has been part of the
opposition, the so-called Al-Nusra Front, is a group that we
designated as a foreign terrorist organization precisely to make
sure that not only we, but other countries that may be assisting
the opposition are channeling their assistance away from that
group. We want to make sure that extremists on any side of this
equation are not empowered as we work toward a political
transition.  GOLDMAN: Well, Arab governments have complained that the
light arms isn’t enough. Are there - is there consideration
right now for the U.S. and its allies to do more?  BLINKEN: The president’s already made clear that - as he
did last week - that we are going to be doing more in terms of
the assistance we’re providing to the opposition. Other
countries make their own decisions.  GOLDMAN: To go beyond - to be - to go beyond light arms?  BLINKEN: So I’m not going to detail the kinds of assistance
we’re providing or get into breaking it down, but he made clear
that in terms of the scope of that assistance, we would - we
would be going further.  And that’s exactly what we’re working
on.  Other countries are making their own decisions about what
they provide to the opposition. And as important is making sure
that the opposition is coherent and cohesive and can work
together and that the folks that we’re channeling assistance to
are moderates, not extremists.  GOLDMAN: We’re running out of time, but I want to ask you
about another hot spot this week, Afghanistan. It was supposed
to be a good story coming out of Afghanistan, American military
formally handing over control to Afghan security forces, peace
talks with the Taliban, peace office, Taliban peace office in
Qatar. And then that went south.  Karzai broke off security
talks. How did this get so botched?  BLINKEN: First of all, it is a good news story on two
fronts. One, President Karzai announced that just this week that
Afghans now have responsibility, lead responsibility for
security across the country. We and our partners have moved out
of combat operations, and we’re now in a support role. That is a
major step forward in transitioning authority and responsibility
to the Afghans.  GOLDMAN: Can the president stick to the timetable, the
withdrawal timetable, if the security talks and the peace talks
aren’t started?  BLINKEN: We - we’ve been very clear. We’ve been very
consistent. We are - we have a timetable.  This war will be
concluded by the end of 2014, when Afghans have full control.
And that timetable doesn’t change. But we had a major move
forward in completing that timetable just this week.  Second, with regard to the Taliban office, there’s always
going to be some turbulence in these things, but this is an
important opportunity to actually start talks between us and the
Taliban, but most important, between -among Afghans, between the
Afghan government and the Taliban, to see if there’s a political
way forward and a reconciliation process. Because at the end of
the day, for all of the efforts that we’ve been making on the
battlefield, which are vitally important and that the Afghans
will continue to make, the best way to have a stable Afghanistan
is for there to be a  peace process  and everyone gets brought in.  President Karzai showed real leadership in backing the
opening of this office. We knew that going in people would say
things or do things that - that others wouldn’t like. But let’s
see how this goes. I think this is a good path forward.  GOLDMAN: Tony Blinken, thank you so much for the time,
range of issues to get through, could have spoken to you for
much longer, but thank you very much.  BLINKEN: Thanks for having me.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 