-- OGX Says Three Independent Board Members Left Amid Shares Rout
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-06-21T18:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/ogx-says-three-independent-board-members-left-amid-shares-rout.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA,
the oil-producing unit of billionaire  Eike Batista , said three
of its five independent board members left the company as shares
trade close to a record low.  Pedro Malan, Rodolpho Tourinho Neto and Ellen Gracie Northfleetare no longer members of OGX’s board of directors,
the Rio de Janeiro-based company said in a  statement  today,
without elaborating on the reasons for the departure. OGX’s
press office declined to give additional comments.  Batista is selling assets, restructuring debt at his
holding company EBX Group Co. and trimming projects as his six
publicly traded units accumulate losses. OGX tumbled 91 percent
in the past year, the worst performer in  Brazil ’s Ibovespa
 index , amid lower-than-expected oil production and missed
targets.  “The lack of a explicit justification for why they left
sends a negative message,” Luana Helsinger, an analyst at
brokerage GBM Grupo Bursatil Mexicano, said by phone from Rio.  Malan, a former Brazil finance minister, and Tourinho Neto,
a former chairman of  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3) , were independent
board members since 2008, according to the company’s website.
Gracie had been on the board since 2011. OGX’s two remaining
independent members are Luiz do Amaral and Samir Zraick,
according to its  website .  OGX  slumped  6.9 percent to 81 centavos at 3:21 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo  today, trading closer to its record low of 78 centavos
reached on June 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  