-- Oi Tumbles as Executive Departures Rekindle Dividend Concern
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-06-21T22:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/oi-tumbles-in-sao-paulo-trading-as-two-executives-leave-company.html
Oi SA fell the most in three months
as the departure of its finance and operations heads two weeks
after  Zeinal Bava  took over as chief executive officer stoked
concern that the Brazilian phone company will cut dividends.  Oi’s non-voting shares dropped 10 percent to 3.57 reais at
the close of trading in  Sao Paulo , the steepest one-day decline
since March 22. The Ibovespa stock benchmark retreated 2.4
percent.  Chief Financial Officer Alex Zornig and Chief Operating
Officer James Meaney have left the company, Oi said in a
regulatory filing after the close of trading yesterday. The
departures come as Bava faces pressure to deliver 2 billion
reais ($884 million) in dividends that the company has pledged
this year.  The shakeup appears to represent the end of Oi’s strategic
plan announced more than a year ago, and the company “will
likely revise its guidance, investment plan and dividend policy,
probably leading the company to cut its dividends plan and
prioritize capex and deleveraging,” Banco Bradesco SA analysts
Luis Azevedo and Tales Freire wrote in a research note to
clients today.  Bava is a veteran of Portugal Telecom SGPS SA, which owns
12.1 percent of the investor group known as TmarPart that
controls Oi, and 19.4 percent of the Brazilian carrier’s non-voting shares, according to Oi’s annual report. Oi’s stock
rallied 17 percent when Bava’s appointment as CEO on June 4
signaled that Lisbon-based Portugal Telecom was taking a more
direct leadership interest in the Brazilian carrier.  Capital Spending  Oi is spending about 6 billion reais this year on
infrastructure improvements, the most among peers, after getting
more complaints about  service  from customers than any other
Brazilian carrier. The Rio de Janeiro-based company, currently
the country’s fourth-biggest mobile service provider, with a 19
percent share of the market, has said it will sell some assets
to raise cash.  A change in Oi’s strategic plan wouldn’t be negative for
the company because Bava will take a more active role in
operations with the COO position being eliminated, according to
Bradesco’s analysts, who maintained the equivalent of a buy
recommendation on the stock. “However, we still expect the
company to face quite difficult short-term circumstances until
the changes by the CEO start to yield results,” they wrote.  The company said in yesterday’s filing that Bayard Gontijo
would replace Zornig as CFO on an interim basis.  Oi’s non-voting shares have lost 57 percent this year,
while the  Ibovespa (IBOV)  has dropped 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  