-- Moinian Seeks Buyer for Downtown Los Angeles Real Estate
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-06-21T14:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/moinian-seeks-buyer-for-downtown-los-angeles-real-estate.html
New York  developer Joseph Moinian is
marketing downtown  Los Angeles  land planned for a high-end
retail, hotel and residential project.  Moinian Group, which bought the 4.5-acre (1.8-hectare)
property in 2006 for $80 million from Anschutz Entertainment
Group, has about 10 bidders and will choose within 30 to 60
days, according to a person with knowledge of the situation. The
offers are for about $180 million, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private.  Moinian, who had planned to build a mixed-use development
on 1.5 million square feet (139,000 square meters) at the corner
of 11th and Figueroa streets, decided to abandon the project to
focus on New York real estate, the person said. He’s planning to
build a 66-story skyscraper in the Hudson Yards area on
 Manhattan ’s far west side.  “We have long believed that this is the best development
site in Los Angeles and are encouraged by the incredible
interest we are receiving from the buyer community,” Joseph
Moinian said in an e-mailed statement.  About half the bidders for the Los Angeles land are from
overseas, including  China  and the  Middle East , the person said.
The project may be valued at as much as $900 million once
completed, said the person with knowledge of the process.  Demand from overseas investors has been on the rise in
downtown Los Angeles.  MPG Office Trust Inc. (MPG)  this week completed
the $367.5 million sale of Los Angeles’s U.S. Bank Tower, the
West Coast’s tallest office building, to Singapore-based
 Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)   Ritz-Carlton  A Ritz-Carlton located on the top floors of a downtown JW
Marriott hotel has sold 85 percent of its 224 residential units,
according to Jack Skelley, a  Ritz-Carlton Residences  spokesman
with Paolucci Communication Arts. The remaining units probably
will be sold by the end of the year, with “a huge share” going
to Asian buyers, he said.  Downtown Los Angeles has undergone a revival since the late
1990s with developments such as the Frank Gehry-designed Walt
Disney Concert Hall, the Staples Center sports arena and the
L.A. Live entertainment complex, where the Ritz-Carlton and JW
Marriott are located.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  