-- Thomson Airways Mulls Hawaii, Perth Routes as 787 Extends Reach
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-06-21T14:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/thomson-airways-mulls-hawaii-perth-routes-as-787-extends-reach.html
Thomson Airways Ltd. may add flights
to locations as far flung as  Hawaii  and Perth,  Australia , as the
U.K. tour operator swaps  Boeing Co. (BA)  767s for the planemaker’s
latest 787 Dreamliners able to fly 2,000 nautical miles further.  Thomson, Britain’s No. 3 mainline carrier by passengers,
took delivery of the first of eight 787s in May as it retires
nine 767-300ERs. The Dreamliner can fly up to 8,200 nautical
miles, versus 5,990 for the 767 model, Boeing’s website says.  “Hawaii, South Africa -- it can even get to Perth if you
fly in the right way with the right number of people,” Jeremy
Ellis, U.K. and Ireland marketing director for Thomson parent
 TUI Travel Plc (TT/) , said in an interview on its first 787 flight to
Menorca,  Spain . “All of these destinations we’re considering.”  Thomson’s firm plans for the aircraft feature routes from
Britain’s Manchester,  London Gatwick , Glasgow and East Midlands
airports to Florida and Cancun,  Mexico  -- the first flights
outside  Europe , commencing July 8 -- together with Cuba, Kenya
and Thailand. Destinations to be added in 2014 include the
Indian Ocean island of Mauritius and Puerta Vallerta in Mexico.  The 787 is also central to brand-modernization plans, with
Tui Travel having spent about 5.5 million pounds ($8.5 million)
on 787-specific marketing from the third quarter last year.  Supplement  “The Dreamliner is very important in differentiating our
long-haul holidays,” said David Burling, TUI Travel’s managing
director for the U.K. and Ireland. “The flight is a big part of
a long-haul holiday and with the state-of the art comfort and
well-being features on this aircraft people will arrive more
refreshed and relaxed than on the existing aircraft.”  The tour operator is also looking to upgrade its hotel and
cruise offers, as well as its sales technology, he said.  Luton, England-based Thomson, founded in 1962 and known to
generations of vacationing Britons as Britannia before a name
change in 2005, had planned to commence commercial Dreamliner
flights in May but was forced to retain the 767s when battery
glitches grounded the global 787 fleet.  The delay also meant Thomson, which carried 5.5 million
people last year, had to refund a 20-pound round-trip supplement
charged to passengers eager to fly on the new jet.  “We’re in discussions with Boeing around that,” Burling
said in an interview without specifying how much the delay cost
the airline. “We will be adequately compensated.”  TUI Travel has a fleet of about 140 aircraft comprised
mainly of Boeing models, according to its website, the majority
single-aisle, though French long-haul arm Corsair International
operates a mix of wide-body Airbus SAS A330s and 747 jumbos.  The Crawley, England-based company’s biggest shareholder is
German travel and logistics group  TUI AG (TUI1) , which holds a 54.48
percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in Menorca, Spain, via 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  