-- MoneyGram Seen Cashing In at Decade-High Price: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-06-21T14:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/moneygram-seen-cashing-in-at-decade-high-price-real-m-a.html
MoneyGram International Inc. (MGI) , the
world’s second-largest provider of money transfers, is poised to
reward shareholders with the industry’s biggest payday in a
decade.  MoneyGram has hired Bank of America Corp. to explore a
sale, according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked
not to be named because the process is private. MoneyGram may be
able to fetch as much as $27 a share, said Macquarie Group Ltd.
and Compass Point Research & Trading LLC. At 37 percent more
than the  stock ’s 20-day average, it would be the highest
takeover premium in the commercial financial services industry
since 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  It’s been five years since Dallas-based MoneyGram resorted
to raising funds from Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., and financial sponsors typically look to exit
their investments after that amount of time, Macquarie said. The
$1.2 billion company may post its biggest  profit  next year since
the financial crisis, rebounding from bad housing bets that
drove its market value as low as $70 million. Compass Point said
it may attract other private-equity buyers with its free  cash
flow  or Euronet Worldwide Inc., which failed to buy it in 2008.  Thomas H. Lee and Goldman Sachs are “looking for an exit
at some point,”  Dan Veru , chief investment officer at Palisade
Capital Management LLC, said in a phone interview from  Fort Lee ,
 New Jersey . “Certainly it would be a niche that I would imagine
other payment processors would want to take a look at and see if
it folds in with their business.”  His firm oversaw  $3.9 billion  as of April 30, including
MoneyGram shares.  Value Plunge  Michael Gutierrez, a spokesman at MoneyGram, said the
company doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked whether it
has hired Bank of America to explore a sale or has been
approached by suitors.  Matt Benson , a spokesman for Thomas H. Lee who works at
Sard Verbinnen & Co., and Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for New
York-based Goldman Sachs, also declined to comment.  MoneyGram’s market value plunged in 2008 after the company
recorded losses on investments tied to the U.S. housing market.
Earlier that year, it also fended off a $1.65 billion takeover
bid from rival Euronet by agreeing to raise cash from Thomas H.
Lee, a Boston-based private-equity firm, and Goldman Sachs. The
firms still own about 70 percent of MoneyGram.  ‘Tougher Time’  “The company has obviously been through a tougher time,”
Kevin McVeigh, a New York-based analyst for Macquarie, said in a
phone interview. “If history proves reasonable, that five-year
window tends to be when some of these financial sponsors look to
monetize.”  Since the November 2008 low, MoneyGram  shares  have tripled
to $20.36 yesterday. On June 18, the stock reached its highest
closing price in 1 1/2 years amid takeover speculation and
optimism about its earnings prospects. Analysts project
MoneyGram will post about $103 million of net income next year,
the most since 2006, the average of  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Today, MoneyGram rose 5.5 percent to $21.47 at 10:20 a.m.
 New York  time, the biggest gain among 474 stocks in the Russell
2000 Financial Services Index.  MoneyGram, the largest provider of money-transfer services
after Englewood, Colorado-based  Western Union Co. (WU) , predominantly
caters to people without bank accounts, according to its year-end filing. Customers of such services -- often foreign workers
sending cash home -- transferred almost $480 billion globally in
2011, according to the latest data from the  World Bank .  Euronet Interest  Doug Greiner of Compass Point said MoneyGram could fetch
between $20 and $27 a share in a sale, while McVeigh of
Macquarie estimated $25 to $27 a share.  A bid at the high end of the estimates would be 37 percent
more than MoneyGram’s average closing stock price in the last 20
days, the biggest premium for a commercial financial services
deal valued at more than $1 billion since 2003, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That year, First Data Corp. agreed to buy
automated-teller-machine company Concord EFS Inc. at a 47
percent premium, the data show.  Euronet (EEFT) , which has a market value of $1.5 billion, could
still see value in a deal with MoneyGram, Greiner said.  Euronet previously tried to buy MoneyGram to gain a bigger
share of the cash-transfer business amid growing demand in
 emerging markets . MoneyGram had 321,000 global transfer agent
locations as of March 31, up from 143,000 at the end of 2007,
according to company statements.  AT&T Potential  “The strategic rationale Euronet talked about in 2007,
about why they wanted to do the deal, I don’t think that -- on
at least MoneyGram’s end -- there’s been a significant shift,”
Greiner, who is based in  Washington , said in a phone interview.
“The  business  is actually a little bit better than it was back
then.”  Stephanie Taylor, a spokeswoman for Leawood, Kansas-based
Euronet, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  Telecommunications companies such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
financial-services firms including  American Express Co. (AXP)  may also
be buyers of MoneyGram, said Wayne Johnson, an Atlanta-based
analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc.  A telecom carrier could bolster existing voice, video and
data offerings with the payment-processing capabilities of
MoneyGram, he said.  “This kind of service could be an add-on,” Johnson said
in a phone interview. “It would seem to be natural to want to
increase penetration.”  Financial Services  Other phone companies have entered this market, as well.
 BlackBerry (BBRY) , the Canadian smartphone maker, said in February it
was beginning a pilot program that would allow users to transfer
money to their contacts over the BlackBerry Messenger service.
The test could put BlackBerry in competition with MoneyGram and
Western Union, as well as  Xoom Corp. (XOOM) , an online cash-wiring
service.  Financial-services firms may want to use MoneyGram’s
existing relationships with regulators, distribution channels
and retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to expand in emerging
markets, Johnson said.  Saman Asheer, a spokeswoman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined
to comment on whether the company would be interested in buying
MoneyGram.  Michael O’Neill , a spokesman for New York-based
American Express, declined to comment.  MoneyGram’s  free cash flow  and “reasonable” debt levels
could attract private-equity buyers, David Scharf, a San
Francisco-based analyst at JMP Group Inc., said in a phone
interview.  The company refinanced its  debt  in March, improving its
free cash flow, which analysts  estimate  may reach $120 million
this year. It has a $125 million revolving line of credit and an
$850 million loan due in 2020.  While there’s no guarantee a deal will take place,
MoneyGram has become more alluring as an acquisition candidate,
said Jason Nacca, a New York-based analyst for Sidoti & Co.  MoneyGram’s “debt structure is a bit more attractive now
and a little safer from an M&A perspective,” he said in a phone
interview. “With consistent profitability on the horizon, if
there were ever a time for an acquisition, I think they are
poised now just given their remarkable recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  