-- Mongolia Said to Demand Rio Tinto Keep Mine Revenue in Country
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-06-21T11:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/mongolia-said-to-demand-rio-tinto-keep-mine-revenue-in-country.html
Mongolia is insisting that revenue
from  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold
mine be kept in the country before it will allow sales to start,
according to a government official with knowledge of the matter.  Government officials want revenue from the mine to be held
at a Mongolia-based bank, a decision that Rio rejects, said the
person, who asked not to be identified as the talks are private.
London-based Rio postponed an event scheduled for today that was
to mark the first shipment of copper concentrate from the mine
to China, citing a “request from the government of Mongolia.”  The standoff threatens Rio’s June deadline for shipments
and revives a dispute over the mine that will account for 35
percent of Mongolia’s GDP when fully operational in 2020. The
Manhattan-sized deposit will produce 450,000 metric tons of
copper and 330,000 ounces of gold a year, as well as silver and
molybdenum. With fees, royalties and the 34 percent stake held
by the government, as much as 71 percent of the profits will go
to the Mongolians, the International Monetary Fund estimates.  Rio wouldn’t comment on whether the banking issue caused
the delay to the first shipment, or specify the reason for the
postponement, with Melbourne-based spokesman Bruce Tobin saying
the mine is ready to start shipments.  “ Rio Tinto  is keen to start shipping as soon as possible
in order for the benefits from Oyu Tolgoi to start flowing to
all parties, including the people of Mongolia,” Tobin said in
an e-mailed statement. “Shipping will commence as soon as the
government indicates its support for us to do so.”  Frozen Accounts  In February, the Mongolian government blocked some of Rio’s
bank accounts in the capital Ulaanbaatar over unpaid tax claims,
said three people familiar with the situation. While the
accounts were unfrozen, the two sides remained in protracted
talks over how to solve a raft of issues, including management
control. In April, Rio hired Mongolian national Bold Baatar as
president of its copper group.  Oyu Tolgoi had invited reporters to a ceremony marking the
first shipments of copper to  China  today. It was called off late
yesterday, the second time this month it had been canceled.
Mongolia holds presidential elections June 26 and there have
been media reports that the event was canceled to avoid
politicizing Oyu Tolgoi, a lightning rod for public debate.  The official who spoke to Bloomberg denied that the
government called off the event because of the election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  