-- Morgan Stanley Receives Approval to Purchase Smith Barney
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-06-21T15:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/morgan-stanley-receives-fed-approval-for-smith-barney-purchase.html
Morgan Stanley will buy the rest of
its  wealth-management  joint venture with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as soon
as next week, capping a four-year effort to reshape the
investment bank into a more stable firm reliant on the retail-brokerage business.  Morgan Stanley will pay $4.7 billion in cash for the 35
percent of the business it doesn’t already own after receiving
regulatory approval, the New York-based company said today in a
statement, adding that it will take a $200 million charge in the
second quarter related to the purchase. The brokerage will also
redeem $2.03 billion of preferred interests owned by Citigroup,
according to the statement.  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 54, set a price in
September with Citigroup to purchase the rest of the brokerage
venture, which was created in 2009. Morgan Stanley said in
January that the purchase will place demands on an additional
$400 million of capital.  “This is a historic day for Morgan Stanley,” Gorman said
in the statement. “It is the culmination of a multiyear effort
to transform our business model into one that offers stronger
shareholder returns and greater stability in volatile markets.”  The  Federal Reserve  was reviewing the transaction after
determining during its annual  stress test  in March that Morgan
Stanley had sufficient capital to move forward. The bank didn’t
ask to return additional capital to shareholders through
buybacks and dividends this year because of a desire to purchase
Citigroup’s stake and own the entire business.  Fixing Technology  The purchase of the full stake comes a year earlier than
scheduled under the original plan, which was revised as part of
the price-setting agreement last year.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  completed
the integration of the brokerage’s technology platform last
July, a year later than it originally laid out. The firm pledged
to spend $500 million this year to improve the systems after
flaws frustrated employees.  “While we lost a year on the integration, we picked up a
year on buying the business, so net-net, I feel terrific about
where we are,” Gorman said in an interview. “The business is
operating extremely well on that platform, the financial
advisers are happy, our clients are well-served, and the
business is back to the kind of profitability that we
anticipated.”  Dean Witter  The joint venture was known as Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
until last year, when it was renamed Morgan Stanley Wealth
Management. It combined Citigroup’s Smith Barney business with
the Dean Witter franchise, and Morgan Stanley took a controlling
stake during the financial crisis.  The acquisition has helped make Morgan Stanley’s wealth-management division, led by  Greg Fleming , the world’s biggest
brokerage, with 16,284 financial advisers and $1.79 trillion in
 client assets  at the end of March. The division accounted for
almost half of the bank’s net  revenue  last year.  Gorman said last week the division can earn a pretax margin
of more than 23 percent by 2015 as  interest rates  and stock
markets climb. It can achieve a 20 percent to 22 percent margin
absent any changes in the broader markets, he said.  Gorman has staked his strategy in large part on buying all
of the brokerage and increasing profitability at the unit.
Morgan Stanley has said it will earn about $400 million in the
first year from buying the rest of the venture as the company
eliminates non-controlling interest payments to New York-based
Citigroup and benefits from more retail orders and  deposits .  Profit Margin  The wealth-management division has posted a pretax margin
of 17 percent in each of the past two quarters, the highest
since the joint venture was formed and ahead of Fleming’s goal
of a mid-teens margin by the middle of this year.  The bank has said it can further boost that margin by
increasing the number of lending and banking products it sells
to individual clients, driving more assets into fee-based
managed accounts and getting its investment-bank division to
work more closely with the brokerage.  “Every time we do a transaction in banking,  capital
markets , and every relationship we have in institutional
securities, we should use that as an opportunity to showcase
what we can do in wealth management for those clients,” Gorman
said. “Historically, we haven’t had the strength in wealth
management to do that. We clearly have the strength, the muscle
to do that now.”  Basel Ratio  Citigroup said the sale will boost its Basel III Tier 1
common ratio by about 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage point.
The purchase price was equal to the value on Citigroup’s  balance
sheet , the New York-based company said in an e-mailed statement.
Citigroup wrote down the value of what was then its 49 percent
stake by $4.7 billion after agreeing to a final price with
Morgan Stanley last year.  Morgan Stanley fell 2.5 percent to $24.53, the third-biggest drop in the 82-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials
Index, after  Bloomberg News  reported that U.S. regulators are
considering doubling a minimum capital requirement for the
largest banks, which could delay plans to return capital to
shareholders. The firm’s shares are up 28 percent this year.  “I’m not planning a big celebration yet” over the
completion of the Smith Barney deal, Gorman said. “We’ll do
that when our stock is where we think it should be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  