-- Morrison & Foerster, White & Case: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-21T11:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/morrison-foerster-white-case-business-of-law.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  switched its
lawyers in litigation brought by investors who are suing over
the company’s $8.8 billion writedown stemming from its
acquisition of Autonomy Corp.  Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP lawyer Robert E. Gooding Jr. and
his team have been replaced by Morrison & Foerster LLP’s Darryl P. Rains and Judson E. Lobdell, according to the filing
yesterday in federal court in San Francisco.  Hewlett-Packard, the largest personal computer maker, faces
shareholder lawsuits stemming from its Nov. 20 announcement that
it was taking a multibillion-dollar writedown on the value of
British software maker Autonomy, which it agreed to buy for
$10.3 billion in 2011.  Rains represented  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  in shareholder
lawsuits over losses in its YieldPlus Fund. San Francisco
partner Lobdell represented Patricia Dunn, former chairwoman of
Hewlett-Packard, in a criminal case that was dismissed in 2007
and in related civil litigation.  Morgan Lewis partner Leslie Caldwell said by phone she will
continue to serve as Hewlett-Packard’s liaison to federal
prosecutors investigating whether Autonomy employees lied about
the company’s performance.  More than $5 billion of the writedown was the result of
accounting practices at Autonomy, Hewlett-Packard said in
November. About $200 million of Autonomy’s revenue had been
recorded prematurely or improperly, the company’s general
counsel said.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard, declined to comment on the replacement of
the investor litigation lawyers on behalf of the company and its
general counsel’s office.  Jennifer Costa, a spokeswoman for Morgan Lewis, declined to
comment on the firm’s replacement.  Other Morgan Lewis lawyers replaced in the case include
partners Marc J. Sonnenfeld and Joseph E. Floren; of counsel
Karen A. Pieslak Pohlmann; and associates Kimberly Alexander
Kane. Matthew S. Weiler and Jennifer R. Bagosy, according to the
court filing.  Rains declined to comment. Lobdell is out of the country
and couldn’t immediately be reached. Amy Merriweather, a
spokeswoman for Morrison & Foerster, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  Morgan Lewis, along with Slaughter and May, advised
Autonomy on the original acquisition by Hewlett-Packard.
Hewlett-Packard’s legal advisers on the deal included DLA Piper
LLP; Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP; Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher
LLP and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  The securities class action case is In Re HP Securities
Litigation, 12-cv-5980, and the derivative case is Riccardi v.
Lynch, 12-cv-06003, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  News  Virginia Lawyer Gets 15 Years for Small Business Loan Fraud  A Virginia lawyer was sentenced to 15 years and eight
months in prison for his role in a scheme that resulted in more
than $100 million in losses on loans backed by the  U.S. Small
Business Administration .  Joon Park, 43, of Falls Church, was sentenced today in
federal court in Baltimore. He admitted that from 2003 to
October 2011, he and his co-conspirators submitted SBA loan
applications with fraudulent documents including counterfeit
cashier’s checks and falsified bank statements and tax returns,
U.S. Attorney Rod Rosenstein of Maryland said in a statement.  The phony paperwork was used to persuade SBA officials to
approve loans under a program that requires business owners to
invest specified amounts of their own money. Taxpayers, through
the SBA, guaranteed 75 percent to 90 percent of each loan, with
lenders on the hook for the rest, according to Rosenstein.  “When borrowers and brokers submit false information and
fraudulent documents, the underwriting process is defeated and
the taxpayers bear the loss,” Rosenstein said.  Park was the leader of the conspiracy, along with his
brother, according to the statement. The scheme operated through
Park’s brokerage, Jade Capital & Investments LLC of Woodbridge,
Virginia. His brother, Loren Park, is still at large and
believed to be in South Korea, according to Marcia Murphy, a
spokeswoman for Rosenstein.  Park arranged for 124 fraudulent loans with 17 commercial
lenders ranging from $100,000 to $14.5 million, according to a
superseding indictment returned March 7 by a federal grand jury.  Four other participants in the scheme have already been
sentenced to prison and a fifth conspirator has pleaded guilty
and is awaiting sentencing.  The case is U.S. v. Park, 11-cr-00600, U.S. District Court,
District of  Maryland  (Baltimore).  U.S. Law Grads Finding More Jobs at Big Firms, Study Finds  More U.S. law school graduates are finding jobs at large
firms even as legal hiring remains well below pre-recession
highs, the  National Association for Law Placement  said in a
report.  The number of jobs taken at firms with more than 500
lawyers rose 27 percent for the class of 2012 from the previous
year, according to the study. The number of jobs, more than
3,600, is still less than the more than 5,000 jobs filled in
2009. Offers from the smallest firms, those with less than 10
lawyers, remained unchanged as percentage of total hiring,
according to the study.  “The jobs picture is improving, if only slightly,” NALP
Executive Director James Leipold said in a statement. “This
class found more jobs -- and more jobs in private practice --
than the previous class, but because the national graduating
class was so much bigger, the overall employment rate continued
to fall.”  Employment for graduates fell to 84.7 percent from 85.6 the
previous year, the fifth year in a row it has declined since
2008, according to the study. The employment rate is the lowest
since 1994, NALP said. The employment rate has fallen more than
seven percentage points since reaching a 24-year high of 91.9
percent in 2007, according to the report.  The national median salary for the new law firm hires rose
to $90,000 from $85,000 the previous year. Salaries of about
$160,000 accounted for 29 percent of law firm pay, according to
the report.  For more, click here.  Moves  White & Case Adds Julian Chung a Partner in Hong Kong  Julian Chung, formerly a partner at Ropes & Gray LLP, joins
White & Case LLP in Hong Kong as a partner.  He has spent 26 years advising on public M&A and equity
capital markets transactions, the firm said. He handles both
state and privately owned companies in  China  and other parts of
Asia, as well as the listings of international companies in Hong
Kong. He has experience in the mining and commodities sectors.  Among Chung’s representations, he advised on Vale SA’s
listing of its common shares and class A preferred shares in the
form of depositary receipts on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. He
also advised on the reverse takeover of China Daye Non-Ferrous
Metals Mining Ltd. through the injection of copper assets with a
total value of about $900 million, the firm said.  White & Case has lawyers in 39 offices across 27 countries.  Trials  Apple Denies Fixing E-Book Prices in Antitrust Trial Closing  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  got one last chance to defend itself from U.S.
charges it led publishers in a scheme to fix the prices for
electronic books, as a lawyer for the company told a judge that
it did nothing wrong.  “Apple did not conspire with a single publisher to fix
prices in the e-books industry,”  Orin Snyder , Apple’s lawyer
and a partner at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, told U.S. District
Judge Denise Cote in his closing argument at the end of a civil
antitrust trial in  Manhattan . “Apple acted lawfully and did not
violate the antitrust laws.”  The government claims Apple and five of the biggest book
publishers conspired to move the e-books market to a model that
raised prices and harmed consumers. The trial focused on
December 2009 and January 2010, when Apple was racing to sign
contracts with the publishers and build an iBookstore in time
for the introduction of the iPad.  Snyder, in his 2 1/2-hour argument, told Cote that Apple’s
entry into the e-books market, which had been dominated by
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , lowered prices overall and helped consumers by
bringing innovation and competition.  Cote, who will decide the case without a jury, interrupted
Snyder repeatedly with questions. In a court conference before
the trial, Cote told lawyers for both sides her “tentative
view” was that the government has evidence that Apple
“knowingly participated in and facilitated a conspiracy to
raise prices of e-books.”  Mark Ryan, a lawyer for the Justice Department, followed
Snyder yesterday, arguing that Apple headed up “an old-fashioned, straightforward price-fixing agreement.”  Ryan said Apple took advantage of the publishers’ dislike
of Amazon’s practice of selling new e-books for $9.99, less than
their cost, offering a scheme that would fix their “Amazon
problem” by forcing the Seattle-based online retailer to switch
to agency pricing.  Apple is the last defendant remaining in the case after the
five publishers sued by the government avoided trial by
settling.  The settling publishers are Verlagsgruppe Georg von
Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,
 Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book Group,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit
and News Corp.’s HarperCollins. The No. 1 publisher, Random
House Inc., isn’t involved in the U.S. suit.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Verdicts  Arbitration Backed as High Court Rules for American Express  The U.S. Supreme Court reinforced companies’ power to
funnel legal disputes into arbitration, ruling in favor of
 American Express Co. (AXP)  in an antitrust clash with retailers over
the credit cards they must accept.  The 5-3 ruling is a victory for American Express in its bid
to hold merchants to agreements they signed promising to pursue
any disputes individually before an arbitrator. A federal
appeals court had refused to enforce the arbitration accord,
saying its bar on class actions would make it infeasible for the
merchants to press their claims.  Michael Kellogg, a lawyer at Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd,
Evans & Figel PLLC, representing American Express, delivered the
oral argument in February. Paul Clement, a lawyer at Bancroft
Pllc, delivered the oral argument for the retailers.  Writing for the majority, Justice Antonin Scalia said
courts can’t invalidate a class-action waiver on the grounds
that individual arbitration would be too expensive to pursue.  “Such a preliminary litigating hurdle would undoubtedly
destroy the prospect of speedy resolution that arbitration in
general and bilateral arbitration in particular was meant to
secure,” Scalia wrote.  In dissent, Justice Elena Kagan said the ruling risked
turning arbitration into “a mechanism easily made to block the
vindication of meritorious federal claims and insulate
wrongdoers from liability.”  Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer joined
Kagan in dissent. Justice Sonia Sotomayor, who was involved with
the case as an appellate judge, didn’t take part in the Supreme
Court’s decision.  The case is American Express v. Italian Colors Restaurant,
12-133, U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ).  For more, click here.  Video  Lanny Breuer Was ‘Disaster’ at Justice Department, Spitzer Says  Eliot Spitzer, New York’s former governor and attorney
general, talks with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about the so-called revolving door between the public and private spheres.
While he doesn’t think the entire concept requires regulatory
change, he says particular examples have shown an enormous
problem of individuals improperly internalizing defenses of the
private sector when they go to work for the government.  Spitzer says the question is more about a person’s capacity
to change with their given roles.  “Can people separate, emotionally and intellectually, one
job from the past job,” he says. “That’s a very hard thing to
do.”  Bill on Bankruptcy: Lawyers Must Disclose Clients Pay  Lawyers may object to disclosing how much they actually
collect per hour from non-bankrupt clients, as Bloomberg Law’s
Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News bankruptcy columnist Bill
Rochelle explain on their video discussing new fee guidelines
promulgated by the U.S. Trustee Program.  The Bankruptcy Judge of the Week is Kathy A. Surratt-States
from St. Louis whose efforts at resuscitating Patriot Coal Corp.
may be undone by the United Mine Workers union. Rochelle
describes the new Chapter 11 filings for Exide Technologies,
National Envelope, and Orchard Supply Hardware Stores Corp.,
commenting on which will survive and which might not.  The video ends with discussion of a case to be argued late
this year in the U.S. Supreme Court and a decision from the
Court of Appeals in Atlanta casting doubt on the ability of
creditors to negotiate collectively with a troubled company in
advance of bankruptcy.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 