-- Mortgage-Bond Yields Surge in Largest Weekly Increase Since 2009
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-06-21T21:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/mortgage-bond-yields-head-toward-largest-weekly-gain-since-2009.html
Yields on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
mortgage bonds that guide U.S. home-loan rates posted their
largest weekly increase in four years, extending a surge sparked
by a potential slowing of the Federal Reserve’s debt buying.  A Bloomberg  index  of Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year
securities rose 0.15 percentage point today to a 22-month high
3.44 percent as of 5 p.m. in New York. Yields, which have
climbed in seven of the past eight weeks, rose 0.5 percentage
point this week, the biggest weekly advance since June 2009.  Bonds are tumbling worldwide as the Fed moves closer to
scaling back its $85 billion in monthly debt buying, including
$40 billion of government-backed mortgage securities. Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said June 19 at a news conference following a
statement by the Federal Open Market Committee that the central
bank may “moderate” the pace later this year and end the
 purchases  around the middle of 2014 if the economy continues to
improve as it forecasts.  “The FOMC statement and subsequent press conference by Fed
Chairman Ben Bernanke affirmed the momentum towards tapering,”
Anish Lohokare and Timi Ajibola, BNP Paribas SA analysts in New
York, wrote yesterday in a report.  Selling of mortgage bonds may also be tied to changes in
their expected lives as rates climb, a dynamic known as
convexity, as well as a desire by firms that rely on borrowed
money such as real-estate investment trusts to reduce the rising
leverage ratios caused by the slumping value of their holdings,
they said. Dealers may also seek to pare inventories, they said.  The average cost of new 30-year, fixed-rate home loans
climbed yesterday to 4.24 percent from a record low 3.36 percent
in December, according to Bankrate.com data.  A measure of spreads on the Fannie Mae current coupon debt,
or bonds trading closet to face value, rose to the highest since
June 2012. Relative yields on the securities climbed about 0.03
percentage point to 1.46 percentage point higher than an average
of five- and 10-year Treasury rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  