-- Los Angeles Gasoline Premium Plunges as Contract Trades for July
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-06-21T20:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/los-angeles-gasoline-premium-plunges-as-contract-trades-for-july.html
Spot gasoline in Los Angeles tumbled
to a four-day low versus futures as the prompt-month contract
began trading for July and upsets at  California  refineries were
seen as short-term.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles, now
trading against August gasoline futures on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, dropped 33.5 cents to a premium of 27.5
cents a gallon at 4:02 p.m., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The fuel soared to an eight-month high of 62.5 cents a
gallon above futures June 19 after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s 150,000-barrel-a-day Torrance refinery shut its crude unit for repairs.
Carbob’s premium is at the highest level for this time of year
since at least 2008, when Bloomberg began compiling data for the
season.  The June 19 price boost “sounds like a classic short-squeeze,” Dave Hackett, president of energy consultant
Stillwater Associates, said by e-mail from  Irvine , California.
“Somebody was short and had a deadline. It took 65 cents per
gallon over to get a supplier to sell.”  The crude unit at the Torrance refinery in Southern
California is expected to remain down for one to two weeks, a
person familiar with operations there said yesterday. Other
equipment at the plant is running at about half of normal
capacity during the repairs, related to a metallurgical issue,
the person said.  Prompt-delivery of Carbob in Los Angeles sank 37.55 cents
to $3.0217 a gallon.  San Francisco  In San Francisco, the fuel weakened 22.5 cents against
futures to a premium of 23.5 cents a gallon.  The  discount  for San Francisco Carbob versus the same fuel
in Los Angeles narrowed 11 cents to 4 cents a gallon, the
smallest differential in more than a week.  The fluid catalytic cracker at  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s
Martinez refinery in Northern California may remain shut for
five to six days, according to a filing from Contra Costa County
regulators. The FCC, which processes vacuum gasoil into gasoline
or lighter crude products, was taken out of service June 19
after a boiler tripped offline, the notice shows.  All three boilers at the Martinez plant are down, according
to the filing.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s Golden Eagle refinery near Martinez is
running normally after a “brief power outage” June 19, Megan Arredondo, a spokeswoman at the company’s headquarters in San
Antonio, said by e-mail today.  “There was no impact to operations or our ability to meet
product supply commitments,” she said.  Retail Gasoline  Retail gasoline  in California jumped 3.9 cents to $4.046 a
gallon, Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the nation’s largest
motoring organization, said today on its website. Prices are up
from $3.929 a gallon a year ago.  The premium for spot, conventional gasoline in  Portland ,
 Oregon , which is still trading for June, gained 2 cents against
futures to a premium of 16 cents a gallon.  Portland gasoline’s discount to Los Angeles Carbob narrowed
35.5 cents to 11.5 cents a gallon, the smallest gap in a week.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles tumbled $10.78 to
$21.51 a barrel at 3:57 p.m.  New York  time. The spread, a rough
indicator of short-term refining margins, jumped June 19 to the
highest level since Oct. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  