-- Tougher Cigarette Health Warnings Supported by EU Governments
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-06-21T17:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/tougher-cigarette-health-warnings-supported-by-eu-governments.html
European Union governments approved
stricter health warnings on cigarettes in the latest bid to curb
smoking in  Europe , where tobacco-related illnesses are estimated
to kill one person every minute.  EU health ministers endorsed draft legislation to require
that cigarette packages feature a combined pictorial and text
alert covering 65 percent of the front and back. Under current
EU rules, anti-smoking images on packages are optional while
text warnings are mandatory.  At a meeting today in Luxembourg, the ministers also agreed
to ban the sale of cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco with
characterizing flavors such as menthol. In addition, nicotine-containing products like electronic cigarettes would be
regulated under the new rules, which also need the support of
the European Parliament to become law.  “Smoking is one of the greatest avoidable, preventable
threats to people’s health,” Irish Health Minister James Reilly
told reporters after the agreement. Reilly chaired the
Luxembourg meeting and brokered the accord because Ireland holds
the 27-nation EU’s rotating presidency.  Tobacco kills as many as 695,000 people a year in the EU,
or one person every 45 seconds, according to the  European
Commission , the bloc’s regulatory arm, which says a third of
Europeans still smoke. Smoking is the largest avoidable health
risk in Europe, causing more problems than alcohol, drugs, high
 blood pressure , high cholesterol or obesity, according to the
Brussels-based commission, which proposed stricter rules in
December.  Respiratory Diseases  Cancers as well as cardiovascular and respiratory diseases
are linked to tobacco use. Saying that 70 percent of smokers
start before the age of 18, the commission described the goal of
its draft legislation six months ago as to make tobacco goods
less attractive to young people.  Under today’s ministerial accord, which would revise a 2001
EU law,  cigarette packages  would also have to include an
information message that tobacco smoke contains more than 70
cancer-causing substances. A current EU ban on oral tobacco,
along with an exemption for  Sweden , would remain.  The ministerial deal on the provision relating to the
combined pictorial and text alert on packages scaled back the
commission proposal. The commission had wanted three-quarters of
the front and back of packages to be covered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  