-- Pakistan Unexpectedly Cuts Rates Even as Rupee Drops to Record
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-06-21T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/pakistan-unexpectedly-cuts-rates-even-as-rupee-drops-taxes-rise.html
Pakistan  unexpectedly cut interest
rates for the first time this year to boost economic growth,
even as higher taxes and a drop in the nation’s currency to a
record low threaten to revive inflation.  The  discount rate  was lowered to 9 percent from 9.5
percent, the State Bank of Pakistan said in a statement in
Karachi yesterday. Three of 13 analysts predicted the decision
in a Bloomberg News survey. The rest saw no change for the third
straight meeting.  The move contrasts with decisions to hold or raise rates in
nations from  India  to Indonesia and  Brazil , which are seeking to
steady their currencies as the prospect of decreased U.S.
monetary stimulus hurts emerging-market assets. Pakistan also
faces challenges from an energy crisis and a plunge in foreign
reserves that has increased the odds of an International
Monetary Fund bailout.  “It will be very tough to sustain this as inflation will
rise,” said Furqan Punjani, deputy head of research at BMA
Capital Management Ltd. in Karachi.  The rupee has depreciated about 4.6 percent versus the
dollar in the past year and touched an all-time low of 98.9675
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Karachi
Stock Exchange 100 index has climbed about 60 percent in the
period, boosted by corporate earnings.  Consumer prices  rose 5.13 percent in May from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since at least 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Balancing Risks  The central bank said it placed a higher weighting on
moderating price pressures and lower private-sector credit
relative to the balance-of-payments position. At the same time,
it said there is a risk average inflation may exceed 8 percent
next financial year.  “There has been a discernible positive change in
sentiments post May 2013 elections because of clarity on the
political front,” the monetary authority also said in its
statement.  Finance Minister Ishaq Dar in his June 12 budget speech
pledged to narrow the widest fiscal deficit in over two decades
and to spur expansion in an economy he said was “shattered.”  Dar imposed additional levies, such as a sales-tax increase
to 17 percent from 16 percent, to help achieve a deficit of 6.3
percent of gross domestic product in the year starting July 1.  His objectives are 4.4 percent economic growth next fiscal
year, up from an estimated 3.6 percent in 2012-2013, and to keep
inflation in single digits.  Foreign reserves slid 44 percent to $6.24 billion in June
from a year earlier, enough to cover about two months of
imports, central bank data shows.  IMF Position  The IMF won’t sign a new loan program without a “deep and
clear” commitment on a set of policy reforms to curb the budget
deficit, Jeffrey Franks, head of the IMF’s Pakistan mission,
said in January.  An IMF team was due in the country from June 19 for a
routine visit, Dar said earlier this month.  Power shortages have hurt growth. The government has said
it plans to unveil an energy policy soon to tackle $5 billion of
power-industry dues from unpaid bills that have choked
electricity generation.  Yesterday’s rate decision was the first since Prime
Minister Nawaz Sharif returned to power in a May 11 general
election, more than 13 years after his second period as premier
was cut short by a 1999 army coup. Aside from economic woes, he
also faces a Taliban insurgency in Pakistan’s northwest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  