-- Palestinian Premier’s Future Uncertain Amid Kerry Trip
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-06-21T21:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/palestinian-premier-s-future-uncertain-amid-kerry-trip.html
Palestinian Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah’s future was up in the air as U.S. Secretary of State
 John Kerry  headed to the Mideast seeking to restart peace talks.  Hamdallah, 54, submitted his resignation to President
 Mahmoud Abbas  on June 20, after less than two weeks in office,
according to the official Wafa Palestinian news agency.
Yesterday, the Palestinian MAAN website said at first that
Hamdallah withdrew his resignation and then reported that he
will meet with Abbas today to resolve the matter.  Kerry is pushing Israelis and Palestinians to restart peace
talks that have been stuck since 2010, saying that a chance for
peaceful resolution of their decades-long conflict is fading
fast. A U.S. official said yesterday that uncertainty over
Hamdallah’s plans won’t affect Kerry’s efforts during a visit
June 27-29 to Jerusalem and Amman, Jordan.  “When you talk about the  peace process , President Abbas is
our interlocutor, so it’s not going to have any impact on the
secretary’s discussions,” State Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell told reporters.  Still, Hamdallah’s flip-flop underscores questions about
the Palestinian leadership’s legitimacy and popularity, and that
could affect Kerry’s efforts, according to Diana Buttu, a former
adviser to Abbas. She said the U.S. is engaging with a
leadership in which “there’s nobody who can claim legitimacy.”  Elections haven’t been held since Abbas’s democratic
mandate expired in 2009. The prime minister is appointed, not
elected, and the Palestinian parliament collects paychecks even
though it’s been out of session since 2007, according to Buttu.  Legitimacy Questioned  “The  Palestinian Authority  in Ramallah is seen by more and
more Palestinians as lacking any legitimacy, as failing to serve
Palestinians, advance their cause, or help them advance their
rights,” Ali Abunimah, co-founder of the Electronic Intifada
website, said in a telephone interview.  Hamdallah quit after two weeks in office because he felt he
was being given insufficient authority, Ihab Besieso, a
spokesman for the prime minister’s office, said in a telephone
interview.  The position of prime minister was created in 2003 by the
Quartet -- the U.S., European Union,  United Nations  and  Russia  -
- as a way to avoid negotiating with President Yasser Arafat.
The first candidate was Abbas, who held the position for seven
months before resigning. In a complaint that echoes Hamdallah’s,
Abbas said that he was being undermined by Arafat. He also said
he wasn’t getting enough support from the U.S. or  Israel .  Replaced Fayyad  Hamdallah, the former president of An-Najah University in
the West Bank city of Nablus, had been appointed by Abbas to
replace Salam Fayyad, who resigned in April.  While often clashing with Abbas, Fayyad won the trust of
bankers and foreign donors because of his campaign to root out
corruption and build the governing foundations for a Palestinian
state. The  International Monetary Fund , where Fayyad worked for
14 years, said in March that the Palestinian Authority’s ability
to govern was being eroded by its financial difficulties.  Without foreign aid, Abbas’s government would face a budget
deficit of more than 7 percent of gross domestic product at a
time when  government borrowing  from local banks is, according to
the  World Bank , “at the limit that the banking sector can
sustain.” Foreign aid accounts for about 14 percent of GDP,
while public-sector jobs are 22 percent of total employment,
according to the World Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  