-- Petrobras Hunting for Foreign Partners to Share Oil Costs
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-06-21T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/petrobras-hunting-for-foreign-partners-to-share-oil-costs.html
Petroleo Brasilero SA, the most
indebted publicly traded oil company, is seeking partners to
share the cost of projects from northeastern  Brazil  to  Angola .  Petrobras this month said it’s pursuing ventures with China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., or Sinopec, and GS Energy to build
refineries to supply Brazil’s growing fuel demand. The Rio de
Janeiro-based company also sold half of its African assets to
Grupo  BTG Pactual (BBTG11)  SA for $1.5 billion.  The state-run producer is spending $237 billion in the five
years through 2017. Investments are set to surge as it develops
the ultra-deepwater Libra field, Brazil’s biggest discovery, and
blocks it bought in a May licensing round. The company is
looking to team up with foreigners after costs at similar
projects it managed itself rose more than fourfold.  “They’re putting their house in order,” said Rogerio Freitas, who helps manage about $100 million including Petrobras
shares at hedge fund Teorica Investimentos. “When things start
to improve abroad there could be a strong movement” back into
the stock.  Petrobras has  plunged  15 percent so far in June, putting it
on track for its biggest monthly decline since December 2008.
The company trades at 6.92 times forecast earnings over the next
year. The  average ratio  among 15 global peers tracked by
Bloomberg is 11.  Knowledge Seeking  Last year, Petrobras announced a plan to cut costs by 32
billion reais ($14.2 billion) as expenses surged. The company is
also selling and restructuring assets to raise $9.9 billion.  The company said June 19 it signed a letter of intent with
Beijing-based  Sinopec (386)  for its Premium I refinery venture in
Maranhao state, less than two weeks after it signed a similar
accord with  South Korea ’s GS Energy for the Premium II refining
project in Ceara state.  Petrobras declined to comment on its search for
partnerships in an e-mailed response to questions.  The company is seeking refining knowledge abroad after
costs for its  Northeast  project, set to be the first new
refinery to open in Brazil since 1980, swelled to more than $12
billion from $2.8 billion and the start date was pushed back to
2014 from 2011. Brazil-based engineering and construction groups
including Camargo Correa SA and Odebrecht SA hold contracts for
that project. Sinopec and GS didn’t respond to e-mails requesting
comment. Odebrecht and Camargo Correa declined to comment on 
their projects with Petrobras.  Financial Muscle  “They’re trying to lower refining investments,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps manage 330 million reais at Leme
Investimentos, said by phone from Florianopolis, Brazil. “It’s
about operational efficiency.”  Petrobras has reduced by half contracts with Odebrect’s
engineering unit for projects outside of Brazil, Chief Executive
Officer Maria das Gracas Foster said June 5, indicating the
company is pressuring local suppliers to lower costs.  The oil producer has been careful to find partners with the
financial muscle to complete the investments for the Premium I
and II refineries,  Gianna Bern , president of risk-management
adviser Brookshire Advisory and Research, said by phone from
 Chicago . Originally, Petrobras planned to split costs for the
Northeast refinery with  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , or PDVSA. The
press office for  Venezuela ’s state-owned oil producer didn’t
respond to a phone call and an e-mail requesting comment.  “PDVSA never came up with the money and I don’t think
they’ll have that problem with Sinopec,” Bern said. “Petrobras
is working with partners who have the financial wherewithal to
advance these infrastructure projects.”  ‘Special Arrangement’  Petrobras will need to guarantee projects turn a profit in
order to secure foreign companies with the cash and experience
to build refineries at a lower cost, said Oswaldo Telles, an
analyst at Banco Espirito Santo SA. Petrobras’s refining
division posted a record $9 billion in  losses  last year amid
fuel-import subsidies and cost overruns.  “The company is considering implementing a special
commercial arrangement to guarantee a stable economic return for
the refineries and compensate for its gasoline and diesel
policy,” Telles said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “Otherwise
Sinopec and GS Energy wouldn’t be interested.”  Sao Paulo-based BTG Pactual agreed to buy half of
Petrobras’s assets in Angola,  Benin , Gabon,  Namibia ,  Nigeria  and
Tanzania, reducing Petrobras’s share of exploration and
development costs. The deal was the largest to date from a
divestment program that Petrobras first announced in 2011. The
company also has sold exploration blocks in the  Gulf of Mexico 
and Brazil as part of the asset sale and restructuring plan.  “It’s a question of cost sharing and risk sharing,” said
Bern. “For integrated oil majors, partnerships have become the
mantra of the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  