-- Phony Facebook Share Scam Gets Florida Man 11 Years
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-21T18:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/phony-facebook-share-scam-gets-florida-man-11-years.html
A South Florida man charged with
running a $13.6 million scam involving nonexistent shares in
companies including  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  was sentenced
to 11 years in prison.  John Mattera, 51, called a “reverse Robin Hood” by a
prosecutor in Manhattan today, used the millions he stole to
fund a lavish lifestyle that included a waterfront home in Fort
Lauderdale, jewelry, two Rolls-Royces, a Ferrari and a
Lamborghini, according to the government. Some of his victims
lost their life savings in the scam.  “These crimes were just so selfish, so callous toward the
victims,” U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan told Mattera
before sentencing him today.  Mattera, who had four earlier convictions for fraud and
theft, admitted in October to using his fund, Praetorian Global
Fund Ltd., to defraud more than 140 investors. He pleaded guilty
to conspiracy,  securities fraud ,  wire fraud  and  money
laundering .  In addition to the prison time, the judge imposed three
years’ supervised release and $11.8 million in forfeiture, in
line with a plea agreement. Restitution will be determined
later.  Prosecutors claimed that Mattera controlled a group of 10
Delaware limited-liability companies set up to hold stock in
nonpublic companies that were expected to make initial public
offerings.  Contempt Finding  In October, a judge in a related suit filed by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission against Mattera found him and
his mother, Ann Mattera, in contempt of court for violating an
order freezing their assets.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel found that Mattera sold
the Lamborghini for $28,000 and borrowed $114,000, which he
transferred to his mother.  “You’ve left a lot of wreckage in your path, and you do
have to be punished for that,” Sullivan said today.  The case is U.S. v. Mattera, 11-cr-02947, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  