-- Pimco Favorite Sinks Most Since Lehman Aftershock: Mexico Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   N e w l e y   P u r n e l l
-- 2013-06-21T17:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/pimco-favorite-sinks-most-since-lehman-aftershock-mexico-credit.html
Foreign investors led by  Bill Gross 
that boosted holdings of Mexican debt to a record as the  Federal
Reserve  suppressed  interest rates  are now suffering the worst
rout since the depths of the financial crisis.  Yields on  Mexico ’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 jumped
0.67 percentage point in the past week, the most since November
2008 in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s failure
and more than triple the 0.21 percentage point rise on emerging-market local debt. Gross’s Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the world’s largest bond fund manager, is the biggest holder of
the securities, according to filings data compiled by Bloomberg.  The swoon in Mexican bonds, part of a global selloff,
deepened yesterday after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank may pare bond purchases this year and end them in
mid-2014 if the U.S. achieves its growth objectives. Yields on
Mexico’s 2024 bonds are now at a one-year high of 5.93 percent,
0.01 percentage point more than in June 18, 2012, when Gross
said he favored the notes over German bunds. The peso, which
Gross called a “great currency” on Feb. 5, has tumbled 5.5
percent in the past week, exacerbating losses in dollars.  Foreigners ‘Panicking’  “There are a lot of foreigners in the paper,” Mindaugas
Lepeska, an analyst at Threadneedle Asset Management, which
oversees $3 billion in emerging-market fixed-income assets
including Mexican local-currency bonds, said in a telephone
interview from  London . “If the country has very high foreign
participation in the  capital markets , then the foreigners, who
would be panicking, would be selling first.”  He declined to comment on if Threadneedle had bought or
sold Mexican bonds amid the rout.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman at the  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco, said company officials weren’t available
to comment on the company’s Mexico holdings.  Gross’s flagship $285 billion Pimco  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  is
the biggest holder of the 2024 peso securities, according to
filing data compiled by Bloomberg. The world’s biggest mutual
fund has lost 2.2 percent this year, the most among of 19 U.S.
total return funds with at least $2 billion in assets, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Gross said in the fund’s monthly
report in May that the fund’s exposure to Mexico was the biggest
detractor of its performance.  Mexico also has the highest allocation among countries in
Pimco’s $14.5 billion Emerging Local Bond Fund, with 15.7
percent, according to its May monthly report.  Favored Bonds  Ramin Toloui, global co-head of emerging-markets portfolio
management at Pimco, said on May 20 that the firm is favoring
local bonds from Mexico,  Brazil  and  South Africa .  Bernanke will cut the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases by $20 billion at the Sept. 17-18 policy meeting,
according to 44 percent of economists in a Bloomberg survey
released yesterday.  That compares with just 27 percent who said policy makers
would start tapering in September in a June 4-5 poll.  Alejandro Urbina, a  money manager  who helps oversee about
$800 million in emerging-market assets including Mexican debt at
Silva Capital Management, says that liquidity for longer-term
Mexican bonds has “dried up” as the securities are more
vulnerable to increases in global interest rates.  ‘Very Scared’  “There’s quite a bit of pain out there,” Urbina said in a
telephone interview from  Chicago . “Locals and foreigners right
now are very scared of duration and so the market ceases to have
a bid because nobody wants to be left holding the bag on bonds
that may be falling in price.”  Pablo Cisilino, who helps manage $60 billion of emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor Investment Partners in  New York ,
says he’s buying Mexican peso bonds as the debt is “cheap” at
current  price levels . He said improved outlook for the U.S.,
Mexico’s biggest trading partner, helps make the peso attractive
as the Latin American country’s government pushes ahead with
reforms to boost growth.  President Enrique Pena Nieto said in an interview with
 Bloomberg News  in London on June 17 that his administration will
send a bill to congress to open the state-owned oil industry to
private investment by September along with a tax proposal.  He has said the overhauls will boost growth in  Latin
America ’s second-biggest economy to as much 6 percent per year,
compared with 3.9 percent in 2012.  ‘Question of Time’  “The fundamental story hasn’t changed in Mexico” Cisilino
said in a telephone interview from New York. “It’s a question
of time only.”  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 13.3470 per dollar at 12:44
p.m. in Mexico City, after dropping 0.9 percent yesterday to the
weakest closing level in almost 11 months.  Mexico’s stability council, which includes officials from
the  Finance Ministry  and the central bank, said yesterday it was
analyzing the market volatility.  Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said in April that
volatility in capital flows may spur an “overreaction” in the
 exchange rate .  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Mexican
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries dropped two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 228 basis points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps fell three basis points to
162 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on Mexican interbank rate futures contracts due in
December, known as TIIE, jumped 18 basis points yesterday to
4.58 percent.  ‘Crowded Trade’  Yields on Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2024 touched a record
low 4.48 percent on May 9, less than two weeks before Bernanke
said the Fed may reduce the pace of asset purchases if there was
sustainable improvement in U.S. employment. Today yields on the
debt rose seven basis points to 6 percent.  Mexico has “become probably a favorite crowded trade, and
to that extent, the technicals are less robust because simply
more people own it,” Jeremy Brewin, who oversees more than $5
billion of fixed-income assets as the head of emerging-market
debt at Aviva Investors, said in a telephone interview in
London. “When people get outflows from their portfolios, they
look around for the most liquid asset they’ve got and one that
they are probably overweight within their portfolio structure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Newley Purnell in New York at 
 npurnell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  