-- Pimco’s Gross Shifts Family Holdings in Bond Market Rout
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-06-21T21:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/pimco-s-gross-shifts-family-holdings-in-bond-market-rout.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
William Gross, the billionaire who runs the world’s largest
mutual  fund (PCN) , is re-jiggering family investments in Pimco bond
funds that have been beaten down by rising interest rates.  Gross paid about $4.3 million to buy shares of Pimco
Corporate & Income Strategy Fund from June 10 to June 12,
according to filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. He raised $3.2 million in May and June by selling
shares of Pimco Income Strategy Fund, Pimco Municipal Income
Fund II and  Pimco Corporate & Income Opportunity Fund (PTY) , separate
filings show.  All of the investments are in closed-end funds that traded
at stiff premiums to the value of their assets, in part because
they offered high payouts to buyers starved for yield, said
 Cecilia Gondor , chief investment officer at Thomas J. Herzfeld
Advisors Inc. in  Miami Beach ,  Florida . Closed-end funds have
 sold off  since May, reflecting investor concern that the
underlying value of the bonds they hold will suffer should the
U.S. Federal Reserve pare its efforts to keep interest rates
low, Gondor said.  “In May, the first wave of selling was most evident among
the Pimco funds trading at big premiums,” Gondor said. “It has
now been exacerbated by  Ben Bernanke ’s recent confirmation that
the Fed has been talking about tapering off some of the
stimulus.”  Bernanke, the Fed’s chairman, told reporters on June 19
that the central bank will probably taper its $85 billion in
monthly bond buying later in 2013, and halt the purchases around
the middle of next year, if the  U.S. economy  performs in line
with Fed projections. The yield on the benchmark  10-year
Treasury (USGG10YR)  note jumped 17 basis points to 2.35 percent, the
largest one-day increase since October 2011. A basis point is
one hundredth of a percentage point.  Traditional Buyer  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Pimco in  Newport Beach ,
 California , didn’t immediately return a telephone call seeking
comment. Gross didn’t respond to an e-mail.  Having helped found Pimco in 1971, Gross has historically
been a buyer rather than a seller of its funds. In addition to
running the flagship  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , which has $285
billion in assets, he also manages several of the firm’s closed-end funds, including the three income funds he traded in May and
June.  Last month, Gross disclosed that family trusts he controls
sold 79,000 Pimco Corporate & Income Opportunity shares on May
17 at about $21 each. The $1.3 billion fund now trades at $18.75
a share.  Shrinking Premiums  From June 10 to June 12, Gross and his family acquired
259,164 shares of the Pimco Corporate & Income Strategy Fund,
paying $16.70 to $16.75 a share. And in filings yesterday with
the SEC, Gross disclosed that the family trusts had sold shares
of the Pimco Municipal Income Fund II and Pimco Income Strategy
on June 18 and June 19.  The three non-municipal funds have similar strategies,
allocations among different types of bonds, and durations, a
measure of sensitivity to changes in  interest rates . The
premiums on all four funds had shrunk during the bond market’s
sell-off.  Closed-end funds issue a fixed number of shares that then
trade on an exchange. When the funds are in demand, their market
prices can exceed the net value of their assets, creating a
large premium; when they’re out of favor, premiums can shrink
and the funds can trade at a discount to the value of their
holdings.  When Gross sold part of his family stake in Pimco Corporate
& Income Opportunity, its shares were trading at a 21 percent
premium to its  net asset value  of $17.26 a share, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. By June 12, that premium had shrunk
to 4 percent. The spread has widened to about 15 percent.  “Retail investors looking for income have been gravitating
toward the Pimco funds because they see Mr. Gross on TV everyday
and they have a lot of confidence in Pimco,” Gondor said. “On
the other hand, they have been fearful of what will happen when
interest rates rise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  