-- Calgary Floods Force 75,000 to Evacuate, Offices to Shut
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h ,   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-06-22T20:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/police-order-100-000-people-to-leave-calgary-after-floods.html
(Corrects spelling of last name in ninth paragraph.)  Police in Calgary, home to  Canada ’s
oil industry, ordered 75,000 residents to leave their homes and
closed most of downtown after heavy rains flooded parts of the
city. Three deaths were reported outside the metropolitan area.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest energy company by
market value, was among businesses closing offices yesterday as
workers were told to stay home and schools, bridges and roads
were shut. The Bow and Elbow rivers, which meet near the middle
of Calgary, surged from their banks into neighborhoods and were
expected to remain high for several days.  Calgary imposed a state of local emergency and began
evacuations on June 20, according to the city’s  website .
Residents also were advised to leave their homes in communities
across a more than 150-mile (250-kilometer) stretch of southern
Alberta, where rain-swollen rivers flowed east from the Rocky
Mountains and flooded low-lying areas in the foothills and
prairies.  “The Bow is moving higher and faster than I have ever seen
in my lifetime,” Calgary Mayor Naheed Nenshi said yesterday at
a news conference. “Avoid all travel that is not absolutely
necessary.”  Two bodies have been recovered in the town of High River
and one person is missing and presumed dead there, Royal
Canadian Mounted Police Sargeant Josee Valiquette said by
telephone today. The town of 13,000 is about 30 miles south of
Calgary.  Surging Waters  Calgary suffered its worst flooding in about a century in
June 2005 when surging waters damaged 40,000 homes and forced
the evacuation of 1,500 people, according to the city website.
Water on the Elbow River late on June 20 was flowing more than
three times faster than during the 2005 flood,  Alberta  Premier
Alison Redford told reporters yesterday.  Six to eight inches (150 to 200 millimeters) of rain fell
into the river basins near Calgary since June 19, and more than
12 inches fell in the Sheep River basin southwest of Calgary,
the city said in a statement today. Another inch of rain is
expected today.  In Calgary, police ordered the evacuation of downtown
buildings, Bruce Burrell, director of the city’s emergency
management agency, said at a separate press conference
yesterday. All of the city’s bridges were closed, some were
under water and power was out in many downtown buildings, said
Ryan Jestin, Calgary’s director of roads.  Tenth Row  Calgary’s Scotiabank Saddledome, where events are scheduled
to be held during the Calgary Stampede in two weeks, was flooded
up to the 10th row yesterday, according to Trevor Daroux, the
city’s deputy police chief. Animals from the Calgary Zoo were
evacuated or moved to higher ground, he said.  Fraser Logan, a Canadian Forces spokesman, said 1,200
regular troops from  Edmonton  were being deployed to southern
Alberta yesterday. The soldiers were to provide humanitarian
relief, conduct search-and-rescue missions and help with
evacuation, while police remain responsible for security, Logan
said.  Chris Mauer, who works in institutional sales at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, said he saw a deck that had broken
off a house smash into a bridge over the Elbow River yesterday
morning in southwest Calgary.  The flood “is going to be a big, big problem,” Mauer said
in a telephone interview.  ‘Epic Flooding’  People in several other towns in southern Alberta were
evacuated, including from High River, Okotoks, Black Diamond,
Canmore and the ski resort town of Banff.  A low pressure system moved in off the Pacific and crossed
the U.S. Pacific Northwest earlier this week, said Bernie Rayno,
a senior meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in State College,
 Pennsylvania . The movement of the storm and the topography of
the Canadian Rocky Mountains create “ideal conditions” for
heavy rain, Rayno said.  “Some areas in the mountains got 5 inches of rain in 24
hours,” Rayno said. “Where is that water going to go? Down
into the streams. Epic flooding is occurring in southern
Alberta. This is as bad as it gets.”  Suncor operations haven’t been affected by the flooding,
Sneh Seetal, a company spokeswoman, said by e-mail yesterday.
 Husky Energy Inc. (HSE)  had closed some of its gas stations in the
affected areas of Calgary and asked only essential staff to be
at work yesterday, Mel Duvall, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Cargill Inc. suspended cattle slaughter at its meat-processing facility in High River yesterday because the plant
was unable to access fresh water, Chantelle Donahue, director of
corporate affairs, said yesterday in a telephone interview. The
facility, which normally processes 4,000 to 4,500 cattle a day,
hadn’t been directly affected by flooding, she said.  Christian Roman, a 27-year-old plumbing apprentice, was
stranded downtown on his way to work yesterday in the city’s
northeast quadrant because of transportation disruptions.  “Everything seems to be in disarray,” Roman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  