-- Portugal Sees Signs EU Support Will Continue After Aid Plan
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-06-21T15:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/portugal-sees-signs-eu-support-will-continue-after-aid-plan.html
Portugal  will probably be able to
rely on European support after the end of the country’s aid
plan, Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said.  “Portugal has benefited from the support and solidarity of
 Europe ,” Gaspar told reporters in Luxembourg, as  European
finance (SWEF)  ministers met. “This solidarity will persist after the
aid program ends.”  The European Union is looking at possible precautionary
arrangements that may underpin Ireland and Portugal’s exit from
their aid programs, Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn
said July 17. Ireland will probably apply for such a facility,
two people familiar with the matter said yesterday.  “It’s still premature to discuss the models that aid would
take,” Gaspar said. He said the country is “starting to access
the markets” after it sold 10-year debt for the first time in
more than two years last month.  Portuguese 10-year bond yields rose to 6.4 percent today,
increasing for a second day as concern that policy makers around
the world will reduce stimulus curbed demand for fixed-income
assets.  Bond Swap  Gaspar said the country may also exchange more bonds after
arranging Oct. 3 to swap 3.8 billion euros ($4.99 billion) of
securities due in September 2013 for the same value of notes
maturing in October 2015.  Secretary of State for Finance Manuel Rodrigues said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television June 4 that the country was
working to ensure eligibility for the  European Central Bank ’s
debt-purchase program, called Outright Monetary Transactions. A
country needs to have access to a precautionary credit lines to
qualify for the new program.  “Portugal is regaining full  market access  and full market
access will guarantee the eligibility for the OMT program,”
Rodrigues said. “We will not need other additional programs --
the fact that Portugal is eligible for the OMT will necessarily
have a very positive impact on our credit risk profile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Luxembourg at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  