-- Putin Says Bernanke Stance Expected as Fed Tapering Is Overdue
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-06-21T15:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/putin-says-bernanke-stance-expected-as-fed-tapering-is-overdue.html
Russian President Vladimir Putin,
who has berated the U.S. Federal Reserve for being “parasitic”
with its bond purchases, said Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is
making a long-overdue move to scale back stimulus.  “A statement of this kind was expected for us -- an
adjustment had to come sooner or later,” Putin said at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum during a panel
discussion with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. “You can’t
endlessly pump liquidity into the economy without solving
fundamental issues.”  Bernanke, speaking on June 19 after a two-day meeting of
the Federal Open Market Committee, said the Fed may begin
dialing down its unprecedented bond buying this year and end it
in mid-2014 if the economy achieves the Fed’s objectives. His
remarks sparked a selloff in global financial markets, with
stocks falling and bond yields rising for two days.  Putin has criticized the Fed’s bond purchases for damaging
the U.S.’s fiscal discipline and accused the country in 2011 of
taking advantage of the dollar’s “monopoly” as the main
reserve currency.  Russia , which holds the world’s fourth-biggest
gold and foreign-currency reserves, has reduced its  holdings  of
U.S. government debt by 14 percent from a record high on Oct.
31, 2010, to $151.1 billion in April.  Putin said financial markets will undergo “corrections”
as they assess the Fed’s changing policy stance. He urged the
U.S. to take steps to ease its debt burden and fiscal strains.  Russia’s central bank raised the dollar’s share in its
reserves to 45.8 percent as of Jan. 1 from 45.5 percent a year
earlier while decreasing its currency allocation into the yen
and the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in St. Petersburg at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  