-- Putin Vows Show in Arm for Economy Growing at 4-Year Low
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s ,   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-06-21T15:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/putin-vows-shot-in-arm-for-economy-with-growth-at-four-year-low.html
President  Vladimir Putin  unveiled a
plan to jolt Russia’s economy out of the worst growth in four
years, promising to help the central bank cut inflation and
pledging about $14 billion of savings to revamp roads and
railways.  Rules governing energy exports will also be relaxed to help
Russia feed demand for natural gas in Asia, while an amnesty may
free thousands of entrepreneurs convicted or accused of economic
crimes, Putin said today.  “The top task for us is to create conditions in Russia for
sustainable economic growth,” he said at the  St. Petersburg 
International Economic Forum. “Economic growth should rest on
increased  labor productivity , investment and innovation.”  Putin addressed delegates in his hometown at Russia’s
flagship investor gathering at a time when the country’s economy
is expanding at less than half the 5 percent expansion goal set
by Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev . While Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said yesterday that growth has picked up in the second
quarter, the government’s full-year projection of 2.4 percent
would represent the worst result since the 2009 recession.  Stocks Plunge  The dollar-denominated RTS index is down 18.3 percent in
2013, compared with a 14.9 percent decline for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index. It fell 20 percent from its January peak on June
5, entering a  bear market  on concern that falling oil prices may
curb growth in the world’s biggest energy exporter. The ruble-denominated Micex has lost 12 percent this year.  Russia will seek to rein in price growth at state-run
companies such as  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  and OAO Russian Railways by
limiting the scale of their annual tariff increases to the
previous year’s inflation rate, Putin said. The cap will be in
place for five years, starting in 2014.  “Our infrastructure monopolies have room to increase
savings,” he said. “Each of these companies must approve a
cost-cutting program and improve efficiency. Money needs to be
spent intelligently.”  Tariff growth accounts for more than a third of Russian
inflation, central bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev 
said yesterday at the conference. The bank, which will be headed
by Putin’s economic aide  Elvira Nabiullina  staring June 24, has
said price growth is too quick to ease monetary policy even as
the economy lost steam, keeping the main lending rate at 5.5
percent for nine months.  Infrastructure Plan  Russia will also allocate 450 billion rubles ($13.7
billion) from the National Wellbeing Fund for infrastructure
projects, according to Putin, who said the first will be a high-speed train link between Moscow and Kazan, a soccer  World Cup 
host city about 450 miles east of Moscow. As much as half of the
$87 billion fund may eventually be allocated to such projects,
he said.  Weakening investment has been a cause of Russia’s economic
slowdown, according to Belousov, who’s led government calls for
lower borrowing costs. Gross domestic product rose 1.6 percent
from a year earlier in the first quarter as growth slowed for a
fifth quarter.  Putin, who’s accused by imprisoned former Yukos Oil Co.
billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  of being behind his two
convictions for  tax evasion  and fraud, also used the speech to
say he’d support an amnesty for some first-time offenders
charged or convicted with economic crimes.  Thousands Released?  Boris Titov, the Kremlin ombudsmen for businessmen, has
backed the amnesty, saying some entrepreneurs have been wrongly
jailed. Thousands would be released under the proposal, he told
reporters today in St. Petersburg.  Putin’s proposals follow up on a set of directives he
issued to the government on May 7, 2012, hours after being
inaugurated for a third term to the presidency. Those targets
included increases in labor productivity, new jobs, and rising
to 20th place from 112th in the  World Bank ’s Doing Business
ranking.  While Russia needs faster growth, the government can’t
improve expansion significantly by stimulating demand because
there isn’t much slack in the economy, according to  David Lipton , first managing director of the  International Monetary
Fund .  “A little bit of stimulus might bring some growth in the
short run,” he said at a panel discussion before Putin’s
speech. “But it would undermine the long-run investment climate
by once again leading to inflation pressures and exchange-rate
pressures.”  ‘Competitiveness Problem’  Inflation accelerated for a second month in May to the
fastest pace in 21 months, with consumer prices rising 7.4
percent from a year earlier after increasing 7.2 percent the
previous month, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said
June 4.  Putin’s proposals can’t revive Russia’s economy, according
to billionaire Brooklyn Nets owner  Mikhail Prokhorov , who said
“the competitiveness problem will remain unresolved.”  Energy companies such as Gazprom oppose Putin’s proposals
on tariffs, according to First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov . Still, capping increases shouldn’t result in
significant decreases to state companies’ investment programs,
Belousov told reporters after the speech.  “This will provide clear rules, which will allow goods and
service producers to plan for the long term,” Shuvalov said
today in an interview in St. Petersburg. “It’s a good signal
and stable rules of the game.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in St. Petersburg at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in St. Petersburg at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in St. Petersburg at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  