-- Ramsay Protegee Hartnett Plans Restaurant in East London
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-06-21T08:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/ramsay-protegee-hartnett-plans-restaurant-in-east-london.html
Angela Hartnett, who trained under
 Gordon Ramsay  before becoming one of the U.K.’s leading chefs,
plans to open an informal establishment in east London.  Merchant’s Tavern, which is scheduled to open in September,
is on the site of Canteloupe, which was one of the first
restaurants in Shoreditch. It will seat 80 in the dining room
and another 50 in the bar, offering a modern European menu.  The project is a collaboration with Neil Borthwick, who
will head the kitchen, and the co-founders of Canteen, Dominic
Lake and Patrick Clayton-Malone. Hartnett, 44, says Merchant’s
Tavern will provide opportunities for young chefs, just as
Ramsay did in opening restaurants around London.  “It’s doing what Gordon did in a way, investing in the
next generation,” Hartnett said in an interview. “Everyone
knocks Gordon these days, but he empowered me and Marcus (Wareing) and Jason (Atherton). It’s about helping London
evolve.”  Hartnett holds a Michelin star at her London restaurant
Murano and this year opened Hartnett Holder & Co. at Lime Wood
Hotel, in the New Forest, outside London. She previously worked
at  Angela Hartnett  at the Connaught and at the York &  Albany .  She said that her partners in Merchant’s Tavern are old
friends and that they had long been looking for a site. The food
will be uncomplicated and the aim is for it to become a
neighborhood venue as well as a destination for diners.  Honest Food  “It’s not going to be lots of jellies and foam: It will be
the honest, heartfelt kind of food you want to eat,” she said.
“Everyone wants to slag off fine dining but a good restaurant
is about great food and great service, somewhere you want to go
back. It’s not about tablecloths and all that.  “You can have very good food in east  London . A lot of the
big art and design people have moved out of Soho, and the media
and the fashion people. We all live there.”  Her partners opened Canteen, an unfussy venue serving
British food, in Spitalfields market, east London, in 2007.
There are now three other branches.  Dishes at Merchant’s Tavern may include starters such as
autumn vegetable salad with buckwheat emulsion and speck
Trentino; roast partridge with baked celeriac and hazelnut
pesto; and mains such as loin of venison with lardo di
colonnata, braised red cabbage and poached quince, and roast
stone bass with scorched onions, sauteed artichokes and chive
creme fraiche.  Ramsay’s proteges are making their mark in London these
days. Atherton is most prominent. In addition to holding a
Michelin star at Pollen Street Social, he has recently opened
two more restaurants in London -- Little Social and Social
Eating house -- and plans two more in coming months. He also has
opened establishments in  Singapore ,  Hong Kong  and  Shanghai .  Tower 42  His next London projects are taking over the Gary Rhodes
restaurant in Tower 42 in the City financial district and a
collaboration with the entrepreneur  Ian Schrager  at Edition, a
new hotel on Berners Street owned by Marriott International Inc.  Marcus Wareing  has Marcus Wareing at the Berkeley, the
 Gilbert Scott  in London and Aalto, in Birmingham. Mark Sargeant
opened Rocksalt, Folkestone, in 2012, and in April was placed in
charge of food at the Great Northern Hotel, in London. The
hotel’s 90-guest restaurant is Plum + Spilt Milk.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include London and New York  weekend guides ,
 Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  New York  on 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 