-- Rating Rules Mean Black Fridays for Bond Volatility
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-06-21T07:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/rating-rules-mean-black-fridays-for-bond-volatility.html
Bond traders, check your calendars
before heading off for the weekend.  Some Fridays will become more volatile for fixed-income
investors as European Union rules implemented yesterday require
rating companies to publish a calendar of dates for reviewing
the sovereign credit of countries. Until now, the notices have
come at random times and on random days.  Assessors will be restricted to three judgments per year on
the creditworthiness of sovereign borrowers that haven’t asked
or paid for a score. They will also have to give all government
issuers a full working day’s notice of any change, and review
ratings at least every six months. Increased speculation before
the announcements, along with a greater risk of leaks, may make
bond markets more volatile even as the regulations seek to boost
transparency, investors and strategists say.  “It does make them more volatile on the day and less
volatile on the other days because you’re taking away the
potential for rumors,” said Stuart Thomson, chief economist and
a fund manager at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow, which
oversees 69 billion pounds ($107 billion). “The political
pressure on the rating agencies has intensified as they’ve taken
decisions that are uncomfortable for European officials.”  Financial Consequences  The three biggest companies, Moody’s Investors Service
Inc., Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, cover about 95
percent of the world market, according to a memo from the
European Commission in Brussels. Lawmakers are concerned about a
perceived lack of transparency in decisions that have
“immediate consequences on the stability of financial
markets,” the Jan. 16 report said.  Investors often ignore rating and outlook changes. Ten-year
 gilt yields  fell from 2.11 percent in the three months following
Moody’s cut of Britain’s rating to Aa1 from Aaa on Feb. 22. The
yield dropped to 1.61 percent on May 2, and was at 2.33 percent
as of 8:17 a.m. London time.  Rating changes for nations close to the boundary between
investment and non-investment grade will cause greater market
reaction, according to Soeren Moerch, head of fixed-income
trading at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. Spain is rated one
step above non-investment grade at both Moody’s and S&P. Italy
is ranked within three levels of junk at all of the largest
three companies, while the Netherlands has top grades.  ‘Increasing Volatility’  “I’d say we’re probably going to have less rumors but
increasing volatility going into these,” Moerch said. “The
problem that we have with Spain and  Italy  is that a further
downgrade could take them into junk. There’s a big difference
between having a rating calendar for the Netherlands than for
Spain, when you know that if Spain goes one notch more, they go
down to junk.”  Ratings companies will have to publish their announcement
calendars for the year ahead at the end of December, with the
first schedules due at the end of this year. Issuers will be
notified of their new level at least one full working day before
the announcement. Publication of sovereign ratings will only be
allowed on Fridays, either after markets close or at least one
hour before trading starts in the European Union.  French Downgrade  French 10-year bonds slid in the hours before the nation
lost its top AAA rating from S&P in January 2012 amid
speculation a move was imminent. After the bond market closed
that day, the then Finance Minister Francois Baroin confirmed to
 France  2 television that the cut would occur, before the rating
company delivered its announcement. The 10-year French yield
rose four basis points to 3.09 percent on the day of the
downgrade, and is currently at 2.30 percent.  The limits on rating frequency only apply to sovereigns
that have not requested a grade. Fifteen of 128 sovereign
ratings at S&P, including Italy, the U.S., U.K. and France, are
designated as “unsolicited,” according to the company’s
website. Additional announcements, and deviations from the
schedule, may be allowed if the firms can justify them to
regulators.  The raters drew criticism in the wake of the financial
crisis for failing to assess creditworthiness in a timely and
accurate manner. The new rules seek to address the
“insufficiently transparent” reasons for government credit
downgrades, according to the EC.  ‘Stricter Rules’  “Credit-rating agencies will have to be more transparent
when rating sovereign states and will have to follow stricter
rules, which will make them more accountable for mistakes in
case of negligence or intent,” Michel Barnier, the EU’s
financial services chief, said in January after the European
Parliament approved the curbs.  Fitch, Moody’s and S&P all registered with the European
Securities and Markets Authority, the regulator that oversees
the industry, in 2011, becoming directly supervised by a single
EU regulator for the first time. In the past month, ESMA
approved the Economist Intelligence Unit and Dagong Europe
Credit Rating Sri.  “It is too premature at this juncture to determine its
potential market impact,” said Daniel Piels, a spokesman for
Moody’s in  London , said yesterday. “Moody’s will comply with
our obligations and remains focused on delivering insightful
credit analysis to the markets.”  S&P expects the regulations to “further strengthen
confidence in the integrity and transparency of credit
ratings,” spokesman Mark Tierney in London said yesterday.
Fitch global head of corporate communications Daniel Noonan said
this week that it plans to fully comply with the rules.  ‘Political Pressure’  “This is just one example of attempts to corral the rating
agencies into making more decisions which the politicians would
like,” said Ignis’s Thomson. “For us, it has been remarkable
that with the weight of evidence against Spain, they haven’t
downgraded it. We can only ascribe that to considerable
political pressure.”  The new regulation may help investors to avoid volatility
according to  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London.  “If we have a calendar it gives investors an opportunity
to reduce their risk around these times if they don’t want to be
involved,” he said. “Rather than them being forced sellers on
the news, they could reduce their risk in a more controlled
manner. You might see volatility ahead of the announcement, but
the reaction on the announcement would probably be smaller.”  Treasury Volatility  Volatility in U.S. Treasuries as measured by the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch MOVE Index has climbed to 86.89, the
highest in a year. It has averaged 62.2 during the past 12
months, and dropped as low as 48.87 last month.  The legislation is the EU’s third round of rule-making for
ratings companies since the 2008 financial crisis. “Ratings are
not just simple opinions,” and raters can be held liable if
investors and credit issuers suffer losses because of
malpractice or gross negligence in the drawing up of
assessments, according to the EC.  The new rules “create expectations for more volatility
among investors,” said  Lena Komileva , managing director at G+
Economics Ltd. in London. “It is a form of financial
protectionism that may increase the cost of credit in euro
capital markets, by diluting and possibly distorting the role of
independent ratings and putting more pressure on the research
resources of each individual investor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  