-- Robusta Coffee Options Show Bullish Bets on Vietnam, Indonesia
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-06-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/robusta-coffee-options-show-bullish-bets-on-vietnam-indonesia.html
Bets robusta coffee futures traded
in London will rise by 27 percent before September more than
doubled in the past month as farmers in top producer  Vietnam  and
third-ranking  Indonesia  hold back beans, NYSE Liffe data show.  Investors held 7,591 contracts giving the right to buy
futures for September delivery at $2,200 a metric ton as of June
19, up from 3,301 contracts a month earlier, exchange data on
Bloomberg showed. That was the most active option for September.
Robusta coffee fell 13 percent to $1,736 a ton in the past month
as speculators placed the biggest bearish bets in more than 17
months in the week ended June 11, Liffe data showed.  “Farmers in Indonesia and Vietnam are holding beans back
because of falling futures,” Judy Ganes-Chase, the president of
J. Ganes Consulting in Panama City,  Panama , said by phone from
 Chicago  yesterday. “Exporters there are struggling to ship.”  Money managers boosted bets on falling robusta coffee
prices by 35 percent in the seven days ended June 11, NYSE Liffe
data showed.  Net-short positions  amounted to 9,587 futures and
options in the period, the biggest since Jan. 10, 2012.  Buyers of coffee from Indonesia are paying bigger premiums
for their beans as futures fall and farmers hold back supplies,
Volcafe, a unit of commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.,
said June 14. Farmers and middlemen in Vietnam held 24 percent
of the country’s crop as of June 1, said Amsterdam-based trader
 Nedcoffee BV , which also has offices in  Ho Chi Minh City .  Indonesian beans for shipment in July and August were last
week at a premium of $200 a ton to the price on NYSE Liffe in
London, up from $150 in the previous seven-day period, according
to Volcafe. In Vietnam, premiums gained 12.5 percent to $135 a
ton last week for shipment in the same period, data from the
Winterthur, Switzerland-based trader showed.  “Differentials should stay be firm,” Ganes-Chase said,
referring to the premium buyers of physical coffee pay relative
to the futures price. “Vietnam had a bigger crop, still demand
was good. A lot of people are still underplaying demand for
robusta.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 