-- Rosneft’s $270 Billion Oil Deal Set to Make China Biggest Market
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-06-21T12:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/rosneft-s-270-billion-oil-deal-set-to-make-china-biggest-market.html
OAO Rosneft signed a $270 billion
supply deal with China National Petroleum Corp., making the
Asian nation  Russia ’s biggest market for oil.  State-run Rosneft, the biggest publicly traded oil producer
by output, will get a $70 billion prepayment under the deal, and
will supply about 360 million metric tons of crude to China over
25 years, President  Vladimir Putin  said today at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum.  The deal, following a government accord in April, will
redirect Russia’s oil away from  Europe , where demand is
stagnant, to the world’s second-biggest crude market after the
U.S. Rosneft became the biggest producer by output after buying
TNK-BP for $55 billion this year. Russia produced 518 million
tons of oil last year, or almost 10.5 million barrels a day.  “You didn’t just come here to stroll through Petersburg,”
Putin told a Chinese delegation with Deputy Prime Minister Zhang Gaoli yesterday, saying the deal would be “unprecedented.”  Rosneft Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  signed the deal
today at a ceremony overseen by Putin. The prepayment is more
than Rosneft’s net debt, which surged to 1.78 trillion rubles
($54 billion) at the end of March, following the acquisition of
TNK-BP.  Rosneft and  China Development Bank  completed documents for
a long-term $2 billion loan under an accord signed March 2013
and secured by a 2009 crude oil supply contract, the Moscow-based company said today.  Trafigura, Orlen  Rosneft also signed oil supply deals today with trader
Trafigura Beheer BV and  PKN Orlen  SA’s Czech refining unit. The
Trafigura deal includes an advance payment of as much as $1.5
billion for 10.1 million tons of crude and oil products over
five years.  Under the agreement with PKN Orlen, Rosneft will supply
8.28 million tons of crude to Unipetrol SA under a three-year
contract through June 2016, with an estimated value of about
$6.2 billion.  The agreement signed in April calls for Rosneft to deliver
at least 37 million metric tons of oil a year, or 743,000
barrels a day, to CNPC starting in 2018. Rosneft agreed to
increase oil flows to  China  through a spur from the East
Siberia-Pacific Ocean pipeline by as much as 800,000 tons this
year from an earlier planned 15 million tons.  For Related News and Information:
Russia’s Oil Champion Shunned as Putin Weighs Share Sale: Energy  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  