-- Rudd Rules Out Challenge Amid Speculation Gillard Days Numbered
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-06-21T00:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/rudd-rules-out-challenge-amid-speculation-gillard-days-numbered.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , facing
poor polling and media speculation she may be toppled in the
coming week, received a boost when her main rival again ruled
out challenging for  Australia ’s top job.  “I don’t believe there are any circumstances under which
that would occur,”  Kevin Rudd , whom Gillard ousted in a June
2010 backroom party coup, told Channel 7 in an interview today.
Australians have had a “gutful” of the leadership talk, he
said.  Next week looks to be the last chance for Rudd supporters
to try and remove Gillard, with parliament sitting in Canberra
for the final time before the Sept. 14 election. Opinion polls
indicate the Tony Abbott-led Liberal-National opposition is set
to take government in a landslide win.  Even as polls show voters would give more support to a
Rudd-helmed Labor, Australia’s first female leader has vowed she
won’t resign. Should Gillard refuse to throw open her
leadership, a challenge could only be held if more than a third
of Labor’s caucus demands a party room vote, known as a spill.  “Rudd’s comments today echo those he’s made before -- he’s
not ruling out becoming Labor leader, he’s just saying he won’t
challenge,” said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing research at the  Australian National University  in
Canberra. “He wants the party to come to him and ask him to
save them. With the dire way the election looks under Gillard’s
leadership, that still can’t be ruled out.”  Gillard beat Rudd in a February 2012 leadership ballot 71
votes to 31, prompting Rudd to rule out a future challenge. In
March this year, he declined to contest the leadership when
Gillard called a vote. She was re-elected unopposed by her Labor
colleagues.  Union Backing  Speculation Labor would return Rudd to the leadership to
revive the party’s prospects for re-election resurfaced after he
started campaign appearances for colleagues in marginal seats
this month.  The trade union movement is unanimous in its support of
Labor and Gillard’s bid for re-election, the nation’s senior
workers’ representative Paul Howes said yesterday. Gillard
received another boost today, when Labor power-broker  Bill Shorten  backed her.  “I have always had and continue to have a strong working
relationship with the prime minister,” Employment and Workplace
Relations Minister Shorten said in an e-mailed statement. “I
have a great deal of respect for the prime minister and continue
to support her. Reports today are baseless and inaccurate.”  Shorten’s Support  Shorten, who helped engineer Gillard’s 2010 leadership
move, responded after the Australian newspaper today said he had
been excluded from Gillard’s strategic decision-making team as
pressure mounts on him to resolve Labor’s leadership issues. The
Australian Financial Review reported today that supporters of
Rudd claim he has the numbers to hold a successful challenge
next week. Both papers cited Labor sources they didn’t identify.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  urged Australians to abandon reading
“fictional reports which appear in newspapers.”  “When you pick up the papers and read the stories in the
morning what you find is a lot of rubbish,” Swan told reporters
in Brisbane today.  Replacing Gillard with Rudd would boost Labor’s chances at
the ballot box, polls show. His return would lift Labor by 11
percentage points in the primary vote to 40 percent, compared
with the coalition’s 42 percent, according to a Nielsen survey
published in Fairfax newspapers June 17. It showed support for
Labor under Gillard slid 3 points to 29 percent, versus the
opposition’s 47 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  