-- Russia Says U.S. Risks Al-Qaeda Boomerang With Syria Rebels
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-06-21T15:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/russia-says-u-s-risks-al-qaeda-boomerang-with-syria-rebels-1-.html
Russia said the U.S., in deciding to
arm Syrian rebels, is in danger of repeating the mistake it made
in Afghanistan in the 1980s when it backed religious extremists
who later formed the al-Qaeda terrorist network.  The U.S. move is a “disaster” for efforts to end Syria’s
two-year civil war, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said in an
interview in St. Petersburg. “Al-Qaeda was basically born from
the Mujahedeen movement financed by the United States when the
Soviets were in Afghanistan. Then al-Qaeda boomeranged.”  Russia and the U.S. are on a collision course after
President  Barack Obama ’s administration said last week it will
supply weapons to Syria’s opposition in the wake of battlefield
advances by President Bashar al-Assad’s forces. The two former
Cold War foes, which are now arming opposing sides in Syria, are
struggling to keep alive an initiative to stage a peace
conference and end a conflict that has killed more than 90,000.  Russian President Vladimir Putin warned last week at a
joint press conference with U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
that the West shouldn’t be supporting people who “not only kill
their enemies but cut open their bodies and eat their innards
before the public and cameras.”  An Internet video last month appeared to show a Syrian
rebel leader mutilating and biting into the heart and liver of a
dead enemy soldier.  ‘Bad Guys’  The Islamic extremist militia Jabhat al-Nusra is the
“leading opposition force on the ground” because it’s the
“most effective,” Lavrov said in the interview today, which
Bloomberg conducted together with the Associated Press. Jabhat
al-Nusra, which has merged with al-Qaeda, was designated a
terrorist group by the U.S. in December.  “They are terrorists and they must be treated as
terrorists,” Lavrov said. “We have to unite, all of us,
against the bad guys.”  The U.S. armed the Mujahedeen in  Afghanistan  in the 1980s
as part of its Cold War rivalry with the Soviet Union, which was
forced to end its occupation of the central Asian country in
1989. Many of these Islamic extremists, including Osama bin Laden, later joined al-Qaeda, which carried out the 9/11 attacks
in the U.S. that killed almost 3,000 people.  Syrian rebels largely drawn from the Sunni Muslim majority
have been fighting to topple Assad’s Alawite-led regime since
March 2011, a conflict that has drawn in Hezbollah, the Iran-backed militia based in neighboring Lebanon.  Peace Settlement  Lavrov said any move to impose a no-fly zone in Syria and
provide military supplies to the insurgents would kill any hope
of a peace settlement.  If the U.S. seeks to reverse recent gains by pro-Assad
forces to strengthen the hand of the opposition in future
negotiations, “this would be a disaster for all diplomatic
efforts,” Lavrov said.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry plans to meet this
weekend with European and Mideast allies to discuss what weapons
to provide Syrian rebels, according to French officials.
Government troops, backed by Hezbollah, defeated insurgents in
the strategic town of al-Qusair this month and are now turning
their forces on Aleppo,  Syria ’s commercial capital, and the
suburbs of Damascus.  Obama, who made ending U.S. military involvement in Iraq
and Afghanistan hallmarks of his presidency, said June 19 that
the U.S. isn’t “preparing to go all in and participate in
another war.”  ‘Full Powers’  “What we want to do is end a war,” Obama said at a joint
press conference in Berlin with German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
“We need to create a transitional governing body with full
powers.”  At this week’s Group of Eight summit in Northern Ireland,
Obama, Putin and the other G-8 leaders agreed on a statement
urging the establishment of a transitional government as quickly
as possible. They stopped short of calling for Assad’s ouster
because of Russian opposition.  The U.S.,  Russia  and the United Nations will hold a new
round of talks next week in Geneva on efforts to host the Syria
peace conference, UN spokeswoman Corinne Momal-Vanian said in
comments posted today on the world body’s website.  The U.S. will supply small arms and ammunition to the
Syrian rebels, according to a U.S. official familiar with the
decision.  Wish List  The head of the rebels’ Supreme Military Command, Major
General Salim Idris, has given friendly governments a weapons
wish list, ranging from non-military supplies to anti-tank and
anti-aircraft weapons, the French officials said.  Russia, which has billions of dollars of weapons deals with
Assad, hasn’t yet sent advanced S-300 anti-aircraft missiles,
though the contract is “absolutely legal,” Lavrov said. Putin
said June 4 that Russia temporarily froze the S-300 deal to
avoid upsetting the regional balance of power after warnings
from  Israel  and the U.S.  Russia, which has blocked UN sanctions against Syria during
the conflict, maintains its only Mediterranean naval base in the
Syrian port city of Tartus.  The Syrian president inherited power in 2000 from his
father, Hafez al-Assad, a Soviet ally who ruled for three
decades and received weapons and financial support for the Arab
standoff against Israel in the 1970s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  