-- Russia Hastens China Energy Pivot With Oil, LNG Supply Deals
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a ,   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-06-21T16:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/russia-hastens-china-energy-pivot-with-crude-lng-supply-deals.html
Russia signed deals to supply China
with crude oil and liquefied natural gas, deepening the embrace
between the world’s largest energy producer and the fastest-growing major economy.  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  agreed on long-term contracts to supply more
than 2.6 billion barrels of crude oil to China National
Petroleum Corp. over the next 25 years. The Beijing-based
company also agreed to buy a 20 percent stake in  OAO Novatek (NVTK) ’s
Yamal liquefied natural gas project, the first time a Chinese
company will participate in a Russian gas-export project.  President  Vladimir Putin  is encouraging energy producers to
make deals with China, responsible for 77 percent of the growth
in global energy demand last year, as consumption of oil and gas
falls in traditional European markets. The development of fields
in Russia’s  Far East (3360)  that are nearer to Asia than Europe is
hastening the shift.  “Putin himself has high hopes for Asia, and with these
deals Russia is signaling that it is ready to deliver,” said
 Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London. “China
is going to be guzzling energy for a long  time, and Russia’s in
a great position to supply its needs.”  The deal between Novatek, Russia’s second-largest gas
producer, and CNPC shows Russia’s willingness to end  OAO
Gazprom (GAZP) ’s monopoly on gas exports in a quest to open markets in
Asia. Gazprom has been negotiating to export gas to China for
more than a decade without reaching an agreement.  Yamal Project  The $20 billion Yamal LNG project, where France’s  Total SA (FP) 
is also a partner, will liquefy gas from fields above the Arctic
circle for shipment around the world. Novatek, controlled by
billionaire’s Leonid Mikhelson and  Gennady Timchenko , expects
the first cargoes in 2016. CNPC will buy 3 million tons of LNG a
year under today’s agreement.  “For Novatek, the deal means they have arguments to
convince the government that they can sell the gas to a new
market, thereby moving up export liberalization,” said Ildar Davletshin, an analyst at Renaissance Capital Ltd. in Moscow.  China’s rising energy needs are driving world demand
growth. It shares a border with Russia, which holds the world’s
second-largest gas reserves after Iran, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
statistical review published June 12.  Demand in China will grow by 12 percent a year over the
next five years as it absorbs one-third of new LNG supplies
worldwide over that period, the International Energy Agency said
yesterday in its Medium-Term Market Report.  Supply Deals  Today’s agreements were signed at the St. Petersburg
Economic Forum where Putin and Russian business leaders
including Rosneft Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  are
courting investment and trade deals. Rosneft, the world’s
largest publicly traded crude oil producer also reached accords
today with China Development Bank,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  Italy’s  Eni
SpA (ENI) , Norway’s Statoil ASA, and  General Electric Co. (GE)   Rosneft also plans to develop LNG for the Asian market,
signing non-binding supply deals with Japan’s Marubeni Corp.,
Sakhalin Oil & Gas Development Co. and Vitol Group from a
planned plant to be built with Exxon Mobil by 2018.  “In our long-term development, we are making a serious bet
on the gas business,” Sechin said today. Rosneft is seeking to
double gas output by 2020 to 100 billion cubic meters a year.  Rosneft’s deal with CNPC is for 365 million tons of crude
shipped over 25 years, valued at $270 billion at today’s market
prices, Sechin said in  St. Petersburg  today. The Asian country
will become the biggest market for Russia’s crude oil.  TNK=BP Acquisition  The deal includes a $70 billion prepayment, according to
Putin. That is more than Rosneft’s net debt, which surged to
1.78 trillion rubles ($54 billion) at the end of March,
following the $55 billion acquisition of Russia’s third-largest
crude producer TNK-BP.  “It secures a good market for Rosneft and helps the
balance sheet,” said Bob Dudley, chief executive officer of BP,
which became a 18.5 percent shareholder in Rosneft this year
after the sale of TNK-BP. “It also secures a long-term crude
supply to a country where energy demand is growing very
rapidly.”  China’s demand for crude oil to more than 10 million
barrels a day in 2012, or 12 percent of global consumption,
according to statistics compiled by BP. Europe’s demand dropped
2.5 percent last year. Likewise, gas demand jumped 9.9 percent
in China and dropped 2.3 percent in Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  