-- Russia May Trim State’s 18 Million Jobs to Boost Productivity
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-06-21T10:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/russia-may-trim-state-s-18-million-jobs-to-boost-productivity.html
Russia ’s government, which employs
about 18 million people, should cut its workforce to spur
productivity, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said.  “When it comes to increasing labor productivity, you need
to free up workers,” Siluanov told reporters in St. Petersburg
today. “We’re afraid to cut jobs for workers in both the public
sector and in the private sector.”  Russia, growing at the weakest pace since a 2009
contraction, can no longer count on recovery from that crisis
and expanding exports to increase output,  Elvira Nabiullina , who
takes over as central bank chairman next week, said at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum yesterday. Boosting the
economy, which is currently growing slightly below its potential
of 3 percent to 4 percent, will require improving productivity,
cutting costs and boosting investment, she said.  In 2005, the public sector, which includes law enforcement,
the military, state administration, education and health care,
accounted for 23 percent of all jobs, though that share has
since risen to 25 percent, or about 18 million people, according
to Alfa Bank estimates.  Russian  unemployment  tumbled to 5.2 percent in May from 5.6
percent in April, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said
yesterday in a report. Economists expected a drop to 5.4
percent, according to the median estimate of 18 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  The economy is currently operating “at nearly full
capacity,” Siluanov said today. “When unemployment is low,
it’s entirely possible to conduct structural reforms to reduce
the number of workers, and thereby increase labor
productivity,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in St. Petersburg at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in St. Petersburg at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  