-- SAC’s Cohen Won’t Settle Ex-Wife’s Suit, Lawyer Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-06-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/sac-s-cohen-won-t-settle-ex-wife-s-bogus-suit-lawyer-says-1-.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP founder
 Steven A. Cohen  won’t settle a suit brought by his ex-wife in
which she claims the hedge fund is “the product of an ongoing
racketeering scheme” that engaged in  insider trading , his
lawyer said.  Steven Cohen ’s lawyer, Martin Klotz, told U.S. District
Judge William Pauley yesterday at a hearing in federal court in
 Manhattan  that his client would instead seek dismissal of the
suit, which was reinstated in April by an appeals court.  “Any chance this case can be settled?” Pauley asked
lawyers for both sides.  “We’re open to negotiation,” Patricia Cohen’s lawyer,
Josh Dratel, responded.  “The defendant’s position is that the plaintiff’s suit is
utterly bogus,” said Klotz. “There is utterly no claim here
and we’re not prepared to spend money on such a made-up suit.”  Patricia Cohen ’s 2010 amended complaint was dismissed by a
district court judge in 2011 after he said she took too long to
bring the case, which was first filed in 2009. The federal
appeals court in Manhattan reinstated it, saying the suit was
filed in a timely manner. The court also said she validly stated
claims her ex-husband violated the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act, as well as common law fraud and
breach of fiduciary duty. A fourth claim was found by the panel
to have been properly dismissed.  Triple Sum  Cohen, whose $15 billion hedge fund is at the center of a
multiyear federal insider-trading investigation, allegedly hid
$5.5 million from his ex-wife during their 1990 divorce, her
lawyer said at an appeals court hearing. Patricia Cohen seeks
half that amount as part of her divorce settlement and asks that
the sum be tripled as the RICO statute permits. She is seeking
$8.25 million in damages.  Pauley, who took over the case from U.S. District Judge
 Richard Holwell  after he left the bench, said he was concerned
that the case has lingered for four years and cautioned Dratel
about further delays. Dratel said Patricia Cohen is considering
filing a third amended lawsuit.  “This is a case where the allegations span a generation,”
Pauley said to Dratel.  “Twenty-five years, your honor,” Klotz said.  ‘More Chapters’  “Some of my clerks weren’t born when the underlying claims
began here,” the judge said. “It reminds me of a Dickens novel
and I guess there are going to be a few more chapters.”  Pauley said he was frustrated that the appeals court didn’t
give him more guidance on how to proceed with the case now that
it has been sent back. He said the appeals court took more than
14 months to issue its ruling.  “One thing I can promise you is that I’m not going to take
14 or 15 months,” Pauley said. “My job is to see that Cohen
versus Cohen ends before the world does.”  The judge scheduled an Oct. 3 conference to hear  Steve
Cohen ’s motion to dismiss the suit.  Patricia Cohen said in her lawsuit that SAC Capital was
“the product of an ongoing racketeering scheme” that has
engaged in insider trading, bank fraud,  money laundering  and
other misconduct. In June 1986, Cohen, under oath, refused to
answer regulators’ questions about alleged insider trading
involving a General Electric acquisition, invoking his right not
to incriminate himself, according to her complaint.  Expanded Business  She also claimed she was entitled to at least half of his
business, saying it expanded in part with $1 million that she
earned from a real-estate business.  Steven Cohen said the couple had $17 million in marital
assets in the divorce, and Patricia Cohen accepted a $3.5
million settlement, $2.5 million of which was an apartment,
according to the complaint.  Both Klotz and Dratel declined to comment on the suit after
the hearing. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard
Verbinnen & Co. in  New York , declined to comment on the hearing
and lawsuit.  The case is Cohen v. Cohen, 11-1390,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan), and 09-cv-10230, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  