-- Senators Reach Border Security Deal in Immigration Bill
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-06-21T20:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/senators-reach-border-security-deal-in-immigration-bill.html
The U.S. Senate is scheduled to vote
June 24 on a compromise border security proposal designed to
attract Republican support for the most significant revision of
immigration law in a generation.  The agreement on the security issue, struck at the behest
of Republicans and grudgingly accepted by Democrats, would
double the U.S. Border Patrol’s size by adding 20,000 agents and
also require 700 miles of fencing at the U.S.- Mexico  border. It
would provide additional unmanned aerial drones to help police
the border.  “The amendment will put to rest any remaining concerns
about the border, about border security,” Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said today.  The Senate finished today a second week of debate on the
immigration legislation that seeks to balance Democrats’ goal of
a path to citizenship for an estimated 11 million undocumented
immigrants in the U.S. with Republicans’ insistence on stricter
border security. Senate Democratic leaders want to pass a bill
by the end of next week.  The last major revision of U.S. immigration law occurred in
1986.  The compromise amendment would require the Department of
Homeland Security to certify that the added border-security
resources are in place before undocumented immigrants could
receive permanent legal status, said South Carolina Senator
Lindsey Graham, one of the bill’s Republican co-sponsors.  E-Verify System  Also, all employers would have to use an e-verify system to
check workers’ legal status, and all airports and seaports would
have to use a visa entry and exit system.  “We believe all of this can be done in 10 years,” Graham
told reporters. In that case, it wouldn’t delay the Senate
bill’s plan to allow undocumented immigrants to begin receiving
permanent legal status in 10 years.  The agreement to enhance the security elements helped
siphon off support for a more stringent border plan offered by
 Texas  Republican John Cornyn. The bill’s co-sponsors warned that
Cornyn’s proposal, defeated yesterday, would have created
insurmountable hurdles for undocumented immigrants to become
U.S. citizens and would have cost them votes for the measure.  The compromise reached yesterday “solved the riddle of how
we deal with border security,” said  New York  Senator Charles Schumer, a Democratic co-sponsor of the bill. “I think it’s a
breakthrough, and I’m optimistic it can help us get a large
number of votes on both sides of the aisle.”  Rubio Praise  The plan was praised by Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida , a
Republican co-sponsor of the bill who had said he wouldn’t
support the measure that emerged last month from the Senate
Judiciary Committee without more stringent border control.  “What this amendment reflects is what we know will work,”
Rubio said on the Senate floor yesterday. “We know that adding
border patrol agents, doubling the size of the border force,
will work.”  Arizona  Senator John McCain, also a Republican co-sponsor,
said the provision “addresses the concerns of many
Republicans.” He said a “significant” number of Republicans,
including all four in the bipartisan negotiating group, agreed
to support the plan.  Senator Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican, said the proposal
“brings on at least 15 Republicans, and I think momentum is building.”  Hatch Statement  Republican Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah  indicated his
support for the overall bill today after the border-security
amendment was beefed up to include versions of his proposals to
prohibit non-citizens who gain legal status from obtaining
welfare benefits and to specify that unauthorized employment
can’t count toward eligibility for Social Security benefits.  “I’m pleased these two common-sense amendments I put
forward limiting public benefits to newly legalized immigrants
are a part of this package,” he said in a statement today.  He also said of the overall measure: “No legislation is
perfect and I would have written it differently. Having said
that, the reality is that there are 11 million people living
with de facto amnesty today - avoiding taxes and obligations
that American citizens have. Securing the border while making
these immigrants meet the same obligations that Americans have
to live up to just makes sense. Our immigration system is broken
and not doing anything isn’t a solution.”  Back Taxes  Hatch said he will push for a separate vote on his proposal
requiring immigrants to pay back taxes to qualify for temporary
legal status.  Frank Sharry, founder and director of America’s Voice, a
Washington-based group that supports citizenship for
undocumented immigrants in the U.S., said the added border
resources probably will secure the bill’s Senate passage. Still,
he said, it commits too much money to border security.  “It’s terrible public policy, and it’s a legislative
breakthrough,” Sharry said.  While Sharry said his group is heartened that the goal of a
pathway to citizenship is in reach, he called the accord on
border security a “very high price to pay” to achieve passage
of the legislation.  If enacted, the proposal would mark the biggest investment
in border security in U.S. history, dwarfing the largest package
so far that was approved in 2010. That $600 million measure was
geared specifically at the U.S.-Mexico border and provided 1,500
new Border Patrol, Customs and other agents, as well as new
communications equipment and unmanned aircraft.  Obama signed the law in August 2010, with the measure seen
by Democrats as a way to dislodge the broader debate on revising
immigration laws. Republicans won control of the House in that
year’s November election, and the issue was stuck in a partisan
stalemate until this year.  Republican Criticism  The compromise announced yesterday drew criticism from
Republican Senators Charles Grassley of  Iowa , Jeff Sessions of
 Alabama , Ted Cruz of Texas, David Vitter of Louisiana and Mike Lee of Utah, who said it wouldn’t do enough to ensure the border
is secure.  Vitter told reporters that the agreement was designed “to
pass the bill, not to fix the bill.”  “This is an attempt to pull out of the fire a bill that
has been weakening,” Sessions said.  The Senate defeated, 54-43, Cornyn’s plan to require the
government to show it was apprehending 90 percent of the people
illegally crossing the border from Mexico before undocumented
immigrants could gain permanent  legal  residency.  Initial Bill  As initially proposed, the Senate immigration bill, S. 744,
would allow undocumented immigrants to gain permanent residency,
known as a green card, when the government has a “substantially
operational” plan for achieving a 90 percent apprehension rate
at the border.  Senator Mark Kirk, an  Illinois  Republican, praised the
border-security agreement and said he’s prepared to vote for the
bill if the proposal is adopted. He was one of 15 senators, all
Republicans, who voted on June 11 against taking up the measure
that came out of the Judiciary panel.  “This bipartisan compromise will restore the people’s
trust in our ability to control the border and bring 525,000
people in Illinois out of the shadows,” Kirk said in a
statement.  Nevada Republican Senator Dean Heller told reporters he
also plans to support the bill if the agreement is accepted.  Reducing Deficit  The Congressional Budget Office  estimated  on June 18 that
the Senate bill would reduce the federal  budget deficit  by about
$175 billion over a decade and by $700 billion during the second
10 years after implementation. It said increased tax revenue
from new U.S. residents would outpace growth in the demand for
government services.  The House has yet to take up legislation revising U.S.
immigration law. A bipartisan group of House lawmakers may
announce a comprehensive plan as soon as next week.  The House Judiciary Committee, led by Virginia Republican
Bob Goodlatte, is considering individual pieces of legislation
involving aspects of immigration policy.  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, has said he
won’t bring an immigration proposal to a vote unless a majority
of the chamber’s 234 most Republicans support it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  