-- Singaporeans Leave City as Worst Fire Haze Sparks Health Worries
-- B y   J a s m i n e   N g   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-06-21T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/singaporeans-leave-city-as-worst-fire-haze-sparks-health-worries.html
Record haze levels in  Singapore  as
fires rage on the Indonesian island of Sumatra prompted some to
leave the island-state for destinations with cleaner air.  Singapore’s Pollutant Standards Index reached a record 401
at noon yesterday, a level deemed hazardous, according to the
 National Environment Agency , or NEA. The haze also affected the
Malaysia state of Johor, which borders Singapore.  Families sought to “escape the haze by booking a short
trip away,” said Ewan Nicolson, a senior analyst at travel
website Skyscanner, which experienced a 22 percent jump in
flight searches this week. “Short-haul destinations have
increased in popularity, with many families looking to depart
this weekend.”  Local schools canceled all activities for the rest of the
June school vacation, companies were urged to cut back on
outdoor work and stores ran out of protective masks as the smoky
haze enshrouded Singapore this week, causing a spat with
 Indonesia  over responsibility. Some airlines are taking the
opportunity to woo travelers seeking a brief getaway.  Muhammad Faizal, a 24-year-old Singaporean on his way to
Phuket for a holiday, said he may consider delaying his return
if the haze worsens.  “I might extend for another day or two,” Faizal said as
he was waiting for his flight yesterday. “It’s getting from bad
to worse. As long as the haze doesn’t delay the flight, it’s
OK.”  Sold Out  Jetstar Asia, the budget airline unit of  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN) , offered lower fares yesterday as part of its “Friday Fare
Frenzy” promotion to people looking for fresher, cleaner air.
All four flights to Bangkok from the city state today are sold
out, according to its  website .  Scoot ,  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) ’s long- and medium-haul low-fare unit, is also offering tickets to Taipei, Tianjin and six
other destinations as part of its “WTF. What the Fog. Get outta
here!” promotion until June 24.  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) , the budget carrier partly
owned by Singapore Air, is luring customers who are “thinking
of escaping the haze,” according to its Facebook page. All of
its flights to Bangkok from Singapore today were sold out, while
it only had seats available on three flights out tomorrow,
according to its  website .  Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said Singaporeans
could expect a higher incidence of respiratory diseases, offered
medical financial assistance to the young and elderly, and urged
people to stay indoors where possible.  ‘Serious Concern’  Lee said June 20 he expressed “serious concern” in a
letter to Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and
requested evidence that Singaporean or Malaysian companies were
responsible for the “illegal burning,” as suggested by some
Indonesian officials.  Disputes over haze flare up regularly between the two
neighbors, as well as  Malaysia . The Malay Peninsula has  been
plagued  for decades by forest fires in Sumatra to the west and
Kalimantan on Borneo island to the east.  “Singapore should not be behaving like a child and making
all this noise,” Agung Laksono, the minister coordinating
Indonesia’s response to the haze, told reporters in Jakarta on
June 20, according to the Jakarta Globe.  It’s not fruitful to respond to Laksono’s comments, Lee
said. “We need to work on the problem rather than exchanging
harsh words,” he said, repeating an offer to help Indonesia.  Lee said the fires were caused by errant companies and were
not likely to just be smallholders slashing and burning.
Singapore has provided satellite data to help identify the
companies responsible for the fires.  Economic Cost  While diplomatic ties wobble at times over haze and other
issues, Indonesia and Singapore have strong economic links.
 Singapore’s total trade  with Indonesia was S$79.4 billion ($62.4
billion) in 2012, according to government trade promotion agency
IE Singapore. Indonesia is Singapore’s fourth-largest trading
partner.  The pollution will hit tourism-related industries in
Singapore, which make up about 5 percent to 6 percent of the
economy, as well as construction, Joey Chew, an economist at
Barclays Plc, said in a June 20 note. A disruption for one week
could cost the economy about $1 billion, Barclays economist Wai
Ho Leong said in an e-mail on June 19.  “We are in uncharted territory and the magnitude of the
increase in pollution to recent historical norms is stunning,”
Daniel Wilson, an economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said in a note yesterday. “One thing is certain,
however - the impact will be negative.”  Airport Response  Lower visibility from the smog has prompted Singapore’s
Changi Airport to increase the time between aircraft takeoffs
and landings, the aviation authority said in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg. The island’s secondary airport at Seletar
in the northeast resumed flights at 2 p.m. yesterday after
services were suspended at 11 a.m. the previous day due to
“prolonged poor visibility,” Changi Airport said.  Ships were advised to navigate with caution, the port
authority said in an e-mail.  Singapore Flyer , which operates the
city-state’s ferris wheel, suspended operations yesterday.  The Guardian pharmacy chain ran out of stock for masks at
its stores in Singapore and didn’t know when it would be able to
replenish them, the company said in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg.  Hot Spots  Satellite images showed 60 fire hot spots in the Riau
region of Sumatra, compared with 148 two days ago, Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, spokesman at Indonesia’s disaster management agency,
said yesterday in Jakarta. About 80 percent are located in
plantation and farm areas and 20 percent in forests.  Major companies with palm oil plantations in Indonesia,
such as Singapore-listed  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , Malaysia’s
 Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the world’s biggest listed palm oil producer,
and Cargill Inc., told Bloomberg they had a zero-burning policy.  Half of the fires detected between June 11 and June 18 were
in areas that should have been protected by an Indonesian
moratorium on clearing forest, according to environmental
campaign group Greenpeace.  Indonesia has prepared seven planes and three helicopters
for water bombing and making rain over Riau, Nugroho said. An
inter-ministerial team is in the process of identifying owners
of plantations in the affected areas, he said.  Still, for people like Shaun Tan, that won’t be enough to
keep them from their travel plans or extending trips.  “I didn’t like the disgusting feeling of inhaling
contaminated air,” said Tan, a Singapore-based shipbroker who
left for Hong Kong on June 20 after making his booking two days
earlier. “If things worsen, I might change my flight back and
take more leave.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Ng in Singapore at 
 jng281@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  