-- Sky Deutschland Drops on Report James Murdoch to Be Chairman
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-06-21T12:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/sky-deutschland-declines-on-report-james-murdoch-to-be-chairman.html
Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD) , the German pay-TV provider controlled by News Corp., fell after a magazine
reported that the company plans to replace Supervisory Board
Chairman  Chase Carey  with James Murdoch before the end of 2013.  Murdoch, the 40-year-old son and heir apparent of
billionaire and media mogul  Rupert Murdoch , will work with Sky
Chief Executive Officer Brian Sullivan, with whom he has a close
relationship, Manager Magazin reported today, citing people
within the company without naming them. Sky’s shares fell as
much as 2.7 percent to 4.93 euros and were down 2.6 percent as
of 2:05 p.m. in Frankfurt today, valuing the broadcaster at
about 4.3 billion euros ($5.7 billion).  For  James Murdoch , who joined Sky’s supervisory board in
April, the role of its chairman would provide a new opportunity
to play a successful role in Europe. His reputation was damaged
in a phone-hacking scandal in the U.K., where he is a board
member of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  Carey, the 59-year-old chief operating officer of News Corp, has been Sky’s
chairman since July 2010.  Sky, based near Munich, boosted subscriber numbers to 3.41
million in the first quarter, and this year targets its first
operating profit since News Corp. began investing in the company
more than five years ago. News Corp. boosted its stake beyond
49.9 percent in January after German tax authorities signaled
that Sky would be able to retain previous tax losses in case of
an ownership change.  Miranda Higham, a spokeswoman for  News Corp. (NWSA) , declined to
comment on Murdoch’s position at Sky Deutschland. Julia
Buchmaier, a spokeswoman for the German company, also declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Smith at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net  