-- Slovenia to Approve Asset Sale Plan as Yields Near Record High
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-06-21T10:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/slovenia-to-approve-asset-sale-plan-as-yields-near-record-high.html
Slovenian lawmakers are set to
approve the sale of state-owned companies, including a bank Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. to restore investor confidence as
the yield on its benchmark bonds neared a record high.  Lawmakers in the capital, Ljubljana, will vote on the plan
to sell 15 enterprises today, parliament spokeswoman Karmen
Uglesic said by phone. Along with the bank, the country wants to
sell its telecommunications company, Telekom Slovenije d.d.,
after Slovenian banks and other investors last week agreed to
sell the majority in retailer Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d. to
 Croatia ’s Agrokor d.d.  “The sale of indirectly state-owned Mercator gives legs to
privatization moves and the Cabinet can leverage the European
Commission pressure to augment efforts on bank and structural
reforms,” Hrvoje Stojic, head of research at Hypo Alpe-Adria
Bank in Zagreb, Croatia, said in an e-mailed reply to questions.
“Elevated yields reflect rather classic market pressure ahead
of milestones such as a wave of privatizations.”  Slovenia, whose  economy  is poised to shrink for another
year before recovering in 2015, is embarking on an asset sale
program and wants to fix its struggling bank industry that was
at the center of investor concern the nation may need outside
assistance. The government, which says it won’t need a bailout,
controls about 50 percent of the whole asset base of companies
incorporated in  Slovenia , according to Andraz Grahek, a managing
partner at Capital Genetics in Ljubljana.  Bond Yield  The yield on the dollar-denominated notes maturing in 2022,
which yesterday surged to the record high of 6.6 percent,
declined 12 basis points, 0.12 percentage point, to 6.48 percent
at 11:43 a.m. in Ljubljana, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Unfortunately, the privatization does not do the trick in
such an abysmal macroeconomic situation and therefore the budget
deficit has already hit planned levels and the deterioration of
the asset quality of the banks is continuing,” Grahek said in
an e-mail.  Gross domestic product will shrink 2.4 percent this year
and 0.2 percent in 2014, the government’s forecasting institute
said yesterday, as Europe battles its own recession and the
Slovenian government pushes on with its austerity drive, hurting
consumption and investments.  Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and other investors agreed June
14 to sell their 53 percent holding of Mercator to Agrokor for
240 million euros ($317 million). The transaction, set to be
completed by year’s end, will help banks to partly restore their
balances.  Slovenian lenders will on June 28 start transferring toxic
loans to a bank asset management company, while the government
has said it will inject 900 million euros into three top banks,
NLB, Nova Kreditna and Abanka Vipa d.d.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  