-- Spreadtrum Jumps Most Since 2009 on $1.5 Billion Offer
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-21T20:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/spreadtrum-jumps-most-since-2009-on-1-5-billion-offer.html
Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) 
soared after a division of a Chinese university offered to buy
the mobile-chip maker for $1.5 billion in the largest proposed
acquisition of a semiconductor maker in about a year.  The American depositary receipts leaped 16 percent to
$25.91 today, the biggest jump since September 2009, after the
investment unit of state-owned  Tsinghua University  bid $28.50
per ADR. Spreadtrum’s board is reviewing the unsolicited offer,
the Shanghai-based manufacturer said today in a statement.  The bid, which Spreadtrum and Tsinghua valued at $1.5
billion, is equivalent to 10.3 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, in line with the median
multiple in a survey of almost 90 comparable deals over the past
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In terms of revenues and earnings, this company can go
much higher than current levels,”  Jay Srivatsa , an equity
analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “The offer is definitely lower than the
company’s fair value.”  Srivatsa, who rates Spreadtrum a buy, said Spreadtrum is
worth $30 per ADR.  The Beijing-based bidder, Tsinghua Unigroup Ltd., sees
Spreadtrum “as an excellent strategic fit” with its “overall
commercial objectives,” Tsinghua Unigroup Chairman Zhao Weiguo
said in a statement.  Industry Acquisitions  The  acquisition  would be the largest in the industry since
Micron Technology Inc. offered to buy Elpida Memory Inc. for
$4.4 billion in July 2012. There have been $111 billion of deals
in the industry announced in the past decade, including the
$16.2 billion private-equity led buyout of Freescale
Semiconductor Inc. in 2006.  Spreadtrum was targeted by short seller  Muddy Waters  LLC in
June 2011 with accusations that the company’s accounting was
erroneous. Spreadtrum denied any problems, and the shares have
doubled since Muddy Waters’s report on the chipmaker.  Some U.S.-traded Chinese companies have chosen to go
private after allegations by short sellers drove down their
prices. Tree-plantation operator Sino-Forest Corp. plunged 74
percent before eventually filing for bankruptcy.  Digital advertising company Focus Media Holding Ltd.
delisted its shares from Nasdaq last month after completing its
$3.8 billion privatization deal. Muddy Waters first accused the
company in 2011 of exaggerating its advertising network.  Twenty-three U.S.-traded Chinese companies completed their
buyout deals since the beginning of 2010, out of a total 43
announced, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  