-- Stimulus Ending Tells HSBC ABS Buyers Must Steel for Lower Gains
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-06-21T09:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/stimulus-ending-tells-hsbc-abs-buyers-must-steel-for-lower-gains.html
The rally in asset-backed securities
which sent costs to a five-year low is over and investors should
steel for lower returns after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  signaled an end to U.S. stimulus, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc.  “We look at ABS through a risk-return lens and Bernanke’s
comments have probably changed the return side of that equation
quite dramatically,” Andrew J. Jackson, the head of trading and
 portfolio management  for ABS at HSBC Global Asset Management,
said yesterday at IMN’s Global ABS conference in Brussels. “I
suspect we might be in for a period of volatility.”  Investors are pulling money out of riskier assets after
Bernanke said the Fed may moderate bond purchases this year and
end the program in 2014 should risks to the  U.S. economy  abate.
European debt risk rose 12 basis points yesterday by the close
of London trading, the biggest one-day gain since November 2011,
while  10-year Treasury note yields  are poised for the biggest
weekly advance in two years.  More than $19 billion exited emerging-markets funds in the
three weeks to June 12, the most since 2011, according to EPFR
Global.  Spreads on sterling asset- and mortgage-backed bonds
widened three basis points yesterday to 151 basis points, near
the highest level in two months, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index shows. The notes lost 1.94 percent in May, the most since
January 2009.  Lending Push  U.K. prime residential mortgage-backed securitization,
traditionally  Europe ’s largest ABS market, will slump 73 percent
this year, Barclays Plc wrote in an April report, before more
than $2.2 trillion was  wiped  from stock markets globally.
European RMBS is forecast to fall 50 percent, Barclays said.  Despite yesterday’s uptick, yield premiums remain near a
five-year low of 140 basis points reached last month, the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s index shows, as the  Bank of England ’s
 Funding for Lending Scheme  weighs on new sales.  The FLS program, established last July, aims to boost
lending in the U.K. by offering banks and building societies
financing at a price and quantity that’s linked to their lending
performance.  “When the Bank of England publishes their usage stats for
FLS, if you’re seen to be playing and are increasing your
lending, you basically get a free advert in the newspapers,”
Rob Collins, the head of funding at  Nationwide Building Society ,
said at the conference in Brussels.  Nationwide Building Society, the world’s largest with about
15 million members, has not however been a particularly
aggressive user of the scheme, Collins added.  Shrinking Sales  Liquidity from the  European Central Bank  is also
discouraging issuance around the region, according to Felix Blomenkamp, head of the European ABS team at Pacific Investment
Management Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  “With all the ECB funding available as well as limited
issuance due to the fact banks don’t need funding, there’s a
risk the market isn’t really coming back,” he said at the forum
in Brussels. “There’s not enough new issuance to establish a
fully functioning market again.”  Only three issuers have sold prime U.K. RMBS this year,
including Santander U.K. Plc, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Santander U.K. is planning a similar-sized transaction for the
second-half of the year, according to Tom Ranger, its head of
structured funding.  Leeds Building Society could also capitalize on the lack of
supply to sell its first publicly-offered deal, Paul Riley, the
regional lender’s group treasurer, said in an interview on June
19. A sale could take place in the next 12 months, Riley said.  “It would be very helpful if we could get some more
primary issuance out there in order to stabilize the market,”
HSBC’s Jackson said. It’s “shrinking” at the moment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  