-- Sun Life-Guggenheim Deal Delayed Amid Insurer-Risk Probe
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-06-21T20:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/sun-life-says-guggenheim-deal-will-be-delayed-by-new-york-review.html
Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) , Canada’s
third-largest insurer, said a $1.35 billion agreement to sell
its U.S. annuity business to a firm owned by Guggenheim Partners
LLC shareholders has been delayed amid a regulatory review.  The  New York  State Department of Financial Services
investigation into ownership of insurers by private investors
postponed approval of the deal beyond the second quarter,
Toronto-based Sun Life said today in a statement. The Delaware
Department of Insurance and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority have signed off on the deal, Sun Life said.  Benjamin Lawsky , superintendent of the New York watchdog,
this year began a probe into deals by private-equity firms to
buy insurers, saying the acquirers may make risky investments in
pursuit of short-term profits. State regulators monitor insurers
to make sure they have enough funds to meet obligations to
policyholders.  The main risk is that a review “ends up requiring more
capital being assigned to the business, which would change the
buyer’s economics and could see the sale price revised lower,”
 Robert Sedran , an analyst at CIBC World Markets, said in a
research note. “With a committed buyer and a motivated seller,
we still expect this sale to be completed at some point.”  Sun Life slipped 2.2 percent to C$30.19 in Toronto trading
at 4:16 p.m.  ‘Drive On’  “It does worry me in a way,” John Kinsey, who helps
manage about C$1 billion ($964 million) including Sun Life
shares at Caldwell Securities Ltd., said in a phone interview
from Toronto. “Once you do a deal, you want to close it and
drive on.” Thomas Mulligan, a spokesman for Guggenheim at
Sitrick and Co., declined to comment.  “We’ve made good progress and we’re working hard with the
buyer and the New York regulator to clear the final hurdle,”
Frank Switzer, a Sun Life spokesman, said by phone. “Once
that’s done, we expect to close the deal as soon as possible.”  Sun Life has said the transaction will reduce risks and
volatility in earnings. Annuities are contracts that offer
guaranteed income for retirees, and stock-market swings combined
with low interest rates can make it harder for insurers to
generate profits on funds held to back the policies.  Investment firms are pursuing annuity deals to add assets,
betting they can manage the funds more skillfully.  Philip Falcone ’s publicly traded  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , which bought a
life and annuity business in 2011, was asked for information by
Lawsky, a person familiar with the matter said last month.  Apollo, Aviva  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) ’s Athene arm agreed in
December to buy Aviva Plc’s U.S. life and annuity business and
is also being reviewed by Lawsky, the person said. Andrew Reid,
an Aviva spokesman, said the company still expects that deal to
be completed this year.  For Sun Life, the postponement “creates uncertainty that
delays plans the company might otherwise have had to deploy the
capital that will be raised as a result of the transaction,”
Andre-Philippe Hardy, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said in
a research note today.  Sun Life Chief Executive Officer Dean Connor, 56, has been
focused on what he calls “four pillars of growth” -- insurance
in  Canada ; group coverage and voluntary benefits in the U.S.;
asset management; and expansion in Asia. Insurers including
Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. have also been seeking to
reduce risk from annuities.  Guggenheim, run by CEO Mark Walter, has expanded from a
family office with a handful of employees into a global manager
of more than $180 billion in assets through deals including the
acquisitions of Claymore Group and Rydex ETF owner Security
Benefit Corp.  ‘Long Haul’  Lawsky subpoenaed the buyers to understand the risks the
companies are taking on and how they’re presenting the deals to
investors. The information may be used to craft new regulations,
the person said. Lawksy’s office will “continue to exercise
careful due diligence and oversight to protect policyholders,”
Matt Anderson, a spokesman for the New York regulator, said in
an e-mail.  “The risk that we’re concerned about at DFS is whether
these private-equity firms are more short-term focused, when
this is a business that’s all about the long haul,” Lawsky said
in an April 18 speech. “Their short-term focus may result in an
incentive to increase investment risk and leverage in order to
boost short-term returns.”  Steven Kandarian, CEO of MetLife Inc., the largest U.S.
life insurer, said last month he wants to be sure private-equity
acquirers of insurers are properly regulated so that his firm
isn’t forced to help support failed carriers.  “What happens, then, if the deal doesn’t work and there’s
not enough capital to pay out those policyholders over time?”
said Kandarian, 61. “That goes back into the state guaranty
fund, and companies like MetLife and others end up picking up
that tab. So obviously, we have a concern about that.”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  was the financial adviser to Sun Life and
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP provided legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  