-- Sweden Avoids EU Ban on Flavorings in Snus Smokeless Tobacco
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-06-21T18:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/sweden-avoids-eu-ban-on-flavorings-in-snus-smokeless-tobacco.html
Sweden  avoided a proposed ban on
flavorings in snus smokeless-tobacco products as European Union
governments approved stricter rules for cigarettes.  EU health ministers at a meeting today in Luxembourg agreed
on draft legislation to ban the sale of cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco with characterizing flavors such as menthol,
while leaving out smokeless tobacco. The ministers also backed a
proposal to require that cigarette packages feature a combined
pictorial and text alert covering 65 percent of the front and
back.  The Swedish government said the EU agreement leaves the
country with the authority to legislate on what goes into snus,
which is banned in the other 26 EU nations.  “We have saved snus and can decide for ourselves on the
ingredients, product regulation, tastes,” Maria Larsson, a
minister in Sweden’s Health and Social Affairs Ministry, told TT
news agency. “So dry snus doesn’t have to be the end result; it
can keep its moisture.”  Snus is a moist powder tobacco usually portioned in pouches
that resemble miniature versions of used tea bags and that are
consumed under the upper lip. The EU banned advertising and
sales of snus within the bloc in 1992. When Sweden joined the EU
in 1995, it got an exemption from the ban.  The Swedish government has for years tried to convince the
EU to scrap the prohibition and allow snus to be exported in
 Europe . Ewa Bjoerling, Sweden’s minister for trade, last year
threatened an “all-out war” to defend snus.  Long-Running Efforts  Last week, the TT news agency reported that Sweden had
given up on its long-running efforts to legalize snus within the
rest of the EU and would instead push to retain its right to
regulate what ingredients and flavors snus should be allowed to
contain.  European regulators had proposed that the ban on  flavorings 
also cover smokeless tobacco. Snus can be flavored with anything
from spearmint and vanilla to raspberries and chili.  Stockholm-based  Swedish Match AB (SWMA) , the world’s biggest maker
of snus, said “it’s too early to make any conclusions” about
the impact of the agreement. “We would like to see the full
proposal before we come with any analysis,” spokesman Patrik Hildingsson told TT.  The proposed legislation also needs approval from the
European Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  