-- U.K. Budget Gap Narrows on Spending Drop, Swiss Deal: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-06-21T10:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/u-k-budget-deficit-narrows-on-lower-spending-swiss-tax-deal.html
Britain’s budget deficit narrowed in
May as government spending fell and the Treasury got a 3.2
billion-pound ($5 billion) boost from a deal with Switzerland to
fight tax evasion.  Net borrowing excluding temporary support for banks was
12.7 billion pounds compared with 15.6 billion pounds a year
earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London
today. The figures exclude the receipt of 3.9 billion pounds of
coupon cash from the Bank of England’s gilt holdings.  The report comes as Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne prepares to outline 11.5 billion pounds of cuts to
government departments’ budgets for the 2015-16 fiscal year
after weaker-than-forecast growth forced him to prolong his
austerity program beyond the 2015 general election. The
underlying deficit in May was little changed if money from the
tax on Swiss bank accounts held by Britons is excluded.  “With borrowing still at very high levels, next
week’s spending review is a reminder of how much austerity still
lies ahead,” said  Vicky Redwood , chief U.K. economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London and a former Bank of England
official. “The review will detail how only a fraction of the
pain that still lies ahead will be achieved. The economic
recovery still faces an uphill battle to establish itself
against the continued drag from the public sector.”  Swiss Deal  The deficit in the fiscal year that ended March increased
marginally to 118.8 billion pounds from a downwardly revised
118.5 billion pounds a year earlier. The  Office for Budget
Responsibility  forecasts the shortfall will be 119.8 billion
pounds this year, or 7.5 percent of gross domestic product.  In the first two months, the gap was 21.4 billion pounds
compared with 24.3 billion pounds a year earlier. The figures
exclude BOE coupon payments and the 28 billion-pound transfer of
Royal Mail Group Ltd. pension assets in April 2012.  The pound was trading at $1.5487 as of 11:47 a.m. in
 London , down 0.1 percent on the day. The benchmark 10-year gilt
 yield  rose 5 basis points to 2.34 percent, the highest since
March 2012.  Tax income excluding the BOE transfer and Swiss account
revenue rose 2.8 percent from a year earlier. Including those
sources of income, revenue jumped 21 percent Government spending
fell 4.5 percent, with outlays by departments dropping 7.9
percent.  “Today’s data demonstrate that the government is getting a
grip of public spending,” Prime Minister David Cameron’s
spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, told reporters in London today.
“It shows the deficit-reduction plan is working. Obviously that
needs to be stuck at. That’s exactly what this government is
doing.”  BOE Cash  In total, the BOE will transfer 23.4 billion pounds -- 3.9
billion pounds each month between April and September -- to
clear cash that had accumulated in its  asset-purchase facility 
as of March 2013. In addition, there will be quarterly payments
of cash that build up during the current fiscal year, probably
starting in July.  While European Union rules mean only 12.3 billion pounds of
the income can count against net borrowing this year, cash
measures of the public finances will receive the full benefit.  There was a public-sector  cash requirement  of 3.1 billion
pounds in May, a figure boosted by the financial position of
publicly controlled banks. The central government deficit was
5.8 billion pounds.  Net debt  climbed to 1.19 trillion pounds,
taking the burden to 75.2 percent of GDP from 74.8 percent.  Cash from the Swiss tax cooperation agreement, signed in
January, is due to flow to the Treasury over the next year, the
ONS said.  Budget Wrangling  The financial crisis has wrought havoc with the public
finances by sapping tax receipts and pushing up spending on
welfare. Since peaking at 11.1 percent of GDP in 2009-10, the
deficit has fallen by less than a third instead of the half the
government projected when it took office three years ago.  Osborne’s spending review due June 26 follows weeks of
wrangling with ministers. As of June 14, he had managed only 3.6
billion pounds of the savings required and had yet to reach an
agreement with the Ministry of Defense amid warnings from
military chiefs that further cuts could jeopardize front-line
capabilities.  Elsewhere,  China ’s benchmark money-market rates
tumbled from record highs after the central bank injected funds
to alleviate the worst cash crunch in at least a decade.  The overnight repurchase  rate  dropped 442 basis points, or
4.42 percentage points, to 8.43 percent in  Shanghai , according
to a daily fixing compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. That’s the biggest drop since October 2007 and follows
an unprecedented 527 basis point jump yesterday. The seven-day
rate fell 227 basis points today to 8.50 percent, the largest
decline since January 2012.  New Zealand’s  consumer confidence  rose in June.  Pakistan ’s
central bank will probably keep its key rate unchanged at 9.5
percent, economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted.  In Europe, data from the French labor office showed wages
rose 0.7 percent in the first quarter, as forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 Sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  