-- U.S. Government Probes Company Hired to Probe its Workers
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-21T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/u-s-government-probes-company-hired-to-probe-its-workers.html
The U.S. government is investigating
the company it hired to investigate the people it hires.  The probe targets USIS, the biggest supplier of federal
background checks and the company that a U.S. watchdog official
said performed a 2011 investigation of national-security
contractor Edward Snowden. USIS is part of Altegrity Inc., owned
by  Providence Equity Partners  LLC.  Snowden leaked secret documents describing two U.S.
surveillance programs. His disclosures have drawn attention to
the government’s vetting process and to the companies that gain
from reviewing the backgrounds of some 4.9 million workers
authorized to access classified materials.  “It always takes two to tango,” said  Larry Allen ,
president of Allen Federal Business Partners, a consulting firm
in McLean, Virginia. “There is some culpability for the
government here as well.”  Patrick McFarland, inspector general of the federal  Office
of Personnel Management , said yesterday at a congressional
hearing that he believes problems may have occurred with USIS’s
review of Snowden.  The inspector general is probing the company’s “systemic
failure to adequately conduct investigations,” Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat, said at the hearing of two
Senate subcommittees. She said the company is under criminal
investigation.  USIS received a subpoena in January 2012 from the inspector
general, though it has “never been informed that it is under
criminal investigation,” according to a company statement.  It complied with the subpoena and has “cooperated fully
with the government’s civil investigative efforts,” according
to the statement.  Background Checks  USIS conducts about 45 percent of the background
investigations contracted out by the federal personnel office.
Closely held Altegrity was awarded $451 million in federal
contracts last year, according to a Bloomberg Government study.  Passing a background check is a requirement before a
federal employee or contractor can be granted a security
clearance. The personnel office is responsible for most of them,
conducting more than 2 million investigations a year. The
government spends more than $1 billion annually on background
checks, according to McCaskill.  Snowden, who held a top-secret clearance, is a former
National Security Agency contractor who had worked for  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)   Snowden Check  While the inspector general’s office is investigating USIS,
McFarland after the Senate hearing declined to say whether it
was a criminal probe and whether it was related to Snowden.  USIS was responsible for a “re-investigation” of Snowden
that was tied to his clearance renewal, McFarland said. It isn’t
clear who conducted Snowden’s original background check, which
wasn’t done by the personnel office, according to the inspector
general’s office.  The company has been under investigation since late 2011,
said Michelle Schmitz, assistant inspector general for
investigations.  “A complicated contract fraud case typically takes several
years,” she said at the hearing of the two Senate Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittees. She declined to
offer details on why the 2011 probe was initiated.  Little Oversight  The government conducted background investigations in-house
until the mid-1990s, according to a 2011 report by the
 Congressional Research Service . In 1996, that work was
privatized, with about 700 federal employees forming a for-profit company that would become USIS.  “The idea was to harness the efficiencies of the private
sector to get rid of the backlog of security clearances,” said
Dan Gordon, a former top procurement official in President
 Barack Obama ’s administration.  The  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , a Washington-based private equity
firm, and New York-based Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe LP
invested in USIS. They agreed in 2007 to sell USIS to
Providence, Rhode Island-based Providence Equity Partners for
about $1.5 billion.  McFarland said he has been alarmed about the lack of
oversight of the background investigations. “Our resources
remain woefully inadequate, preventing us from performing the
level of oversight that such an important program requires,” he
said.  In one case, a worker fabricated 1,600 credit checks before
it was discovered her own background investigation had been
falsified, according to McFarland’s prepared testimony. The
company wasn’t identified.  Of 3,500 investigative reports the Pentagon used to make
security clearance decisions, 87 percent were missing required
documents, a review by the U.S. Government Accountability Office
found in 2008.  While 18 investigators, including contract and government
employees, have been convicted of falsifying reports since 2006,
McFarland said the inspector general’s office lacks the
resources to clear a backlog of an additional 36 cases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  