-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Rise Third Day on Fed Taper Concern
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-06-21T21:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-fall-after-reaching-six-month-high.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for a third day, reaching the highest in six months,
as concern mounts the  Federal Reserve  will start scaling back
record bond-buying that has bolstered debt markets.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1
basis point to a mid-price of 94 basis points at 4:12 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge,
trading at the highest level since December, has surged 10 basis
points since June 14, heading for its biggest weekly increase
since May 2012, excluding rolls into new series.  Investors’ confidence in corporate debt has plunged since
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 that economic
growth could be strong enough for the central bank to pare $85
billion of monthly bond purchases later this year and end it in
mid-2014.  “In a brief period of time you’ve put a lot of strain on
the markets,”  William Larkin , a fixed-income portfolio manager
who helps oversee $500 million at Cabot Money Management Inc.,
said in a telephone interview from Salem,  Massachusetts . “If
the Fed acts too early, it can really hurt.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bond Purchases  Bernanke, speaking this week after a two-day meeting of the
 Federal Open Market Committee , said reducing bond purchases
would depend on meeting the central bank’s employment and
inflation thresholds. The Fed’s stimulus measures, known as
quantitative easing, have suppressed  interest rates , pushing
investors into riskier assets such as corporate bonds in search
of higher yields.  The yield on 10-year Treasury notes climbed above 2.5
percent today for the first time since August 2011 and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose on the day after it biggest
drop since November 2011.  “You have to expect volatility as the Fed adjusts its
profile on quantitative easing as they lead to a more normalized
environment,”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said today in an interview. “And that volatility and the
Fed actions are a function of the economy recovering. And a
recovering economy does a lot of good things for our
businesses.”  Market Volatility  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, (VIX)  the
measure of options on the  S&P 500  known as the VIX, dropped 7.8
percent to 18.9. The gauge surged 23.1 percent to 20.49
yesterday, the highest on a closing basis since Dec. 28. The VIX
has soared 67 percent since hitting a six-year low in March.  Policy makers will cut monthly bond purchases by $20
billion at the Sept. 17-18 FOMC meeting, according to 44 percent
of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 2.7 basis points to 461.8 basis points.  Sales of company debt this week were below average for the
fourth-straight week as the extra yield investors demand to own
bonds from the riskiest to the most creditworthy borrowers
increased 12 basis points to 238 basis points yesterday, the
largest jump since Nov. 1, 2011, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Index.  American Equity  American Equity Investment Life Holding Co. (AEL) , the seller of
fixed annuities, withdrew a $250 million bond offering as
investors demand higher rates.  “Conditions in the debt capital markets led us to the
conclusion that we should not proceed,” Chairman D.J. Noble
said today in a statement from the  West Des Moines , Iowa-based
insurer. “We will continue to monitor developments and may
return to the market when conditions are more favorable.”  The insurer  announced the offering on June 18 and said it
had planned to use the proceeds to repay debt and for other
expenses. American Equity is rated BB+ by S&P, one level below
investment grade.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 0.4 basis point to 564.2, Bloomberg data show.
High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in  New York  at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  