-- U.S. Leaving 700 Troops in Jordan After Military Exercises
-- B y   J o e   S o b c z y k
-- 2013-06-21T21:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/u-s-leaving-700-troops-in-jordan-after-military-exercises.html
President  Barack Obama  notified
Congress today that 700 U.S. military personnel are staying
behind in Jordan after a training exercise to support the
detachment of F-16 fighter aircraft and Patriot missiles.  The training exercise, called Eager Lion, ended yesterday,
and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel last week approved a request
from Jordan for the planes and missiles to remain. Jordan
borders  Syria , where rebels are trying to oust Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad.  While Obama has agreed to send light weapons to bolster
Assad’s opponents, he has said repeatedly that he doesn’t plan
to send U.S. combat troops into Syria. The U.S. has been
considering “all options, barring boots on the ground,” State
Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said at a briefing June 13.  Deputy National Security Adviser Tony Blinken said the U.S.
was working “very carefully and very deliberately” to make
certain that American assistance doesn’t wind up arming Syrian
rebels with links to terrorist organizations.  “We want to make sure that extremists on any side of this
equation are not empowered as we work toward a political
transition,” he said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Syria’s civil war has killed more than 93,000 people and
driven more than 1.5 million refugees into neighboring
countries, including Jordan. The U.S. has said there is evidence
Assad used chemical weapons on a “small scale” against the
rebels.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  is scheduled to meet
tomorrow in Doha, Qatar, with foreign ministers from 10 other
countries backing the Syrian opposition. Some, such as  Saudi
Arabia  and  France , have pushed to provide greater firepower to
rebels who say they need anti-tank and anti-aircraft weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Sobczyk in Washington at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  