-- Munich Re, Rio Tinto Face Costs From Less Water, Warming
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-06-21T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/munich-re-rio-tinto-face-costs-from-less-water-warming.html
Corporations from  Munich Re  to Rio
Tinto Group will bear rising costs from pressures on the Earth’s
environment such as changes in the climate and water shortages,
according to a United Nations Environment Program report.  Their success will increasingly hinge on the ability to
adapt to a “rapidly” changing environment and to develop goods
and services that help reduce the effect of  climate change  and
are less reliant on water and harmful chemicals, the agency said
today in a report released at Bloomberg’s London office.  “Climate change and dwindling availability of natural
resources like water will shape future profit and loss and drive
new markets,” UNEP Executive Director Achim Steiner said in the
study. “Companies that face up to these realities are likely to
be the ones that thrive and remain competitive in a rapidly
changing world.”  Businesses are trying to curb damage to the environment by
moderating greenhouse-gas emissions, water usage and trash
disposal. At the RIO+20 summit on sustainability a year ago, the
UN detailed $513 billion of commitments from governments and
companies seeking to reduce strain on the Earth’s resources.  A week ago, British billionaire  Richard Branson , chairman
and founder of Virgin Group Ltd., and Kering executive Jochen Zeitz said they were setting up a panel of business leaders
dubbed the “B Team” to devise business strategies that
prioritize environmental effects alongside profit.  Flooding Costs  Today’s GEO-5 for Business study builds on the fifth
edition of the UN  Global Environment Outlook , released in June
2012 and marking the institution’s most comprehensive assessment
of the state of the planet. The rising frequency of extreme
weather events linked to climate change is a risk for all
industries, today’s report showed.  The UN cited as an example flooding in  Australia  in 2010
and 2011 that led to more than $350 million of claims for Munich
Re and $245 million of costs for miner  Rio Tinto . While
scientists balk at attributing individual natural disasters to
climate change, they say rising temperatures will lead to an
increase in extreme weather events.  Temperature gains may render fewer than half of ski resorts
in the U.S. Northeast economically viable within 30 years, while
water charges for platinum mines in  South Africa ’s Olifants
River system may increase 10-fold by 2020 as the region dries
up, according to the study.  Risks, Opportunities  The report examined 10 areas of business, identifying risks
and opportunities for each that result from environmental
pressures. The findings include:  -- Building and construction companies may find opportunities
limited in some areas due to water scarcity, while consumers
step up pressure to minimize waste. Urbanization will lead to
growing demand for “green” housing and infrastructure.  -- Chemical companies will face increasing government
regulations and consumer pressure to minimize water usage and
cut waste. Demand for chemicals used in insulation, energy-efficient lighting and water purification is set to grow.  -- The reliability of power grids may be put under pressure by
increasing heat waves. Utilities will have to shore up
infrastructure that’s vulnerable to extreme weather. Renewable
energy is predicted to increase at the expense of coal.  -- Operational costs of mining companies will be hit by extreme
weather events, while environmental laws may prevent their
spread into some areas. Demand for minerals and metals used in
renewable energy technologies is set to grow.  -- In finance, insurers may face rising costs from claims, while
there will be increased demand for insurance and more financing
opportunities for projects relating to climate change.  -- Food and drinks companies face depleted fish stocks and
shifting agricultural zones as the climate changes. New markets
are predicted to open up for climate-resilient food varieties.  -- The loss of plant and animal species will limit discoveries
of compounds used in health care. Demand for health care
services may rise due to air pollution and water-borne diseases.  -- Data centers for information and communication companies are
energy-intensive and vulnerable to rising power prices. Makers
of electronic goods may face new regulations and consumer
pressure to cut waste. Markets will grow for products that
manage energy use in buildings and process other environmental
data.  -- Tourism may decline in some areas due to environmental
degradation. Eco-tourism is growing, and customers are often
willing to pay more for it.  -- Transportation companies face supply chains disrupted by
extreme weather, and regulations to reduce their emissions.
Incentives may boost low-carbon and fuel-efficient technologies.  The study “is in many ways a prospectus for the 21st
century company: one that internalizes how rapid and
accelerating environmental change will shape risks, but also the
need and demand for new sustainable products and market
opportunities,” Steiner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  