-- Murray Drawn in Same Half as Federer, Nadal at Wimbledon
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-21T12:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/murray-drawn-in-same-half-as-federer-nadal-at-wimbledon.html
Defending champion Roger Federer and
two-time winner Rafael Nadal may meet in the Wimbledon
quarterfinals, with the winner then needing to get past Andy Murray and top seed Novak Djokovic for the grass-court tennis
title.  The potential match between Federer of Switzerland and
Nadal of Spain would mean Murray can avoid one of them. Federer
beat Murray in last year’s final, while Nadal has defeated the
26-year-old Scotsman three times at the All England Club in
London.  Wimbledon  starts June 24.  Federer and Nadal played each other in three Wimbledon
finals, with the Swiss player winning in 2006 and 2007 and Nadal
prevailing in 2008.  Federer faces Romania’s Victor Hanescu in the first round
under the draw that took place today. Murray starts the quest
for his first Wimbledon title against  Germany ’s Benjamin Becker,
while Nadal plays Belgium’s Steve Darcis.  Djokovic, of  Serbia , plays Germany’s Florian Mayer in the
first round and could face former runner-up Tomas Berdych of the
Czech Republic in the quarterfinals, followed by either fourth-seeded David Ferrer of Spain or Juan Martin Del Potro, the No. 8
seed from Argentina, in the semifinals.  Serena Williams, the women’s defending champion, starts the
campaign for her sixth title on the  London  grass courts against
Mandy Minella of Luxembourg. The 31-year-old American won the
French Open this month, her 16th major singles championship.
Sloane Stephens, who beat Williams in January to reach her first
Australian Open semifinal, plays fellow American Jamie Hampton
in the first round.  Women’s Draw  Australian Open champion and second-seed Victoria Azarenka
of Belarus faces Maria Joao Koehler of  Portugal , while No. 3
seed Maria Sharapova, the 2004 champion from Russia, plays
France’s Kristina Mladenovic. Former French Open winner Li Na of
 China  starts against the Netherlands’ Michaella Krajicek, a
former quarterfinalist and the younger sister of 1996 champion
Richard Krajicek.  Britain’s top female player faces a tough first round.
 Laura Robson , a former junior Wimbledon champion who is ranked
37th on the WTA tour, plays No. 10 seed Maria Kirilenko of
 Russia . Heather Watson, also of Britain, meets Madison Keys of
the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon at  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  