-- Hutchison Said Close to Buying Telefonica’s O2 Ireland
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-06-21T18:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/hutchison-said-close-to-buying-telefonica-s-o2-ireland.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , controlled
by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing , is in advanced talks to
buy  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s Irish unit, four people with knowledge of
the negotiations said.  An agreement may be struck before rival bidders are even
due to pitch offers on July 5, according to three of the people,
who asked not to be named as the talks are private. Telefonica
is eager to secure an accord before it publishes interim results
at the end of next month, the people said.  Telefonica, Europe’s most indebted telephone company, may
raise more than 700 million euros ($925 million) from the sale
of its O2 Ireland unit, two people with knowledge of the matter
said June 10. The Madrid-based company has said it wants to cut
its net debt to less than 47 billion euros by year end from
about 51.2 billion euros.  “This is a sensible step toward the company’s goal to cut
debt,” said Borja Mijangos, an analyst at Interdin Bolsa in
Madrid. “Telefonica will likely sell more assets this year to
soothe investors and be in a stronger position for potential M&A
activity.”  European telecommunications firms are seeking to
consolidate as growth in mobile-data usage slows and heavy
regulation slices profits. If Hutchison and Telefonica’s local
units merge, Ireland would join  Austria  and the U.K. among
countries that have recently seen the number of mobile operators
shrink.  Failed Bid  Telefonica  shares  fell 0.1 percent to 9.80 euros in Madrid
after rising as high as 9.97 euros.  Hutchison’s Three Ireland unit, the third-largest mobile
phone operator in the country, failed in its 2 billion-euro bid
last year for Eircom Group, Ireland’s largest phone company,
when the latter was under court protection from its creditors.
Some 1.8 billion euros, or 40 percent, of Eircom’s debt was
written off during the process.  Three Ireland declined to comment in an e-mailed response
to questions about any discussions. Telefonica also declined to
comment on any talks. The Spanish company is being advised by
Bank of America Corp. and Barclays Plc, one person familiar with
the matter said.  Other potential bidders -- including Eircom Group and
 Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) ’s UPC Ireland -- have also received
information on the sale, a person familiar with the matter said
June 10. Telefonica continues to court the other suitors, having
given them access to additional data in the past few days,
following recent O2 management presentations in Dublin, three
people familiar with the current talks said.  Officials at Eircom and Liberty Global declined to comment.  Second Largest  O2 is the second largest of five operators in the Irish
mobile-phone market, which generated 1.5 billion euros of sales
last year. The company’s market share fell to 25 percent in the
fourth quarter from 34 percent two years earlier, as  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , Eircom and Three Ireland added customers, according
to  ComReg , the Dublin-based communications authority.  After an $85 billion acquisition spree over a decade
increased debt and triggered rating cuts, Telefonica Chief
Executive Officer Cesar Alierta last year began selling assets.
The company is studying ways to raise money from its Colombian
unit after it shelved plans to carry out an IPO for the
company’s Latin American division mainly because of valuation.  The Irish and Czech divisions are high on a list of
potential businesses for sale, people familiar with the plans
said in April. Other candidates include Telefonica’s remaining
minority stake in China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.  In March, Telefonica sold $1.3 billion of treasury stock to
reduce debt. A month later it agreed to sell a 40 percent stake
in its Central American assets to closely held Corporacion Multi
Inversiones to raise $500 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid   at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Heather Smith at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  