-- Validus Plunges as Credit Suisse Cites Cat-Bond Threat
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-06-21T20:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/validus-plunges-as-credit-suisse-cites-cat-bond-threat.html
Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR)  plunged the
most since February after  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  downgraded the
reinsurer on the prospect that potential clients will instead
turn to catastrophe bonds for protection against disasters.  The reinsurer fell $1.39, or 3.9 percent, to $33.85 at 4:15
p.m. in New York, the  second-biggest decline  of the 218
companies in the Russell 1000 Financial Services Index. Credit
Suisse’s Michael Zaremski cut his  rating  on the Bermuda-based
company to neutral from outperform and lowered his price target
by 5 percent to $38.  Fixed-income investors have increased demand for
catastrophe bonds, which insurers such as Travelers Cos. and
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  use as an alternative to
traditional reinsurance. The securities pay hundreds of basis
points more than benchmark yields to investors who risk losing
all of their principal to an insurance company if a costly
enough natural disaster strikes.  “Cat bonds will continue to make inroads into primary
insurers’ reinsurance programs,” Zaremski wrote. “Reinsurance
has become more of a commodity due to lower barriers to entry
and vendor models.”  The securities have climbed 3.7 percent since the beginning
of last June, according to the Swiss Re Cat Bond Price Return
Index. The measure tracks dollar-denominated debt sold by
insurers and reinsurers.  Hedge-fund managers have been setting up reinsurers, and
 Wall Street  has been creating new ways to bet on the weather.
The trend has led Franklin “Tad’ Montross, chief executive
officer of the General Re unit at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., to
say new sources of funds are relying too heavily on catastrophe
models in making pricing decisions.  ‘Select Group’  The models have “lent an aura of credibility” to pricing,
Montross said at a conference this month. “Anyone who’s in the
industry knows that the models are always wrong. Directionally,
they’re helpful, but we are trying to price a risk today that we
do not know the cost of.”  “Validus has previously acknowledged the competition from
third-party capital, but continues to assert that we are among a
very select group of companies that has the skill set and
existing platforms to adapt and thrive in the changing
reinsurance market,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Hickey in  New York  at 
 mhickey18@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  