-- Veolia’s Ferry Operator to Cut Jobs Amid Asset Disposals
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-06-21T14:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/veolia-s-ferry-operator-to-cut-jobs-amid-asset-disposals.html
French ferry operator Societe
Nationale Maritime Corse Mediterranee, controlled by  Europe ’s
largest water company  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , will eliminate
415 jobs next year to lower costs and pay for new vessels.  The cuts will be done on a “voluntary” basis and by not
replacing those who retire, the unprofitable company said in a
statement following a supervisory board meeting late yesterday.
Another 100 jobs will be eliminated from 2017. SNCM will invest
in two vessels now and two more in 2016, according to the
statement.  Veolia, with a 66 percent stake in SNCM, is seeking to
reduce holdings in transport businesses that have weighed on the
water utility’s earnings. Transdev, the mass-transit operator
partly owned by Veolia, is selling its German operations as part
of a broader asset-disposal plan, two people with knowledge of
the matter said last month.  SNCM, presently in talks over renewing a contract to
provide ferry service to the island of  Corsica , has been plagued
by labor strife in the past.  Political representatives including Roland Blum, deputy
mayor of Marseille, criticized the job cuts that are backed by
the government, which holds a 25 percent stake in SNCM.  Veolia took an impairment loss of 77.8 million euros on
non-current assets of SNCM in 2011 and 35 million euros in 2012,
according to the waste and water utility’s latest annual report.
The ferry operator had a net loss of 27.5 million euros last
year compared with a 68.9 million-euro loss the previous year.  Veolia announced it will increase cost-cutting and organize
operations along geographic lines following a slump in first-quarter earnings and its handling of industrial waste.  Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot is seeking to turn
the utility around by reducing debt and improving profitability
on contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  