-- VTB Capital Said to Agree on Citic Tie-Up for China
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-06-21T11:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/vtb-capital-said-to-agree-on-citic-accord-for-china-expansion.html
(Corrects spelling of Wei Chen’s name in fourth paragraph.
For more on the St. Petersburg forum, see EXT7.)  VTB Capital, the investment-banking
arm of  Russia ’s second-largest bank, plans to expand in China
through a partnership with  Citic Securities Co. (600030) , according to
two people with knowledge of the matter.  VTB and Citic, China’s biggest publicly traded brokerage,
may sign an accord today at the St. Petersburg International
Economic Forum that is similar to ones the Russian company has
with  Grupo BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11)  in Brazil and  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) 
in the U.S., said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  An official in Beijing-based Citic’s press office in Hong
Kong declined to comment as did Moscow-based VTB Capital.  VTB Capital, which has offices in London, New York, Dubai,
 Hong Kong  and Shanghai, hired former Deutsche Bank AG and Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. banker Wei Chen to oversee its China
coverage, including the partnership with Citic, one of the
people said.  The investment bank has been expanding overseas following
increased competition domestically from  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s
largest lender. Sberbank last year acquired Troika Dialog,
Moscow’s oldest brokerage, for $1 billion and was second only to
VTB Capital last year in organizing debt and equity sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  VTB announced the alliance with its Latin American partner,
BTG Pactual, last June following the Brazilian bank’s $2 billion
initial public offering. Evercore, the advisory firm founded by
former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary  Roger Altman , signed an
agreement in October with VTB Capital in develop deals between
Russia and North America.  Citic last year agreed to buy  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s stake in
Asia-focused brokerage CLSA Ltd. for $1.3 billion and has set up
a brokerage unit in the U.S. as part of its expansion. It also
has partnerships with BTG Pactual and Evercore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Bailey at 
 sbailey16@bloomberg.net ;
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  