-- VW Sends Hackenberg to Audi to Replace Development Chief
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2013-06-21T14:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/vw-sends-hackenberg-to-audi-to-replace-development-chief.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  appointed Ulrich Hackenberg to oversee development at the Audi brand, the group’s
biggest profit maker, taking over for Wolfgang Duerheimer, who
was in the job less than a year.  Hackenberg, who worked alongside Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Winterkorn  during his tenure as head of Audi and became
one of his closest confidants, will return to the luxury-auto
maker as of July 1, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said
today in a statement.  Duerheimer, a former developer at Porsche, will leave to
take another position within the group, VW said, without
specifying what the new role will be. The 55-year-old engineer
took charge of creating new Audi models on Sept. 1 after
previously heading the Bugatti and Bentley brands.  Audi is critical to Volkswagen’s goal of becoming the
world’s largest carmaker by 2018. The Ingolstadt, Germany-based
brand accounted for 56 percent of VW’s first-quarter operating
profit. The division plans to spend 13 billion euros ($17.2
billion) through 2016 on new models and expanding its production
network as it seeks to dethrone Bayerische Motoren Werke AG as
the world’s best-selling luxury brand.  Hackenberg, 63, will also take charge of development
coordination for the entire group, VW said. He will be replaced
as head of development at the VW brand by Heinz-Jakob Neusser,
53, who currently heads VW’s motor development.  Audi Expert  “We are delighted that Ulrich Hackenberg, an outstanding
engineer and Audi expert is returning,” brand chief Rupert Stadler said in a statement. “This strengthens the role of our
brand within the overall group.”  Der Spiegel yesterday reported that Duerheimer was forced
to leave after pushing for cost savings and causing friction
among Audi’s development team.  Duerheimer created internal tensions by threatening to
withdraw key projects such as work on sports-car engines from
Audi’s Neckarsulm plant, a person familiar with the matter said
today. He also involved himself in smaller design and technology
projects rather than fighting for the brand projects at the
group level, said the person who asked not to be identified
discussing internal decisions.  Stadler thanked Duerheimer for his “dedicated
performance.” Audi officials declined to make the executive
available for an interview.  VW shook up management at Audi last year. In addition to
Duerheimer’s appointment, Bernd Martens and Luca De Meo moved
from the VW brand to head purchasing and sales, respectively.
The management reorganization led to the departure of  Peter Schwarzenbauer , De Meo’s predecessor as Audi’s sales chief.
Schwarzenbauer is now a board member at BMW overseeing Mini and
Rolls-Royce cars and BMW motorcycles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  