-- Warner Film Chief Robinov to Exit After Shuffle, Deadline Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/warner-film-chief-robinov-to-exit-after-shuffle-deadline-says.html
Warner Bros. Pictures President Jeff Robinov is stepping down from the studio, the website
Deadline.com reported, becoming the second top executive to
leave after a management shuffle.  Robinov is seeking to negotiate his exit after being shut
out of major decisions, Deadline.com reported yesterday. The
Hollywood Reporter also carried the story. He has worked for the
studio in various roles since 1997.  The departure follows the January appointment of home video
chief Kevin Tsujihara as Warner Bros.’ chief executive officer
after parent  Time Warner (TWX)  Inc. set up a three-way competition to
replace Barry Meyer. If he leaves, Robinov, 54, would follow
former TV head Bruce Rosenblum, who was also was in the running
for the top job and quit in May.  Sue Fleishman, a Warner Bros. spokeswoman, didn’t respond
to phone or e-mail requests for comment.  The film executive’s departure comes as Warner Bros. is
basking in the early success of “Man of Steel,” a Superman
remake that collected $116.6 million in its U.S. opening last
weekend to mark the second-biggest movie debut of the year.
Sales suggest the Burbank, California-based studio has found a
new superhero franchise to replace “The Dark Knight” Batman
series that ended last year.  Robinov is poised to depart as Warner Bros. seeks to
renegotiate a production and financing deal with Legendary
Entertainment, a partner of the studio’s on films including the
“Man of Steel,” “The Dark Knight” and “Inception.”  Testy Relationship  Robinov has had a testy relationship with Legendary Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Tull, people familiar with the matter
have said. Tull praised Tsujihara without mentioning Robinov in
a meeting with reporters this week.  Legendary announced on June 17 that it hired Rosenblum to
lead the studio’s fledging television and digital production
business.  Robinov, Rosenblum and Tsujihara were named by Time Warner
in 2010 to a newly formed office of the president, a de facto
competition to replace CEO Meyer, who remains chairman.  Time Warner, also owner of HBO and  CNN , fell 2.7 percent to
$56.32 yesterday in New York. It has advanced 18 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  