-- Wasabi Plans Africa Expansion on Growing Demand for Clean Energy
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-06-21T14:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/wasabi-plans-africa-expansion-on-growing-demand-for-clean-energy.html
Wasabi Energy Ltd. , a developer of
clean-power technology, plans to sell shares in a new unit in
Africa as rising demand across the continent lures finance
from Asia.  “There seems to be a lot of funding that is wanting to go
towards Africa,” Diane Bettess, chief operating officer of the
Melbourne-based company, said by telephone. “Chinese companies
have built themselves up and got massive penetration in  China 
and now they’re looking for growth so they’re looking outside.”  Wasabi, whose technology captures waste heat to produce
electricity, has already proposed to fund its Asian division in
a similar way -- planning an initial public offering for the
unit later this year. Now it’s turning to  Africa  as nations
struggle to meet power demand amid burgeoning population growth.  Wasabi expects to establish the new unit and start the
fundraising once it has projects in Africa to serve as a
“spring board,” Bettess said. The process will be under way
within the next year, she said, without providing details of how
much it intends to raise.  The company is already present in Africa through its 62.5
percent holding in clean-energy developer AAP Carbon Holdings
Ltd. Wasabi intends to license its technology to AAP, which
plans power stations in Africa’s industrial and renewable-heat
industry. The Australian company also has already worked with
Chinese partners, agreeing  in January  to install equipment for a
unit of  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  in a $10 million deal.  Geothermal Potential  Wasabi’s Kalina Cycle technology generates electricity from
low-heat sources and can be used in geothermal plants,
metalworks and oil refineries. In Africa,  Kenya  already has a
geothermal industry, while the South African market is “very
strong,” Bettess said.  South Africa is seeking to add 3,725 megawatts in
renewable-energy capacity by the end of 2016 through a 100
billion-rand ($9.8 billion) program to help reduce its
dependence on coal-fired power.  Wasabi said in May that it planned to fund its Asian unit
through an IPO toward year-end. The shares will probably be sold
on the Singapore stock exchange, Bettess said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  