-- What Stories Do Turkey’s Protests Tell?
-- B y   E l i f   S h a f a k
-- 2013-06-21T18:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/what-stories-do-turkey-s-protests-tell-.html
I was in  London  working on a novel a
few weeks ago when I heard from a friend in Istanbul that he was
on his way to Gezi Park. “To guard the sycamores,” he said,
laughter in his voice. “We will camp by the trees and make sure
the bulldozers don’t hurt them.”  Wishing him luck, suspecting nothing, I returned to my
story of a young Indian elephant driver, an outsider, finding
his way through 16th-century Istanbul. All day long, I remained
in the past, unaware of what was happening in my home city as
police raided Gezi Park,  dousing  peaceful protesters with water
cannons and tear gas. Tents were set on fire. Unarmed young
people were subjected to violence.  A few days later, I flew to Istanbul. Taksim Square, the
heart of the city, was pounding nervously; hundreds upon
hundreds of protesters waited for the next confrontation.
Similar protests had erupted in more than 70 cities, leaving
thousands wounded and at least five dead.  The crowds cut across ideological, social and class
barriers, something new for  Turkey . Suddenly a Kurdish
nationalist was helping a Turkish nationalist escape from
police; a conservative sang side by side with a leftist; an
Alevi shared a platform with a devout Sunni. Women were at the
forefront: mostly young, but also middle-aged; there were
students, professionals and housewives; some covered their
heads, but most didn’t.  All week I collected graffiti, such as “Hey, we are
emotional people here. You didn’t need to spray pepper gas to
make us cry.” I listened to the terrible stories, as well as
the jokes and black humor. “Dear prime minister, are you sure
you would want three kids like us?” was a favorite, referring
to Erdogan’s previous calls for all Turkish families to have at
least three children.  My novel was cast aside. On the last day of the protests,
the crackdown was  as harsh  as on the first. Despite attempts at
reconciliation, as a country we returned to square one. I found
myself wondering what fiction meant at a time like this, if it
meant anything.  Words matter in Turkey. Stories matter. The same book is
often read by four or five people. When a reader enjoys a novel,
she (most readers are women) gives it to her husband or aunt or
childhood friend, or mails it to her cousins in  Frankfurt .
Pirated, shared, underlined, books reach the nooks and crannies
of our lives in ways that politics and politicians can’t.  At the same time, words get us in trouble.  Article 301  of
the penal code, which makes it a crime to insult
“Turkishness,” swings above our heads like the sword of
Damocles. Because politicians are too easily offended, many of
us either censor our words or soften our tones -- something we
find hard to admit. For this reason, perhaps, the mainstream
media were largely reluctant to cover the protests, showing food
programs or wildlife documentaries instead. A young man, one of
the new “standing man” protesters who stay still in the
square, held a sign that said, “Hush, the media are sleeping.”  Last week, as I commuted back and forth between Istanbul
and London, I went back to my novel. The questions I was
exploring about the 16th-century  Ottoman Empire  -- how to see
social unrest from the eyes of the “other,” how to encourage
individuality in an otherwise top-down society -- suddenly
seemed more modern and relevant than ever. In Gezi Park, and in
Turkey, they remain unanswered.  (Elif Shafak is a novelist and the author of “The Bastard
of Istanbul,” among other books. She lives in London and
Istanbul. Her most recent novel “Honour,” was published in
March.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Elif Shafak at  info@elifsafak.com.tr .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 