-- WikiLeaks Says Needs Iceland Reply Before Flying Snowden
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-06-21T15:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/wikileaks-says-needs-reply-from-iceland-before-flying-snowden.html
WikiLeaks said it needs a reply from
Iceland on whether former U.S. national security contractor
Edward Snowden will be granted asylum before it transports him
to the Nordic island.  “We don’t want to fly him to Iceland if it only means that
he’ll be thrown into an Icelandair plane heading toward
 Washington  or Guantanamo Bay,” Olafur Vignir Sigurvinsson, a
representative of WikiLeaks, said in a telephone interview.  Snowden leaked secret documents describing two U.S.
surveillance programs. He fled to  Hong Kong  before revealing he
was the source of the leaked reports and has said he hoped to
make his way to Iceland. Wikileaks, an anti-secrecy organization
that publishes government documents on its website, has arranged
for a plane to be on standby to take Snowden to Iceland.  Johannes Thor Skulason, an adviser to Prime Minister
Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson , said today in a phone interview
that there “conflicting reports” on whether Snowden has left
Hong Kong. The premier declined to comment on Snowden today.  Gunnlaugsson said on June 19 that Snowden would have to be
on Icelandic soil in order for the country to consider an asylum
case.  WikiLeaks is also considering the possibility of getting
Snowden Icelandic citizenship, Sigurvinsson said.  “He can be on the plane as soon as everything is set in
Iceland,” he said. “We have no reason to believe that the
Chinese will prevent the plane from taking off. There are
methods to getting him on the plane. It may take a car ride or a
boat ride, but eventually he will board an airplane.”  Snowden worked for the National Security Agency as a
contractor for  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , which fired
him after his role in leaking secrets was disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  