-- Nissan Price Cuts Put Industry on Alert, Hyundai Says
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-06-21T22:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/hyundai-u-s-chief-says-nissan-price-cuts-put-industry-on-edge.html
Automakers are scrutinizing  Nissan (7201) 
Motor Co.’s move to cut prices on its cars and trucks in the
U.S. as a test of whether the auto industry can avoid a price
war, the head of  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s U.S. unit said.  Nissan’s competitors are eager to see if the carmaker will
hold to its pledge to reduce incentives after cutting the prices
of seven of its top-selling models, John Krafcik, chief
executive officer of Hyundai Motor America, told reporters
yesterday. The No. 2 Japanese automaker’s U.S. sales surged 25
percent in May, triple the industrywide gain.  “The first month wasn’t an indication of oh, the re-pricing was successful or not,” Krafcik said after accepting an
automotive executive of the year award in  Detroit . “It said if
you put bigger discounts on your car, you’ll sell more of them.
We already knew that as an industry. The question is now, is it
going to stick as the big rebates go away?”  Nissan’s price cuts lowered the average price consumers
paid for its models by $500 in May, according to Barclays Plc.
Other automakers are “all watching closely” to see if Nissan’s
average transaction prices fall further, Krafcik said.  “Our data demonstrates that overall transaction prices for
the re-priced vehicles have risen and incentive spending has
fallen,” Travis Parman, a Nissan spokesman, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “While the strength of our new models is driving the
bulk of the sales increases, the price repositioning strategy so
far seems to be complementing the sales streak.”  Price War  Should Nissan’s price cuts be matched by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
or  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s two largest automakers, that
could set off a price war that would erode the profit progress
made since the recession, Brian Johnson, a Chicago-based auto
analyst for Barclays, said this month.  Hyundai is forecasting its slowest U.S. sales growth in
five years after a 13-year streak in which it combined with
affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  in gaining U.S. market share. The
Seoul-based carmakers have trailed industrywide sales growth in
every month since September, constrained by plant capacity and
battling more competitive U.S.-based automakers.  Hyundai and Kia combined to sell 522,818 cars and utility
vehicles this year through May, a 1.4 percent decline, according
to researcher Autodata Corp. Industrywide deliveries rose 7.3
percent.  Chung Mong Koo , chairman of Hyundai and Kia, is emphasizing
a push to improve quality over adding to their North American
manufacturing capacity. That has tested the automakers’ ability
to build enough vehicles to keep up with demand in a U.S. auto
market on pace to exceed 15 million sales this year for the
first time since 2007.  Hyundai Capacity  “Right now, there are no plans, but we’re evaluating”
whether to boost production in the U.S., Krafcik said yesterday.
“We said that we want to get our quality operations systems
absolutely ideal in every aspect of the company. Once we have
those things running very, very well, we’ll make that
decision.”  Deliveries of Hyundai vehicles should rise 4.4 percent to
734,000 this year, Krafcik said in March. That would be the
smallest annual gain since 2008, when Hyundai sales fell 14
percent amid an industry that plunged 18 percent, according to
Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata.  Nissan’s price cuts were the first sign of a Japanese
automaker taking advantage of the weakening yen that Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe has encouraged to improve  Japan ’s economy.
That currency’s 18 percent swoon versus the dollar since Oct. 31
gives Japanese automakers the ability to cut prices or offer
additional features while keeping prices even.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Durisin in Detroit at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  