-- Zimbabwe Lawmaker Dies After Missing Gem Revenue Report
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-06-21T08:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/zimbabwe-lawmaker-dies-after-missing-gem-revenue-report.html
Edward Chindori-Chininga, chairman
of a parliamentary committee that said tens of millions of
dollars of revenue paid to the government by a diamond company
is missing, has died in a car crash.  Chindori-Chininga, a lawmaker for the President Robert
Mugabe’s  Zimbabwe  African National Union-Patriotic Front in
northern Zimbabwe, died late on June 19 when his Jeep Cherokee
collided with a tree at a T-junction in northern Zimbabwe, Jones
Mashakada, who farms corn and cattle in Guruve South said in a
telephone interview today. The death was also reported by the
state-controlled Chronicle newspaper.  “What is strange is that the airbag didn’t work and the
windscreen isn’t broken,” Mashakada, who says he saw the
vehicle, said.  The June 12 report from the committee led by Chindori-Chininga said that while national budgets this year and last
showed that the Treasury had received $82 million in revenue
from all diamond companies, Mbada Diamonds Ltd., one of four
companies operating on the eastern Marange field, had paid
government $293 million since it started mining in 2009. The
other companies refused to give the inter-parliamentary
committee information, the committee said.  “There are very serious discrepancies between what
government receives from the sector and what the diamond mining
companies claim to have remitted to Treasury,” the committee
said.  Earlier Crash  Charity Charamba, a spokeswoman for the police, didn’t
answer calls made to her phone. The state-owned Zimbabwe
Broadcasting Corp. cited Ephraim Nyakata, a police
superintendent, as confirming the death.  In 2011, Chindori-Chininga was suspended from Zimbabwe’s
Constitution Select Committee, known as COPAC, by his party
after being accused of leaking information damaging Zanu-PF,
Didymus Mutasa, the party’s administration secretary said at the
time.  Chindori-Chininga, a former mines minister, survived a
vehicle accident in March 2012 near Mazowe, north of the
capital, Harare. He was 58 at the time of his death, according
to Bulawayo24, a Zimbabwean internet news site.  “We will be meeting to discuss comrade Chindori-Chininga’s
hero status today before giving recommendations to the
politburo” of Zanu-PF, Dickson Mafios, Zanu-PF chairman for
Mashonaland Central, in which Guruve was situated, said in an
interview from Harare, the capital. “He was a loyal comrade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban, South Africa at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  