-- Zloty Strengthens as Bonds Rebound From Worst Slump Since 2008
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-06-21T11:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/zloty-strengthens-as-bonds-rebound-from-worst-slump-since-2008.html
Poland’s currency and bonds gained
after tumbling yesterday in response to the Federal Reserve
announcing it may end to its unprecedented asset purchase
program in about a year.  The zloty appreciated 0.5 percent to 4.3183 against the
euro at 12:25 p.m. in Warsaw, rebounding from a one-year low
reached after a 1.8 percent slide yesterday. It is the best
performer among Europe’s  emerging markets  currencies, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  yields  on 10-year bonds fell
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.19 percent,
paring yesterday’s 40 basis-point jump, the biggest daily
increase since October 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “A rebound is possible in the short run as the increase in
yields was dramatically fast, but after this technical
correction we expect a further decline in bond prices and a
weakening of the zloty,” ING Bank Slaski SA’s Warsaw-based
economists, led by  Rafal Benecki , wrote in a note today.  The Fed may taper its monthly purchases of $85 billion in
assets later this year and halt them around mid-2014 as long as
the world’s largest economy performs in line with its
projections, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said two days ago,
sparking a global sell-off in assets. Poland has one of the
most-liquid markets among developing countries, making it an
“easy point of exit” when sentiment sours, Phoenix Kalen, a
London-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said
by e-mail yesterday.  The zloty is at risk of a further sell-off as “the near-term outlook” for currencies in Europe, the Middle East and
Africa “is far from rosy,” Christin Tuxen, a senior analyst at
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen, wrote in a note today.  The cost to insure Polish debt against non-payment for five
years using credit-default swaps rose one basis point to a two-month high of 96, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with 131 for  Israel , 120 for Chile and 64 for the Czech
Republic, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  