-- Zynga Falls to Four-Month Low on Morgan Stanley Downgrade
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-06-21T20:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-21/zynga-falls-to-four-month-low-on-morgan-stanley-downgrade.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  fell to the lowest price
in more than four months after  Scott Devitt , an analyst at
Morgan Stanley, downgraded the stock and said the social-games
maker may need to trim staff to make up for user declines.  The shares fell 5.1 percent to $2.71 at the close in  New
York , the lowest level since Feb. 4. The  stock  has jumped 15
percent this year, compared with a 12 percent gain for the
Russell 1000 Index.  Zynga, which generates most of its revenue from games
offered on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social network, isn’t adding mobile
users fast enough to bolster sales as fewer people access titles
such as “Farmville” and “Texas HoldEm Poker” via the
Internet. The San Francisco-based company’s move earlier this
month to cut 18 percent of staff may not be enough as revenue
continues to fall, Devitt wrote in a research report.  “Zynga may need to cut even deeper to navigate its
transition to mobile,” Devitt said. He  downgraded  the shares to
underweight.  Growing competition from rivals including King.com, the
maker of “Candy Crush Saga,” have put pressure on Zynga’s core
business of online games, Devitt said. King.com has hired
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank of America
Corp. to prepare for an initial public offering, two people
familiar with the matter said earlier this week.  Real-money gambling may not contribute meaningfully to
Zynga’s revenue for more than a year, as regulations block such
games in countries including the U.S., Devitt said.  Zynga’s revenue fell 18 percent in the first quarter, and
analysts predict it will keep dropping for four more earnings
periods, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  