-- Lacker Says Recent Disinflation to Change to Price Gain
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-05-16T01:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/lacker-says-recent-disinflation-to-change-to-price-gain.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said a slowing in inflation is
temporary and prices will probably rise at about a 2 percent
annual rate.  “The recent dip is transitory,” Lacker said today to
reporters after a speech in Baltimore. “We’re going to get back
to 2 percent” for annual inflation, he said, while citing
“risks in the inflation outlook a couple of years ahead.”  Central bank officials, including St. Louis Fed President
 James Bullard , said last month persistent disinflation may
require the Fed to provide stimulus beyond $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases. Consumer prices rose 1 percent in March
from a year earlier, the lowest level since October 2009,
according to the Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation.  Lacker, who doesn’t vote this year on the  Federal Open
Market Committee , has criticized the committee’s decision to
press on with monthly purchases of $40 billion a month in
mortgage securities and $45 billion of Treasuries that have
expanded the Fed balance sheet to a record  $3.32 trillion .  The FOMC said May 1 that it may accelerate or slow bond
buying in response to changes in the labor market and inflation.
It left unchanged its plan to hold the main  interest rate  near
zero as long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the
outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  Additional stimulus won’t necessarily spur economic growth
while increasing the challenges for the Fed when it begins to
withdraw the record accommodation, Lacker said in his speech.  “The Fed seems to be unable to improve real growth,
despite striving mightily over the last few years,” Lacker said
at the Richmond Fed’s Baltimore office, repeating a May 3
speech. “Further increases in the size of our  balance sheet 
raise the risks associated with the ‘exit process’ when it’s
time to withdraw stimulus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  