-- Africa’s Strongest Crane Gets to Grips With Angola Oil Projects
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-05-16T14:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/africa-s-strongest-crane-gets-to-grips-with-angola-oil-projects.html
Workers in  Angola  are completing
construction of the strongest crane in Africa that will be used
at offshore projects for  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP) , and  SBM
Offshore NV. (SBMO)   The fabrication yard of Paenal Porto Amboim Estaleiros
Navais at Porto Aboim, about 260 kilometers (162 miles) south of
the capital, Luanda, is expected to complete the crane with a
capacity to lift 2,500 metric tons next month, Managing Director
Cesar Guerra said in a telephone interview on May 13.  “The crane will be ready by mid-June,” Guerra said. “It
will work on the FPSO for Total’s Clov project,  N’Goma for SBM 
and Mafumeira for Chevron,” he said, referring to floating
production storage and offloading vessels for the respective
French and Dutch companies, and the U.S. company’s most
expensive project in Africa.  Angola, Africa’s largest crude oil producer after Nigeria,
pumped 1.8 million barrels a day in April and state petroleum
company Sonangol EP targets 2 million barrels a day by 2017. The
southern African country’s crude accounted for 2.6 percent of
U.S.  imports  in February and 12 percent of China’s in March,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Paris-based Total’s Clov project may start pumping crude
next year from Block 17. Paenal will upgrade SBM’s FPSO Xikomba
that was used by Exxon Mobil Corp. and rename it the N’Goma to
work on the field of the same name in Block 15/06 operated by
Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI) , according to Guerra and the SBM website.  Chevron Project  Chevron’s $5.6 billion Mafumeira Sul project, the second
phase of a field that began producing in 2009, is expected to
produce 110,000 barrels a day starting in 2015, the company said
in February.  Heerema Marine Contractors Nederland BV, located beside
Paenal in Porto Aboim, may begin work on Mafumeira units in the
fourth quarter instead of January as was planned, Yard Foreman
Philipp Holtkamp said in an interview at the site May 7.  The strength of Paenal’s crane matches others at ports in
Europe,  Brazil , China and Singapore, while out-lifting the 800-ton capacity of the closest competitor in Africa, Guerra said.
The world’s largest crane can lift  6,800 tons , the equivalent of
78 space shuttles, according to Engineering News-Record.  Paenal was formed in 2008 with a 40 percent holding by
Sonangol and 30 percent each for SBM and  Daewoo Shipbuilding &
Marine Engineering Co. Ltd. (042660)  of  South Korea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  