-- Major League Baseball Seen Expanding Video Replay Next Season
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-16T18:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/major-league-baseball-seen-expanding-video-replay-next-season.html
Major League Baseball  may have an
expanded video replay system in place for next season, Vice
President for Baseball Operations  Joe Torre  said today.  Torre presented team owners with an update on replay at
meetings held the last two days in  New York , an agenda item that
received added focus after two mistakes by umpires in the past
week drew criticism from the commissioner’s office.  “We’re just trying to do what makes sense for the game,”
Torre said at a news conference. “You could start replaying
stuff from the first inning on and then time the game by your
calendar. We have rhythm in this game that we don’t want to
disrupt.”  Torre said technology has to complement what MLB wants to
implement and decisions still have to be made on how extensively
replay would be used. Currently, replay is only used to review
home runs -- whether they’re fair or foul, cleared the fence or
were subject to fan interference.  “Right now it’s just trying to make a decision on how to
go about it and what we think is most important to take a look
at,” Torre said. “We’re hopeful that replay will be in place
by 2014.”  Torre said the only thing not being considered for expanded
review is judgment calls by umpires such as balls and strikes.
Tag and trap plays may be reviewed, as could balls hit down the
foul lines, with baseball looking at employing a system similar
to that used by tennis on line calls.  Improper Call  On May 9, MLB said umpires had made an “improper call” by
disallowing a game-tying home run by the  Oakland Athletics 
against the  Cleveland Indians . The umpiring crew determined that
video evidence wasn’t convincing enough to overturn the ruling
on the field of a double, even though television replays showed
the ball hit a metal railing several feet above the left-field
fence and ricochet onto the field.  “I’ve been approached many times with people saying, ‘Why
don’t you just put a couple guys in the booth and that should
solve it?’” Torre said about calls for baseball having a
separate replay official. “Well, this past week we had three
umpires look at the replay and they got it wrong, unfortunately.
It’s not always that easy.”  Two days after the mistake in the Oakland-Cleveland game,
MLB suspended umpire Fieldin Culbreth for two games for failing
to follow the rules involving replacing pitchers in a game
between the  Los Angeles Angels  and  Houston Astros . Expanded
replay wouldn’t have played a role in that case.  Torre said he hopes to have specific replay proposals to
present at the next league meeting in August and that whatever
system is implemented won’t be a “knee-jerk thing.”  “We just can’t throw something to somebody and say, ‘Here,
we’re going to do this tomorrow,” Torre said. “We need to make
sure when we do roll it out that we’re prepared and training is
a part of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  