-- Alcatel-Lucent, Sherwin-Williams: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/alcatel-lucent-sherwin-williams-intellectual-property.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  lost its appeals
court bid to revive patent-infringement claims against
 Overstock.com Inc. (OSTK)  and Newegg Inc. over online shopping in an
effort to increase its royalties.  Overstock.com and Newegg won a jury verdict in 2011 that
they didn’t infringe three Alcatel-Lucent patents and that one
of the patents was invalid. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit in  Washington , without issuing a formal opinion,
upheld the decision in a notice posted on the court’s website.  The appeal focused on patent 5,649,131, which covers a way
to exchange information with multiple users. That patent was
found to be invalid.  The decision could be a boon to other retailers, including
Barnes & Noble Inc., which is challenging this and other e-commerce patents owned by Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent. Companies
including Amazon.com Inc. and Netflix Inc. settled before the
2011 trial.  In the 2009 case filed in federal court in Tyler,  Texas ,
Alcatel-Lucent was seeking $6 million from Salt Lake City-based
Overstock.com, a discount retailer, and $12.4 million from
closely held Newegg, which sells consumer electronics and
computers.  This is the second time Newegg, based in City of Industry,
 California , won a patent-infringement case that has helped other
Internet retailers. In January, the Federal Circuit threw out a
$2.5 million verdict Newegg lost and invalidated patents owned
by Soverain Software.  The ruling benefited dozens of companies that had also been
sued by Soverain, including Oracle Corp., International Business
Machines Corp., EBay Inc. and Macy’s Inc. Reines, who
represented Newegg in that case as well, said the victory become
something of a marketing tool for the company with its tech-savvy customers.  “I don’t think Newegg took a principled stand for anything
other than taking a principled stand, but it’s had a wonderful
effect on their business,” he said.  The new case is Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. v. Overstock.com
Inc., 12-1629,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. v.
Amazon.com Inc., 09-cv-00422, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Texas (Tyler).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Sherwin-Williams Sued Over ‘TuffWall’ Trademark Application  Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) , the 147-year-old paint manufacturer
and seller, was sued for trademark infringement by a
Mississippi-based maker of ceramic coatings.  According to the complaint filed May 13 in federal court in
Hattiesburg,  Mississippi ,  Tuff-Wall Inc.  had discussions with
the paint maker in 2008 over possibly placing its products in
the Sherwin-Williams stores or being purchased by the larger
company.  Sherwin-Williams then filed an application with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office to register “TuffWall” as a
trademark. In January, the paint company said in a statement
that it would be introducing a “TuffWall” line of paint,
according to the complaint.  The Mississippi company said it began receiving inquiries
from customers about whether Tuff-Wall was associated with
Sherwin-Williams’s new paint product. Further, Tuff-Wall said,
an Internet search for “TuffWall” brings up hits for both
Tuff-Wall and Sherwin-Williams.  Tuff-Wall claims that its  intellectual property  is being
used by Sherwin-Williams “to advertise the same category of
products to the same class of consumers.” Sherwin-Williams is
accused of infringing “in willful, wanton, or malicious
disregard of Tuff-Wall’s intellectual property rights.”  The company asked the court to order Sherwin-Williams to
halt the allegedly infringing activity, and for awards of money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees. Tuff-Wall asked
that damages be tripled to punish the paint company for its
actions.  Additionally, Tuff-Wall asked for cancellation of Sherwin-William’s “TuffWall” trademark application and an award of all
of the paint company’s profits attributable to the alleged
infringement.  Cleveland-based Sherwin-Williams has no comment on the
suit, company spokesman Mike Conway said in an e-mail yesterday.  The case is Tuff-Wall Inc. v. Sherwin-Williams Co., 2:13-cv-00999-KS-MTP, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Mississippi (Hattiesburg).  Shaq Seeks to Register ‘Shaqfighter’ Mark for Electronic Games  Shaquille O’Neal , the former National Basketball
Association star who received a  doctorate in education  last
year, has applied to register “Shaqfighter” as a trademark,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  Four applications were filed May 8 to register the term for
uses that include entertainment services, electronic and video
games, trading cards, downloadable ring tones and software for
electronic games.  His June 2011 retirement from professional basketball
notwithstanding, O’Neal still has a number of endorsement deals,
including a re-issue --  announced  in February -- of the Shaq
Attaq and Shaqnosis shoes made by  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s Reebok unit.  His website offers a number of  specialty items  bearing his
name or slogans associated with him during his playing career,
including his “Dunkman” mark that he registered as a U.S.
trademark in January 2005. According to the patent office, he
registered “Shaq” as a trademark in March 1998.  Sony Applies to Register ‘Greatness Awaits’ for Computer Games  Sony Corp. (6758) , the maker of the PlayStation game consoles,
filed an application to register “Greatness Awaits” as a U.S.
trademark.  According to the application filed with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office May 9, Tokyo-based Sony plans to use the mark
with computer games and the provision of online computer games.  The SiliconEra website, which follows the computer-game
industry,  reported  it has seen a leaked script for a future Sony
PlayStation 4 commercial in which the phrase is used. According
to the website, the forthcoming commercial ends with “Who are
you to deny greatness? If you would deny it to yourself, you
deny it to the entire world.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Aereo Asks Judge to Dismiss TV Networks’ Copyright Lawsuit  Aereo Inc., the Barry Diller-backed online TV service,
asked a federal judge to dismiss copyright infringement claims
by the broadcast TV networks, which failed to persuade an
appeals court to shut down its operation.  Aereo requested judgment without a trial from U.S. District
Judge Alison Nathan in  New York  May 14. The company said that
the federal appeals court ruled that the service didn’t violate
the networks’ right to public performance of its programming,
which requires a license.  Broadcasters including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  unsuccessfully petitioned the U.S.
Court of Appeals in New York to overturn Nathan’s order denying
a preliminary injunction that would have put New York-based
Aereo out of business.  The networks sued Aereo in March 2012, claiming that it
infringed copyrights by capturing their over-the-air signals and
by retransmitting the programming to subscribers on computers
and smartphones. Aereo’s transmissions are public performances
and require licenses, they said. Its service would devalue their
programming and cut viewership, jeopardizing revenue from
advertisers and pay-TV providers, according to the networks.  Last week Aereo sued CBS to prevent the network from
attempting to shut down the service in cities other than New
York. Since the appeals court ruling on April 1, Aereo announced
plans to expand its service to Boston and Atlanta.  The TV networks have petitioned the full U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit to review the decision last month
by two of three judges who heard arguments in the case.  The cases are American Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo, 1:12-cv-01540, and WNET v. Aereo, 1:12-cv-01543, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-GM Engineer, Husband File Appeals in Hybrid Trade-Secret Case  A former  General Motors Co. (GM)  engineer and her husband have
filed an appeal of their convictions in a trade-secret case
related to hybrid technology.  Notices of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Cincinnati were filed May 10 by both Shanshan Du, and her
husband Yu Qin.  Qin was sentenced May 1 to three years in prison for
stealing hybrid technology  trade secrets  from the carmaker to
help develop vehicles in China. His wife, who was accused of
copying GM’s private information on the motor control of hybrids
and providing documents to her husband, was given a year and a
day in prison.  Qin was convicted in November of three counts of trade
secrets theft, three of  wire fraud  and one of obstruction of
justice. Du was convicted on three trade-secret counts.  The secrets at issue were worth more than $40 million to
General Motors, prosecutors said in a presentencing memorandum.
The U.S. asked Battani to sentence Qin and Du to as long as 10
years and a month in prison.  The defendants, who pleaded not guilty, said the
information didn’t consist of trade secrets, wasn’t stolen and
was useless for other companies. They sought probation.  The lower court case is U.S. v. Qin, 10-cr-20454, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Michigan  ( Detroit ). The
appeal is USA v. Shanshan Du, 13-1606, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 