-- AMD Rally Needs More Than Console Wins to Outrun PC Market: Tech
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-05-16T20:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/amd-rally-needs-more-than-console-wins-to-outrun-pc-market-tech.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  was the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s best-performing stock in the past
month after winning orders in video-game consoles. To keep that
streak going, AMD must prove it’s got more going than games.  The stock had surged 83 percent since April 15, through
yesterday, sparked by Sony Corp.’s decision to use AMD chips in
the next version of its PlayStation machine and a Bloomberg News
report that the semiconductor maker will provide the guts of an
updated Microsoft Corp. Xbox to be unveiled May 21. The shares
dropped 13 percent today.  As demand for PCs slumps for a second straight year, AMD
Chief Executive Officer Rory Read is lining up gaming customers
in his push to get 20 percent of sales from outside the PC
business by year’s end. While new revenue from areas where  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  doesn’t compete will strengthen that diversification
effort, consoles -- a market that’s just over a 10th the size of
the global PC industry by shipments -- may not be enough to make
up for the sales shortfall.  “I’m really worried about the core business,” said Stacy Rasgon, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., who has a
market perform  rating  on the stock. “They’ve actually lost more
than a billion dollars from their core business over the last
two years. Does that stop? I’m not sure.”  PC Drag  AMD’s console wins may boost annual sales by $700 million
to $1.4 billion, generating profit of 30 cents to 70 cents a
share in coming years, according to New York-based Rasgon.
Still, analysts on average  project  AMD’s sales will fall 13
percent this year, to $4.7 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Revenue slid 17 percent last year.  James Covello, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., cut
his rating on the shares to sell today, citing concern that
game-console wins can only “partly offset” declines in AMD’s
PC business. The shares fell to $3.83 at the close in New York,
for the biggest decline since Oct. 19.  “We expect continued disappointing results in the PC
segment to mitigate the impact of increased revenue from
gaming,” Covello wrote in a report.  First-quarter sales in AMD’s computer-chip unit fell 9
percent from the prior quarter, dragged down by lower shipments
of chips for desktop and notebook computers. Sunnyvale,
California-based AMD gets about three quarters of its revenue
from microprocessors.  Chip Shipments  Even Intel, whose sales fell 1 percent in 2012 and are
projected to be little changed this year, hasn’t escaped the
slump. At the end of the first quarter, AMD had 14 percent of
the market for PC processors, compared with 85 percent for
Intel, according to Mercury Research.  Thanks in part to the gaming-console win, AMD has posted
the biggest gain in the  S&P 500 (SPX)  since April 15 -- as of
yesterday, its advance dwarfed the increase of the next-best
performer,  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , by 43 percentage points.
The chipmaker’s advance compares with an 11 percent rise in the
benchmark Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  As it grapples with PC-market declines, AMD is also aiming
to get as much as half of its sales from the so-called embedded
processing market and other high-growth businesses in the “next
two to three years,” Read told analysts and investors on April
18. The broader market for embedded PC chips used in products
such as industrial machinery, medical devices and home-automation appliances will reach $7 billion by 2016, he
predicted.  “He’s trying to find niches where Intel is not and carve
out a living,” said Chris Danely, an analyst at JPMorgan
Securities in San Francisco. He has a neutral rating on the
shares. “Does it mask their problems in PCs? No.”  Short Interest  Part of AMD’s share gains may have been triggered by bets
that its shares would fall, or so-called short sales. Short
sellers profit from price declines by selling borrowed
securities and replacing them with stock bought at lower levels.  The  short interest  in AMD, which peaked at 25 percent in
November, is now at 16 percent of the total float, or shares
available for public trading. That’s more than three times the
short interest in Intel shares. Stock gains for companies with a
high percentage of short interest can be exaggerated by a rush
to buy the underlying security and unwind short contracts to
limit losses if there is positive news that sends the stock
higher.  The  relative strength index  for AMD, a moving average used
by traders to gauge whether a stock may be poised to rise or
fall, was at 88 yesterday. Any time the measure goes above 70, a
stock is statistically more likely to drop than increase.  For the first three months of 2013, the company reported
 its  third consecutive quarterly loss and is on course to report
a second straight yearly net loss, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Better Execution  Some analysts, such as Mark Lipacis at Jefferies LLC, are
more optimistic about AMD’s chances in the PC market, saying it
could take market share from Intel with new processors aimed at
notebook computers that will sell for retail prices of $300 to
$500. The company also has an opportunity to siphon sales from
rival graphics-chip maker  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , Lipacis wrote in a
report.  Also underpinning any change in AMD’s fortunes is the need
for an improvement in execution, according to Bernstein’s
Rasgon.  The company , the only surviving competitor to Intel in
the market for PC microprocessors, has had periods in the past
when it’s taken share from its larger rival, only to be tripped
up by manufacturing or design delays.  Server Chips  AMD’s Opteron, introduced in 2003 as its first chip
designed for servers that run on PC processors, helped the
company grab more than 25 percent of that lucrative market.
After failing to bring new chips to market on time, AMD’s share
had dwindled to 4.3 percent by the fourth quarter of last year,
according to Mercury Research. That was close to the level it
had before it unveiled Opteron.  Given the company’s history, most analysts remain wary.
Some 71 percent of the 31 who follow AMD have hold  ratings ,
while 16 percent recommend selling. The chipmaker will have to
show measurable benefits from game consoles and other new
markets to prove that it can maneuver its way out of the
shrinking PC market. And though the game console business is a
good start, it’s just a first step.  “It seems like a slam dunk,” said Bernstein’s Rasgon.
“But I’ve seen them miss what I thought were slam dunks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  