-- Amplats Workers Plan Strike If Job-Cut Proposals Remain
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-05-16T15:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/amplats-union-says-workers-committee-asked-it-to-support-strike.html
Some miners at  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  plan to strike should the world’s biggest producer
of the metal not drop by tomorrow a proposal to cut as many as
6,000 jobs. The shares fell to the lowest since August 2005.  “Workers will declare a strike at that time,” Gaddafi
Mdoda, a spokesman for the workers’ committee and a member of
the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, or AMCU,
said by phone today. The start of a potential walkout hasn’t
been determined and discussions are ongoing, he said.  Amplats, as the  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  unit is known, last week
reduced job-cut proposals at its South African operations to
6,000 from as many as 14,000 jobs announced on Jan. 15 to help
return to profit. Producers in the nation that has the biggest
known reserves of the metal are struggling with higher costs as
strikes led to above-inflation wage gains as demand wanes.  The company, where the AMCU is the biggest representative
of workers at 41 percent, will take the revised plan to unions,
Chief Executive Officer Chris Griffith said May 10.  Amplats hasn’t received any demands or a notice to strike,
Mpumi Sithole, a spokeswoman, said by phone today. “We
encourage workers to address concerns through management,” she
said. “We are advising against illegal work stoppages.”  No Support  The National Union of Mineworkers said an Amplats workers’
committee asked it to support a wildcat strike at the company.
The committees at the Johannesburg-based producer and other
mining companies consist of both union members and staff who
aren’t affiliated to labor groups.  “They have asked us to join, but we can’t do something
like that,” NUM spokesman  Lesiba Seshoka  said in by phone.  Workers in South Africa may strike legally, with their jobs
protected, if an independent mediator agrees to a stoppage and
after talks between unions and companies fail.  A wildcat strike at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine in
Rustenburg, 120 kilometers (75 miles) northwest of Johannesburg,
ended as workers reported for yesterday’s night shift, the
company said today.  Amplats shares  declined for a fifth day, losing 4.2 percent
to 286 rand in Johannesburg. It is the lowest closing level
since August 2005.  Amplats’ plan would reduce output by as many as 350,000
ounces annually, starting with 250,000 ounces this year. The
producer had 56,379 employees by the end of December, according
to its annual report.  At the company’s Tumela mine in the northernmost Limpopo
province, workers are refusing to go above ground, while others
are staging a sit-in at surface operations, Johannesburg-based
Business Day reported. Production isn’t affected, it said,
citing Sithole.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  