-- Hansen Says Tar-Sands Oil Makes Climate Change Unsolvable
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-05-16T15:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/hansen-says-tar-sands-oil-makes-climate-change-unsolvable.html
Exploiting oil and gas trapped in  tar
sands  and shale threatens to make  climate change  “unsolvable,”
said  James Hansen , the former NASA scientist who raised concerns
about global warming in the 1980s.  Conventional reserves of oil, gas and coal already have
more carbon embedded in them than is safe to burn without
causing “dangerous” levels of warming beyond a rise of 2
degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) since
industrialization, Hansen told a U.K. panel of lawmakers today.  “The potential amount of carbon in these unconventional
resources is huge,” Hansen told the Environmental Audit
Committee. “If we introduce the tar shale and the tar sands as
a source and exploit those resources to a significant extent,
then the problem becomes unsolvable.”  Hansen’s intervention comes as U.S. and European Union
lawmakers debate measures that would affect the market for oil
from Canada’s tar sands. U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration is weighing approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
proposed Keystone XL pipeline to link the tar sands to U.S.
refineries on the Gulf Coast. EU nations are divided on a
proposal to classify tar-sand oil as more polluting than
conventional crude, putting it at a disadvantage against cleaner
fuels under existing EU laws.  “We know we’re going to get more oil out of these
conventional sources,” said Hansen. “If we also introduce the
unconventional ones, there is no solution other than geo-engineering,” he said, referring to deliberate measures
designed to alter the climate. Hansen is now a professor at
 Columbia University  in  New York .  Driving Storms  The scientist also said he’s working on a paper based on
“speculative” research that indicates accelerating ice loss
from Greenland will eventually cause the North Atlantic to cool,
creating the conditions for more powerful storms along the lines
of  Hurricane Sandy , the largest Atlantic hurricane on record.  “The cold freshwater coming out from Greenland is going to
likely cause this cooling,” said Hansen. “That’s what I call
the ‘storms of my grandchildren’ because you get cooling of the
North Atlantic; warming of the tropics continues to increase, so
the temperature gradient get stronger and it drives much
stronger storms.”  Hansen, 72, who this year retired as head of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Goddard Institute for
Space Studies, first raised concerns that carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere would cause global temperatures to rise faster than
expected in a paper in the journal Science in 1981. In 1988, he
testified to the  U.S. Congress  on the topic.  Carbon Tax  Hansen said the United Nations approach to solving climate
change by reaching consensus among all nations “doesn’t have a
chance of being effective,” and instead advocated bilateral
deals, especially between the U.S. and  China . Such a deal would
need to impose a “flat” carbon price in each nation, though
not necessarily at the same rate.  “We need to put an honest price on carbon-based fuels
which pays their cost to society,” Hansen said. He said some
Republicans, who have traditionally rejected measures to fight
climate change, are coming around to the concept of a carbon tax
on fuels that is revenue-neutral, paying money back to the
public, as supported by  George Shultz , who was secretary of
state under former President  Ronald Reagan .  “It’s going to take more convincing,” Hansen said. “I
wouldn’t say it’s in any way a majority of conservatives yet.”  A  paper  in the journal Environmental Research Letters
yesterday found that the number of scientific papers rejecting
the thesis that humans are causing global warming is a
“vanishingly small proportion of the published research.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  