-- Applied Materials Sales Forecast May Exceed Projections
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-05-17T20:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/applied-materials-sales-forecast-may-exceed-projections.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the largest
producer of chipmaking equipment, forecast fiscal third-quarter
profit and sales that may fall short of some analysts’ estimates
as contract manufacturers hold off on plant upgrades.  Revenue in the current period will be “up slightly” from
the prior quarter’s $1.97 billion, the company said yesterday in
a statement. Analysts on average estimated sales of $2.12
billion in the current quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Profit excluding certain items will be 16 cents to 20
cents a share, while analysts had projected 19 cents.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., a so-called foundry
that makes custom chips for other companies, may be slowing
purchases of new machinery ahead of an industrywide transition
to new technology, said Edwin Mok, an analyst at Needham & Co.
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , one of Applied Materials’ largest customers, may
also be scaling back as it tries to reuse more of its existing
equipment, Mok said.  “Intel spending in the first quarter was soft,” said San
Francisco-based Mok, who has a hold rating on Applied Materials
shares. “Foundry orders are starting to be pared back.”  Intel said on April 16 that it would reduce spending on new
plants and equipment in 2013 to $12 billion, plus or minus $500
million. That was $1 billion less than a January prediction.  Applied Materials rose 2.1 percent to $14.96 at the close
in New York, leaving the shares up 31 percent so far this year.  ‘Challenging’ Markets  “The first half was dominated by foundry spending and a
particular customer,” Chief Financial Officer Bob Halliday said
in an interview. While total foundry spending will increase in
the second half of 2013, growth will depend on orders from a
wider pool of companies, he said.  Under Chief Executive Officer Mike Splinter, the company
has branched out into machinery that makes flat-panel displays
and solar panels. While growth in orders for display equipment
has returned, the solar market remains challenging, he said
yesterday on a conference call with analysts.  The company is predicting that the total market for
machines used to make semiconductors will be $27 billion to $30
billion this year. More than 50 percent of that will come in the
second half, Halliday said in an interview.  The company posted a net loss of $129 million, or 11 cents
a share, for the fiscal second quarter, which ended April 28. A
year earlier, it had net income of $289 million, or 22 cents.
Revenue fell 22 percent to $1.97 billion, Santa Clara,
California-based Applied Materials said. That compares with an
average analyst estimate for sales of $1.91 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  