-- Aquino Wins Philippine Senate Seats in Anti-Graft Drive Boost
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-05-16T14:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/aquino-wins-philippine-senate-seats-in-anti-graft-drive-boost.html
Candidates backed by Philippine
President  Benigno Aquino  won five of six Senate contests
announced today by the election agency, a result that may
bolster his anti-corruption drive.  The Commission on Elections, which originally planned to
announce yesterday all 12 winners from the May 13 elections,
made the partial declaration, rejecting an opposition plea to
release all the results at the same time.  Aquino, who has overseen an  economic revival  during the
first three years of his single six-year term, wants a tighter
grip on the Senate to push for stronger anti-graft measures,
speedier trials and a more efficient procurement system. The 53-year-old leader of the  Liberal Party  barely won the Senate vote
to raise tobacco and liquor taxes in December.  Grace Poe, Loren Legarda, Francis Escudero, Alan Peter Cayetano and Juan Edgardo Angara -- all Aquino allies -- were
declared as senators. Nancy Binay, daughter of Vice President
Jejomar Binay who heads the opposition, didn’t attend the
proclamation ceremony.  The victories gave Aquino nine members in the 24-seat
Senate. Unofficial counts by the election commission and other
organizations project he may win four of the contests yet to be
announced, giving him a majority of 13.  Delays in announcing full results are a concern and may
raise doubts about the integrity of the vote, Prospero de Vera,
a political-science professor at the University of the
 Philippines , said by telephone. “The poll body should explain
the technical problem and offer a solution that’s acceptable.”  The opposition, which according to an unofficial tally is
poised to win three of the dozen seats, cited the manipulation
of election data by a vote-machine operator. “This is highly
irregular and raises suspicions on the integrity of the ongoing
count,” it said in a statement yesterday.  The nation’s poll watchdog also asked the regulator to
explain the slow transmission of data from counting machines in
78,000 precincts nationwide, which the election body blamed on a
weak wireless signal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  