-- Harper Seeks to Build Keystone XL Support on U.S. Visit
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-05-16T18:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/harper-seeks-to-build-keystone-xl-support-on-u-s-visit.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  is
seeking to counter opposition to  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL
pipeline, a project crucial for boosting Canada’s economy and
Harper’s plans to make the country an energy superpower to rival
 Saudi Arabia .  Harper, at an event today moderated by former U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Robert Rubin  for the Council on Foreign Relations in
 New York , said there is a strong case for the U.S. government to
approve the pipeline, citing the prospects for  job creation  and
North American energy independence.  “All the facts are overwhelmingly on the side of
approval,” Harper said. “I know the administration will do a
thorough analysis before arriving at the right decision.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is weighing whether
the pipeline is in the U.S. national interest amid calls from
environmental groups to kill it. The pipeline would help ease a
glut of Canadian crude that the Bank of Canada says is crimping
economic growth, as well as depressing prices for producers and
cutting government revenue.  Today’s visit by Harper follows Canadian cabinet ministers
and provincial premiers to the U.S. to lobby for the $5.3
billion project.  “For the administration to say no to Keystone would
seriously undermine the goodwill between the two governments,”
said  John Manley , a former Canadian finance minister who is now
head of the Ottawa-based Canadian Council of Chief Executives.
“This is one of the most important issues that’s out there --
not just Keystone, but the whole question of how we get a fair
world price for our product.”  Capacity Needed  Harper’s visit underscores the importance of the project to
Canada, which has become increasingly reliant on oil for growth
and government revenue. Canada needs to add pipeline capacity
because oil sands output is projected to double to about 3.8
million barrels a day by 2022, according to Alberta’s energy
regulator.  Harper said the oil sands are a small part of global
greenhouse gas emissions and Canada is working hard to reduce
emissions further.  Oil sands  production from Canada will also
help the U.S. reduce its dependence on energy from countries
such as Venezuela and generate jobs in  North America .
Alternative transport methods such as rail are also more
environmentally risky, Harper said.  Noise, Misinformation  Harper’s advocacy of Keystone XL “helps cut through the
noise and misinformation” about the project, TransCanada
spokesman Shawn Howard said in an e-mail yesterday.  “We appreciate the strong support from the Prime Minister,
the cabinet and others who understand the importance of this
project to both Canada and the  United States .” Calgary-based
TransCanada won’t be involved in Harper’s meetings in New York,
Howard said.  The pipeline, which needs State Department approval because
it crosses the U.S.-Canada border, would carry heavy crude from
Alberta oil-sands fields to U.S. refineries near the  Gulf of
Mexico . A lack of options to transport oil-sands production has
led to a  discount  in the price of Western Canada Select -- an
oil-sands blend -- that reached a record $42.50 a barrel less
than the U.S. benchmark in December. The gap was $18 a barrel
yesterday.  Less Revenue  Alberta Premier Alison Redford said Jan. 24 the province
will collect C$6 billion ($5.9 billion) less revenue this year
as a result of the differential. The  Bank of Canada  cited the
glut as a factor that helped cut 0.4 percentage points from the
country’s annualized  growth  rate in the second half of last
year.  Canadian energy stocks have underperformed U.S. peers by
about 13 percentage points over the last year as the price gap
widened, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Canada, which sits on the world’s third largest pool of oil
reserves, has seen its economy surpassed by  Brazil ,  Russia  and
India since 2006, falling to 11th among the world’s largest
economies, according to International Monetary Fund data.  The additional oil production generated if Keystone is
approved would boost Canadian economic output by more than $600
billion over 25 years, the Calgary-based Canadian Energy
Research Institute said in a July  report .  Export Growth  “The decision to go to talk to Americans is to say this
matters a great deal to us, it is hugely economically important
to us,” said Fen Hampson, director of the global security
program at the Centre for International Governance Innovation, a
Waterloo, Ontario-based research institute.  Crude oil is Canada’s largest export, with shipments as a
share of total exports averaging 15 percent over the past 12
months, three times the level a decade ago. The country counts
on exports for about one third of its economic output.  “In order to both grow output over time but also get the
full benefit of the  capital spending , we need greater assurance
about the ability to get the oil to the right market,” said
 Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in Toronto.  Obama cited environmental concerns in denying TransCanada’s
initial permit request for Keystone in January 2012. He’s facing
pressure from Democratic Party donors such as Tom Steyer, the
founder of hedge fund Farallon Capital Management LLC, to reject
the pipeline. Former U.S. vice president  Al Gore  said oil-sands
activity treats the atmosphere like an “open sewer” in an
 interview  with the Globe and Mail this month.  Bitumen Shipments  Environmental groups oppose the Keystone pipeline because
it would transport bitumen from Canada’s oil sands, which they
say produce more  greenhouse gases  than conventional oil.  Activists from groups opposed to the project such as the
Sierra Club and Friends of the Earth plan to picket outside the
offices of the  Council on Foreign Relations  during Harper’s
visit.  The State Department estimates that temporary construction
jobs will peak at about 5,000 to 6,000 in the U.S., while the
pipeline will create just 35 permanent jobs. The number of
additional indirect jobs in manufacturing and other sectors will
depend on how much of the steel pipe and other equipment needed
for the project is made in the U.S.  Small Benefits  From the U.S. perspective, the pipeline will deliver
“relatively small” economic benefits and environmental costs
in the form of higher greenhouse gas emissions, according to
Michael Levi, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations and author of “The Power Surge,” which examines the
fight over the future of U.S. energy policy.  Those costs and benefits would be outweighed by the damage
to Canada-U.S. relations if Obama were to reject Keystone XL,
Levi said.  Canadian officials may be concerned Obama will seek to
assuage environmentalists by further delaying the decision, said
Hampson, a move that could hurt relations between the two
countries.  “This would be a tipping point in the overall bilateral
relationship,” Hampson said.  The visit by Harper, who once described Keystone as a “no
brainer” for U.S. policy makers, comes as Canadian governments
ramp up efforts to win Keystone’s approval. Redford promoted the
pipeline to Democrat and Republican lawmakers last month, her
fourth trip to Washington in a year and a half, after
Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall visited in March.  Ad Campaign  Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver met last month in
Washington with officials including Secretary of the Interior
Sally Jewel. The Canadian government has begun an advertising
 campaign  to encourage the U.S. to “Go With Canada” for its
energy supplies, according to Chris McCluskey, Oliver’s director
of communications. Canada bought advertising in newspapers,
political websites and Washington metro stations.  Harper may also seek to defend the country’s environmental
record. Canada’s officials have been arguing their greenhouse
gas reduction targets are in line with U.S. goals and the
country has done more to rein in coal-fired electricity
generation. Environment Minister Peter Kent said in a May 14
interview in Paris that Canada is “very close” to an agreement
with industry on new rules to lower greenhouse-gas emissions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  