-- As North Pole Melts, U.S. Arctic Policy Needs to Heat Up
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-16T22:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/as-north-pole-melts-u-s-arctic-policy-needs-to-heat-up.html
This week’s decision by the  Arctic
Council , led by the eight nations with Arctic territory, to
accept  China ,  India ,  Japan  and three other countries as new
observers points to the region’s growing importance. It’s also a
sharp reminder of the need for the U.S., the council’s biggest
player, to do more to prevent a destabilizing Great Game from
unfolding at the top of the world.  Behind the Arctic’s intensifying geopolitics are some
powerful geophysics.  Climate change  is causing Arctic ice to
melt at an accelerating rate. Last summer, the area of ice
covering the  Arctic Ocean  was about half what it was, on
average, from 1980 to 2000. The thickness of the remaining ice
had diminished by 80 percent over the same period. The late-summer Arctic could regularly be ice-free as soon as the 2030s,
according to some  estimates .  Although these developments portend ominous changes in the
jet stream, ocean currents and global climate, they also promise
great opportunities. With less ice will come more access to oil
and gas: The  U.S. Geological Survey   estimated  in 2008 that the
region holds 30 percent of the world’s undiscovered natural gas
reserves and 13 percent of its undiscovered oil. Ice-free
passage through the Northern Sea Route along  Russia ’s coast
would let ships sailing between Europe and  Asia  reduce travel
time by 40 percent, and trim voyage costs by 20 percent (not to
mention cutting their  carbon emissions ). From 2010 to 2012, the
vessels and cargo taking that route increased by a factor of 10.
Moreover, shrinking ice coverage means that the 1.1 million
square mile “donut hole” in the central Arctic Ocean -- an area
not under any country’s jurisdiction -- will be partially
accessible for commercial fishing.  No wonder countries with no Arctic borders, such as China,
want to join the region’s main body for policy making and
governance.  Although the council isn’t a formal rule-making
organization, it has overseen binding agreements on search-and-rescue and oil spills. As a recent  report  to the council argues,
high on its to-do list should be a mandatory polar code for
freight vessels and  cruise ships  operating in Arctic waters,
less than 10 percent of which are charted to international
navigation standards.  U.S. leadership will be critical to achieving such goals --
and to ensuring a judicious balance between the interests of the
Arctic Council’s permanent members, including its indigenous
groups, and those of outside nations with a stake in the
disposition of the region’s resources. Fisheries are a case in
point: Because of its 2009 decision to close its Arctic waters
to commercial fishing, the U.S. has the force of example to lead
a commendable effort to protect the resources of the donut hole
until more reliable information is developed on fish stocks and
sustainable harvest quotas.  In 2015, the U.S. will take over from  Canada  as leader of
the council. Before it does, it would be wise to bolster its
just-introduced  National Strategy for the Arctic Region  with a
dedicated budget and, as a recent  report  from the Center for
Strategic and International Studies argues, a detailed blueprint
for coordinating the 20-plus federal agencies that have a piece
of Arctic policy making. It also needs to pump up the U.S.
presence at the council by making its representative an
ambassador, as the other permanent members have done. Oh, and a
new heavy icebreaker, to bolster the U.S.’s aging fleet of two,
would help.  The best thing the U.S. could do, however, to tamp down a
struggle for Arctic resources would be to ratify the  Law of the
Sea Convention , as has every other council member. The council
has agreed to use the convention to establish claims and
arbitrate disagreements. The failure of the region’s biggest
power to join undermines the convention’s effectiveness as a
forum for the peaceful resolution of disputes. More practically,
it means that the U.S. can’t stake a legally defensible claim to
resources extending as far as 600 miles from the north coast of
 Alaska .  In today’s dare-we-say polarized political climate, a
renewed fight for ratification won’t be easy. But to keep the
breathless headlines like “Melting Ice Opens Race for Riches and
Sea Routes” from becoming harbingers of conflict, it has never
been more important.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 