-- Stocks Fall as Dollar Reverses Drop on Bets Fed to Taper
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-05-16T20:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/asian-shares-fluctuate-as-silver-rebounds-yen-n-z-dollar-gain.html
U.S. stocks fell, pulling benchmark
indexes down from records, and the  Dollar Index  reversed losses
as Federal Reserve officials discussed scaling back stimulus
efforts. Gold futures extended the longest slump since 2011.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.5 percent to
1,650.47 at 4 p.m. in New York after reaching records in nine of
the 10 previous sessions. The gauge of the U.S. currency against
six trading partners was little changed at 83.80 after earlier
 retreating  as much as 0.5 percent from the highest level since
July. Ten-year  note yields  fell six basis points to 1.88
percent. Oil rose 0.9 percent to $95.16 a barrel, while gold
fell 0.7 percent to $1,386.90 an ounce.  The Fed may reduce its $85 billion in monthly bond-buying
as early as this summer amid signs the economy is gaining
strength, Fed Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams 
said. Three other regional Fed presidents called for phasing out
monthly purchases of $40 billion in mortgage securities. Data
earlier showing a jump in jobless claims, a plunge in housing
starts and a drop in consumer prices had spurred speculation the
Fed would be in no hurry to taper purchases.  “It’s unlikely the Fed is going to tighten monetary policy
before the end of this year at the earliest, but that doesn’t
mean stocks can’t have a sloppy day because some people think
it’s going to happen imminently,”  Philip Orlando , chief equity
strategist at Federated Investors, which has about $380 billion,
said by telephone. “There are large swaths of market
participants who believe the only reason for the stock market to
be up 145 percent over the past four years is because of central
bank intervention.”  Market Leaders  Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Home Depot Inc. and Walt Disney Co.
dropped more than 1.4 percent to lead declines in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU) , sending the 30-stock gauge down 42.47 points
to 15,233.22. Gauges of consumer, health-care, utility and
financial stocks fell at least 0.7 percent for the biggest
declines among the 10 main industries in the  S&P 500 , while
technology stocks gained.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  surged 13 percent, the most since August
2011, as the biggest maker of networking equipment reported
fiscal third-quarter profit that topped estimates. Wal-Mart
slipped 1.7 percent after forecasting second-quarter earnings of
$1.22-$1.27 a share, compared with a $1.29 analyst estimate.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. slipped 1.1
percent after having its credit grade cut one level by S&P as
the ratings company revised its criteria for evaluating
insurers.  Economic Data  An S&P gauge of  homebuilders  slid 1.9 percent as all 11
stocks in the index retreated, trimming the group’s year-to-date
advance to 21 percent. Housing starts slumped 16.5 percent, the
most since February 2011, to an 853,000 annualized rate, the
Commerce Department reported. The median estimate of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 970,000 rate.  Jobless claims jumped by 32,000 to 360,000 in the week
ended May 11, exceeding all forecasts in a survey. The consumer-price index decreased 0.4 percent, the biggest decline since
December 2008, after falling 0.2 percent in March, according to
Labor Department figures. Economists predicted a 0.3 percent
drop.  The cost of living fell in April for a second month, the
first back-to-back declines in inflation since late 2008,
reports showed today. Another report from the Fed Bank of
Philadelphia showed manufacturing in that region unexpectedly
contracted in May for the first time in three months.  Fed Speakers  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said today buying
mortgage bonds risks disrupting the market, while Philadelphia
Fed President  Charles Plosser  said, “it’s not good for the bank
to be holding lots of mortgage paper.”  Jeffrey Lacker  of
Richmond said to reporters yesterday the Fed should “get out of
the credit allocation business.”  “It’s clear that the labor market has improved since
September” when the Fed began its third round of asset
purchases, Williams said today in the text of a speech in
 Portland ,  Oregon . “We could reduce somewhat the pace of our
securities purchases, perhaps as early as this summer” and end
the program late this year.  The stimulus from the Fed has helped send the S&P 500 up 16
percent this year and as much as 145 percent from its  bear-market  low in March 2009.  Picking winners in the American equity market has seldom
been easier after four years of Fed stimulus sent measures of
market breadth toward unprecedented heights.  Market Breadth  The rally has pushed 193 stocks in the S&P 500, or 39
percent of the gauge, to their highest levels in at least 52
weeks as of yesterday, the most in  Bloomberg data  going back to
1993. The cumulative advance-decline line for stocks listed on
the New York Stock Exchange, representing the number of daily
gains minus declines, reached a record 63,856 yesterday.  Gains accelerate when corporate profits and the economy
surprise a market dominated by skepticism, according to Laszlo
Birinyi, president of Westport, Connecticut-based Birinyi
Associates Inc. This year’s rally is occurring as mutual fund
clients are sending five times more money to bond managers than
stocks, volume on U.S. share exchanges is stuck at the lowest in
at least five years, and valuations based on reported earnings
are only now reaching historical averages.  “Everything is going up, it’s not just tech or industrials
or dividends,” Birinyi said today in an interview with Francine
Lacqua and  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg Television in London. “It’s
not just central banks. Earnings are good, the psychology is
people are fighting the tape,” he said. “Basically the
psychology is, ‘I missed it.’”  The dollar strengthened at least 0.7 percent versus the
currencies of  South Africa , Australia and  New Zealand .  European Movers  Among  European stocks , Zurich Insurance Group AG lost 3.3
percent as Switzerland’s biggest insurer reported earnings that
missed estimates. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the maker of
Cartier jewelry, rallied 7.6 percent to a record as the company
posted profit topped projections and boosted its dividend.  Spain’s 10-year yield declined three basis points to 4.31
percent and Italy’s rate slid three points to 3.98 percent after
the nations sold 13 billion euros ($16.7 billion) of debt via
banks.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index was little changed.
Russia’s Micex slipped 1.3 percent, declining for a fifth day in
the longest losing streak in a month, and Brazil’s Ibovespa
dropped 0.4 percent as it halted a two-day rally. Asseco Poland
SA, central Europe’s largest software maker, dropped 3.7 percent
to lead Poland’s benchmark gauge lower after MSCI Inc. said it
will cut the stock from its country index.  Shanghai Rally  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 1.2 percent after
trading at its biggest discount to global markets in more than
three years, while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies listed in Hong Kong slid 0.6 percent. Foreign
direct investment unexpectedly slowed to a 0.4 percent gain last
month, missing the 6.2 percent average estimate of eight
economists surveyed by Bloomberg and down from a 5.7 percent
advance in March.  Gold for June delivery slid for a sixth day, the longest
streak since December 2011, as filings showed billionaire  George
Soros , Northern Trust Corp. and Blackrock Inc. sold the metal.
WTI crude rose on speculation that central banks will bolster
stimulus  Gold, down 17 percent since January, is poised to lose 20
percent in a year as inflation fails to accelerate and with the
worst risks to the global economy waning, Credit Suisse Group AG
said.  Gold will trade at $1,100 an ounce in a year and below
$1,000 in five years, according to Ric Deverell, head of
commodities research at the bank. Lower prices are unlikely to
lure more central-bank buying, said Deverell, who worked at the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia for 10 years before joining Credit
Suisse in 2010.  Iron ore  entered a bear market yesterday on concern that
slowing growth in China, the world’s largest buyer of the steel-making raw material, will curb demand as supplies increase.
Prices are down 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  