-- AstraZeneca Advances Three Cancer Drugs Into Late-Stage Trials
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-05-16T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/astrazeneca-advances-three-cancer-drugs-into-late-stage-trials.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  will move three
experimental cancer treatments into late-stage development as
generic competition for its best-selling drugs intensifies.  The U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker is advancing
development of moxetumomab pasudotox for hairy cell leukemia,
olaparib for platinum-sensitive relapsed ovarian cancer and
selumetinib for non-small cell lung cancer patients with the
KRAS genetic mutation, the London-based company said today in a
statement.  AstraZeneca has narrowed its research focus and cut
thousands of jobs to return to growth as patents on its biggest
selling medicines expire. The company will concentrate on
respiratory, inflammation and autoimmune diseases,
cardiovascular and metabolic illnesses, and cancer. It also
plans to double the number of experimental treatments in late-stage development by 2016 and expects to file three marketing
approval applications by then.  “It’s starting to become an exciting and deep pipeline,”
Menelas Pangalos, executive vice president of innovative
medicines at AstraZeneca, said in an interview.  Moxetumomab pasudotox is an “armed antibody” that targets
cancer cells and kills them from within, Edward Bradley, senior
vice president and head of Oncology Innovative Medicines at
MedImmune, said in an interview. The treatment was developed by
Cambridge Antibody Technology which was acquired by AstraZeneca
in 2006.  First Patient  The trial, which is sponsored by the Cancer Therapy
Evaluation Program at the  National Cancer Institute  and has
already enrolled its first patient, will test the drug in those
who have not responded to treatment or whose disease has
returned.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration  said only one
late-stage trial would be necessary after 50 patients in a
early-stage trial saw their tumors shrink and the disease had
disappeared in more than half of them, Bradley said.  “It goes beyond two years and many patients with complete
response rates are still in remission,” he said.  Olaparib, a PARP inhibitor which prevents cancer cells from
repairing themselves, will enter a late-stage trial during the
second half of the year in ovarian cancer patients with the BRCA
gene mutations whose disease recurs following treatment with
platinum-based chemotherapy. The company has already notified
European regulators that it intends to file a marketing
application for the drug.  The treatment failed to prolong the lives of ovarian cancer
patients in a mid-stage trial. In analyzing samples, the company
found that patients with the BRCA mutation saw a benefit and
decided to continue testing it in that group, Susan Galbraith,
head of AstraZeneca’s Oncology Innovative Medicines Unit, said
in an interview.  AstraZeneca is also testing olaparib in breast cancer
patients with the same genetic mutation as well as in gastric
and non-small cell lung cancers and advanced solid tumors.  Selumetinib, which the company licensed from  Array
Biopharma (ARRY) , will begin testing in a late-stage trial in non-small
cell lung cancer patients with a KRAS gene mutation during the
second half of the year. AstraZeneca is also testing the
treatment in melanoma patients with the same genetic mutation
and for advanced pancreatic cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  