-- Tata Power May Sell Shares in Clean-Energy Unit Next Year
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-05-16T04:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/tata-power-may-sell-shares-in-clean-energy-unit-next-year.html
Tata Power Co. (TPWR) , the utility business
of India’s largest business group, is considering an initial
public offering of its clean-energy unit next financial year.  The utility plans to increase wind and solar power capacity
at Tata Power Renewable Energy Ltd. almost fivefold in the year
to March 31 as the cost of renewable energy converges with
fossil fuel-based grid power in India, Rahul Shah, chief of
business development and renewables, said in an interview in
Mumbai. Inducting an investor is also an option, he said.  “We’re housing all of our new renewable assets in a
separate company to allow us” to raise funds, Shah said. Tata
Power, part of the Cyrus Mistry-led group that also owns Corus
Group Plc and Jaguar Land Rover, expects the unit to attract
interest once its total generation capacity reaches about 300
megawatts, “probably in the next financial year,” he said.  Renewables globally are set to benefit from a tripling of
investment by 2030 as the cost of wind and solar plummet,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, which estimates 70
percent of power generation capacity being built will be clean
utilities. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the top arranger for
renewable-energy stock offerings last year, forecasts more than
$395 billion will be invested in renewable energy annually by
2020.  Shares of Mumbai-based Tata Power, which have fallen 15
percent this year, rose 0.2 percent to 94.20 as of 9:28 a.m. in
Mumbai trading today. The benchmark Sensex index has advanced
4.3 percent in the period.  ‘Huge Interest’  Orient Green Power Co. (OGPL) , India’s first and only clean power
IPO to date, has lost  69 percent  since listing in October 2010
as its biomass projects were delayed and fuel costs increased.
Tata Power has mostly focused on wind, which carries no fuel
risk, said Abhishek Patel, a Mumbai-based analyst for ITI
Securities Ltd.  “There will be huge interest, provided its priced in the
right manner,” said Patel. “Tata Power has a sizable
portfolio, good-quality assets and the brand name.”  The renewable unit currently has 46 megawatts of wind and
solar capacity that will expand to 224 megawatts this year, Shah
said. The company is also looking at ways in which the parent’s
375 megawatts of clean power assets can be transferred to the
unit. By 2022,  India ’s second-largest generator plans to triple
its total capacity to 26 gigawatts, a quarter of which will come
from wind, solar and hydropower.  “There’s still a lot of renewable energy to be harnessed
in India,” Tata Power’s Shah said. “The returns here are
comparable, if not better than other markets.”  Pitfalls  Tata Power’s plans could be hampered by issues in the power
industry such as an aging grid, transmission losses and cash-strapped state distribution companies, said Sitaraman V. Iyer, a
Mumbai-based analyst with MSFL Research  “The power sector itself is going through a tough time and
renewable energy is facing an even bigger challenge,” he said.
“Raising funds won’t be an issue but sustaining the business is
different.”  New investments in clean energy in India declined 45
percent to $6.85 billion in 2012, causing the South Asian nation
to slip from fifth to seventh place in global rankings,
according to Ashish Sethia, head of India research for BNEF.  Market sentiment may also play spoilsport. The value of
IPOs in  Asia ’s third-largest economy has dropped 67 percent to
7.86 billion rupees ($144 million) since January, the lowest in
four years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies
including Scotts Garments Ltd. and Sai Silks Kalamandir Ltd.
pulled their IPOs this year because of poor demand.  Solar Financing  Wind farms are already able to supply electricity at the
same price as coal-based grid power in at least three Indian
states, Shah said. Meanwhile, the government’s plans to
subsidize the solar industry with direct grants make “the cost
of solar power more acceptable all around,” he said.  The government plans to abandon a system where it paid
solar plants above-market rates for power in favor of extending
grants of as much as 18.75 billion rupees to cover 30 percent of
upfront project costs, similar to the way it subsidizes port,
railway and other infrastructure projects.  “The structure is well-known to lenders,” Shah said “It
won’t bring down borrowing costs but it will make financing that
much simpler.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  