-- Audi Sees New Performance Cars, A3 Driving Growth in 2013
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-05-16T08:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/audi-sees-new-performance-cars-a3-driving-growth-in-2013.html
Audi AG (NSU) , the world’s second-largest
maker of luxury cars, said high-performance cars like the RS5,
as well as the new version of the A3 compact, will help propel
sales this year amid intensifying economic headwinds.  “We aim to increase sales of high-performance cars by one
third” in 2013, Chief Executive Officer Rupert Stadler said
today in the text of a speech to be delivered at the
manufacturer’s annual shareholders meeting in Neckarsulm,
 Germany . Audi sold about 11,000 of its RS and R8 sports cars
last year. “We want to, and we will, grow further in 2013.”  Profit from Audi is critical to financing parent  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s strategy to overtake  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  as the world’s biggest automaker by 2018. Audi accounted
for 56 percent of the Wolfsburg, Germany-based manufacturer’s
first-quarter operating profit and VW CEO  Martin Winterkorn 
pledged last month to increase the group’s presence in the
premium-car segment, where profit margins are higher than for
mass-market models.  Volkswagen, Europe’s largest automaker, also owns sports-car maker Porsche, British luxury-car producer Bentley and the
Lamborghini and Bugatti supercar brands.  Audi shareholders are scheduled to elect Ursula Piech, the
wife of VW chairman and former CEO  Ferdinand Piech , to the
division’s supervisory board at today’s meeting. She joined the
board of parent VW last year. VW controls 99.6 percent of the
stock in Ingolstadt, Germany-based Audi, and has a domination
and profit transfer agreement in place.  Margin Forecast  The division is forecasting sales to rise in 2013 after it
delivered 1.46 million cars last year. Audi reiterated it
expects a “slight” increase in revenue this year and an
operating margin at the upper end of its long-term target range.
Operating profit last year climbed 0.6 percent to 5.38 billion
euros ($6.9 billion) as revenue rose 11 percent to 48.8 billion
euros. The margin was 11 percent of revenue, above its target of
8 percent to 10 percent.  Audi plans to dethrone  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  as the
world’s best-selling premium-car maker by the end of the decade.
It ranks second after overtaking  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz
brand in 2011. Mercedes narrowed the sales gap to both BMW and
Audi last month as new versions of its A- and B-Class compacts
attracted buyers. Analysts, including Juergen Pieper at Bankhaus
Metzler in  Frankfurt , expect the growth to continue in the
second half of the year.  Competitor Deliveries  Global deliveries in April by Stuttgart, Germany-based
Mercedes jumped 12 percent from a year earlier to 116,566 cars
and sport-utility vehicles. Sales at Munich-based BMW’s namesake
brand rose 7.5 percent to 130,598 cars and SUVs, while Audi’s
deliveries increased 6.6 percent to 133,500, according to data
from the manufacturers.  BMW’s four-month deliveries rose at a faster rate than at
its two main competitors, with a 7.1 percent jump to 512,000
cars and SUVs versus Audi’s 6.7 percent gain to 503,000
deliveries and 5.6 percent growth to 441,464 at Mercedes.  The German luxury-car makers, all of which are targeting
sales increases this year, have fared better than  Europe ’s mass-market auto manufacturers as rising demand in China and the U.S.
offsets a sixth straight year of industrywide declines in their
home region.  BMW, Mercedes and Audi are boosting production capacity
outside Europe to tap rising demand and reduce exposure to
currency swings.  Audi held the groundbreaking for a new plant in  Mexico 
earlier this month and is considering to start producing cars in
Brazil. It’s adding to an existing plant in  Hungary  and will
open a factory in Foshan, China, later this year.  The expansion is part of Audi’s efforts to break out of its
Germany-dominated production network. Until four years ago, Audi
produced 75 percent of its vehicles in Ingolstadt and
Neckarsulm. By 2017, the share of the German plants is forecast
to fall to 45 percent as annual production rises to 1.9 million
vehicles from 1.5 million units last year, according to data
from IHS Automotive.  Audi expects produce more cars next year outside Germany
than within the country for the first time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Neckarsulm at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  