-- Audi Rides SUVs Beyond India’s Big Cities to Overtake BMW
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-05-16T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/audi-rides-suvs-beyond-india-s-big-cities-to-overtake-bmw.html
As  India ’s car market took off in
recent years, global luxury brands focused on selling sumptuous
sedans and big  sport utility vehicles  in Mumbai, Delhi, and
Kolkata, home to the bulk of the country’s wealthy.  Germany ’s
Audi shows that’s changing.  The unit of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  has overtaken  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  as India’s top seller of  luxury vehicles , and Audi
executives say that’s due to their rapid expansion outside large
urban centers as well as a smaller SUV introduced last year.  To maintain its advantage, Audi is planning to add more
SUVs and won’t immediately offer a compact hatchback like those
its biggest rivals expect to fuel their growth.  “For us, first it’s SUV, then sedans and then
hatchbacks,” said Michael Perschke, Audi India brand director.
“India is a country where SUVs have multiple benefits.”  To win more customers in smaller cities, where roads tend
to be rougher but not as narrow, Audi may introduce a new range
of sportier SUVs to add to the three it already offers, Perschke
said without giving a timeframe. The automaker will also offer
the compact A3 in India next year, but in a sedan version rather
than the hatchback it sells in  Europe , he said.  In contrast, BMW, the world’s biggest luxury-car brand, and
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, No. 3 globally, are adding
hatchbacks in India, where slowing economic growth has choked
demand for cars.  Luxury Heritage  Audi’s sales rose 43 percent to 9,350 units in the year
ended March, while BMW dropped 9.5 percent to 8,686 and Mercedes
fell 5.4 percent to 7,015, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on figures from the companies and the  Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers . BMW India did not respond to e-mailed queries about Audi overtaking it in sales.  The fight is over a luxury vehicle market estimated by IHS
Automotive to quadruple by 2020 from about 30,000 last year.
Within seven years, India will become the world’s third-biggest
car market, up from No. 6 today, researcher J.D. Power &
Associates  predicts .  In India, more than many other markets, being the top-selling brand can provide a big boost to marketing, said  Deepesh Rathore , managing director for IHS Automotive in India.  “It’s quite significant to be No. 1 in India,” Rathore
said, “especially in smaller cities where customers don’t
really know much about luxury models and their heritage.”  Smaller SUVs  Audi has benefited from the introduction of its 2.9 million
rupee ($53,000) Q3, a smaller SUV, last year. BMW’s rival X1,
starting at 2.8 million rupees, was introduced in late 2010.
Mercedes’s cheapest SUV is its M-Class, introduced last year,
which starts at 4.9 million rupees, according to  carwale.com , an
Indian auto research website.  Given how close their sales are and the relatively small
volumes in India, Rathore expects the top slot to rotate among
the three German brands over the next several years.  Mercedes was the first of the German luxury carmakers to
enter India, in 1995. In 2007, BMW opened a factory in the
country and Audi established a local unit. Mercedes led luxury
car sales in India until 2009, when BMW took over.  Mercedes is betting a compact car from its global lineup is
the right vehicle to boost sales in India. The automaker says it
will unveil its first hatchback, the entry level A-Class, this
month. This will be followed with a diesel variant of the B-Class compact.  “There is a worldwide trend to compact luxury,” said
Eberhard Kern, managing director of the automaker’s local unit.
“I’m quite sure Indians will buy into this trend as well.”  Bad Roads  BMW says it will add its 1-Series compact hatchback in the
second half of this year. At the high end, BMW introduced a new
version of the 9.3 million rupee 7-Series last month, and
Mercedes this year will unveil a redesign of its flagship S-Class, which starts at 9.1 million rupees. Audi last refreshed
its A8, a large sedan starting at 9.5 million rupees, in 2011.  While India is the world’s biggest market for hatchbacks,
convincing customers to pay 10 times the price of an Alto from
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  -- the top selling car in the country -
- is a hard sell.  Many customers in smaller cities, though, will choose an
SUV over a compact, according to Wilfried Aulbur, managing
partner at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH in Mumbai.  “Hatchbacks have an advantage in cities such as Mumbai or
Bangalore, where you get the sense of luxury, features and space
as well as being easy to maneuver and park,” Aulbur said. In
smaller towns, buyers “may opt for SUVs because of the bad
roads and their size.”  SUV Share  Audi expects its SUVs to make up 40 percent of its
deliveries in India this year and 45 percent in 2014. About 38
percent of BMW’s 2012 India sales were the four SUVs it offers,
the company said in January. Mercedes sells three SUVs, but
didn’t immediately say what percentage of its sales they
represent.  To win buyers across India, Audi is adding eight more
dealerships this year, in cities such as Rajkot, Lucknow and
Vadodara, with populations ranging from 1 million to 3 million.  Audi currently has 25 sales outlets across the country,
with nine located in the five biggest cities, according to its
local website. BMW has 28, with 10 in the metropolises, while
Mercedes has 33, with 13 in the big cities, their sites show.  Sanjay Sharma, who runs a  software company  in Bhopal, a
city of 1.9 million in the state of  Madhya Pradesh  where the
German company opened a dealership last year, replaced his Honda
CR-V with an Audi Q3 SUV 10 months ago.  “I was looking for an SUV that was more similar to a car
and yet I can take into the hilly places around Bhopal,” said
Sharma, 45. He says he’s “found the driving pleasure to be
unexplainable. I never let my driver drive it.”  Shanghai Show  Mercedes plans to add as many as 10 new outlets this year,
Kern said in an interview after inaugurating a new dealership in
Noida, a dusty, potholed suburb of  New Delhi . And he says he
expects to add a version of a compact SUV concept called the GLA
that the company showed at the Shanghai Auto Show last month,
though he didn’t say when.  “It is important that you are present in smaller cities,”
said Kern. “The first car will sell, but from the second car,
you have to be present with sales and service. You have to have
financing and service in place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  