-- Austria’s Failed Kommunalkredit Sale Adds to Fekter’s Bank Woes
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-05-16T09:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/austria-s-failed-kommunalkredit-sale-adds-to-fekter-s-bank-woes.html
Austria , at loggerheads with European
regulators about several of its nationalized banks, failed to
sell municipal lender Kommunalkredit Austria AG and is halting
new business at the bank.  Kommunalkredit, the first Austrian bank to be nationalized
in 2008, couldn’t be sold in a “value-preserving” way by
Finanzmarktbeteiligung AG, the agency managing Austria’s state
aid for banks, the company said in a statement from Vienna
today. The European Union had set a sale deadline of the end of
June when it approved financial aid for the bank.  “The privatization process brought up several seriously
interested buyers, but the offers that were filed were extremely
complex, economically hardly attractive, and linked to
conditions burdening Austria,” Kommunalkredit said.  Austria told the EU it will stop all new business, let the
loanbook run down and seek talks with the 27-member bloc’s
antitrust body to determine “economically sensible next
steps,” Kommunalkredit said. Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , who is also fighting with Finance Minister Maria Fekter
about Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, another
nationalized lender, would also be entitled to appoint a trustee
to sell the bank.  Morgan Stanley  Kommunalkredit, which had 15.8 billion euros of assets and
returned to profit last year, had attracted the interest of
Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG and New York-based  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO) , four people with knowledge of the
situation who asked not to be identified said in February.
Morgan Stanley was managing the sale.  The bank, previously owned by  Oesterreichische Volksbanken
AG (VBPS)  and  Dexia SA (DEXB) , was nationalized in November 2008 to avoid a
collapse when liquidity dried up. It was split into
Kommunalkredit, which continued as a lender to municipalities
with a revamped business model, and KA Finanz AG, a “bad bank”
that’s winding down securities, loans and credit-default swaps
that aren’t part of Kommunalkredit’s main business.  Together, Kommunalkredit and KA Finanz have cost taxpayers
2.6 billion euros of equity-like capital so far. About 6.4
billion euros are additionally at risk because of government
guarantees for the lenders’ assets and bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  