-- Aviva Rises in London as Value of New Business Climbs 18%
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-05-16T08:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/aviva-s-first-quarter-new-business-value-rises-on-u-k-pricing.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer, rose in London trading after the value of new business
increased 18 percent in the first quarter and the firm reduced
costs and internal debt.  New business rose to 191 million pounds ($290 million) from
162 million pounds a year earlier, London-based Aviva said in a
statement today. Operating expenses fell 10 percent to 769
million pounds and its debt dropped by 300 million pounds. The
stock climbed as much as 4.3 percent, its biggest gain in eight
months.  “Aviva reported good progress towards reducing its
expense,” Ashik Musaddi, a London-based analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. with a buy rating on the stock. The statement
“reflects an important step forward into the restructuring
process.”  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Wilson  last week fended off a
repeat of last year’s shareholder rebellion over pay saying he
understands investors’ “frustration” that the firm’s  share
price  has lagged rivals over the past decade. The New Zealander
is cutting debt and selling assets to make the insurer’s balance
sheet less susceptible to crises in the euro region and plans to
boost returns by generating more cash from developed markets,
while growing in emerging economies such as  Turkey  and  Poland .  “These results demonstrate the first steps towards the
delivery of our investment thesis, which is all about cash flow
and growth,” Wilson said on a call with reporters. “We have a
great deal more to do.”  Pricing Action  The value of new business in the U.K. rose 33 percent after
it took “actions on pricing and expenses,” Aviva said. While
the measure rose 11 percent in  France  and 67 percent in Turkey,
it more than halved in Spain and  Italy  on as low bond yields
reduced investment returns, Wilson said. The two euro-zone
countries are a “work in progress,” he said.  The increase in the value of new business will “moderate”
in the second half of the year and restructuring costs may
increase as the firm cuts jobs, Wilson said. The insurer
announced plans to eliminate 2,000 positions last month.  The stock  climbed  13.8 pence to 337 pence a share at 9:44
a.m. in London trading, valuing the firm at about 9.9 billion
pounds.  Underwriting Profit  Sales of life and pension products rose 2.5 percent to 6.59
billion pounds in the first quarter.  The insurer’s property and casualty business had a combined
ratio of 96 percent in the first quarter, unchanged from a year
earlier. A combined ratio is claims and expenses expressed as a
proportion of premiums, with a ratio below 100 percent
indicating an underwriting profit.  Wilson said he’s incentivizing executives across the firm
to focus on cash generation by cutting costs and reducing the
amount of capital in reserve to increase dividends to
shareholders.  “One of the clear differences is an absolute focus on
cash,” he said referring to his strategy in comparison with his
predecessor  Andrew Moss . “Our businesses as a whole are profit-making machines. The issue is not that our businesses don’t
generate profit; they do. The issue is turning that profit into
operational cash generation.  Aviva cut its  dividend  by 44 percent in March as the
insurer posted a full-year loss following a 3.3 billion-pound
writedown on the U.S. business it agreed to sell to  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  in December. Reducing the payout was
necessary because it wasn’t covered by the insurer’s cash flow,
Wilson said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 