-- Bank of Ghana Sees Second-Half Dollars Stemming Cedi Fall
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-05-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/bank-of-ghana-sees-second-half-dollars-stemming-cedi-fall.html
Ghana’s cedi, West Africa’s worst
performer against the dollar this year, may halt its decline in
the second half of the year as the country gets more foreign
currency to shore it up, central bank Governor Kofi Wampah said.  The currency of the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer
has depreciated 4.3 percent this year against the dollar as
companies increased demand for foreign exchange to pay import
bills and repatriate profits, which is done in dollars, he said
in an interview in Accra, the capital, on May 14.  “Our supplies of dollars are lower around this time,”
said Wampah, who joined the  Bank of Ghana  in 1986 and was
confirmed as governor last month. “Most of our inflows come in
the second half.”  Ghana’s currency weakened 14 percent against the dollar in
2012 as economic growth spurred by the December 2010 start of
oil exports accelerated to 7.9 percent, according to the Ghana
Statistical Service. Companies boosted their demand for U.S.
currency to bring goods including consumer products and motor
fuel into the country, adding pressure on the cedi.  In 2012, the central bank raised Treasury-bill  yields  to
make domestic assets more attractive and offered more debt.
Borrowing costs on the benchmark 91-day debt rose 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 22.97 percent at the May 10
auction. The yields, the second-highest after Malawi among sub-Saharan African debt tracked by Bloomberg, have held above 22
percent since June.  “The cedi will be broadly stable this year because of the
policies we put in place,” Wampah said.  Cocoa Loan  The currency gained 1.9 percent against the dollar in
September after the  Ghana  Cocoa Board signed its annual
syndicated loan to pay for purchases of the chocolate ingredient
from farmers. Cocobod will seek $1.2 billion for the 2013-14
harvest, Emmanuel Opoku, deputy director of research, said in an
interview on May 3.  Rising demand for imports in Ghana may see the cedi weaken
to 2 per dollar by the end of the year, John Awuah, chief
financial officer at Ghana Commercial Bank Ltd., the country’s
second-biggest lender, said on May 2. The currency was unchanged
at 1.9895 per dollar by 5:35 p.m. in Accra yesterday.  Ghana may also get dollars from a second international debt
sale this year, with plans to be completed as early as the end
of next week, Wampah said. The country will probably seek $1
billion, two people with knowledge of the plans said last month.
The West African nation became the first sub-Saharan African
country outside of  South Africa  to sell Eurobonds with its debut
in October 2007. Yields on the 8.5 percent debt due October 2017
advanced two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.92
percent.  “We are looking at debt sustainability and see what will
be comfortable,” Wampah said. “There may be the need to issue
infrastructure bonds targeted at specific projects,” he said,
declining to give details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  