-- Bank Premium to U.S. Peers Narrows on Earnings: Corporate Canada
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-16T12:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/bank-premium-to-u-s-peers-narrows-on-earnings-corporate-canada.html
Royal Bank of Canada ,  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS)  and six other large Canadian lenders are trading at the
lowest premium to U.S. bank stocks in more than two years, as
their American counterparts regain the confidence of investors.  “Canadian banks’ conservatism and sleepiness is not going
to be rewarded to the same degree as it has in the past,”  John Aiken , a Toronto-based analyst with Barclays Plc, said in a May
8 phone interview. “We’re back in an environment where earnings
growth trumps everything else, and the Canadian banks are going
to lag over the next year or so.”  As Canadian lenders prepare to report second-quarter
results starting with  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  on May 23, the
spread between the  Standard & Poor’s /TSX Commercial Banks Index
and the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 U.S. banks is at its narrowest
since January 2011, based on price to tangible book value per
share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  By that measure, Canadian banks are now less than twice as
expensive as U.S. banks, trading at about 2.49 times versus 1.41
times for the U.S. group, the data show. In October 2011, they
were about three times more expensive, at about 2.58 times
versus 0.88 for U.S. banks.  Price to tangible book value measures what investors are
willing to pay for a company’s equity after removing intangible
items such as goodwill and brand names that would have little
value if the company went out of business.  No Bargain  Canada ’s banks  index (TNBHICP)  has been  unchanged  this year through
yesterday, lagging the 18 percent  rise  of the KBW Index.
Canadian lenders are still no bargain when compared to global
peers, according to Franklin Templeton Investment’s David Tuttle.  “We’re looking for stocks mired in pessimism,” Tuttle, a
research analyst at Templeton Global Equity Group, which manages
$105 billion in assets, said in a May 10 interview. “Canadian
banks -- despite valuations coming off a little bit -- just
don’t demonstrate those characteristics of a stock that’s out of
favor.”  Spokesmen at Canada’s six biggest banks declined to
comment.  Canadian banks, ranked the world’s soundest for the past
five years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum , are facing
a slowdown in domestic  consumer lending  as the housing market
 cools  and Canadians are urged to curb borrowing.  Household Debt  Household debt  rose to a record 165 percent of disposable
income at the end of last year, according to Statistics Canada.
The  International Monetary Fund  last month cut its 2013 growth
forecast for Canada to 1.5 percent, the slowest among Group of
20 countries outside  Europe  and down from a 2 percent estimate
in October.  Canadian banks have about C$518 billion ($508 billion) in
insured residential mortgages and home-equity credit lines,
mostly backed by Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp., the nation’s
housing agency, John Reucassel, a BMO Capital Markets analyst,
said in a May 10 note. In a severe housing downturn, banks may
need to either recapitalize CMHC or absorb some potential losses
on insured mortgages.  Canada’s banking regulator is reviewing its guidance to
lenders on mortgages of more than 25 years. The Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions is consulting with
banks on the risks posed given housing prices and rising debt
levels, said Brock Kruger, a spokesman for the regulator.  Mortgage Rules  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has tightened
mortgage rules four times in the past five years amid concerns
that some regional housing markets were overheating. In July, he
reduced the maximum amortization period on mortgages the
government insures to 25 years from 30 years.  The country’s banks will grow adjusted per-share earnings
by 3 percent this year and 6 percent in 2014, Andre-Philippe Hardy, an analyst at Royal Bank, said in a May 3 note. That’s at
the low end of growth rates experienced in past periods of
economic recovery and below the 8 percent to 15 percent growth
rates of 2010 to 2012, he said.  The gap between Canadian and U.S. banks narrowed because
investors became more confident about the real estate assets
held by American banks as U.S. housing improves, while getting
skittish on Canadian banks’ exposure to a slowing domestic
housing market, said David Baskin, president of Baskin Financial
Services Inc. He expects the gap to continue to narrow, though
investors can benefit by holding both.  “The positive on the Canadian banks is that people are
overstating the housing problems and therefore undervaluing the
earnings,” Baskin, whose Toronto-based firm oversees C$500
million, said in a May 10 phone interview. “The positive on the
U.S. banks is that their assets are better than people
thought.”  Short Sellers  Fund managers including Toronto-based Friedberg Mercantile
Group Ltd. are shorting Canadian banks on concern the housing
market will collapse. Emrys Partners LP founder Steve Eisman,
who rose to fame betting against U.S. subprime mortgages, said
at the Sohn Investment Conference in  New York  on May 8 that he’s
pessimistic about Canada’s housing market, saying rising prices
weren’t accompanied by growth in personal incomes.  Canadian  home prices  over the past 10 years have increased
by 83 percent, according to the Teranet-National Bank Home Price
Index. That outpaced the 34.3 percent increase in the average
weekly wage for full-time employees in that period, according to
 Statistics Canada .  ‘Dirt Cheap’  Investors had a short interest in 3.45 percent of the
Canadian bank shares available to the public as of April 30,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest in
at least 10 months and above the 2.35 percent at the end of last
year. Short sellers profit from price declines by selling
borrowed securities and replacing them with stock bought at
cheaper levels.  Canadian investors such as Baskin still see a deal when
considering dividend yields and share price to future earnings.  “Canadian banks are dirt cheap right now,” Baskin said.
“I think the Canadian banks are screaming buys.”  Canada’s six-biggest banks will report a 4.2 percent rise
in per-share profit excluding some items in the second quarter
compared with a year earlier, according to Barclays’s Aiken.  Toronto-Dominion Bank, the second-largest lender by assets,
will increase adjusted profit by 4.7 percent to C$1.91 a share
when it reports, according to the average  estimate  of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  National Bank  National Bank of Canada (NA) , the sixth-largest lender, will
increase per-share profit by 1.2 percent to C$1.97 a share when
it reports May 24, according to the average  estimate  of 12
analysts. The Montreal-based bank may raise its quarterly
 dividend  by 4.8 percent to 87 cents, according to Bloomberg’s
Dividend Forecast.  Scotiabank, the third-largest lender, is  estimated  to have
profit of C$1.26 a share, a 6.7 percent increase from the year-earlier period, when it reports May 28.  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s
profit is  estimated  to climb 2.4 percent to C$1.48 a share when
it reports May 29.  Royal Bank, the largest lender, and Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce, the fifth-biggest, report earnings on May 30. Royal
Bank’s profit is  estimated  to jump 12 percent to C$1.31 a share,
and CIBC’s profit will  rise  3.2 percent to C$2.06 a share,
according to analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  