-- Barclays Broke Chinese Wall to Buy Tricorona, CF Partners Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-05-16T11:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/barclays-broke-chinese-wall-to-buy-tricorona-cf-partners-says.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  bought Tricorona AB in
2010 to build its position as a key player in the $78 billion
global market for carbon credits. A former Barclays’s client
told a London court it had the same idea two years earlier.  CF Partners, the former client, said on the first day of a
trial today that it hired Barclays to advise it on a possible
bid, only to have the bank buy Tricorona. A lawyer for the
company, which is seeking about 82 million euros ($105 million),
said Barclays abused its role as an adviser.  “There was a wholesale disregard by certain key Barclays
employees for those Chinese wall rules and procedures” meant to
protect clients, said CF Partners’s lawyer, Tim Lord.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, is
trying to restore a reputation tainted by revelations its
traders attempted to profit from rigging benchmark interest
rates, and the mis-selling of products. Chief Executive Officer
 Antony Jenkins  has promised to reform its culture and pay.  Aurelie Leonard, a spokeswoman for London-based Barclays,
said the lender never had an advisory relationship with CF
Partners.  “Being a leader in emissions trading, Barclays already had
a relationship with Tricorona before it had any involvement with
CF Partners,” she said in an e-mail.  CF Partners, which specializes in emissions trading and
renewable energy, at earlier hearings introduced transcripts of
phone conversations Lord said shows Barclays employees talking
about circumventing an exclusivity agreement stopping the bank
making its own bid.  ‘Could Buy It’  “We could buy it,” one said, according to Lord. “We’ve
done all the work.” “Let’s not get ourselves in trouble,”
another employee said, warning a colleague not to use e-mails or
taped telephone lines.  Barclays lawyer Ewan McQuater said at an April hearing they
were discussing hedging agreements with Tricorona not a
takeover. “The case that has evolved about a secret line of
communication is a fantasy.”  Under the European Union’s emissions-trading system, the
world’s biggest cap-and-trade program, polluters can buy credits
to reduce the cost of complying with pollution rules. The value
of the global carbon markets was 61 billion euros last year
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The case is CF Partners (UK) LLP v. Barclays, High Court of
Justice, Chancery Division, HC11C03443  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  