-- Berkshire Takes CB&I Stake in Bet on Infrastructure
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-16T02:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/berkshire-takes-cb-i-stake-in-bet-on-infrastructure.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  took a stake in Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. in a bet that the
construction company will benefit from infrastructure spending
as customers liquefy natural gas and use it as a feedstock.  Buffett’s firm owned about 6.5 million shares of CB&I on
March 31, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire said yesterday in a
regulatory filing listing its U.S.  stock portfolio . The stake
would have been valued at $376 million at yesterday’s closing
price in New York.  New drilling techniques that unlock natural gas from shale
and other rock formations have boosted output and spurred
investment by companies that transport, store and consume the
fuel. The Hague-based CB&I’s customers include some of the
world’s largest energy companies, such as BP Plc, Exxon Mobil
Corp. and  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom.  “They’re going to be a key beneficiary of infrastructure
build-out associated with natural gas,” said Chase Jacobson, a
William Blair & Co. analyst who rates CB&I  outperform . “The
engineering and construction companies have been talking about
this next wave of investment for a couple of years now, since
shale really started to become more of a story. But now we’re
seeing the projects are starting to move forward, and it’s going
to be a multi-year investment cycle.”  CB&I has formed ventures with Kentz Corp. and Clough Ltd.
to build infrastructure related to liquefied natural gas
projects in  Australia  and  Papua New Guinea . In February, Chief
Executive Officer Philip K. Asherman completed the purchase of
Shaw Group Inc. in a deal valued at about $3.3 billion that
expands the company’s nuclear plant building services.  Building Berkshire  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment sent to an
assistant. A message left on CB&I’s investor relations line
outside of normal business hours wasn’t returned.  Buffett, 82, and Vice Chairman Charles Munger, 89, built
Berkshire through  acquisitions  that transformed a textile maker
into a business that provides insurance, hauls freight,
manufactures chemicals and sells products from underwear to
diamonds. They also amassed the largest equity stakes in
companies including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Coca-Cola Co.  Berkshire boosted its stake in Wells Fargo by 4.2 percent
to about  458.2 million shares  in the first quarter. The
investment in the largest U.S. mortgage originator was valued at
about $18 billion at the close of trading in New York.  “Everything that they know is just breeding more
enthusiasm for Wells Fargo,” said  David Sims , co-portfolio
manager at Milwaukee-based Sims Capital Management LLC, which
oversees Berkshire shares.  Wal-Mart Stores  Berkshire’s stake in  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  rose to 49.2
million shares, a 3.7 percent increase from three months
earlier. The investment was valued at about $3.93 billion at
yesterday’s close. Holdings of DirecTV increased 9.5 percent to
37.3 million shares as of March 31. The satellite television
provider rose 1.2 percent yesterday to $65.17.  The investment in VeriSign Inc., the Internet-address
database manager, was 8.2 million shares, up from 3.7 million
three months earlier. Berkshire also added to stakes in National
Oilwell Varco Inc.,  U.S. Bancorp (USB) , and Wabco Holdings Inc.  Berkshire reduced holdings of Mondelez International Inc.,
Kraft Foods Group Inc. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp., while
exiting stakes in  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the filing showed.  Some of the smaller investments, including CB&I, were
probably made by Berkshire investment managers, Ted Weschler and
Todd Combs, Sims said. Buffett, the world’s third-richest
person, has been ceding more oversight of the company’s $97.2
billion equity portfolio to the stock pickers as he prepares the
company for his eventual departure.  The billionaire’s track record since taking over Berkshire
in the 1960s has made him a cult figure for investors. The
company’s  quarterly filings  of its U.S. stock holdings are
studied by mutual funds and individuals looking for clues about
his investment strategy. The filing doesn’t say who is
responsible for each pick.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  