-- Berkshire Cut to AA by S&P as Ratings Firm Revises Criteria
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-05-16T20:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/berkshire-hathaway-cut-by-s-p-as-rating-firm-revises-criteria.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire (BRK/A)  Hathaway
Inc. had its credit grade lowered one level by Standard & Poor’s
after the ratings firm revised its criteria for evaluating
insurance holding companies.  Berkshire was cut to AA from AA+, S&P said today in a
statement about the Omaha, Nebraska-based company. The ratings
firm said its outlook on all of Berkshire’s  ratings  is negative.  “The lower credit rating on BRK better reflects our view
of BRK’s dependence on its core insurance operations for most of
its dividend income,” John Iten, an S&P analyst, said in the
statement, referring to Buffett’s company by its stock ticker.  Berkshire held the highest credit rating from S&P, Fitch
Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service as recently as 2009. A
plunging equity market following the 2008 financial crisis hurt
the value of its stock portfolio and boosted liabilities on
derivatives, leading to cuts by Moody’s and Fitch. The company
was stripped of its last AAA rating in February 2010 by S&P
after agreeing to buy railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe for
$26.5 billion.  Today’s cut brings S&P’s rating in line with Moody’s, which
rates Berkshire Aa2. Fitch rates Buffett’s company one level
lower. Berkshire is the  largest shareholder  in Moody’s parent
 Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment
sent to an assistant.  Bond Markets  The downgrades haven’t hurt Berkshire’s standing in the
bond markets. The company’s finance unit sold 5- and 30-year
debt at its lowest coupons ever last week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Its $500 million of 4.3 percent bonds due
May 2043 rose 0.7 cents at 9:53 a.m. in New York to trade at
99.25 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the 30-year bond
rather than government debt was 125 basis points, or 1.25
percentage points, Trace data show. That compares with a 144
basis-point spread on a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index for
AA rated U.S. corporate debt maturing in 15 years or longer.  Berkshire’s Class A shares fell 1 percent to $167,303 at 4
p.m. in New York, trimming their gain this year to 25 percent.
That follows a 17 percent advance in 2012.  As Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer for
more than four decades, Buffett, 82, built the firm from a
textile maker into a company that sells insurance, hauls
freight, generates electricity, manufactures chemicals and sells
products from diamonds to underwear. The billionaire has used
funds from insurance units including Geico to buy stocks and
make acquisitions.  Insurance Operations  Berkshire’s non-insurance operating units, other than BNSF,
typically don’t provide a significant portion of dividends to
the holding company, Iten said. That makes the company dependent
on insurance operations to meet obligations.  The new ratings criteria increased scrutiny of holding
companies that own insurers, said Kevin Ahern, a managing
director at S&P. At Berkshire, S&P was concerned that payments
from insurance units to the holding company could be limited if
the insurers face claims or suffer investment losses, he said.
BNSF is owned by one of Berkshire’s insurers, making its payouts
subject to regulatory oversight.  “There’s an element of risk, but I wouldn’t say that
there’s a concern today that there’s going to be a regulatory
chokehold,” Ahern said. If BNSF wasn’t held by an insurance
unit, “we probably wouldn’t have this discussion.”  ‘It’s Silly’  The concern that Berkshire could run short of funds to pay
its obligations is overdone, said Jeff Matthews, a shareholder
who has written books about Buffett. Berkshire had about $49
billion in cash at the end of March.  “It’s silly,” Matthews said in a phone interview. “If
Buffett wanted a dividend from any one of his companies, he
could pick up the phone and get it right now.”  S&P also cited the riskiness of Berkshire’s stock
investments and questions over who will replace Buffett as
reasons for the downgrade.  The billionaire has said his roles will be divided when
he’s no longer leading Berkshire. The board has selected a
candidate to succeed him as CEO, without identifying the person,
he  said  in 2012. Investments will be overseen by Todd Combs and
Ted Weschler, former hedge-fund managers who were hired in the
past three years. Buffett has said his son, Howard, a Berkshire
director since 1993, could be non-executive chairman.  Capital Concern  The negative outlook reflects the potential that a large
acquisition or investment losses could drain capital, S&P said.
It’s also tied to S&P’s negative outlook on the U.S.
government’s rating, according to the statement.  Buffett and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital agreed in
February to a deal to take ketchup maker  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ)  private.
Berkshire will get half the common equity for about $4 billion
and preferred shares for another $8 billion. Debt issued for the
deal won a record low coupon for similar-maturity and rated
securities in March.  S&P published its revised ratings criteria for insurers
last week. At the time, S&P said a majority of ratings would not
change and that positive ratings actions would exceed negative
ones.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  