-- Bills Without Prayer Fill U.S. House Republican Agenda
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-05-16T22:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/bills-without-prayer-fill-u-s-house-republican-agenda.html
As the  U.S. Senate  works to rewrite
immigration policy, the  House of Representatives  is spending
floor time on legislation that won’t become law, voting today to
repeal President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care law.  The near party-line 229-195 vote marks the 37th time the
House has voted to repeal or defund at least part of the law,
and the third time the chamber voted to repeal the entire
Affordable Care Act.  Tomorrow, the House is set to consider a bill that would
require the Securities and Exchange Commission to assess the
costs of proposed regulations, which the White House said would
be “burdensome and disruptive.” Last week, the House passed a
measure to ensure U.S. bondholders would be paid if Congress
can’t agree on a plan to raise the nation’s debt limit.  House Republican leaders are filling the calendar with
legislation that won’t pass the Senate in part because they see
a political payoff in future months, when they’ll need members’
support for tough votes such as raising the debt ceiling and
passing annual government spending bills.  “It’s a good strategy,” Representative  Kevin Brady , a
Texas Republican, said in an interview. “What we’ve learned
with new members last session is that if we want to unite we
have to lay a foundation.”  “Our new members especially want us to go back to square
one, what we stand for, what we believe in, what are we fighting
for,” Brady said. “That all helps lead up to the tougher
issues.”  Tea Party  Representative  John Boehner  of  Ohio  has sometimes had
trouble holding his Republican caucus together since becoming
House speaker in January 2011. Uprisings by antitax  Tea Party 
lawmakers doomed his effort to reach a budget deal with Obama
and brought the U.S. to the brink of a possible default before
lawmakers agreed to raise the limit on Treasury borrowing.  Second-ranking House Democrat Steny Hoyer of  Maryland 
criticized the Republican agenda this week as “all politics.”  “The Republicans are continuing to focus on political
posturing and not positive policy,” Hoyer told reporters.  The Senate Judiciary Committee today held its third all-day
meeting to make changes to an immigration plan proposed by a
bipartisan group of eight senators. A bipartisan House group of
eight members members will introduce a comprehensive immigration
plan next month that will cover all but one or two of the issues
they have been negotiating, said Texas Republican  John Carter .  2014 Election  Today’s vote to repeal the health-care law gave new  House
Republicans  a chance to go on the record against it and provides
ammunition for the 2014 midterm election, a year when the law’s
main provisions will be implemented.  New House members and leaders of the Republican Study
Committee, a group that promotes small government, have sought a
vote on H.R. 45, to rescind the Affordable Care Act, for months.  “Within the RSC we have been pushing since the beginning
of this year to have a clean vote on the repeal of Obamacare,”
Representative  Steve Scalise  of  Louisiana , who leads the study
committee, said in an interview.  “We have a pretty significant number of new members who
have never had an opportunity to, on the record, with their
vote, express their disdain for Obamacare,” Representative
Steve Womack, an Arkansas Republican, said in an interview.  30 Million  Obama’s health-care law, which seeks to extend insurance
coverage to at least 30 million people, was passed by Congress
with no Republican votes. Opponents say it will lead to higher
taxes and insurance premiums and reduced delivery of health
care.  Boehner told reporters today that the repeal vote wasn’t a
“waste of time” and that Republicans will continue working to
“scrap the law in its entirety so we can focus on patient-centered reforms.” Boehner made his weekly remarks to reporters
while standing next to a 7-foot, 3-inch stack of paper that
Republicans said represented the regulations resulting from the
law.  For Representative Tim Huelskamp, a Kansas Republican who
often votes against his leaders, the repeal vote fulfills a
promise made to get his vote earlier this year for a stopgap
government-funding measure.  “It’s more than just a measure, a gesture,” Huelskamp
said in an interview. “It is identifying what Republicans are
for and what we are willing to do. We’re going to talk about the
alternatives.”  Medical Conditions  A vote to rescind the health law will also help House
Republicans push parts of their agenda. Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia , last month had to cancel a vote on a bill to
extend insurance coverage to people with pre-existing medical
conditions. The measure didn’t have enough support from his
party, in part because some members viewed it as going against
their goal of repeal.  The Securities and Exchange Commission measure, which will
be taken up tomorrow, addresses Republicans’ belief that the
government is overreaching through expanding regulations.  “This bill would require the SEC to ensure that the
benefits of any rulemaking outweigh the costs,” Representative
 Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, said in a statement. It
would require regulations to be “accessible, consistent,
written in plain language and easy to understand,” he said.  The White House budget office, in a statement yesterday
opposing H.R. 1062, said it would add requirements that would
cause “unnecessary delays” in setting new rules and undermine
the SEC’s ability to do its job.  On May 9, the House passed a bill to exempt federal
payments to creditors from the U.S. debt limit, signaling the
start of the latest debate over the nation’s borrowing
authority. The bill, H.R. 807, is intended to insulate
Republicans from criticism that they would let the U.S. default
on its debt. It has almost no chance of advancing in the
Democratic-led Senate and faces a veto threat from Obama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  