-- Billionaire Frost Props Up Prolor Bid With Stock Buys
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-05-16T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/billionaire-frost-props-up-prolor-bid-with-stock-buys.html
Phillip Frost  is among the top
insider buyers in the U.S. as the pharmaceutical billionaire
props up the shares of two of his companies following an
acquisition agreement that has been contested by some investors.  Opko Health Inc. (OPK) , based in Miami, and Israeli drugmaker
 Prolor Biotech Inc. (PBTH)  ranked among the top 30 companies in the
U.S. by insider buying activity for the week ended May 10,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Frost, who is the
biggest shareholder in both, has been buying as Opko agreed to
buy Prolor for about $480 million on April 24.  Keeping the share prices from falling may help Frost win
approval for the deal from Prolor shareholders, said Raghuram Selvaraju, managing director and head of health-care equity at
Aegis Capital in  New York . The purchase will give Opko a long-acting version of human growth hormone that’s entering the final
stage of clinical trials and secures a technology that can be
applied to a variety of conditions, Frost said in April.  “When he is buying shares actively it signals to the
investor community that there’s a deep-pocketed insider who
believes in the company,” Selvaraju said. “It’s hard to bet
against him because he has a proven track record. Since there is
no collar on the deal, if Opko shares were to fall dramatically,
investors would get screwed.”  Collar agreements, an arrangement in a takeover that
protects shareholders in the target company from a significant
decline in the share price of the acquirer, are used when deals
are financed with stock rather than cash. Opko agreed in April
to pay Prolor holders 0.9951 of its shares for each Prolor
share.  ’Good Value’  “I’m buying stock in Opko because I have been buying the
stock almost every day for several years,” Frost said by
telephone from Miami. “I think Opko’s shares offer good value.
As for Prolor shares, I am buying them quite simply because it’s
like buying Opko shares at a discount.”  The agreement valued Prolor at about $7 a share when it was
announced. A slump in Opko’s stock to a closing low of $6.41 on
May 1 reduced the value to Prolor holders to $6.38 a share. Opko
shares have since risen 9.4 percent, lifting the value back to
close to $7 per Prolor share.  Prolor fell 1.4 percent to close at $6.34 yesterday. Opko
fell 1.7 percent to close at $7.01.  The deal has come under criticism from shareholders
including Miami-based private investor Jose Canto, who said
Prolor could have attracted higher bids if it waited for  drug
development  to advance into later stages.  Swap Offer  Oppenheimer & Co., a New York-based investment bank,
advised Prolor’s independent directors that the stock-swap offer
was fair. At least five law firms announced they were seeking
investors to file a class-action lawsuit on grounds that Frost’s
involvement in both companies posed a conflict of interest.  “I was very, very careful not to participate in any of the
discussions or negotiations,” Frost said. “Prolor has some
very good products under development and we can make available
to them a whole medical team in Opko which can readily assist in
the design of the trials.”  Short sellers, who sell borrowed shares and hope to profit
by buying them back at lower prices, have increased their bets
against Opko. The  short-interest ratio,  the number of shares
sold short divided by daily volume, climbed from 6.1 at the end
of January to 19.2 at the end of April, according data compiled
by Bloomberg. The interest is still below a August 2012 high of
43.  Buying Shares  From April 24 through May 14, Frost bought about $4 million
of Opko shares, according to the Washington Service. He
purchased about $630,000 of Prolor shares from April 30 through
May 14  Frost, the chairman of  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
owns about  37 percent  of Opko and  20 percent  of Prolor, which is
based in Nes Ziona,  Israel . After selling Ivax Corp. to Teva for
$7.4 billion in 2006, Frost and his associates began assembling
Opko, a health-care holding company for diagnostic equipment and
medical products. Opko shares have gained 46 percent this year.  “This deal is essential for Phil,” said Aegis Capital’s
Selvaraju. “He sees Prolor as the potential jewel in Opko’s
crown. It paves the way for what might eventually be the sale of
Opko to a larger pharmaceutical company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  