-- Bipartisan House Group Reaches Tentative Immigration Deal
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-05-17T04:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/bipartisan-house-group-reaches-tentative-immigration-deal.html
A bipartisan group of U.S. House
members has reached a tentative agreement on a comprehensive
revision of the U.S. immigration system, according to three
lawmakers, as a Senate committee proceeds with its own plan.  “We have an agreement in principle,”  Texas  Republican
 John Carter  said as House members left a negotiating session
yesterday in Washington, while withholding details. Lawmakers
will begin drafting legislation to be introduced in early June.  The House measure will differ “in a lot of areas” from
the Senate’s proposal, Florida Republican Representative Mario Diaz-Balart told reporters. He said the deal was the first step
in “a very difficult process.” Kentucky Democrat John Yarmuth
also told reporters there was a tentative agreement.  The House proposal, like the Senate’s, offers a path to
citizenship for many of 11 million undocumented immigrants
already living in the U.S., according to a House aide not
authorized to discuss the deal publicly. While none would be
barred from seeking that path, they would have to wait 10 years
to become legal residents, making them eligible for citizenship
after another five years. The bipartisan proposal in the Senate
envisions a path to citizenship taking at least 13 years.  Resolution of this issue poses the potential key to an
agreement between the Democratic-controlled Senate and
Republican-run House on President  Barack Obama ’s push for the
most significant revision of U.S. immigration policy in a
generation.  Eligibility Issue  Representative  Xavier Becerra , a  California  Democrat, said
in a May 8 interview that his party would insist on ultimate
citizenship eligibility for the undocumented. “I don’t think
anyone wants to go back to when you have second-class status,
where you have a permanent underclass,” he said.  The Senate Judiciary Committee will continue working on
amendments to its bipartisan immigration legislation next week.
Word of an agreement among the House negotiators could lend
momentum to the effort. Getting an immigration measure through
Congress long has been considered most difficult to achieve in
the Republican-run House.  At an April 29 immigration forum in  San Antonio , Texas,
Carter said he was crafting a provision requiring people who
entered the U.S. illegally to complete a procedure to meet
demands that undocumented immigrants not receive “amnesty.”  The last congressional bid to pass comprehensive
immigration legislation stalled in 2007. Republicans are trying
to reconnect with Hispanics after Obama won 71 percent of the
constituency’s votes in his re-election in November.  Reid’s Pledge  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said yesterday he plans
to bring his chamber’s immigration legislation, S.744, to the
floor “as soon as it’s ready.”  “I will do everything in my power to have this bill become
law, and I am confident that the time is right,” Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, said of the immigration measure. So far, the bill has
survived proposed changes in the Judiciary Committee that might
doom it on the Senate floor.  The House group met yesterday to try to resolve what Carter
called the last remaining issue: how Obama’s health-care law
would cover undocumented immigrants. Absent such an agreement,
Carter said the group was prepared to move forward with
bipartisan legislation covering almost all of the issues they
have been discussing for more than three years.  “Ninety-five percent of this bill” will be “totally
bipartisan,” Carter told reporters. A day earlier, another
member of the House group, Idaho Republican Raul Labrador, said
the talks had reached an impasse.  The House negotiators also include Republican Sam Johnson
of Texas and Democrats Zoe Lofgren andBecerra of California and
Luis Gutierrez of  Illinois .  Hurdles Remain  Their negotiations won’t necessarily shape the House
leadership’s plans. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, has said he will proceed with
separate bills instead of a comprehensive immigration measure.  Also yesterday, Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah said
he remains hopeful an agreement can be reached with Democrats on
changes sought by technology companies to the H-1B visa program
for high-skilled foreign  workers .  “It’s extremely important not just to me but to the whole
high-tech world,” Hatch said on the Judiciary Committee’s third
day of work on changes to the Senate bill. His support could be
crucial in passing a bill on the chamber’s floor.  One of Hatch’s amendments would allow individuals who
intend to  immigrate  to the U.S. to be counted as U.S. workers
under certain circumstances. Another would require employers to
show a U.S. worker wasn’t available only when a foreign employee
is initially hired, not with each visa extension.  Middle Ground  Democratic authors of the Senate’s immigration measure,
including  Charles Schumer  of  New York  and  Richard Durbin  of
Illinois, have said the bill’s provisions on high-skilled worker
visas are intended to be a middle ground between technology
companies, which want more access to foreign workers, and labor
groups, which are concerned about the effects on U.S. workers.  The bipartisan Senate measure would raise the annual visa
limit to 135,000 from 85,000 and allow further expansion to
180,000, depending upon economic conditions.  An amendment offered by Hatch would set a baseline of
115,000  H-1B visas  and allow the number to rise incrementally to
180,000 if there is demand from companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  