-- BlackRock Has Alternative to Money Funds: Credit Markets
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-16T15:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/blackrock-has-alternative-to-money-funds-credit-markets.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Western Asset
Management Co. are offering a new twist on traditional money-market funds as regulators are set to impose sweeping changes on
the $2.58 trillion industry.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, and  Legg
Mason Inc. (LM) ’s Western Asset unit have started bond funds designed
to work much like money funds, with a key difference. The new
“ultra-short” funds have share prices that fluctuate along
with the value of their holdings, rather than a fixed net asset
value, or NAV, a distinguishing feature of money funds. They
also have shorter maturities than similar ultra-short bond funds
that ran into trouble when credit markets froze in 2008.  The firms are preparing for what could be a seismic
reallocation of assets by institutional investors and corporate
treasurers if regulators overhaul money funds for a second time
in three years in a bid to make them safer after the 2008
collapse of the Reserve Primary Fund. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission plans to order a floating NAV on
institutional prime money-market funds, or those that invest in
corporate debt, overriding opposition from the industry.  “We would expect to see more corporations use more
vehicles than are used today once we get to a floating NAV for
prime money-market funds,” said Richard Hoerner, head of New
York-based BlackRock’s global cash-management business. “The
fund is designed for short-term investors seeking to outperform
money-market funds, with potential returns that exceed those of
prime money-market funds under normal market conditions.”  Shorter Maturities  Mary Athridge , a spokeswoman for Baltimore-based Legg
Mason, declined to comment on the Western Asset Ultra Short
Obligations Fund, which the firm filed to register on May 8.
BlackRock opened the  BlackRock Ultra-Short Obligations Fund (BBUSX)  in
November and it has about $25 million of assets.  The new funds are different from existing U.S. ultra-short
bond funds, which had $280.1 billion of assets at the end of
last year, according to iMoneyNet, a Westborough, Massachusetts-based provider of money-market research and analysis. The funds,
run by companies ranging from Pittsburgh-based  Federated
Investors Inc. (FII)  to Boston-based Fidelity Investment, generally
hold investment-grade debt that matures in one to two years,
according to a review of regulatory filings.  2008 Losses  The BlackRock and Western Asset funds have shorter
maturities and can only invest in high-quality debt. Some short-term bond funds that were touted as higher-yielding alternatives
to money funds faced severe losses in 2008 as they held debt
tied to mortgages.  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s SSgA Yield Plus Fund
fell 19 percent in the first five months of 2008 before being
liquidated.  Charles Schwab Corp.’s (SCHW)  YieldPlus fund fell to $1.8
billion in assets in 2008 from a peak of $13.5 billion in 2007,
after it invested more than 25 percent of fund assets in private
issuer mortgage-backed securities.  The BlackRock and Western Asset ultra-short bond funds have
both pledged to limit the average maturity of their portfolios
to no more than 90 days. That was the legal threshold for money-market funds until 2010, when the SEC lowered the ceiling to 60
days as part of an earlier effort designed to reduce systemic
risk. As with money funds, the BlackRock and Western products
will primarily hold debt securities that mature in 397 days or
less.  Fidelity, Federated  Money-market funds are allowed to use an accounting method
that produces a stable net asset value of $1 a share under Rule
2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Investment earnings,
rather than lifting the share price, are distributed in cash or
new shares. This feature has made money-market funds a favorite
among individuals, institutional investors and corporations who
want a place to park their cash that will provide a higher
return than those typically paid on  bank deposits .  Federal regulators have been searching for ways to prevent
a replay of September 2008, when the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund “broke the buck,” or fell below the $1 NAV. The
collapse triggered a wider run on money funds that contributed
to a freeze in the global credit markets. In 2010, the SEC
tightened rules on credit quality, shortened the maximum average
maturity for funds and introduced minimum liquidity levels.  Mary
Schapiro , then the SEC’s chairman, called that a first step
toward making money funds more stable and pushed a plan to make
funds abandon their $1 share price or build capital reserves.  ‘Reshaping’ Industry  The industry, led by providers including  Fidelity
Investments  and Federated Investors, fought back against
proposals and sought to limit the scope of changes. The SEC is
now planning a narrower proposal that requires the use of
floating net asset values by institutional money-market funds
that invest in corporate debt, a person familiar with the matter
said last week. Such a change would apply to funds managing $950
billion, or about 37 percent of U.S. money-fund assets,
according to iMoneyNet.  The regulatory changes could lead to a “reshaping” of the
money-market industry, including changes to the “overall
liquidity product landscape,” Moody’s Investors Service said in
a May 13 report. One possible consequence would be growth in
alternative cash products, including short-duration bond funds,
developed by large money-market fund managers to offset the
“expected loss” of assets in prime funds hit by the new rule,
the report said.  A lot of the innovation “has been held in abeyance waiting
for the SEC,”  Geoff Bobroff , a mutual-fund consultant in  East
Greenwich ,  Rhode Island , said in an interview. “People are
starting to gear up” now that the SEC appears ready to act,
Bobroff said.  Credit Quality  The BlackRock and Western Asset funds expect to invest at
least 25 percent of their assets in securities issued by
companies in the financial services sector, such as banks and
brokerages.  In terms of credit quality, BlackRock and Western will only
invest in fixed-income securities that have either the top or
second-best short-term debt rating from credit-raters such as
Moody’s or  Standard & Poor’s . While the BlackRock fund can have
any amount of assets in the second-highest category, the Western
Asset fund must invest at least 95 percent of its assets in debt
with the top-tiered rating, the prior standard for money-market
funds until the SEC raised it by two percentage points to 97
percent in 2010.  “It sounds like a turbo-charged money-market fund,” said
Steven Shachat, a senior portfolio manager at Alpine Woods
Capital Investors LLC in Purchase,  New York . “It appears as if
we might be heading in the direction of a floating NAV anyway,
so they are just heading this off at the pass.”  Key Differences  BlackRock’s Hoerner said the new ultra-short fund is
“clearly” not a money-market fund, though at first glance it
may “look similar” to one. In addition to the floating net
asset value, Hoerner cited several other differences, such as
the 2010 revisions to Rule 2a-7 require money-market funds to
keep 30 percent of their assets in securities that mature within
seven days. Neither the Western Asset nor the BlackRock ultra-short fund have such a provision.  The stable $1 value is one of the main appeals of money
funds as investors seek the preservation of their capital amid
record-low  interest rates . Corporate money-market clients would
be reluctant to give up the benefits of a stable net asset value
for a slightly higher yield, said Shachat at Alpine Woods. “A
lot of the major corporations are just so risk-averse,” Shachat
said. “That is why you see Treasury funds with hundreds of
billions of dollars basically earning zero.”  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. fell for a second day.
The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 1 basis point to a mid-price of 70.4
basis points as of 11:25 a.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, decreased 0.3 basis point to 13.95 basis
points as of 11:25 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as company debentures and widens
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of  Merck & Co. (MRK)  are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, accounting
for 5.8 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or
more as of 11:26 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.      The maker of Claritin raised $6.5 billion
yesterday in its largest offering on record. Its $1.75 billion
of 2.8 percent, 10-year notes rose 0.8 cent from the issue price
to 100.75 cents on the dollar to yield 2.71 percent, Trace data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  