-- Boston Symphony Names Andris Nelsons as Music Director
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-05-16T16:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/boston-symphony-names-andris-nelsons-as-music-director.html
After a long search that provoked
fascination in the music world, the  Boston Symphony Orchestra 
named a new music director: Latvian conductor Andris Nelsons.
The appointment came more than two years after  James Levine 
announced his abdication of the podium.  Considered a front-runner for the job since Levine’s
resignation, the 34-year-old Nelsons has conducted the BSO at
its Symphony Hall base, at the Tanglewood Festival and at
 Carnegie Hall . Levine was paid $1.2 million for the 2010-2011
season and suffered back problems and other maladies.  Nelsons was born in the Latvian capital of Riga into a
family of musicians, according to his  website . Attending
Wagner’s 1861 opera “Tannhauser” at age 5 inspired him to
become a conductor, he said in an interview earlier this year on
public broadcaster WGBH.  “I wanted to be involved with music in much more intensive
(way) than just playing one instrument or singing,” he said in
heavily accented English.  He began as a trumpeter in the Latvian National Opera
Orchestra before studying conducting, later becoming music
director of the opera. Since 2008, he’s been music director of
the  City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra , a previous stepping
stone of  Simon Rattle , now principal conductor of the Berlin
Philharmonic.  “This is food for our souls,” Nelsons said of live
classical music. “There are doctors who take care of our
bodies. There are department stores which sell food. We are
doctors of soul.”  Founded in 1881, the BSO is one of the most prestigious
U.S. orchestras. Nelsons is married to Latvian soprano  Kristine
Opolais . She made her  Metropolitan Opera  debut in January in
Puccini’s “Rondine” and returns in “Madama Butterly” next
season. They have an infant daughter, Adriana.  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology  and
 Amanda Gordon  on  Scene .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 