-- Boston Marathon Offers Entries for Non-Finishers Due to Bombings
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-16T16:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/boston-marathon-offers-entries-for-non-finishers-due-to-bombings.html
More than 5,000 runners who couldn’t
cross the finish line at this year’s  Boston  Marathon because of
bombs that killed three people have received special invitations
to participate in the 2014 race.  The 117th running of the marathon was halted last month
after two bombings close to the downtown finish line of the
Boston Athletic Association’s signature race. More than 200
people were injured, in addition to the fatalities.  About 10,000 of the approximately 27,000 runners who took
part in the 26.2-mile (42-kilometer) race from Hopkinton,
 Massachusetts , to Boston don’t have official times. Finish-line
operations were shut down after the 17,580th runner crossed the
line and thousands of runners were stopped with less than one
mile remaining.  “The opportunity to run down Boylston Street and to cross
the finish line amid thousands of spectators is a significant
part of the entire Boston Marathon experience,” BAA Executive
Director Tom Grilk said in a  statement .  To be eligible for an automatic invitation to next year’s
race, a 2013 participant must have been an official entrant who
started the race and reached at least the midway point. A total
of 5,633 participants from this year’s race got invitations for
2014, organizers said.  Those runners will receive a non-transferable code in early
August to be used for entry, which is guaranteed only during a
designated registration period. Participants will have to pay an
entry fee, which has yet to be determined.  ‘Impassioned Support’  “We look forward to inviting back these athletes and we
expect that most will renew their marathon training
commitment,” Grilk said. “Boston spectators are known for
their impassioned support and unbridled enthusiasm, and they
will give these returning athletes some of the loudest cheers at
next year’s race.”  Registration dates for the 2014 Boston Marathon haven’t
been announced and organizers said no decision has been made on
the maximum field size. A record 36,748 runners started the
centennial race in 1996. Approximately 500,000 spectators line
the route, organizers said.  Registration for this year’s race ended last Oct. 11, one
month after it opened. Unlike other marathons, Boston requires
general-entry runners to meet qualifying time standards based on
their age on the race’s scheduled date. This year’s race was the
first since 1990 in which qualifying standards were made more
difficult by five minutes for all ages.  The qualification window for the 2014 Boston Marathon had
begun in September 2012.  Grilk said race organizers will work with public-safety
officials and other partners before determining whether any
changes are necessary for the event and the race.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  