-- Brazil March Economic Activity Grows Less Than Forecast
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-05-16T12:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/brazil-march-economic-activity-grows-less-than-forecast.html
Brazil ’s economic growth accelerated
less than expected in March, as consumption in the world’s
second-largest emerging market showed signs of slowing.  The seasonally adjusted  economic activity index , a proxy
for gross domestic product, rose 0.72 percent in March after
falling a revised 0.36 percent in February, the central bank
said today in a report posted on its website. Analysts expected
a 0.85 percent increase, according to the median estimate from
24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The non-seasonally adjusted index rose 1.16 percent from a
year ago, compared with a median estimate of a 1.30 percent
increase from 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is seeking to
spur growth while preventing inflation from crimping purchasing
power and investor confidence. Brazil’s central bank increased
in April its benchmark  interest rate  for the first time since
July 2011, as  price increases  hovered near the 6.5 percent upper
limit of the bank’s target range. While positive industrial
output in March helped economic activity accelerate by 1 percent
during the first quarter, compared with 0.6 percent in the last
three months of 2012, Brazil’s recovery is still in an early
stage, according to Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Banco
Espirito Santo de Investimento.  “There was a recovery in the first quarter,” Serrano,
said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “Still, demand is
not growing as much as last year. We still don’t know if the
economy will be able to sustain this rhythm of expansion.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 7.94 percent at 9:15 a.m. local time. The
real weakened 0.3 percent to 2.0290 per  U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  