-- Bulgarian Ex-Premier Seeks Repeat Election Amid Court Challenge
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-05-16T14:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/bulgarian-ex-premier-seeks-repeat-election-amid-court-challenge.html
Bulgarian ex-Prime Minister Boyko Borissov’s Gerb party is seeking a repeat of the country’s May
12 election and is challenging the result in court.  Gerb, which won the ballot, will work to form a minority
government if the appeal fails, Borissov told reporters today in
the Bulgarian capital, Sofia. The party is asking the
Constitutional Court to annul the election result because its
rivals alleged vote fraud the day before the vote, he said.
President Rosen Plevneliev said yesterday a new election would
“destabilize the country and demotivate investors.”  Bulgaria , the European Union’s poorest nation, is
struggling to emerge from political turmoil that started with
anti-austerity protests that forced out Borissov’s government in
February. A new election would settle the tensions more quickly
than a conflict-ridden coalition, according to the ex-premier,
who rose to power in 2009.  A “coalition in which the partners have contradicting
priorities will be more destabilizing to the country than
another election,” Borissov said.  The yield on Bulgaria’s euro-denominated bonds maturing in
2017 fell to 1.726 percent from 1.737 percent as of 4:11 p.m. in
Sofia. The cost of insuring the country’s debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps fell one basis
point to 104.  Gerb would only be able to ask the  Constitutional Court  for
a ruling once parliament reconvenes, according to Bulgarian Law.  Election Results  Gerb received 30.5 percent of the vote, while the Socialist
Party garnered 26.61 percent, according to final results
released today. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which
represents ethnic Turks, won 11.3 percent, while the radical
nationalist Attack party got 7.3 percent.  The result gives Gerb 97 seats in parliament, short of the
121 lawmakers needed for an outright majority.  Gerb is protesting over politicians comments about an
announcement by the electoral commission that police found
350,000 ballots in excess of the amount ordered by the
government in the town of Kostinbrod near Sofia.  Borissov’s rivals including the Socialists expressed
concern in local media on May 11 that this was a foiled attempt
by Gerb to forge the elections. Gerb argues that the comments
breached a rule banning campaign activity on the day before the
vote. Borissov also urged authorities to investigate the case of
the extra ballots.  ‘No Evidence’  “At the moment, there is no evidence of severe election
violations and manipulations which could lead to the question
whether the nation’s vote was rigged,” Plevneliev said at a
news conference yesterday. “I believe it wasn’t. This was
confirmed by all relevant institutions. Bulgaria needs a working
parliament as soon as possible.”  Chief Prosecutor Sotir Tsatsarov told reporters in Sofia
today he saw no reason to challenge the election before the
Constitutional Court.  Plevneliev plans to hold talks tomorrow with the four
parties entering the new parliament about when to convene the
assembly. The president wants the session to begin by month’s
end and then tap Gerb to start coalition talks.  The Socialists and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms
said they are prepared to form a coalition, while Attack said
that no government can be formed with the composition of the new
parliament. The Movement ruled out a coalition with Gerb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  