-- Cambodia Factory Collapse Kills 3 as 100 Trapped: Xinhua
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-05-16T10:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/cambodia-factory-collapse-kills-3-as-100-trapped-xinhua.html
A Cambodian shoe factory partially
collapsed today, killing at least two and injuring five, Xinhua
reported, citing district police chief Khem Pannara.  Rescue efforts have completed at the Taiwanese-owned
factory in Kampong Speu province, about 40 kilometers (25 miles)
west of  Phnom Penh , the capital. A balcony in the building
crashed down after being overloaded with shoes and other
materials, the report said, citing Khem Pannara.  The disaster comes three weeks after the collapse of a
garment-factory building in  Bangladesh  killed 1,127 people, the
worst industrial disaster in the country’s history. The
Bangladesh deaths combined with a series of deadly fires are
putting pressure on Western companies to take more
responsibility to ensure safe conditions for workers in Asian
factories.  Twenty-five retailers including  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and
 Inditex SA (ITX)  have pledged at least $60 million over five years to
monitor safety in Bangladesh factories.  The pledge, which would cost a company like H&M less than
0.1 percent of its annual profit, calls for the appointment of a
committee that will oversee safety inspections and a training
program for workers, managers and security staff.  Companies would then be required to ensure their suppliers
have enough money to repair and renovate factories, according to
the agreement announced by the IndustriALL global union.  Hundreds of rescue forces in  Cambodia  completed a four-hour
operation to rescue the workers of the newly-built factory,
Xinhua reported. The owner of the plant, Wing Star Shoes, was
being questioned by police, according to Xinhua.  Manufacturing accounts for about 15 percent of Cambodia’s
gross domestic product, which is among the lowest in  Southeast
Asia , according to the  Asian Development Bank .  Cambodia’s garment and textile exports have tripled over
the past decade to $4.4 billion last year, with about three
quarters of that sold to the U.S. and Europe, according to  data 
from the Garment Manufacturers Association of Cambodia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  