-- Canadian Crudes Weaken in Light Trading at End of Index Period
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-05-16T19:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/canadian-crudes-weaken-in-light-trading-at-end-of-index-period.html
Canadian heavy  oil prices  weakened in
light trading on the  spot market  on the last day of index
trading for June deliveries.  Western Canada Select heavy oil shrank by 50 cents to an
$18.75-a-barrel discount with two trades logged as of 11:08 a.m.
Eastern time, according to Net Energy Inc., a Calgary oil
broker. June index trading, where price averages are set for
grades to be delivered to buyers the following month, began on
May 1 and ends today.  Syncrude, a light crude from oil-sands bitumen processed in
an upgrader, weakened by 15 cents to a 50 cents-a-barrel premium
to U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude with three trades logged
as of 11:43 a.m. in  New York , Net Energy said.  The index period begins on the first of the month and ends
a few days before shippers nominate volumes to flow on export
pipelines to the U.S. The majority of Canadian spot-oil trading
occurs during the period.  Syncrude’s premium over WTI rose in April to a six-month
high of $10.80 a barrel before dropping closer to average levels
in May. Syncrude’s rise coincided with what  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) 
Chief Development Officer Gene Edwards said yesterday was a
shortage of light crude in April for  Gulf of Mexico  refineries.  “We had a squeeze going on about a month, six weeks, ago,
as everybody anticipated the Seaway expansion bringing more
light, sweet crudes to the  Gulf Coast ,” Edwards said at the
Citi 2013 Global Utilities and Energy Conference in Boston.
“When Seaway did not deliver as many barrels as they thought it
would, it caused sweet crude to become very tight.”  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  expanded the size of the
Seaway crude oil pipeline to 400,000 barrels a day on Jan. 11,
but said in February a bottleneck near the end of the line would
cause it to operate below expected capacity.  Western Canada Select traded at an 18.9 percent discount to
WTI today, close to the long-term average level needed to make
Canadian heavy crudes competitive, TD Securities Inc. Commodity
Strategist David Bouckhout said in a phone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  