-- Canada March International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-05-16T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/canada-march-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s international transactions report for March
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-resident investors acquired $1.2 billion of Canadian
securities in March, led by investment in government bonds.
Acquisitions of bonds were largely moderated by continued
reductions in foreign holdings of money market instruments.  Meanwhile, Canadian investors added $3.8 billion of foreign
securities to their holdings, following a $4.3 billion
acquisition in February.  Foreign investment in the Canadian  bond market  focuses on
government instruments  Foreign investment in Canadian bonds slowed for a second
straight month, reaching $5.2 billion in March. On a sector
basis, non residents acquired government bonds at a similar pace
than in February, while their acquisitions of corporate bonds
slowed.  Foreign acquisitions of  government bonds  were $4.3 billion
in March, led by secondary market purchases of instruments with
short to medium-term maturities. Non-resident investors also
added $0.9 billion of Canadian corporate bonds to their holdings,
reflecting fewer net new issues for a second consecutive month.
Acquisitions of federal government enterprise bonds were partly
offset by a divestment in private corporate bonds. Overall,
foreign investors accumulated $25.2 billion of Canadian bonds in
the first quarter of 2013.  Foreign investors withdrew $3.4 billion from the Canadian
money market in March. Foreign holdings of federal paper were
down for a third straight month despite an increase in the
overall supply of these instruments. Provincial government and
private corporate paper also contributed to the reduction over
the month.  Non-resident holdings of Canadian equities edge lower  Foreign portfolio investors sold $0.6 billion of Canadian
equities in March, following an $11.6 billion reduction in their
holdings in February that was largely attributable to merger and
acquisition activity. The divestment in March mainly focused on
Canadian energy, gold, and banking shares. Canadian stock prices
edged down 0.6% after three months of increases.  Canadian investment in foreign securities evenly split between
bonds and equity  Canadian investors added $2.0 billion of foreign equities
to their holdings in March, led by demand from pension funds.
Canadian investment of $2.4 billion in non-US stock markets, the
highest such outflow since March 2010, mainly targeted Asian
equities. Japanese stocks led the growth in global equity
markets in March. In addition, Canadians sold $0.4 billion of US
equities after four straight months of investment. US stock
prices increased 3.6% in March and 10% in the first quarter of
2013.  Canadian investors also acquired $1.9 billion of foreign
bonds in March. Outflows were led by non-US foreign bonds and,
to a lesser extent, US corporate bonds. This activity was
moderated by a divestment in US government bonds. Residents have
acquired foreign bonds in six of the last seven months.  Note to readers  The data series on international transactions in securities
cover portfolio transactions in equity and investment fund
shares, bonds and money market instruments for both Canadian and
foreign issues. This activity excludes transactions in equity
and debt instruments between affiliated enterprises, classified
as foreign direct investment in the international accounts.  Equity and investment fund shares include common and
preferred equities as well as units/shares of investment funds.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one
year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity
of one year or less.  Government of Canada paper includes treasury bills and US-dollar Canada bills.  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  