-- Canada Dollar Declines Amid Speculation Fed to Taper Bond-Buying
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-16T21:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/canadian-dollar-falls-on-speculation-fed-tapers-as-economy-grows.html
The Canadian dollar declined for a
fifth time in six days versus its U.S. peer as a regional
Federal Reserve president said the central bank may begin
slowing monthly bond-buying as the labor market strengthens.  The currency approached an almost three-week low as San
Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said the central bank
could begin tapering its $85 billion in monthly bond-buying
program known as quantitative easing “as early as this
summer.”  Canada ’s dollar headed for a second weekly loss as the
price for insurance against declines versus its U.S. counterpart
traded at its highest point in eight months.  “If they stop printing money, then it’s positive for the
U.S. dollar,” said Darcy Browne, managing director of
currencies at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World
Markets unit, by phone from Toronto. “It’s more or less Fed
officials preparing the market for the inevitable, which is when
it will come to an end.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.4 percent to
C$1.0195 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0219 yesterday, the weakest since April 25. One loonie buys
98.09 U.S. cents.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, gained 0.9 percent to
$95.17 a barrel in  New York .  Canada’s 10-year benchmark government bonds rallied, with
yields falling four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
1.88 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
added 31 cents to C$96.51.  Risk Reversals  The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate
touched 1.6 percent for the second day, the highest since Sept.
6. Risk reversals measure the premium on options contracts to
sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the
opposite.  “There’s more likely to be U.S. dollar strength going
forward on the assumption that growth holds up and the Fed is
more inclined to taper asset purchases going forward,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank,
said by phone from Toronto. “That’s probably going to keep the
dollar supported.”  The loonie trimmed a decline earlier after purchases by
foreigners of Canadian securities totaled C$1.19 billion ($1.17
billion) following February’s revised net sale of C$6.28
billion,  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa. Canadians bought
C$3.81 billion of foreign securities in March, roughly split
between equities and bonds.  ‘Miserable’ Data  The Canadian currency also pared losses as U.S.  jobless
claims  jumped by 32,000 to 360,000 in the week ended May 11,
exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists and
the most since the end of March, Labor Department figures showed
in  Washington . Separate reports showed that manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region unexpectedly contracted in May and the cost
of living in the U.S. dropped for a second month in April.  “Everything that came out from the U.S. was miserable,”
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) 
in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “Though the truth of
the matter is, negative data for the U.S. ultimately is negative
for Canada.”  U.S. dollar-Canada dollar was the sixth-most actively
traded pair in the over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
market today, totaling $2.4 billion, or 5 percent, of the $46
billion overall. Dollar-loonie options trading was 56 percent
more than the average of the past five Thursdays at a similar
time in the day. U.S. dollar-yen was the most traded at $10
billion.  The Canadian dollar was the strongest performer in the
developed world in the past month, gaining 2.6 percent against
the nine counterparts tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar rose 1.8 percent, while the
Australian dollar was the biggest loser, dropping 3.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  