-- CBS’s Moonves Sees Advertising About-Face on DVR Viewers
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-05-16T19:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/cbs-s-moonves-sees-advertising-about-face-on-tivo-viewers.html
Les Moonves, the chief executive
officer of  CBS Corp. (CBS) , said advertisers are having a change of
heart about the value of viewers who record shows and watch them
later, leading to a dramatic shift in ad buying.  About a fifth of CBS’s ad commitments this year will target
viewers who watch shows as many as seven days after the original
broadcast, Moonves said last night in a brief interview. That
works out to at least about $570 million, based on the company’s
ad projections. Most advertisers buy into audiences no more than
three days after a show airs.  “A little less than 20 percent of the ad buys this time
around will be for people who watch later,” he said after CBS’s
so-called upfront presentation, where the network displays its
new slate of shows to advertisers. That percentage will jump to
about 85 percent next year, Moonves said.  CBS and the other networks are trying to persuade marketers
to accept a change in audiences’ TV habits. As many as 25
percent of viewers are taping shows using TiVo-style digital
video recorders and watching them later, according to an
 analysis from TVB , a not-for-profit trade association for the
broadcast industry.  A TV program’s audience grows by about 4 percent between
the third and seventh day after it’s broadcast, according to
Brad Adgate, senior researcher for media-buying agency Horizon
Media Inc.  Top Rated  Getting advertisers to pay for those audiences is crucial
for the four major broadcasters, which have suffered a
collective 7.2 percent drop in TV viewers this season. Broadcast
ad revenue is projected to fall about 2 percent this year to
$16.9 billion from 2012, when sales were padded by political
spending and the London Olympics, according to ZenithOptimedia,
a research unit of  Publicis Groupe SA. (PUB)   Moonves presides over the most-watched television network
in the U.S. and the only major broadcaster to increase viewers
this year, with a gain of 1.4 percent as of May 12, according to
Nielsen data. ABC and NBC are down about 6 percent, and Fox’s
audience has declined 21 percent.  Moonves expects to increase ad commitments this year by a
“high single-digit” percentage from last year’s $2.7 billion,
he told analysts this month. That would amount to at least $2.9
billion in upfront advertising sales, according to Moonves.  Seven-Day Window  Audiences who view programs no more than three days after
the first broadcast are put in a category called C3 by Nielsen.
Broadcasters, including CBS, are now trying to get advertisers
to move closer to the seven-day window, or C7.  “Some advertisers would be more accepting of that window
than others,” said Chris Geraci, a media buyer with Omnicom
Media Group’s OMD. “It’s not accepted across the board.”  Retail companies, for example, are less likely to buy
advertising if they know audiences are going to be watching the
shows later, he said. They tend to tout promotions, such as
holiday sales, in a narrower time frame.  Even so, advertisers will have to come to grips with
audiences watching shows on DVRs and online, Moonves said.  “More people are watching later,” he said. “That’s a
fact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  