-- McCarthy’s EPA Nomination Wins Approval of Senate Committee
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-05-16T16:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/mccarthy-s-epa-nomination-wins-senate-panel-approval-after-delay.html
Gina McCarthy won the support of the
Senate Environment and Public Works Committee to be
administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, in
the second party-line vote in a day on a cabinet-level nominee
of President  Barack Obama .  The panel voted 10-8 to send McCarthy’s nomination to the
full Senate, one week after Republicans boycotted a meeting to
protest lack of response to questions sent to the agency.
Earlier today, a separate Senate panel voted along party lines
to back Tom Perez as Labor secretary.  Both picks now face the risk of a filibuster and delay by
the full Senate, in a sign of increasingly contentious
nomination battles.  “All I know is that there couldn’t be a better nominee,”
California Democrat  Barbara Boxer , the panel’s chairman, said
after the committee vote today. “Don’t let her twist in the
wind with a threat of a filibuster.”  McCarthy, if confirmed, would take over an agency that
Republicans have criticized for pollution limits that they say
will cost jobs and hurt the economy. McCarthy, 59, is the EPA’s
assistant administrator for air pollution, and before joining
the Obama administration worked for four Republican governors,
including  Mitt Romney  in  Massachusetts .  Vitter Questions  Louisiana Republican Senator  David Vitter  said he had asked
five specific questions related to transparency in the EPA’s
decision-making, and Republicans agreed to attend today’s
meeting after getting new pledges from the EPA late yesterday.
He said he would support McCarthy only if all five questions are
answered to his satisfaction, which hasn’t happened yet. If he
gets an adequate response, he will drop the threat of a
filibuster, he said.  “I hope we won’t have a fight on the floor,” Vitter said
at the committee hearing. “I hold out a positive path
forward.”  Boxer said she didn’t know when McCarthy could gain a
confirmation vote in the full Senate, as she would need to
“round up” a few Republicans to support the nomination if
Vitter insists on a filibuster. Overcoming a filibuster requires
a super majority of 60 votes.  The Senate began debate on the nomination of Ernest Moniz
to head the Energy Department, with a vote scheduled for later
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  