-- Central Bankers Prisoner of Policy Guidance: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-05-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/central-bankers-prisoner-of-policy-guidance-cutting-research.html
Central banks should be careful what
they say about the future if they want flexibility to set
monetary policy.  Policy makers can become  “constrained”  when they inform
investors about the likely direction of  interest rates ,
according to economists Nikola Mirkov of the University of  St.
Gallen  and Norges Bank’s Gisle James Natvik. The topic is a hot
issue at the moment as central bankers, including Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , embrace so-called forward
guidance to enhance the power of interest rates in providing
stimulus.  In an effort to gauge the policy’s success, the economists
studied the practices of the Norwegian and New Zealand central
banks, the two with the longest history of forward guidance.  They found that both were reluctant to deviate from
previous forecasts of bank policy, especially those made a
quarter ahead. The behavior of the central banks was better
explained by the guidance previously given than by what policy
rules suggested was the best path.  “Reluctance to deviate from past forecasts might prevent
policy makers from reacting sufficiently strongly to unexpected
shocks,” the economists said.  The finding may help shape the debate in the U.K., given
that incoming Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  has spoken
warmly of forward guidance. U.K. officials, including outgoing
Governor  Mervyn King , have warned of the risk of becoming a
prisoner to past commitments.  * * *  The rise of globalization leaves economies more prone to
slides in foreign financial markets.  In a  working paper  published this week by the  European
Central Bank , economist Arnaud Mehl found 43 episodes since 1885
in which U.S. equity markets displayed unanticipated volatility.  He then studied a group of 16 countries to determine their
response to those episodes. On average, there was a 20 percent
drop in global stock markets in the month the U.S. shock
occurred, Mehl found.  The paper may make it easier for policy makers to track
which economies are vulnerable to surges in uncertainty and risk
and therefore need help in avoiding financial spillovers, he
said.  “The equities of economies highly open to global trade
have been significantly more affected than those of more closed
ones by large global stock market volatility shocks over the
last 130 years,” Mehl said in the paper. “These results shed
light on a neglected aspect of globalization, which creates
opportunities but also heightens the exposure of economies to
acute surges in global uncertainty and risk aversion.”  * * *  Central bankers are looking to diversify their reserves,
which have risen fivefold in the past decade.  Half of 67 respondents to a poll last year by the
 International Monetary Fund  -- responsible for managing $2.2
trillion -- are considering adjusting where they place the
currencies they hold.  One in seven central banks is already exposed to equity
markets and 10 percent are considering creating sovereign wealth
funds, according to a May 8  report  by economists Aideen Morahan
and Christian Mulder.  While banks hold most of their reserves in dollars, the
economists found the Chinese  yuan  was cited as an increasingly
popular choice, as were commodity-tied currencies such as the
dollars of Australia and  Canada .  Central bank reserves are now the equivalent of one-third
of the bond markets of the 34-member Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, the IMF said. Still, the economists
said, the reserves’ composition hasn’t kept up with the
evolution of the world economy.  Seventy percent of central banks said they already changed
their  asset allocation  in the past five years, with half pulling
back on their commercial  bank deposits  and 35 percent reducing
exposure to unguaranteed bonds. In choosing investments, half
considered the impact of their actions on markets and a similar
proportion were looking to alter their management practices to
better account for shifts in investor sentiment.  * * *  Policy makers managing the availability of credit using so-called macroprudential tools find it easier to rein in animal
spirits than to boost them.  A U.S. Treasury Department study released this week looks
at 245 cases of macroprudential regulation, a term given to
efforts to reduce the risk posed by the financial system as a
whole rather than individual banks. Examples include introducing
rules to require banks to retain certain amounts of capital or
meet certain rules before lending.  It found that those policies designed to tighten credit
availability do have a “notable effect,” especially if the
tools being tweaked are the underwriting standards for loans,
said authors Douglas J. Elliott, Greg Feldberg and Andreas Lehnert.  By contrast, policies aimed at stimulating economic
activity by easing credit availability have little effect on
outstanding debts.  * * *  A less fluid labor market means fewer Americans are moving
to different states, potentially reducing the economy’s
flexibility to absorb shocks.  A  working paper  published this month by the Fed researches
the decline in interstate migration since the 1980s. It argues
the drop is related to a drop in the number of workers switching
jobs, industry or occupation.  One reason for less churn is that the wage gains associated
with transitions have declined, reducing one of the main
channels of wage growth, the paper said.  “The resulting decrease in job changing may have brought
about a decline in long-distance migration as fewer people move
to take a new job,” said Fed economists Raven Molloy and
Christopher L. Smith along with Abigail Wozniak of the
University of  Notre Dame . “Falling migration may be troubling
if it is symptomatic of a broader decline in dynamism with the
 United States .”  * * *  Almost two-thirds of the world’s central banks don’t use
social media. The ones that do sometimes have reason to regret
it.  A May 10 survey by Central Banking Publications, a London-based publisher, found that 60 of 181 monetary policy
authorities operate either a Twitter or Facebook account.  The Bank of  France  is the most prolific tweeter, with 6,000
messages since it joined the site. That beat out the  Federal
Reserve  Bank of  St. Louis  and the central bank of Ecuador.  When it comes to followers, the Bank of  Mexico  has the most
with more than 107,000, almost double the Federal Reserve’s
60,000. The Fed has the largest followers-to-tweet ratio
accumulating 92 followers for every 140-character missive.  The report also highlighted the perils of using social
media. Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  found himself
embroiled in a Twitter debate in 2011 when his central bank
cited his remark that the U.K. had a bigger  budget deficit  and
debt than the U.S. Earlier this year, the central bank of
 Nigeria  forced the closing of more than 100 Twitter accounts
claiming to be its governor, Lamido Sanusi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  