-- Chevron Says Shale to Help Make Argentina Energy Independent
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-05-16T17:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/chevron-says-shale-to-help-make-argentina-energy-independent-2-.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-biggest
U.S. oil company, said it’s preparing an investment that will
help make the country energy independent by developing what
could be the world’s second-largest shale oil reservoir.  “Some people think  China  is the second-largest shale
oil,”  Ali Moshiri , Chevron’s head of  Latin America ,  Middle East 
and  Africa , told reporters yesterday in Buenos Aires. “I
believe after the U.S., Vaca Muerta holds the largest shale oil
in terms of reserves,” he said, referring to a formation in
southwestern Argentina that translates to Dead Cow.  Moshiri spoke along with Miguel Galuccio, chief executive
of state-owned YPF SA, after signing a contract establishing
terms for a definitive agreement that will start with a $1.5
billion investment and may reach as much as $15 billion. The  San
Ramon , California-based company first agreed to the partnership
in December.  “Now it is the time for finalizing details as there are no
significant commercial issues between the two companies,”
Moshiri said.  Both executives declined to provide details of production
targets and  capital expenditures . The final accord may be
completed as early as July as two teams of six members each are
writing the fiscal terms and other covenants, they said.  YPF gained 1.7 percent to 121 pesos at 2:45 p.m. in Buenos
Aires. The stock earlier rose as much as 8.3 percent to 128.90.
Chevron added 0.07 percent to $123.09 in  New York .  Frozen Assets  “Once we sign the deal, we will immediately allocate a
large sum of money to take the investment to the next level,”
Moshiri said. “We are going to provide whatever YPF asks to
reach the target.”  Moshiri said Chevron is spending $150 million a year even
while an embargo linked to an Ecuadorean lawsuit froze 40
percent of its accounts in Argentina. The lawsuit against
Chevron stems from a $19 billion award for pollution in Ecuador.  “Chevron will continue reinvesting all the money it makes
in Argentina,” Moshiri said, declining to elaborate how the
company will avoid having its funds seized. “At the end of the
day the right decision will be made by the people in Argentina,
the government and the judiciary system.”  Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
government seized a 51 percent YPF stake from  Spain ’s  Repsol SA (REP) 
in April 2012 to stem fuel imports that doubled to $9.4 billion
in 2011 and are expected to rise to as much as $15 billion this
year.  Repsol Lawsuit  Another legal dispute threatening the agreement is a suit
filed in November in  Madrid  by Repsol against the U.S. company.
The Repsol lawsuit is an issue between shareholders, Galuccio
said. “There is a lot of goodwill from both sides to reach an
agreement, nevertheless, as YPF CEO I couldn’t comment
further,” he said.  “Repsol is open to a negotiation that includes liquid
assets as compensation,” Kristian Rix, a spokesman for the
Madrid-based company, said today by telephone from Madrid.  Galuccio and Moshiri said they would only discuss the
future of Vaca Muerta now that YPF has cut well costs in half to
$7.5 million apiece. On May 14, the two executives visited YPF’s
shale operations, which has 35 operating rigs and is expecting
to receive four more this week.  YPF said it’s pumping 7,000 barrels of oil a day, up from
4,000 in January. Vaca Muerta may hold at least 23 billion
barrels of oil equivalent, according to a report by independent
auditor Ryder Scott released in February 2012 by YPF. Argentina
holds the world’s third-largest shale gas reserves, according to
U.S. Energy Information Administration data.  “If you look at Vaca Muerta in the future, in 30, 40
years, you will be looking at a factory drilling operation,”
Galuccio said. “We are working on industrializing the process
as that will be the key for Argentina to develop those resources
we have on the ground.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  