-- Chile Keeps Rate at 5% as Policy Makers Weigh Dual-Speed Economy
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/chile-keeps-key-interest-rate-at-5-amid-dual-speed-economy.html
Chile’s central bank kept  borrowing
costs  unchanged yesterday for a 16th consecutive month as policy
makers weigh the impact of a consumer spending boom and stagnant
manufacturing output.  The bank board, led by the institution’s president,  Rodrigo Vergara , held the benchmark rate at 5 percent, as forecast by
all 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank last changed
rates in January 2012 with a quarter-point reduction that
surprised economists.  Chilean retail sales leaped 10.2 percent in March from the
year earlier, while manufacturing contracted 3 percent, the most
since September. With the  unemployment rate  near a record low
and wages rising almost six times faster than prices, there
isn’t enough evidence of a sustained slowdown to justify
monetary easing, even as the inflation rate falls to a three-year low, economist Cristobal Doberti said.  “Any changes would be next year,” Doberti, chief
economist at BICE Inversiones, said by phone from Santiago on
May 15. “Yes, growth and inflation eased. But that basically
can be explained by short-term factors that won’t be repeated.”  The economy as measured by the central bank’s  Imacec index ,
a proxy for gross domestic product, grew 3.1 percent in March
from the year before, the slowest pace in 20 months. Analysts
polled by Bloomberg had forecast a 4.7 percent increase. The
bank is scheduled to publish April data next month.  Slowing Down  “First-quarter indicators show decelerating output and
demand,” while copper prices have declined in the past few
weeks, the bank said in a statement accompanying yesterday’s
decision.  Chile  is the world’s largest copper producer.  Still, there is more optimism over the outlook for the U.S.
and Japanese economies, policy makers said.  Slower growth and annual inflation of 1 percent in April
have convinced many traders that borrowing costs will fall this
year.  Two-year interest rate swaps declined 22 basis points, or
0.22 percentage point, to 4.46 percent yesterday from April 30.
That implies policy makers will reduce the key rate to 4.50
percent by August and 4.25 percent by February, according to
calculations made by  Banco de Chile. (CHILE)   Investment, which has driven growth in the past two years,
is beginning to slow, economists at the central bank said in a
report released May 15. Housing sales and building materials
show a less dynamic real estate industry, while the growth in
imports of capital goods has weakened, they said.  Still, the evidence of a slowdown in  consumer spending  is
less conclusive, the economists said.  Rebound Expected  Economic growth will pick up later this year, with GDP
climbing 4.9 percent in 2013 after expanding 5.6 percent in
2012, according to analysts polled by Bloomberg. That would be
the fastest growth among major Latin American countries behind
 Peru , according to the survey.  “The economic deceleration won’t remain as deep as we’ve
seen,” Matias  Madrid , chief economist at Banco Penta, said by
phone May 15 from Santiago. “In fact, growth will recover
soundly in April.”  Unemployment fell to 6.2 percent in the first quarter from
6.6 percent in the year-ago period, while wages expanded 5.9
percent in March after climbing 6.3 percent last year. The surge
in March retail sales was the biggest jump since an 11 percent
increase in December.  Staying Optimistic  Consumer confidence  in March declined two points to 56.8
from the end of 2012 while remaining above the “optimistic”
threshold of 50 for the 10th consecutive month, according to
Chilean polling company Adimark GfK. The IPSA stock exchange
index has declined 0.9 percent this year after rising 3 percent
in 2012.  “Recent economic data show some signs of deceleration,”
Vergara said in a prepared remarks last week in Santiago.
“However, there are no major changes in private consumption
trends.”  While inflation last month eased to 1 percent from 1.5
percent in March, policy makers forecast  consumer prices  will
rise 2.8 percent this year and 3 percent in 2014. The central
bank targets 3 percent inflation, plus or minus one percentage
point over two years.  “Today risks are inflationary for 2014,” Jorge Selaive,
an economist at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and the most-accurate forecaster of monthly inflation in two years of
Bloomberg polling, said May 15 in an e-mailed response to
questions. Rate cuts “would add a lot of fuel to the fire in
inflationary terms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 