-- Children’s Mental Illness Costs $247 Billion, U.S. Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/children-s-mental-illness-costs-247-billion-u-s-says.html
Mental illness  in children costs $247
billion annually, a figure increasing along with the number of
kids hospitalized for  mood disorders , substance abuse and other
psychiatric disorders, according to a U.S. report.  As many as 1 in 5 children ages 3 to 17 has a mental 
illness, with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, 
as the most prevalent diagnosis, according to the report by the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The rate of children 
hospitalized for mood disorders rose 80 percent from 1997 to 
2010, the report said, citing a U.S. study from that year.  The CDC report released yesterday draws on a number of 
surveys. The Atlanta-based agency uses the report to mark the 
prevalence of the disorders and promote health initiatives to 
treat and prevent them. Researchers found that suicide, often 
stemming from mental illness, was the second-leading cause of 
death in 2010 among adolescents ages 12 to 17.  “Millions of children in the U.S. have mental disorders
that affect their overall health and present challenges for
their loved ones,”  Thomas Frieden , the director of the CDC,
said in a statement. “We are working to both increase our
understanding of these disorders, and help scale up programs and
strategies to promote children’s mental health so that our
children grow to lead productive, healthy lives.”  ADHD Increase  About 7 percent of children had  ADHD , a syndrome in which
people have trouble paying attention, act impulsively or are
overly active. The prevalence of ADHD increased 3 percent each
year from 1997 to 2006 in one survey; in another, there was a
21.8 percent total increase in 2007 from 2003. Autism increased
as much as fourfold in 2007 compared with a decade earlier.  ADHD was twice as prevalent as conduct disorders, the next-most common mental ailment. Other widespread conditions included
anxiety, depression, autism spectrum disorders and Tourette
syndrome.  The report was released as a  supplement  to the CDC’s weekly
publication, the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly report, and used
combined data sources to survey the years 2005 through 2011. An
estimated 13 percent to 20 percent of children in the U.S.
experience mental illness annually, the authors found.  About 3.5 percent of children had behavioral conduct
problems, marked by inappropriate, negative and aggressive
behavior that occurs for more than 6 months at a time. Children
with this disorder, “consistently ignore the basic rights of
others and violate social norms and rules,” by harming people
or animals, destroying property, lying and stealing, the report
said.  Boys’ Conduct  Behavioral conduct problems  were twice as common among boys
as girls. The prevalence was similar regardless of whether the
children were covered by insurance. However, it was more likely
among poor and less-educated families, and more common in blacks
than in any other group. That data came from a 2007 survey of
parents by the National Survey of Children’s Health.  The third and fourth most prevalent mental disorders were
 anxiety and depression , affecting 3 percent and 2.1 percent of
those in the report, respectively. These ailments often occur
with other health conditions, and are associated with substance
abuse, poor social skills, and can lead to difficulty in
education, work, and family life.  A greater proportion of girls ages 14 and 16 were likely to
be depressed than boys of the same age. White people were most
likely to have experienced a period of depression in their
lifetime or this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  