-- China Air Traffic Congestion Worsened by Military Control
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-05-17T09:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/china-air-traffic-congestion-worsened-by-military-control.html
China’s skies don’t have enough
space.  The country’s air force controls airspace and allots only
20 percent to civil aviation. With China’s three biggest
airlines planning to add at least 273 planes in the next three
years, traffic congestion that already delays 25 percent of
flights is set to worsen.  “At present, the limited airspace resource has restricted
the development of civil aviation,” said  Li Jiaxiang , the head
of Civil Aviation Administration of China. “We will strive to
further open up the airspace,” he said in Beijing yesterday.  Air China Ltd. (601111) ,  China Eastern (670)  Airlines Corp. and  China
Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  have expanded their fleet as economic
growth spurs air travel demand in the world’s most populous
nation. The country is expected to have 4,200 commercial
aircraft in 2020, compared with the current fleet size of 2,001
with 46 airlines, CAAC’s Li said.  China’s civil aviation uses about a fifth of available
routes of the nation’s total airspace, Shi Boli, who heads the
department of Air Transportation Regulation at CAAC, said in an
interview. Military controls about 52 percent of airspace in
eastern  China , home to the country’s biggest cities of Beijing
and  Shanghai , according to a 2011 June report by the official
China News Service.  “We are working hard and the military is also trying to
improve the management of airspace,” Shi said. “But, it could
take some time to achieve some improvement.”  U.S. Airspace  In the U.S., military restrictions don’t have much impact
on civilian aviation because its airways tend to be located in
desert regions or over oceans, far away from the busy airport
hubs in cities such as  New York , said Kevin Hiatt, president of
Alexandria, Virginia-based Flight Safety Foundation. The
military has also allowed its airspace to be used by civilian
flights on some occasions such as busy holiday periods, he said.  Airspace over  Europe  is managed as a single unit and
segregated on a “dynamic basis according to the needs of
users,” air traffic supervisory agency  Eurocontrol  said. In
general, areas will only be reserved for military use at certain
times and at certain altitudes, it said in an e-mail.  The on-time performance rate of China’s airlines was about
74.5 percent last year, CAAC’s Shi said. In the U.S., 82 percent
of the flights  arrived on time  in 2012, according to Bureau of
Transportation statistics.  ‘New Leadership’  “People are hoping that the country’s new leadership can
have a breakthrough in getting more airspace released to
accommodate the rapid growth,” said Kelvin Lau, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Securities Group Inc. “Otherwise, delays
will persist and hurt the airlines’ long term growth
prospects.”  China’s air force, which has controlled the airspace since
the People’s Republic was established in 1949, has started
gradually relaxing some of the curbs. It has begun to open low-altitude airspace and released more information about the
availability of temporary routes, the Official Xinhua News
Agency reported in August.  Still, the pace isn’t quick enough to catch up with the
airlines’ growth as the number of annual passengers has more
than doubled in the past seven years, said David Wei, an
aerospace analyst with Shanghai Securities Co.  ‘Historical Reasons’  “The military has a bigger say in China’s airspace usage
for historical reasons,” Wei said. “It has no incentive to
concede the right unless the government wants it to.”  Four calls to the press office of China’s Ministry of
National Defense went unanswered today. Questions faxed to the
office also didn’t receive an immediate reply.  Airspace congestion is severe in main locations around
China’s big hubs, according to  Andrew Herdman , director-general
of the Kuala Lumpur-based Association of  Asia Pacific Airlines .  “You need flexibility. The military need access to
airspace but not all the time,” Herdman said. “The big reality
is that civil aviation has grown spectacularly and will continue
to do so. And that has to be taken into account.”  Airspace restrictions also force airlines to fly longer
distances on some routes, said Liu Jieyin, executive vice
president at closely-held Okay Airways Co., which operates
flights between cities including Tianjin, Hangzhou and Sanya.  Military Drills  “This is still better than before when we had to wait on
ground for hours for the completion of military drills,” Liu
said. “We couldn’t take proactive measures as we wouldn’t know
drills until the last minute and couldn’t tell passengers the
real reason either.”  Air China (753) ,  Asia ’s biggest carrier by market value, will
receive 113 aircraft in the next three years, according to a
company statement.  China Eastern  will add 93 planes in two years
while China Southern will have 67 additions this year, the
carriers have said.  ‘Tomorrow’s growth will further pressure the system,’’ said
Will Horton, a Hong Kong-based analyst at CAPA Centre for
Aviation, which advises airlines. “While reforms are gradually
being made, the military seems impervious to the government’s
wish for more airspace.”  While carriers await the easing of airspace rules, the
nation is expanding its airport infrastructure. Beijing has won
approval for its new facility with an investment of more than 70
billion  yuan  ($11 billion), Beijing News reported in January.
The country targets to have 260 airports by 2020 from 183 at
present.  “The emergence of a rapidly growing middle-class with
aspirations to travel, along with record levels of urbanization
and continued growth in business, has created a pressing need
for better aviation infrastructure across China,” said Will
Lau, an aviation consultant with EC Harris ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.
Still, “the physical assets on the ground will not effectively
respond to the passenger demand unless additional capacity is
also made available in the skies above.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  