-- China Shows Concern at Yen Weakness as Japan Growth Rises
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-16T08:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/china-signals-concern-at-yen-weakness-as-japan-growth-quickens.html
China ’s commerce ministry signaled
concern that weakness in the yen is limiting Japanese demand for
exports just as a stronger yuan weighs on Chinese manufacturers’
global sales.  Japan ’s policy of monetary easing “makes it hard for China
to increase exports to Japan,” Shen Danyang, a ministry
spokesman, said at a briefing in Beijing today. The rising yuan
is eroding profit margins of Chinese exporters, he said.  Japan today reported accelerating growth that contrasts
with a slowdown in the Chinese economy. The weaker yen, down 16
percent against the dollar this year, may add to strains on a
 trade relationship  that hasn’t fully recovered since a
territorial dispute sparked Chinese protests against Japanese
goods and businesses last year.  China’s “exporters are suffering,” said  Steve Wang , Hong
Kong-based head of China research at Reorient Financial Markets
Ltd., a Chinese government-backed investment bank. “The room
may be limited for further appreciation of the yuan, which is
likely to reach a ceiling at six.” The currency was at 6.1489
per dollar as of 4:01 p.m. in  Shanghai .  Japan today reported that gross domestic product rose an
annualized 3.5 percent in the first quarter.  China’s economy 
unexpectedly slowed, with analysts cutting forecasts for full-year growth.  Currency Gains  The yuan gained 1 percent against the dollar in the past
three months, the second-best performer among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yen slid more than 8
percent. Chinese exports to Japan fell 1.2 percent last month
from a year earlier, the commerce ministry said.  “ Yuan  appreciation has very big impact on Chinese foreign
trade firms,” Shen said. “We can’t be optimistic about trade
at all.”  A survey by the ministry found that the profit margins of
78 percent of exporters are narrowing, and 73 percent will
report flat or lower profits for 2013, Shen said. Exporters at
the Canton Trade Fair in April and May didn’t want to accept
long-term orders because of concerns that the yuan will gain, he
said.  China’s stronger-than-expected  export growth  in the first
four months of the year spurred Bank of America Corp. and Mizuho
Securities Co. analysts to argue that the figures were falsely
inflated.  Shen said there are “reasonable” and “abnormal” factors
underlying the growth, and his ministry is still studying it.
Excluding  Hong Kong , China’s export growth in the first four
months was 8.5 percent, close to China’s full-year target of 8
percent, Shen said.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said in a May 8
note that “round-tripping” and over-invoicing of trade between
Hong Kong and Shenzhen, are fueling China’s export growth. At a
briefing last month, the customs agency acknowledged concerns
that the data may be overstated, though it said differences with
Hong Kong’s numbers stem from statistical methods.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  