-- China Cuts Red Tape as Premier Li Shows Stimulus Reluctance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-17T04:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/china-cuts-investment-red-tape-as-li-shows-stimulus-reluctance.html
Some Chinese investment projects,
including those for airports, paper pulp factories and gas
fields, will no longer need pre-approval from the nation’s
economic planning agency.  In all, 117 “approval items” can go ahead without
authorization or be approved by local governments, according to
a  list published by the State Council  on May 15.  Premier  Li Keqiang  pledged to reduce the government’s role
in the world’s second-biggest economy after a new leadership
took over in March. In comments published this week, Li signaled
authorities are reluctant to use stimulus to counter a slowdown,
saying  China  must rely on market mechanisms to aid growth.  “It shows the government of Li Keqiang is thinking
differently from the one of  Wen Jiabao  about growth,” said BNP
Paribas SA economist  Ken Peng , who is based in Beijing.
“Government-led investment is no longer a focus for China’s
overall growth strategy.”  The immediate effects of the regulatory change will be
limited, with  fixed-asset investment  growth probably similar to
that of 2012, Peng said. The pace of investment gains
unexpectedly decelerated last month, and industrial output
trailed estimates.  “The reduced regulatory requirements will certainly make
it easier for investors,” Peng said. “But don’t expect this to
push up economic growth because it’s money not paperwork that
will determine investment deals.”  Unprofitable Airports  Among China’s regional airports, 134 were unprofitable in
2012 with combined losses of 2.9 billion yuan ($472 million),  Li
Jiaxiang , head of the Civil Aviation Administration of China,
was quoted as saying in yesterday’s Global Times newspaper. The
number of airports will rise to 260 by 2020 from 183 currently,
he said.  Investment in gas and wind power plants can be authorized
by provincial-level authorities, along with rare-earth
processing and intracity rail projects. China  CSR Corp Ltd. (601766)  and
 China CNR Corp Ltd. (601299) , the country’s main suppliers of locomotives
and rail cars, are among companies that may gain from a possible
boom in light rail construction.  According to the government list, polyester projects with
daily output of more than 300 tons and sugar plants with daily
processing capacity of more than 1,500 tons no longer need pre-approval from the National Development and Reform Commission.  The changes intend to “seriously reduce administrative
intervention in microeconomic activities” to “further unleash
benefits from reform” and to “enhance growth momentum,” the
 government  said in a statement.  Li’s predecessor Wen rolled out a stimulus program of 4
trillion  yuan  ($586 billion at the time) and allowed an
unprecedented bank lending spree at the end of 2008 to shield
the economy from the global financial crisis, leaving an
overhang of debt from the loans.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  