-- China Resources Profit Drops 61% on Costs, Weak Consumption
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-16T05:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/china-resources-profit-drops-61-on-costs-weaker-consumption.html
China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) ’s
first-quarter profit fell 61 percent as the nation’s second-largest hypermarket operator was hurt by higher costs and a
government push to curtail public expenditures.  Net income  dropped to HK$512 million ($66 million) from
HK$1.3 billion a year earlier, the company, which also runs
beer, beverage and food businesses, said in a statement today.
Sales rose 8.4 percent to HK$36.2 billion.  Growth in China’s gross domestic product unexpectedly
weakened in the first three months of 2013 as factory output and
consumption slowed. Sales of pricey items such as liquor and
high-end cigarettes were hurt by a campaign by authorities to
stamp out gifting and corruption among government officials,
Chief Financial Officer Frank Lai said March 21.  The Chinese government’s call to curb official spending on
receptions, vehicles and overseas trips, along with slowing
inflation, have “adversely affected consumption expenditure in
the short run,” the company said in today’s statement.  China Resources fell 0.6 percent to HK$25.35 at 1:28 p.m.
in Hong Kong trading today. The stock has declined 9.3 percent
this year, compared with a 1.9 percent gain for the Hang Seng
Index.  Higher Raw Material Costs  The company, registered in Hong Kong, derives more than 90
percent of its revenue from China. Excluding certain asset
revaluations and disposals, profit fell 8.6 percent from a year
earlier.  Higher labor and raw material costs also hurt the retail
and beer businesses, the company, which makes China’s best-selling Snow brand beer with  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , said in today’s
filing.  The beer division, which makes China’s best-selling Snow
brand with SABMiller, posted a loss of HK$23 million in the
first three months of 2013. The company ramped up promotions and
marketing during the period as competition in the beer industry
intensified, it said.  China’s Number One Beer  China Resources believes its leading position in China’s
beer industry isn’t “rock solid” as rivals such as Tsingtao
Brewery Co. and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  seek to increase market
share, Linda Huang and Terence Chang, Hong Kong-based analysts
at Macquarie Equities Research, wrote in a May report.  The brewer agreed in February to buy Guangdong-based
 Kingway Brewery Holdings Ltd. (124) ’s beer-making assets for 5.38
billion  yuan  ($875 million) to boost its market share.  Snow beer had a 20 percent share of the Chinese market in
2012, making it the  industry  leader, followed by Tsingtao
Brewery Co. with 10 percent, according to Euromonitor
International, a London-based research company.  Profit in the retail division, responsible for about two-thirds of the company’s sales last year, fell 60 percent to
HK$525 million amid a government crackdown on lavish spending.  Profit at its food unit, which sells products including
rice and frozen items, was largely unchanged at HK$57 million.
Profit at the beverage unit rose 33 percent to HK$8 million.  Growth in Asia’s largest economy was 7.7 percent in the
first three months of 2013 from a year earlier, missing the 8
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The data
prompted economists including those at JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
trim their forecasts for  China ’s economic growth this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  