-- China Money Rate Rises Most in Three Weeks as PBOC Drains Cash
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-05-16T02:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/china-money-rate-rises-most-in-three-weeks-as-pboc-drains-cash.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose the most in three weeks before a central bank auction to
drain excess cash from the financial system.  The rate increased for the first time in a week as the
People’s Bank of China prepares to sell 40 billion yuan ($6.5
billion) of 28-day repurchase contracts, according to a trader
at a primary dealer required to bid at auctions. A central bank
 report  this month indicated foreign capital inflows increased
for a fifth month in April to a record.  “The surge in hot-money inflows has been very strong and
the PBOC will have to act,” said Eliza Liu, a Hong Kong-based
economist at CCB International Securities. “The money is not
getting into the real economy but just into assets seeking a
risk-free return.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 32 basis points to 3.1 percent as of
10:02 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. That’s the
biggest increase since April 24.  Yuan  positions at Chinese financial institutions
accumulated from foreign-exchange transactions, a gauge of
cross-border flows, increased by 1.1 percent to 27.4 trillion
yuan in April from March, PBOC data showed. Net purchases have
totaled 1.5 trillion yuan this year, versus 495 billion yuan in
all of 2012.  The five-year onshore swap contract, the fixed cost needed
to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.49 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.1 percent government bonds due January
2016 rose one basis point to 3.05 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. The rate has advanced eight basis
points this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  