-- China Said to Prepare Import Duties on Polysilicon
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-16T05:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/china-said-to-prepare-anti-dumping-duties-on-polysilicon-imports.html
China , the world’s biggest maker of
solar panels, is preparing to set anti-dumping duties on imports
of the raw material used to make the equipment after determining
it was sold below cost, said two people with direct knowledge of
the matter.  The  Ministry of Commerce  has completed probes that
determined the U.S. and European Union are subsidizing producers
of polysilicon and that imports of the commodity harmed domestic
companies, said the people, who asked not to be identified as
they weren’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The
ministry is holding off on setting duties until the EU issues
its ruling on anti-dumping tariffs against Chinese-made solar
equipment, which will be a factor in China’s decision, the
people said.  The EU plans to levy tariffs of as much as 67.9 percent on
solar panels from China, with the measures to be announced by
June 6, a commerce official from the bloc, who asked not to be
identified, said this month. The U.S. began a probe against
Chinese manufacturers in 2011 and the EU in September 2012 after
falling solar equipment prices led to the collapse of companies
including Fremont, California-based Solyndra LLC.  Shares Jump  China’s import tax could be high as “the EU situation that
we face is not positive,” Lian Rui, a Beijing-based analyst at
research company NPD Solarbuzz, said by phone today. Chinese
producers of polysilicon including  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) 
and  Daqo New Energy Corp. (DQ)  will benefit, he said.  Shares of GCL-Poly jumped as much as 3.2 percent to
HK$1.93, the highest intraday price since March 13, and traded
at HK$1.91 in Hong Kong as of 11:53 a.m. local time. Daqo rose
16 percent to close at $6.44 in New York yesterday.  China responded by starting probes against the U.S. in July
last year and the EU in November to determine if producers of
polysilicon from those regions such as Hemlock Semiconductor
Corp. of the U.S. and  Germany ’s  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  were dumping
the material.  “If there are no loopholes, Chinese duties would boost
polysilicon prices to about $20 a kilogram,” said Lian. The
average  spot price  of the commodity fell to $17.26 a kilogram as
of May 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China imported 83,000 metric tons of polysilicon last year,
32 percent more than domestic production output, Liu Jing, an
analyst from the China Nonferrous Metals Industrial Association,
a trade group that advises the government, said in an April 28
report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  