-- China’s Stocks Rise Most in Two Weeks, Led by Financials
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-05-16T07:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/china-s-stock-index-futures-fall-before-foreign-investment-data.html
China’s stocks  rose the most in two
weeks, led by property developers and financial companies, after
the benchmark index traded at its biggest discount to global
markets in more than three years.  A gauge of real-estate companies posted its biggest gain in
a month, with  China  Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co.
advancing at least 4.3 percent. Haitong Securities Co., the
nation’s second-biggest listed brokerage, jumped 3.7 percent.
Chengdu Dr Peng Telecom & Media Group Co. and Sanan
Optoelectronics Co. led a rally for phone and technology stocks.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.2 percent to 2,251.81
at the close, paring its drop this year to 0.8 percent. The
measure  traded  at 11.9 times reported earnings yesterday,
compared with the MSCI All-Country World Index’s 16.8 multiple.
That’s the biggest gap since December 2009. A report today
showed foreign investment trailed analysts’ estimates.  “Investors feel stocks may be near a bottom and the
economic data has been slowly digested,” Zhang Haidong, an
analyst at Tebon Securities Co., said by phone from  Shanghai .
“China is an attractive market because of our relatively cheap
valuations. Brokerages are leading stock gains today and we
expect their earnings to be better than last year.”  The Shanghai measure has lost 7.5 percent from this year’s
Feb. 6 peak amid concern the slowing economy will curb profits.
Trading volumes on the index were 29 percent higher than the 30-day average for this time of day.  The CSI 300 Index rose 1.8 percent to 2,552.71 today. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slid 0.4 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index climbed 0.1 percent yesterday.  Growth Forecasts  Foreign direct investment in China lagged behind analysts’
estimates in April, highlighting concern at the growth outlook
for the world’s second-biggest economy. Investment rose 0.4
percent from a year earlier, the Ministry of Commerce said
today, less than the 5.7 percent gain in March and the 6.2
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  This week, Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
lowered 2013 growth estimates to 7.6 percent after April
industrial production and fixed-asset investment trailed
forecasts, while Premier  Li Keqiang  signaled policy makers are
reluctant to use stimulus to counter the slowdown.  Chinese stocks are “stuck in a trading range,” JPMorgan
Chase analysts led by Sunil Garg wrote in report dated
yesterday. “Upside appears capped by growth deceleration and
policy headwinds, while ‘cheap’ headline valuations drive
periodic bargain hunting.”  Property Stocks  The  Shanghai Stock Exchange  Property Index rose for the
first time in four days. It trades at 7 times estimated
earnings, compared with the three-year average of 9.5. Vanke,
the biggest developer, rallied 5.1 percent to 11.70 yuan. Poly
Real Estate, the second largest, advanced 4.3 percent to 12.07
yuan. Gemdale climbed 5.2 percent to 7.45 yuan.  Among brokerages, Haitong Securities advanced 3.7 percent
to 11.03  yuan . Sealand Securities rallied 5 percent to 13.05
yuan. Hong Yuan Securities Co. rose 6.9 percent to 23.15 yuan,
its highest close since November 2010.  Gauge tracking telecom and technology shares climbed 3.6
percent and 1.4 percent, respectively. Chengdu Dr Peng jumped
8.7 percent, adding to a 7-day, 47 percent gain. Sanan
Optoelectronics added 6.7 percent to 18.06 yuan. NavInfo Co.
jumped 4.1 percent to 12.48 yuan.  Cross-Border ETF  “Telecom and technology shares are the ones gaining
because investors re-directed their attention into small-cap
stocks with growth potential,” Zhou Lin, an analyst at Huatai
Securities Co., said by phone from Nanjing. “The index isn’t
going to do well in the near term as investors have been
disappointed economic growth didn’t meet expectations and the
economic weakness could extend into the third quarter.”  Chinese equities rose in  New York  as  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) 
rallied on speculation first-quarter sales will exceed the
company’s forecast. Suntech Power Holdings Co. jumped 11 percent
and Phoenix New Media Ltd. advanced to a five-week high. Online
retailer  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  fell 5 percent.  China’s first cross-border  exchange-traded fund  tracking
the Nasdaq 100 Index started trading on the Shanghai Stock
Exchange yesterday, becoming the first ETF in China to allow
investors access to the U.S. market. The ETF traded 87.7 million
shares on the first day out of a total 267 million outstanding
shares, according to John Jacobs, executive vice president at
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  