-- CIMB Still in Talks to Buy San Miguel’s Philippine Bank Stake
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-05-16T05:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/cimb-still-in-talks-to-buy-san-miguel-s-philippine-bank-stake.html
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , Malaysia’s
second-biggest lender, said it’s proceeding with discussions to
acquire a stake in the Philippines’ Bank of Commerce even after
seller  San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  signaled the deal may be scrapped.  Negotiations are in the “final stages” and a decision
should be made within a month,  Nazir Razak , CIMB’s chief
executive officer, told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today.
“Everything is going smoothly.”  San Miguel  may walk away from the 12.2 billion-peso ($296
million) agreement to sell a majority stake in the bank to CIMB,
the Philippines’ largest company said in a stock exchange filing
yesterday. The brewer confirmed earlier comments by its
President Ramon Ang that the deal was encountering problems and
he may decide in about a week whether to pull out.  A stake sale would help San Miguel exit the banking
business and would bolster its growth beyond traditional food
and drinks. The Manila-based company has expanded into airlines,
oil and electricity and is in talks to invest in an energy
venture through a $5 billion equity investment, Ang said May 10.  CIMB agreed in May 2012 to buy a 60 percent stake in Bank
of Commerce from San Miguel and other shareholders, helping the
Kuala Lumpur-based bank expand its Southeast Asian footprint.  The delay is being caused by legal problems absorbing the
Philippine lender’s real estate operations and has nothing to do
with valuation or asset quality, according to a Philippine Daily
Inquirer report on May 13. A decision will be made soon, Ang
told Bloomberg News via text message today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Effie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  