-- Cisco Lifts EZchip Above Peers on Sales: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-05-16T22:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/cisco-lifts-ezchip-above-peers-on-sales-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  is beating
peers by the most since February after  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , which
contributed 43 percent of the Israeli chipmaker’s sales last
year, said demand for products using their technology is rising.  Shares of Yokneam, Israel-based EZchip rallied 3.6 percent
to $26.78 in  New York  yesterday to trade 1.6 percent above the
Nasdaq Computer Index, the biggest price premium since Feb. 21,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity
Index of the 25 largest Israeli companies traded in the U.S
added 0.7 percent, as Caesarstone Sdot Yam Ltd. surged to a
record on plans to partner with Ikea Group. The shekel
strengthened for the first time in six days.  Cisco, the world’s biggest maker of networking equipment,
said May 15 that revenue from telecommunications and Internet
companies rose 10 percent in the U.S. as third-quarter net
income climbed more than analysts estimated. Cisco’s U.S. sales
growth from service providers is double what it was last year
and will trickle down to EZchip, whose semiconductors are used
in the  San Jose , California-based company’s routers, according
to Oppenheimer & Co. and Feltl & Co.  “What helps EZchip is Cisco talking about a little bit
more optimistic spending environment in service providers,”
 Jeffrey Schreiner , an analyst at Feltl who rates EZchip a strong
buy, said by phone from  Minneapolis  yesterday. “Higher levels
of spending certainly drive higher levels of adoption of
EZchip’s customer’s equipment, which leads to high-level
adoption of EZchip network processors.”  In-House Development  Shares of EZchip sank  21 percent Feb. 13  after the Yokneam,
Israel-based company said that Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
biggest maker of phone-network equipment and an EZchip customer,
is developing its processor internally. Juniper Networks Inc.
switched to its own chip in 2009.  “Cisco buys $20 to $30 million a year from EZchip,”
Andrew Uerkwitz, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., who has a buy
rating on the shares, said by phone from New York yesterday.
“It really depends on Cisco’s routing business. If that’s doing
well, EZchip will do well.”  EZchip holds about 50 percent of the market in edge
routers, Chief Executive Officer Eli Fruchter said in a phone
interview with  Bloomberg News  on May 8. Edge routers sit closer
to consumers than larger core routers.  Shares borrowed and sold short by speculators hoping to
return them to owners once prices fall, have been declining as
the chipmaker posted a gain in first-quarter sales and beat
estimates.  Short interest  as a percentage of free float sank 24
percent in the five weeks to May 14, according to data compiled
by Markit, a London-based research firm.  End Market  EZchip is trading at 54.2 times earnings, the highest
relative to peers, including  Irvine , California-based Broadcom
Corp. and Analog Devices Inc., based in Norwood,  Massachusetts .  Chardan Capital Markets LLC, with the lowest of nine
analyst price targets compiled by Bloomberg, is projecting
shares of EZchip to fall 18 percent in the next 12 months to
$22. Analyst  Jay Srivatsa  said that instead of focusing on
Cisco, investors should be concerned about the network-service
providers, EZchip’s end market.  “From the calls of AT&T and Verizon, they’re not opening
up their purse strings in a big way,” Srivatsa said by phone
yesterday in New York. “This could be a one-quarter phenomenon,
and Cisco could be one quarter away from saying it’s cutting
back on router orders.”  Verizon Communications Inc., based in New York, said on a
conference call April 18 that corporate services, such as voice
and data transport, were declining. Dallas-based AT&T Inc.
reduced its  capital spending  forecast to $20 billion from $22
billion for 2014 and 2015, Chief Financial Officer John Stephens
said on April 23.  Caesarstone, Mellanox  EZchip added 3.6 percent to $26.78 yesterday, the highest
since Feb. 15, on trading volume 1.8 times the daily average
over the last three months. Shares in Tel Aviv advanced 2.6
percent to 95.20 shekels, or $26.15.  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index rose to 93.20 for a
third straight day of increases.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  led
the advance, gaining 4.6 percent to $13.30.  Israel ’s benchmark
TA-25 Index climbed 0.9 percent after being closed for two days
for a holiday.  Caesarstone Jumps  Caesarstone rallied 4.2 percent to $27.81, a record high.
The maker of quartz-based countertops signed an agreement with
the world’s largest home-furnishings retailer to serve as Ikea
U.S.’s sole non-laminate countertop vendor, according to a
statement released yesterday.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , based in Yokneam Elit, Israel,
advanced 2.5 percent to $56.38, a three-week high. The maker of
data transferral and storage software announced on May 15 that
it agreed to acquire Kotura Inc. for $82 million. Mellanox’s
purchase of the developer of technology for high-speed
networking will be accretive to its 2014 earnings by about 1 to
3 cents a share, according to a statement. Shares in  Tel Aviv 
rallied 6.1 percent to 201 shekels, or $55.20.  MagicJack Vocaltec Ltd. (CALL) , the Netanya, Israel-based voice-over-Internet provider, was the biggest decliner on the Israel-US gauge, slipping 4.2 percent to $16.47.  The shekel strengthened for the first time in six days, as
the  Bank of Israel  pledged May 13 to buy $2.1 billion by the end
of the year to weaken it. The Israeli currency rose 0.5 percent
to 3.6410 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  