-- Copper Consumers Said by Nexans Trying to Avoid LME Warehouses
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-05-16T08:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/copper-consumers-said-by-nexans-trying-to-avoid-lme-warehouses.html
Copper consumers are trying to avoid
taking metal from warehouses approved by the London Metal
Exchange and going directly to producers instead, according to
 Nexans SA (NEX) , the world’s second-biggest cable maker.  Getting metal out of LME warehouses is difficult, said
Marie-Francoise Levelt, head of metals trading and copper
purchasing manager at Nexans in Paris. Some 88 percent of LME
copper stockpiles in Europe are in Antwerp,  Belgium , and waits
to get metal there are long, Macquarie Group Ltd. says.  “European producers are benefiting from this situation,”
Levelt said. “People are trying to buy directly from them
instead of taking material from the LME warehouses.”  Warehouse companies have been offering incentives to
attract metal to their location since the end of last year, and
it’s resulting in rising premiums, Levelt said. Premiums are
also rising because of a port strike in  Chile , the world’s
largest producer of copper, she said.  “It’s difficult to take some material out from the LME
warehouse, because the availability is not there from the
traders or the companies who have the material in,” Levelt
said. “For the time being, we don’t see any shortage.”  Nexans buys about 450,000 metric tons of refined copper a
year and 15,000 to 20,000 tons of scrap a year, according to the
company. Less than 2 percent of the company’s copper purchases
are made on the spot market, Levelt said. She’s also in charge
of the company’s metal hedging.  Avoiding Spot  “We try to avoid buying on the spot market, keeping a
long-term relationship with our suppliers,” she said. “It’s
better to have a direct connection with them regarding our
requirements.”  Nexans rose 16 percent to 38.93 euros in Paris trading this
year. It was part of phone-equipment manufacturer Alcatel SA
until a spinoff in 2001.  Chile had port strikes over three weeks starting in March.
That held back 60 percent of Chile’s copper exports, Mining
Minister Hernan De Solminihac said April 4.  The  surcharge  copper buyers are expected to pay in Europe
climbed this month to the highest level since 2006 and it’s the
highest since 2007 in the U.S., according to Metal Bulletin data
compiled by Bloomberg. Copper prices on the LME have dropped 9
percent this year as stockpiles in LME-monitored warehouses
almost doubled.  Warehouse companies have been offering incentives in
Antwerp as well as in the Malaysian city of Johor, the world’s
largest holding of LME copper, according to Societe Generale SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  