-- U.S. Swaps Erase Drop as Fed’s Williams Says Stimulus May Slow
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-05-16T21:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/credit-swaps-in-u-s-end-two-day-decline-as-jobless-claims-rise.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
erased an earlier decline after Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President John Williams said the central bank may
start tapering its bond purchases as soon as this summer.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.1
basis point to a mid-price of 71.6 basis points at 4:32 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, had earlier declined as
much as 1.6 basis points.  Williams said the Fed may slow the pace of its $85 billion
in monthly bond-buying amid signs the economy is gradually
gaining strength, even as data today signaled some weakness in
new home starts and jobless claims. It is “clear that the labor
market has improved since September,” when the Fed began its
third round of asset purchases, Williams said in a speech in
 Portland ,  Oregon . “We could reduce somewhat the pace of our
securities purchases, perhaps as early as this summer” and end
the program late this year, he said.  “His aggressive timeline in the face of questionable data
certainly shook up the markets,” Adrian Miller, director of
fixed-income strategy at GMP Securities LLC, said in a telephone
interview from New York. “You can pick an asset class and
everything turned because of this fear of premature punchbowl
withdrawal.”  ‘Tepid Growth’  Jobless claims  jumped by 32,000 to 360,000 in the week
ended May 11, exceeding all estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists, while new home starts slumped 16.5 percent, the most
since February 2011, to an 853,000 annualized rate.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 0.5 basis point to 348.6 basis points after
dropping as much as 7.3 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  Moody’s liquidity-stress index stayed near a record low
this month, rising to 3.2 percent through mid-May from a record
low of 2.8 percent at the end of April, according to a report
yesterday from Moody’s Investors Service.  The gauge, which rises as companies find financing more
difficult to obtain and falls as their ability to manage cash
needs improves, has averaged 7.3 percent since 2002.  “Most U.S. speculative-grade companies are avoiding
liquidity problems despite tepid growth in corporate sales and
continued softness in the economy,” analysts at Moody’s led by
John Puchalla wrote in a report yesterday about the liquidity-stress index.  ‘Risk Persists’  The cost to protect against a default by  Hess Corp. (HES)  fell
the most in five years as the oil company reached an agreement
with billionaire Paul Singer’s Elliott Management Corp. to end a
four-month proxy battle.  Five-year credit swaps tied to Hess debt decreased 30.9
basis points to a mid-price of 116.5 basis points by 4:31 p.m.,
according to Bloomberg prices.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Hess added three of five board members nominated by the
activist shareholder, and in exchange, Elliott will support the
New York-based company’s five nominees to the board, according
to a statement. With departures, Hess will change nine people on
its 14-member board.  “For bondholders, we think this compromise is a better
near-term result than an outright victory by Elliott, but the
risk persists that more radical business transformation will be
entertained and/or more aggressive financial policies will be
employed,” Philip Adams, a senior bond analyst at Gimme Credit
LLC in  Chicago , wrote in a note today.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 3.4 basis points to 488.4 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  