-- Crude Rises on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-05-16T19:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/crude-rises-on-stimulus-speculation.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose on
speculation that central banks will bolster stimulus after more
Americans than projected filed for  unemployment benefits  and
U.S. consumer prices decreased.  Futures climbed 0.9 percent as Labor Department figures
showed that  jobless claims  exceeded all  forecasts  in a Bloomberg
survey of economists. The U.S. cost of living fell in April for
a second month. St. Louis Federal Reserve President  James Bullard  said last month that persistent disinflation may require
the central bank to provide additional stimulus. The dollar slid
after the U.S. economic headlines, bolstering oil.  “The market came roaring back after what were bearish
headlines,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Negative news is
being taken as a sign that the easy-money policies of the
central banks will continue.”  WTI oil for June delivery advanced 86 cents to settle at
$95.16 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The volume
of all contracts traded was 28 percent above the 100-day average
at 3:34 p.m.  Brent crude  for June settlement, which expired today, rose
12 cents to end the session at $103.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The more actively traded July
futures increased 28 cents, or 0.3 percent, to settle at $103.78
a barrel. Volume for all contracts was 3.6 percent greater than
the 100-day average.  Narrowing Spread  The European benchmark crude traded at a $8.64 premium to
WTI at the close of trading today, down from $9.38 yesterday.
The spread dropped to $7.65 at settlement on May 13, the
narrowest level since January 2011.  Jobless claims jumped by 32,000 to 360,000 in the week
ended May 11, the most since the end of March, data showed. A
Commerce Department report showed that housing  starts  slumped
16.5 percent to an 853,000 annualized rate. The median estimate
of 81 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was for a 970,000 rate.  “It appears that there’s a lot of short-term trading
activity,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst with Citi Futures
Perspective in New York. “Trading often seems at odds with the
fundamentals of the market, but that doesn’t matter if someone
is only planning to hold on to the contract for a short time.”  The consumer-price index decreased 0.4 percent, the biggest
drop since December 2008, after falling 0.2 percent in March,
according to the Labor Department.  Dollar Slides  A weaker U.S. currency increases the appeal of dollar-denominated raw materials such as oil as an investment. The
 Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the U.S. currency against those of
six major trading partners, fell as much as 0.5 percent, and is
heading for the first decline in six days.  “The dollar dropped as soon as the jobs report came out
and crude oil rallied,” said Bob Yawger, director of the
futures division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in  New York .
“The correlation between the dollar and oil has tightened over
the past week, after loosening for a while.”  The Energy Information Administration said yesterday that
U.S.  crude stockpiles  fell 624,000 barrels to 394.9 million last
week. Supplies in the week ended May 3 were at the highest level
since 1931, according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm.  Refineries operated at 88 percent of capacity in the seven
days ended May 10, the most since the week ended Jan. 4, the EIA
said. Units often restart in the spring after performing
maintenance before gasoline demand peaks in summer.  ‘Seasonal Uptick’  “We’re heading for a seasonal uptick in demand,” said
Julius Walker, global energy markets strategist at UBS
Securities LLC in New York. “Refineries in the U.S. are going
to be increasing gasoline output and the Saudis will be burning
more for power.”  Oil consumption increases in the  Middle East  during the
summer months as it is burned for electricity generation to run
air conditioners.  Libya ’s Zueitina oil export terminal shut because of
protests, Deputy Oil Minister Omar Shakmak told reporters in
Tripoli today. The country’s  output  rose 30,000 barrels a day to
1.43 million in April, a Bloomberg survey showed.  “The supply picture isn’t that encouraging outside of the
U.S.,” Walker said. “The closure of the Libyan port because of
protests is a worrying sign. There are still disruptions in
 Nigeria  and I’m waiting for any sign of tankers in the Red Sea
to pick up barrels from South  Sudan .”  MEND Threat  The Movement for the Emancipation of the  Niger Delta  said
on April 3 it would resume attacks in Nigeria after its
suspected leader,  Henry Okah , was sentenced to 24 years in
prison in  South Africa  on terrorism charges.  South Sudan  ended a 15-month shutdown of crude production
last month. The country stopped pumping crude in January 2012
after accusing neighboring Sudan of stealing $815 million of its
oil, which Sudan said it took to recover unpaid transport and
processing fees.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
July was 21.2 percent compared with 21.3 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 635,184
contracts as of 3:35 p.m. It totaled 743,328 contracts in the
previous session, 28 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.76 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  