-- Cuba-Jailed American Settles Lawsuit Against Employer
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-05-16T22:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/cuba-jailed-american-settles-lawsuit-against-employer.html
Alan Gross, a U.S. contractor jailed
in Cuba since 2009, settled a negligence suit accusing     his
employer of mishandling risks associated with his mission in the
Communist nation.  Gross, 64, sued Bethesda, Maryland-based Development
Alternatives Inc. and the U.S. government in November, alleging
they didn’t provide adequate training to guard his safety and
refused to pull him out of Cuba after he expressed concerns
about the dangers of his assignment.  The settlement with DAI “is confidential and subject to a
nondisclosure agreement,” according to a two-page filing today
federal court in  Washington .  Gross and his wife, Judith Gross, who lives in Washington,
sought $60 million in damages in the suit. The U.S. remains a
defendant.  Gross’s attorney, Scott Gilbert, and Steven Weber, an
attorney for DAI, declined to comment on the accord. No one
responded to a message left with the Justice Department’s press
office seeking comment on the case.  Gross was working as a subcontractor for the  U.S. Agency
for International Development  in Cuba when he was arrested on
December 3, 2009. He was on the island as part of DAI’s contract
with the agency to establish wireless networks and Internet
connections for non-dissident Cuban Jewish communities.  ‘Territorial Integrity’  Gross, charged with “actions against the territorial
integrity of the state,” has maintained his innocence while
serving a 15-year sentence.  He may be suffering from cancer, one of his attorneys said
in October.  Gross’s imprisonment increased tensions between Cuba and
the U.S., which has called for his release and rejected
assertions that he was a spy.  Bill Richardson, a former U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations visited Cuba in 2011 in unsuccessful bid to win Gross’s
release.  The U.S. also has turned down a proposal from Cuba to free
Gross in exchange for a group of five convicted Cuban spies.  Gross told DAI in post-trip reports from earlier missions
that the project was “very risky,” and warned supervisors that
unauthorized use of radio frequencies “usually means
confiscation of equipment and arrest of users,” according to
his lawsuit.  After his fourth trip to the country, Gross described
efforts by Cuban officials to “sniff out” wireless networks
and other radio-frequency use outside of  Havana .  DAI passed the memos on to USAID, which ignored his
concerns, Gross alleged in the complaint.  The case is Gross v. Development Alternatives Inc., 12-cv-1860, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fred Strasser at 
 fstrasser@bloomberg.net  