-- Cuomo Threatens Subpoenas in Bid for Public Campaign Financing
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-05-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/cuomo-threatens-subpoenas-in-bid-for-public-campaign-financing.html
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo wants
to break the connection between cash and politics that’s led to
corruption in  Albany  for decades, and he says public financing
of election campaigns is the solution.  He’s giving lawmakers a choice: Either they agree to it or
he’ll form an executive commission with subpoena power to root
out graft. The arrests over the past few weeks of two senators
and an assemblyman, all Democrats from the New York City area,
highlighted an issue that the governor has vowed to tackle since
his days as state attorney general.  Republicans oppose public funding, and Cuomo, a 55-year-old
Democrat, says that if they don’t relent he’ll authorize a
commission under the 1907 Moreland Act, which gives a New York
governor broad investigative powers. Cuomo delivered the same
threat in 2011 to get lawmakers to create an ethics-enforcement
unit with investigatory powers and expand financial-disclosure
requirements.  “If the Moreland Commission is what it takes to get senate
Republicans to pass public financing, then so be it,” said
Stephen Pampinella, a spokesman for FAIR Elections for New York,
a group that backs Cuomo’s planned changes. “The difference
between the legalized bribery that’s campaign finance and the
bribery cases we’re seeing is a very fine line.”  ‘Scandal Mania’  For Cuomo, who faces re-election in 2014 and has been
mentioned as possible presidential candidate, the latest
corruption allegations risk derailing his legislative agenda. In
a radio interview this week, he said he hoped “scandal mania”
in Albany won’t thwart his push to create an advisory board for
struggling upstate municipalities, expand abortion rights and
build casinos north of  Manhattan .  “Scandal mania can paralyze,” said Hank Sheinkopf, a
Democratic political consultant based in New York City. “It
becomes a question of what people are focused on and how much
time it’ll take to deal with scandals against how much time will
be spent dealing with programs.”  The public-funding option, which would be modeled after New
York City’s program, is at the heart of Cuomo’s plans to
overhaul the campaign-finance system and create laws to make it
easier for state and local prosecutors to target corrupt
officials. In the past, most corruption cases involving state
lawmakers have been handled by federal authorities.  NYC System  To be eligible for public financing in New York City,
mayoral candidates must raise at least $250,000 in contributions
of $175 or less. The city allocates $6 for every $1 collected.  The program also requires participants to limit spending.
For example, mayoral candidates aren’t allowed to spend more
than $6.4 million in a general election. Most candidates in this
year’s race, including frontrunner Christine Quinn, the city
council speaker, have said they will accept public funding.  New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, a billionaire, financed
his own campaigns. The mayor, who is barred from seeking a
fourth term, is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Applying public financing at the state level has been the
subject of lobbying efforts in Albany this year by government
watchdog groups, including Citizen Action of New York and Common
Cause.  Democrats in the legislature, who hold a majority, have
backed similar measures. Republicans, who have power in the
senate thanks to four breakaway Democrats, say they’ll block a
vote on the bill, which could cost as much as $286 million next
year, according to Senator Dean Skelos, the Long Island
Republican who co-leads the chamber.  Skelos Opposition  “New York needs more disclosure and better enforcement of
existing campaign-finance law violations, but we don’t need
taxpayer-funded political campaigns,” Skelos wrote in an
article published May 13 in the Albany Times Union newspaper.
“It’s a terrible idea for taxpayers. It’s a terrible idea for
our state.”  That’s a difficult obstacle to overcome, even with the
looming threat of a Moreland Commission, Cuomo said.  “It is a philosophical problem,” he said at a May 8 press
briefing in the capital. “Senate Republicans don’t believe in
it, they don’t agree with it, they don’t find a need for it.”  The corruption issue has overshadowed some of the
governor’s accomplishments, including a post-budget victory
tour. On April 2, the day after the start of his third on-time
spending plan -- a feat not achieved since 1984 -- Senator
Malcolm Smith, a Queens Democrat, was accused by federal
prosecutors of trying to bribe his way onto the New York City
Republican mayoral ticket.  Show Me  “A show-me-the-money culture seems to pervade every level
of New York government,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
said in a statement after Smith’s arrest.  In the weeks since, a Democratic senator from  Brooklyn  and
a Democratic assemblyman from the Bronx were accused in separate
corruption cases.  Meanwhile, a subcontractor for a $415,000 lake house built
by Senator Tom Libous, the Republican from Binghamton who heads
his party’s election committee, said the Federal Bureau of
Investigation spoke with him in March about his work there.  The circumstances were similar when Cuomo, the son of
former Governor Mario Cuomo, came to Albany in 2011 with a
pledge to clean it up.  Kickbacks, Prostitutes  Alan Hevesi, a Democrat who as comptroller was the sole
trustee of the state’s pension fund, pleaded guilty in October
2010 to approving a $250 million pension investment in exchange
for a $1 million kickback. Democratic Governor Eliot Spitzer
resigned amid a prostitution scandal, and in March 2011 Senator
Carl Kruger, a Democrat, was accused of taking payoffs. He was
sentenced to seven years in prison.  Former Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno, a Republican,
was accused last year by federal prosecutors of taking a bribe
after a previous conviction on corruption charges was thrown out
in 2011. He pleaded not guilty.  Kruger’s arrest prompted Cuomo’s Moreland threat, which
resulted in legislative approval of the Joint Commission on
Public Ethics, an investigatory unit that has been criticized by
watchdog groups for being secretive. This week, lawmakers filed
their first expanded financial disclosures, which they agreed to
after Cuomo warned of a commission.  Now he’s at it again.  “I’m not willing to let the session conclude without a
response to what has come up,” Cuomo said May 8. “I want
people to pass a reform package. If they don’t, there are other
options that I can consider. One of them is a Moreland
Commission.”  The panel wouldn’t start until after the legislative
session ends June 20, Cuomo has said. That would mean lawmakers,
who aren’t scheduled to return to Albany until January, would
face months of public scrutiny, said Charlie Albanetti, a
spokesman for Citizen Action of New York.  “If any lawmakers refuse to support the financing system,
the people of New York will be the deciders in the end,”
Albanetti said. “The threat of the governor won’t necessarily
be the problem. It’s the threat of people outraged by corruption
in Albany.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  