-- DBV in Advanced Talks for U.S. Peanut Drug Partnership, CEO Says
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-05-16T15:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/dbv-in-advanced-talks-for-u-s-peanut-drug-partnership-ceo-says.html
DBV Technologies SA (DBV) , a French maker
of allergy treatments, is in “pretty advanced” talks for a
partnership in the U.S. for its most developed product, an
experimental therapy against peanut allergy.  The company, based in Bagneux, close to Paris, is in talks
with three to four “very serious” potential partners and an
agreement could be reached this year or next, Chief Executive
Officer Pierre-Henri Benhamou said in a telephone interview
yesterday. Some are based in the U.S. while others are “global
players,” he said, declining to identify them.  DBV Technologies, whose products are designed to treat
allergies through patches applied on the skin, said today it
signed an agreement with  Stallergenes SA (GENP) , the maker of the
Oralair hay-fever treatment, to jointly develop skin patches
against respiratory allergies, a new area for DBV.  “This shows our patches are universal and can be used in
all types of allergies,” Benhamou said. It’s a “tremendous”
opportunity, he said.  In the coming weeks, DBV and Stallergenes will start
identifying what allergens to develop together, David Schilansky, DBV’s chief financial officer, said during the
interview. The companies will then enter licensing agreements
for each one picked, he said.  DBV is also investing in the development of an experimental
vaccine patch, according to Benhamou. It’s in talks with a
“certain number” of vaccine companies for a potential
licensing agreement on the product, Schilansky said.  DBV reported a net loss of 13 million euros ($17 million)
last year. The company’s  shares  eased 2.2 percent to 8.35 euros
by 4:49 p.m. in Paris, giving the company a market value of
111.9 million euros. Antony, France-based Stallergenes added 0.2
percent to 51.66 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  