-- Denmark Shelves Euro Goal Indefinitely as Crisis Scars Last
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-05-17T10:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/denmark-shelves-euro-goal-indefinitely-as-crisis-scars-too-deep.html
Denmark  is shelving indefinitely its
euro adoption goal as Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt says
an exchange rate peg without full European monetary membership
is proving the best currency regime for the Nordic nation.  A euro referendum “in this election term is unrealistic,”
Thorning-Schmidt said yesterday in an interview in  Stockholm .
“I don’t think it makes any sense to discuss the option of a
euro referendum in the next term” set to run from 2015 to 2019,
she said.  Thorning-Schmidt, half-way through her first four-year
term, said Denmark’s chosen model of an opt-out from the euro
has shielded the economy from the worst of the crisis further
south. The nation, which together with the rest of Scandinavia
emerged as a haven from  Europe ’s fiscal turmoil, will continue
to debate the question of whether Denmark should join the euro
at some point, she said.  “The euro has been subject to a lot of uncertainty over
the course of the last couple of years, actually many years, and
the time isn’t ripe for a referendum on Denmark joining the
euro,” Thorning-Schmidt said. “That doesn’t change the fact
that Denmark will remain at the core of European cooperation.”  Bond Investors  Danish aversion to the euro tested a record in March as
voters watched the 17-nation bloc lurch from one bailout to the
next. Central bank Governor Lars Rohde said a month later it
probably won’t be feasible to hold a euro referendum for the
“foreseeable future.”  “I’m sure many bond investors appreciate that Denmark is
staying out of the euro for now,”  Steen Bocian , head of
economic research at  Danske Bank (DANSKE)  A/S in Copenhagen, said in an
interview. “In the long run Denmark will have to make up its
mind to join the euro or give up the fixed-rate peg as very few
countries have been able to maintain a peg as a permanent
condition.”  The difference in yield on Denmark’s 10-year bond and
equivalent German bunds narrowed to its smallest today since
Jan. 31, to 10 basis points. Denmark pays less to borrow over 10
years than any euro member except  Germany . The yield on its 1.5
percent note due November 2023 eased four basis points to 1.398
percent as of 11:27 a.m. local time.  No Date  Denmark, which last rejected the euro in a 2000 plebiscite,
hasn’t set a date for a new vote. According to a poll published
in March by Danske Bank, the no side would win by a margin of 42
percentage points, close to a record 44.6 points in December
2011. The debt crisis raging in the euro zone and near record-low Danish  interest rates  explain the poll outcome, Danske said.  “The way Denmark is linked to the euro is ideal,”
Thorning-Schmidt said. “We’ve had a fixed currency rate regime
for many years and that has served Denmark well and continues to
do so.”  Denmark negotiated an opt-out from the euro in 1993 a year
after Danes rejected full monetary union. The Danish central
bank’s sole mandate is to adjust interest rates and currency
reserves to defend the krone’s peg to the euro. Its efforts to
stem a capital influx since last year have pushed the benchmark
lending rate down to a record-low 0.2 percent. The deposit rate
is minus 0.1 percent.  ‘Many Drawbacks’  Thorning-Schmidt said a currency peg has proved a safer
regime than a free floating krone. The framework has prevented
exchange rate fluctuations such as those plaguing neighboring
 Norway  and  Sweden . Those two nations have struggled with
appreciations that are hurting exporters and even causing bouts
of deflation.  “There are many drawbacks to not having a fixed currency
policy and I’m sure countries employing such a regime can
subscribe to that,” she said.  Anders Borg, the finance minister of neighboring Sweden,
said in an interview last week “the krona could become an
issue, especially from the central bank perspective.” He
referred to “risks you’ll see too much of an appreciation.
That’s obviously one of the worries we have.”  Pegging Denmark’s krone to the euro has spared the nation
such worries, Thorning-Schmidt signaled. Since the end of 2008,
the krone has slipped 0.2 percent against the euro. Sweden’s
krona has appreciated 28 percent in the period, while the krone
of Norway is up 29 percent in the period.  Defending Welfare  Asked how Denmark is defending its welfare society even as
economic growth sinks, the Prime Minister said voters must
accept reforms to ensure the benefits they’ve come to expect
remain affordable for the state.  Denmark’s  economy   shrank  0.7 percent in the final three
months of 2012 and probably contracted last quarter, according
to Danske Bank and  Svenska Handelsbanken AB. (SHBA)  While Danish
consumers are the world’s most indebted, the state has managed
to rein in expenditure and keep debt at less than half the euro-zone average. That’s supported Denmark’s stable AAA status and
kept borrowing costs near record lows.  “We must always be willing to change,” Thorning-Schmidt
said. “The operative words going forward will be change,
reforms and modernization as no society will be able to stand
still for years to come. That goes for Denmark, the  Nordic
countries  and a number of other nations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  