-- Depardieu Woos Old Flame Hurley in Thriller Filmed in Chechnya
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-05-16T14:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/depardieu-woos-old-flame-hurley-in-thriller-filmed-in-chechnya.html
  Gerard Depardieu , the French actor
awarded Russian citizenship this year, is filming a thriller in
Moscow and the mainly Muslim region of Chechnya with U.K.
actress and model  Elizabeth Hurley .  Depardieu, 64, plays an ex-convict who travels to Moscow to
avenge the death of his son and meets his old love, played by
Hurley, the film’s producer, Arnaud Frilley, said by e-mail.  Depardieu, who fled France to avoid taxes imposed on the
wealthy by Socialist President Francois Hollande, dined with
President  Vladimir Putin  in the Black Sea resort of Sochi in
January after receiving his new citizenship. A month later he
visited Chechnya, which was ravaged by two separatist wars in
the 1990s, and was feted by strongman Ramzan Kadyrov.  Hurley, 47, the former partner of British actor  Hugh Grant ,
said via her  Twitter Inc.  account yesterday that she was
shopping for costumes in Moscow. The movie, “Turquoise,” will
be filmed from May 18 to June 26.  Frilley, who produced Depardieu’s 2011 picture about
Grigory Rasputin, the peasant mystic with a hold over Russia’s
last royal family, is producing this one, too.  The actor wrote in an open letter to French Prime Minister
Jean-Marc Ayrault published in the French weekly Journal du
Dimanche in December that he would leave the country because his
tax rate had hit 85 percent. He bought a home and applied for
citizenship in Belgium before Putin made him a citizen of
Russia, where the  tax rate  is a flat 13 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Sochi, Russia at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  