-- Moody’s Says Detroit Manager Makes Bankruptcy Option
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-05-16T19:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/detroit-recovery-plan-negative-for-bondholders-moody-s-says-1-.html
The financial-recovery plan by
 Detroit ’s emergency manager may harm the city’s bondholders
because it indicates he is considering an effort to avoid paying
in full, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The plan released by Kevyn Orr on May 13 “indicates that
the city requires ‘significant and fundamental debt relief’ to
help shore up its finances, a clear indication that a default or
bankruptcy is a real option,” according to Moody’s.  Detroit would join Stockton and San Bernardino, both in
 California , and Jefferson County,  Alabama , in trying to stick
bondholders with a loss. Stockton is one of five municipal
issuers rated by Moody’s Investors Service that defaulted in
2012.  Orr’s report said he will use a “fair and equitable”
standard to restructure payments.  “This language has been used in relation to other
bankruptcy proceedings to manage creditors’ expectations on
recovering their assets in bankruptcy, setting the stage for
reductions to all stakeholders, including bondholders,” said
the Moody’s report released today.  Unpleasant Record  Orr, a 55-year-old Washington restructuring lawyer
appointed by Republican Governor  Rick Snyder , declined to
comment on the Moody’s report. His spokesman, Bill Nowling, said
Orr and his advisers “continue to work diligently to resolve
the city’s financial challenges and create a viable financial
future for all of Detroit’s constituents.”  Orr has said he hopes to avoid bankruptcy by negotiating
with creditors and reining in retirement costs. Michigan
Treasurer Andy Dillon has said Detroit would be the largest U.S.
municipality to declare bankruptcy.  Detroit’s long-term obligations are at least $15.7 billion,
including unfunded pension and retirement benefits. The general
fund this fiscal year, with revenue of about $1.1 billion, will
pay about $461 million for debt and health costs, according to
the emergency manager’s report.  Tax-exempt Detroit general obligations maturing in April
2015 traded today at an average price of 88 cents on the dollar,
down from 94 cents earlier this week and 13 percent below their
2008 issue price, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on
the securities is 12.4 percent, compared with 0.35 percent on
benchmark AAA munis due in two years.  Moody’s gives Detroit’s general obligation and certificate
of participation debt a Caa1 rating, seven levels below
investment grade.  Most of the city’s debt is tied to water and sewer revenue,
not the general fund, the Moody’s report said, and there is a
negative outlook on those obligations.  Debt paid from general-fund accounts is just under $3
billion.  Orr’s report, required by a new state law that gives him
more sweeping authority over city government, said Detroit’s
deficit will top $380 million by June, and that it’s approaching
insolvency on a cash basis. Orr’s report says the cost of $9.4
billion in bond, pension and other long-term liabilities is
sapping the ability to provide public safety and transportation.  Orr has the authority to change or cancel employee union
contracts under certain conditions under the new law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  