-- Deutsche Telekom Can Sell T-Mobile Before Share Lock-Up Ends
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-05-16T15:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/deutsche-telekom-can-sell-t-mobile-us-before-lock-up-period-ends.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , the German phone
company that completed a deal this month to enlarge its U.S.
business, said it has the option to sell the asset to a buyer
before an 18-month share lock-up period expires.  The company wouldn’t be restricted from selling if a third
party made an offer for  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , Chief Financial
Officer Timotheus Hoettges told shareholders at the annual
meeting in Cologne, Germany, today. He was responding to an
investor who named  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  as a hypothetical buyer.  In its agreement to merge the fourth-largest U.S. wireless
carrier with MetroPCS Communications Inc., Deutsche Telekom
pledged not to sell shares of the  listed carrier  on the stock
market for 18 months. The German company holds a 74 percent
stake in the company, which has a market value of $14.2 billion.  “There is an exception clause in the contract regarding
the lock-up,” said Hoettges, who will take over as Deutsche
Telekom’s chief executive officer next year. “We are in a
position to sell all shares in one go.”  T-Mobile US rose for a sixth day, adding 2.2 percent to
$19.68 as of 11:01 a.m. in  New York . Deutsche Telekom added 3.1
percent to 10.08 euros on the Frankfurt exchange.  The clarification comes as the pace of transactions in the
U.S. wireless market picks up.  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  offered $25.5
billion last month to buy  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , topping a $20.1
billion bid from Japan’s  Softbank Corp. (9984)   Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  wants to buy out Vodafone’s 45 percent stake in  Verizon
Wireless , the top U.S. wireless operator.  Verizon Wireless  Verizon has told analysts that it believes the fair value
of Vodafone’s stake is about $100 billion, people familiar with
the matter said last month. Talks between executives of both
companies over a deal have never amounted to much, in part
because Vodafone doesn’t see the $100 billion offer as a
reasonable opening bid, the people said.  Hoettges also said Deutsche Telekom is looking for a
“partner” for its T-Systems corporate-client business in
 France , adding that he is “confident” to reach a solution
before the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  