-- Diageo Seeks Turkey Drink Limit Balance After Mey Icki Purchase
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-05-16T09:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/diageo-seeks-turkey-drink-limit-balance-after-mey-icki-purchase.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest
distiller of alcoholic beverages, said it’s seeking common
ground with the Turkish government after lawmakers submitted a
bill to restrict alcohol sales in the country.  Diageo “recognizes the strong likelihood that severe
restrictions to the marketing and promotion of alcoholic
beverages in  Turkey  are imminent,” Rowan Pearman, a spokeswoman
for the company, said in e-mailed comments yesterday.  Lawmakers from Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s ruling
party submitted a draft bill to parliament on May 10 that would
restrict where alcoholic drinks are sold and consumed while
making it illegal to market or promote them in any way. The bill
was tendered after Erdogan said at an alcohol policy symposium
in Istanbul on April 26 that ayran, a salted yogurt drink, was
Turkey’s national beverage, rather than alcohol.  “While we have regard and respect for both the views of
the Turkish government and the country’s legislative and
regulatory processes, we would be highly disappointed if the
most restrictive scenario came to pass,” Pearman said.  Diageo paid $2.1 billion in 2011 for Mey Icki, a producer
of the traditional Turkish spirit called raki. It said at the
time that it didn’t expect “extreme treatment” of alcoholic
drinks by Turkey in the long-run and later said it expected
sales of the aniseed drink to fall that year as the government
raised taxes and introduced more restrictions.  Islamic Roots  Turkey, which has been led by a government with Islamic
roots since 2002, is not the only market where alcohol producers
face legislative challenges. Under the leadership of  Vladimir Putin  and  Dmitry Medvedev ,  Russia  has also cracked down on
drinking, raising taxes and limiting where alcohol can be sold.
Russia banned selling beer at kiosks on Jan. 1, 17 years after
imposing the same restriction for vodka. It also imposed
restrictions on direct advertising of the brew in 2011.  In the U.K., the Parliamentary Health Committee said in
July last year that the government should consider tighter
restrictions against alcohol and study  France ’s “Loi Evin,”
which since 1991 has only allowed alcohol advertising in places
where adults are at least 90 percent of the audience.  Diageo’s purchase of Mey Icki was its biggest in a decade
and doubled the company’s liquor sales in  emerging markets ,
Andrew Morgan, the distiller’s president for  Europe , said at the
time of the sale. It bought the company, which it said
controlled about 80 percent of the market for raki, from
private-equity firms TPG Capital and Actera.  ‘Different Cultures’  Diageo reported $17 billion in revenue last year, of which
$5.6 billion was from  North America  and $4.7 billion from
Europe, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The distiller is “cognisant of the different cultures in
the countries in which we operate” and seeks “to work in
partnership with governments and societies to find the common
ground,” Pearman said yesterday. “We would sincerely value the
opportunity to adopt this approach in Turkey, and to work with
all relevant ministries to effect a more balanced outcome.”  Diageo fell 0.4 percent to 2,052 pence at 10:10 a.m. in
London trading. The shares have risen 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  