-- Dollar Index Ends 5-Day Win Streak Amid Weak Data; Rand Slumps
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-05-16T21:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/dollar-pares-advance-against-yen-as-u-s-jobless-claims-climb.html
The  Dollar Index (DXY)  snapped a five-day
rally, the longest since February, after weaker-than-forecast
reports on U.S. unemployment claims, housing and inflation
damped bets the  Federal Reserve  will slow its bond purchases.  The gauge pared losses after Fed Bank of San Francisco
President  John Williams  said the central bank may begin tapering
the pace of its bond buying as soon as this summer. The euro
fell earlier after data confirmed inflation in the euro region
slowed in April to a three-year low.  South Africa ’s rand slid to
the weakest since 2009 on concern growth will falter.  “U.S. economic data is taking a turn for the worse, and
the disappointments have prevented the greenback from extending
its gains against the euro and Japanese yen,”  Kathy Lien ,
managing director of foreign exchange at BK Asset Management, an
investment advisory firm in  New York , wrote in a client note.
“Investors are concerned but not overly distressed.”  The  Dollar Index , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trade partners, fell 0.1 percent to 83.779 at 5 p.m. in New
York. It slid 0.5 percent earlier, the most since May 8, to
83.448 after reaching 84.094 yesterday, the highest since July.  The dollar was little changed at 102.23 yen after falling
as much as 0.4 percent earlier. It touched 102.76 yen yesterday,
the strongest level since October 2008. The U.S. currency traded
at $1.2882 per euro after weakening 0.3 percent earlier. It
touched $1.2843 yesterday, the strongest level since April 4.
The euro was little changed at 131.73 yen.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $42 billion, compared with $51 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $9.4 billion, the
largest share of trades at 23 percent. Euro-dollar options were
the second most-actively traded at $5 billion, or 12 percent.  Euro-dollar options trading was 45 percent above the
average for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading
was 11 percent below average.  South Africa’s rand sank to a four-year low on concern that
falling metals prices and labor unrest threaten the nation’s
credit rating and economic growth. The currency declined 0.7
percent to 9.3214 per dollar after sliding as much as 1.4
percent to 9.3836, its weakest level since April 2009.  Lira Pares  Turkey ’s lira pared most of its loss against the dollar
after Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the nation’s
government-bond ratings to Baa3, from Ba1. The currency fell
earlier to the weakest since June as the country’s central bank
reduced  interest rates  more than forecast.  The lira traded at 1.8240 per dollar, down 0.1 percent,
after weakening earlier as much as 0.9 percent to 1.8388.  The dollar gained earlier this week against most major
peers after data showed U.S.  retail sales  unexpectedly increased
in April, spurring bets the Fed will slow its bond buying under
the quantitative-easing stimulus strategy. The central bank
purchases $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt a month.  The U.S. unemployment rate fell to 7.5 percent in April,
from 7.8 percent in September.  “It’s clear that the labor market has improved since
September,” when the Fed began its latest round of asset
purchases, the San Francisco Fed’s Williams said today in a
speech in  Portland ,  Oregon . “We could reduce somewhat the pace
of our securities purchases, perhaps as early as this summer”
and end the program late this year.  The Fed has pumped up its balance sheet to $3.32 trillion.  Manufacturing Gauge  The greenback slipped earlier today against the euro as the
Fed Bank of  Philadelphia (OUTFGAF) ’s general economic index unexpectedly
fell to minus 5.2 in May from 1.3 the prior month. Readings less
than zero signal contraction in the region. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg called for a gain to 2.  Initial  jobless claims  jumped by 32,000 to 360,000 in the
week ended May 11, the most since the end of March, Labor
Department figures showed. New-home starts slumped 16.5 percent
last month, the most since February 2011, the Commerce
Department said.  The U.S. consumer-price index decreased 0.4 percent, the
biggest drop since December 2008, after falling 0.2 percent in
March, Labor Department data showed. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected a 0.3 percent decline.  ‘Miserable’ Data  “Everything that came out from the U.S. was miserable,”
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) 
in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “There was
disappointment on every number that was released this morning.”  Russia raised the greenback’s share in its reserves to 45.8
percent, from 45.5 percent a year earlier, according to the
Russian central bank’s annual report. The euro had its share cut
to 40.4 percent, from 42.1 percent.  The euro area’s annual  inflation rate  declined to 1.2
percent in April from 1.7 percent in March, the European Union’s
statistics office said today, confirming the estimate released
on April 30. That’s the lowest rate since February 2010.  The 17-nation currency fell yesterday to a six-week low
versus the greenback on speculation the  European Central Bank 
will have to ease monetary policy further after data showed the
region’s economy shrank for a record sixth quarter.  “The growth data yesterday plus benign inflation will
leave open the question of whether the ECB is going to do more
easing,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London .  Australia ’s dollar fell against the majority of its 16
most-traded counterparts on concern a slowdown in global growth
will hurt commodity prices. The Aussie declined 0.6 percent to
98.40 U.S. cents and reached 97.98, the weakest since June 6.  The Australian currency declined 3.3 percent over the past
six months, the second-worst performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.
The yen slumped 20 percent, while the euro increased 3.8 percent
and the dollar rose 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  