-- Dongfeng Buys Stake in Fujian Motor to Gain Factory Capacity
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-16T09:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/dongfeng-buys-stake-in-fujian-motor-to-expand-factory-capacity.html
Dongfeng Motor Corp., the second-largest Chinese automaker, will buy a stake in a smaller state-owned rival amid efforts by the government to create more
competitive carmakers.  Dongfeng, which makes cars with Nissan Motor Co. and PSA
Peugeot Citroen in  China , will inject capital into  Fujian Motor
Industry Group Co . in exchange for an undisclosed stake from the
Fujian provincial government, according to an e-mailed statement
today, which didn’t include financial details. Zhou Mi, a
spokesman for Dongfeng, didn’t answer calls to his office and
mobile phones.  China, home to more than 110 auto brands, has said it will
curb the increase in auto manufacturing capacity and encourage
mergers and reorganizations in the industry in order to create
three to five domestic carmakers that can compete with companies
like  General Motors Co. (GM) , which is spending $11 billion by 2016
to expand in China.  “This is part of the ongoing process for industry
consolidation, we should be expecting more deals in the coming
years,” said Lin Huaibin, a Shanghai-based analyst at IHS
Automotive. “It probably is still a little bit too far away for
Chinese automakers to be able to compete against foreign
automakers, but this is step one.”  Second Auto  Dongfeng was started by the central government in 1969 as
the Second Automobile Works. The Wuhan, Hubei province-based
company, which produces Nissan’s Teana sedan,  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s
CR-V SUV and Citroen’s C5 sedan at its plants in China, is
seeking to reduce its reliance on profits from manufacturing and
selling foreign brands by boosting sales of its self-developed
nameplates.  “Fujian Motor’s self-developed brands will boost and
accelerate our self-developed brand strategy,” Dongfeng said in
the statement. The strategic cooperation with the Fujian
government will also help Dongfeng speed up its pace of exports
given the province’s location in China’s southeastern coast, the
company said.  Fujian Motor, owned by the government of China’s southern
Fujian province, holds 50 percent of a three-way venture with
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  and Taiwan’s  China Motor Corp. (2204)  Under the
deal announced today, Dongfeng and Fujian Motor will set up a
separate  investment company  to take a controlling stake in the
venture, known as Southeast Fujian Motor Corp.  Dongfeng’s investment won’t affect the equity structure of
Southeast Fujian, China Motor and Mitsubishi said through their
respective spokesmen, Chang Shih-Ho and Tomoko Kawabe.  Fujian Motor also has another joint venture with Daimler AG
producing vans such as the Sprinter and Vito. Another unit,
Fujian Longma Automobile Co., produces mini-commercial vehicles
at a factory with an annual capacity of 150,000 units.  Buying the stake in Fujian Motor will give Dongfeng access
to manufacturing capacity in southeastern China, where it
doesn’t have any factories, according to Lin at IHS. The two
companies can also cut costs by sharing technology and
purchasing, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  