-- The NBA Is Rigged -- Against Small Markets
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-05-16T01:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/the-nba-is-rigged-against-small-markets.html
The excruciating melodrama is over,
at least for now:  Sacramento  will  remain the home  of the Kings,
presumably under new ownership. What’s less clear is the future
of the franchise in today’s NBA.  The story of the rise and fall of the Kings includes a lot
of stock sports characters: untrustworthy owners, lousy management,
fed-up fans. Its central theme, however, is the basic tension
within  David Stern ’s  National Basketball Association . For all of
the commissioner’s efforts to push teams into smaller markets,
his league reinforces the inherent advantages of big-city
franchises.  It’s easy to forget that 10 years ago, the Kings were a
perennial playoff contender that regularly packed their dowdy
arena. The second generation of  the Maloof family , which
assumed control of the franchise in 1999, seemed to be
fulfilling some sort of prophetic destiny: The father, George Maloof Sr., had bought the  Houston Rockets  in 1979, then died
suddenly in 1980, a year before the team reached the NBA Finals.  The young Maloofs were laddish, enthusiastic proprietors,
even civic-minded. In its 2003 survey of 121 professional sports
franchise owners in  North America , ESPN the Magazine ranked them
 third-best , citing -- of all things -- their loyalty to the
local community. The Kings were like today’s Oklahoma City
Thunder, a consistently overachieving small-market team.  The Boys  Since then, the Maloofs have squandered their father’s
fortune -- or rather, set it on fire with a series of bad casino
and real estate investments in  Las Vegas . Leveraged to the hilt,
they stopped spending on the Kings and even borrowed more than
$100 million from the NBA in recent years just to keep the
franchise afloat. (Stern, who was friends with George, had a
soft spot for “the boys,” as he called them.) The Kings haven’t
made it to the playoffs since 2006.  As for the Maloofs’ vaunted loyalty to the community, it
was pitched onto the flames along with the family fortune. When
they weren’t threatening to move unless Sacramento built them a
new arena, they were negotiating with prospective buyers who
wanted to move the team.  Could the Kings have continued to thrive under smarter
ownership? Sure. But the franchise would inevitably have bumped
up against the economics of the NBA. For large-market teams such
as, say, the  New York Knicks  or the  Los Angeles Clippers , bad
ownership isn’t fatal. For small-market ones, it can be, at
least without an assist from the league.  A comparison to  Mark Cuban , owner of the  Dallas Mavericks ,
is instructive. He bought the Mavericks in 2000 and remains the
picture of a model owner. But he also moved the team right into
a brand new arena -- sponsored by  American Airlines  -- amply
outfitted with luxury suites and premium boxes. And the Mavs
play in a corporate-rich city, not a state-government town. They
make enough money to survive even the most colossal front-office
blunders.  Small-market teams can overachieve if they draft wisely and
manage salaries well. But their success will almost always be
fleeting. Right now the Thunder are winning games and turning a
profit, but when the team invariably falters, it will no longer
be a national phenomenon. It will be a struggling franchise
playing in a taxpayer-financed arena in the country’s 45th-largest television market. The Thunder will be lucky if their
fans remain as loyal as Sacramento’s.  Stern has supported the bidders who want to keep the Kings
in Sacramento for a variety of reasons. But the most important
may be his need to create the impression that he wants small-market teams to succeed. It’s the same impulse that prompted him
to veto the trade that would have sent  Chris Paul  from the  New
Orleans Hornets  to the  Los Angeles Lakers . (He wound up with the
Clippers, where he has helped save a big-market team that has
for decades been run into the ground, without consequence.)  The Superstars  In the end, the league’s biggest stars are always going to
gravitate toward the league’s biggest markets. From a financial
point of view, the NBA’s salary cap puts a premium on
endorsement deals, which favor players in bigger markets.  But it’s not just about the money -- the salary cap makes
sure of that, too.  LeBron James  didn’t go to the Heat for a
payday. (His salary is actually below the league maximum.) All
other things being equal, he went to Miami --  South Beach , as he
called it -- because he wanted to live there and he wanted to
win some championships with a few friends. It may sound
counterintuitive, but super-teams are the product of restricted
spending, not unrestricted spending.  The NBA’s new collective bargaining agreement -- a product
of the 2011 lockout -- may bring new windfalls to the league’s
neediest teams, but it won’t necessarily close the widening gap
when it comes to deals for TV rights. Nor will it stop the flow
of talent to the big cities.  If Stern truly aspired to competitive balance, he would
talk about lifting the league’s salary cap, which leaves small-market teams with nothing to offer players that big-market teams
can’t. What he really wants, though, is the appearance of
competitive balance. After all, the NBA has already tried actual
competitive balance, and it was a resounding failure: During the
1970s, the decade before Stern took over, eight teams won the
championships, and no one noticed. Since then, a handful of
teams have dominated the postseason, and the league’s revenues
have soared.  Where does this leave Sacramento? They’ve won the long
fight to keep their team, but a tougher battle lies ahead for
its new owners: Turning the little Kings into a successful
franchise in America’s most rigged professional sports league.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 