-- Health Law’s Cadillac Tax Bite on Companies Drops by $57 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-05-16T14:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/health-law-s-cadillac-tax-bite-on-companies-drops-by-57-billion.html
The U.S. health-care law’s projected
tax bite on businesses with more generous health benefits is
dropping as medical spending slows and employers look to rein in
the cost of coverage.  The 2010 Affordable Care Act’s so-called Cadillac tax on
high-premium health plans was initially projected to bring in
$137 billion over the next decade. That estimate has now been
trimmed to about $80 billion, a $57 billion decrease, the
 Congressional Budget Office  said in a  report  this week.  The 2010 Affordable Care Act includes a 40 percent tax on
employee benefits exceeding $10,200 for individuals and $27,500
for families, on the theory that overly generous plans boost
medical costs. Companies have responded by pressing hospitals
for better rates, adding wellness programs and raising
deductibles on workers, said Steve Wojcik, a vice president at
the  National Business Group on Health .  “I don’t think there’s any employer that’s going to pay
the tax,” said Wojcik, whose Washington-based trade group
represents employers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  American
Express Co. (AXP)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  “I would be surprised if they even
collect” the lower amount.  Largely because of a drop-off in projected tax revenues,
the estimated cost of implementing the law through 2023 rose by
$40 billion to $1.36 trillion, the budget office said.  The law imposes the “cadillac” tax starting in 2018.
Sixty-one percent of employers with 500 workers or more said in
a 2011 survey that they expected to trigger the tax unless they
took steps, according to Mercer Inc., a Washington-based
benefits consultant.  New Projection  CBO analysts said in a May 14 blog  post  that the projection
changed because of “new data on the health insurance premiums
paid by employers. As a result, we now expect fewer employment-based plans to be subject to the excise tax.”  A slowdown in U.S. medical costs since the recession that
began in 2008 probably contributed to the CBO’s forecast, Wojcik
said. Annual health spending climbed by about 3 percent on
average from 2009 to 2011, less than half the rate before the
recession started, according to the U.S. Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services.  Lower revenue from the tax would be “good news,” showing
the U.S. is making strides against health-care costs that have
long outstripped the rest of the world, said  Jonathan Gruber , an
economist at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in
Cambridge.  Breaking Point  The health law deserves credit, as do employers, Gruber
said in a telephone interview. “They basically reached a
breaking point in terms of costs and are taking action.”  Employers dispute the idea that their benefits have
encouraged more spending, instead blaming “unjustified cost
increases” from doctors and hospitals, Wojcik said in a
telephone interview.  Nonetheless, the Cadillac tax has spurred efforts to trim
insurance costs, he said. In one example, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, said last year
that it would pay for workers needing certain heart and spine
surgeries to travel to hospitals where the company says patient
outcomes are better.  “Employers have really rallied around,” said Beth Umland,
Mercer’s director for health-care and benefits research. “They
feel like they pay enough for health care, they don’t want to
pay a tax on top of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  