-- EDF Slumps After Nuclear Price Concerns Trigger Stock Downgrade
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-05-16T14:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/edf-slumps-after-nuclear-price-concerns-trigger-stock-downgrade.html
Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power producer, fell the most in five months in Paris
trading after Bank of America Corp. cut its rating on the stock
on concern earnings from nuclear generation will fall short.  EDF (EDF)  fell as much as 5.5 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since Nov. 29, and was down 4.8 percent at 17.265 euros
as of 4:39 p.m. local time. Trading volumes were more than 60
percent above the three-month daily average.  The French government, which controls Paris-based EDF, is
due to set wholesale prices for the company’s atomic power by
the end of the year as the utility pushes for higher rates to
help finance investments and cover costs. The tariff “could
disappoint investors,” Arnaud Joan, an analyst at Bank of
America in  London , wrote in a report published today.  EDF needs funds to improve safety at its 58 French reactors
after the country’s atomic authority tightened rules following
the 2011 Fukushima crisis in  Japan . While the regulator has
pushed for an increase of almost 30 percent in tariffs over five
years, President  Francois Hollande  has pledged to contain
household energy bills.  “The current government has little political incentive to
push for a significant increase” in power prices beyond the 30
percent projected by the regulator by 2017, Bank of America
said. The wholesale nuclear price may be set lower than the 44
euros a megawatt-hour previously estimated by the bank, it said,
downgrading EDF to underperform with a share-price estimate of
15.50 euros.  French wholesale and consumer electricity prices don’t
adequately reflect the costs of producing nuclear power, EDF
Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said in February. The
utility’s grid unit,  RTE , said today that nuclear output dropped
to 31.5 terawatt-hours in April from 33.1 terawatt-hours a year
earlier because of more reactor shutdowns for maintenance.  EDF’s reactors supply three-quarters of power output in
 France , making it the world’s most nuclear-dependent country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  