-- Hedge Funds’ Bet on Corbat Pays Off as Citigroup Surges
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-05-16T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/hedge-funds-bet-on-corbat-pay-off-as-citigroup-surges.html
Moore Capital Management LP and
Appaloosa Management LP are among hedge fund firms that counted
Citigroup Inc. among their top holdings before the bank posted a
16 percent rally in a month and a half.  Moore Capital, run by Louis Moore Bacon, boosted its stake
in the New York-based bank by 11 percent to 5.23 million shares,
which were valued at $231.2 million at the end of the first
quarter, filings yesterday show. Appaloosa, run by David Tepper,
held 8.5 million shares valued at $376.9 million after paring
its stake by 7.3 percent.  Investors are wagering that banks battered most by the
credit crisis will outperform peers as the Federal Reserve
continues buying bonds to stimulate the economy. Firms such as
Moore Capital and Odey Asset Management Group Ltd. bet on  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  last year, when the stock more than  doubled .
Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat , is the
latest favorite after he replaced Vikram Pandit in October.  “The new CEO has gotten an immediate vote of approval,”
said Michael Holland, chairman of New York-based Holland & Co.,
which oversees more than $4 billion and doesn’t hold Citigroup.
The bank’s businesses had “been so beaten up in public
investors’ mind. Now that things are beginning to heal the
valuations are starting to climb.”  Citigroup advanced 2.5 percent yesterday to $51.34 and has
been the best performer since March in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24
U.S. lenders. The shares have climbed 40  percent  since Corbat
took over Oct. 16, outpacing the 20 percent gain of the bank
index and 15 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Another High  The broader S&P hit a record high yesterday for a fourth
straight session as weakness in manufacturing and a drop in
wholesale inflation fueled bets the Fed will be in no hurry to
scale back bond purchases. The central bank has announced three
programs of debt buys to keep interest rates at historic lows.  Blue Ridge Capital LLC, run by John Griffin, and Columbus
Circle Investors Inc. were among new Citigroup shareholders in
the first quarter, filings show.  Blue Ridge, one of the so-called Tiger Cubs that trace
their roots to Julian Robertson, founder of Tiger Management
LLC, bought 4.66 million shares valued at $206.2 million at the
end of March, according to filings. Columbus Circle, the
 Stamford , Connecticut-based investment firm that manages more
than $14.5 billion, added 1.54 million shares.  “There is a bandwagon effect,” Holland said. “When
things are getting better people don’t want to miss out.”  Omega Advisors  Omega Advisors Inc., the hedge fund run by  Leon Cooperman ,
increased its Citigroup holding by almost 150 percent and held
2.24 million shares valued at $99.2 million at the end of March.  “If we own it, it’s because we think it’s undervalued,”
Cooperman said in an e-mail. “Hope we’re right.”  Some Wall Street analysts see more upside for Citigroup.
Michael Mayo of CLSA Ltd. reversed a five-year stance of telling
investors to sell the shares after Corbat became CEO. Mayo,
whose clients include hedge funds, changed his rating in October
to outperform from underperform as Pandit’s ouster reflects a
“more proactive board,” he wrote at the time. In January, he
raised the recommendation to buy.  Scotia Capital Inc.’s Kevin Choquette made the bank a
“focus stock” for clients in January.  Still, the stock may be running out of steam. It’s close to
the 12-month price target of $54.16 estimated by 25 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, and while first-quarter results showed an
increase in revenue, that was helped by hedging and excluded
accounting adjustments.  George Soros  Some investors joined Tepper’s Appaloosa in paring their
Citigroup stakes, including  George Soros ’s Soros Fund Management
LLC, which sold 7.58 million shares and held less than 545,000
at the end of the first quarter. York Capital Management LP sold
all of its 2.73 million shares.  Soros also liquidated all of its 4.1 million Morgan Stanley
shares, joining Third Point LLC, the hedge-fund firm led by
Daniel Loeb, which exited its stake of 7.75 million shares.
Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s biggest brokerage, fell to
a three-month low April 18 after reporting the largest drop in
trading revenue among the six banks.  Third Point said in a January letter that shares of Morgan
Stanley may rise to almost $40 as the investment bank improves
brokerage margins and management devises a “bold fix” for the
fixed-income business.  Other  investors (C)  took positions in New York-based Morgan
Stanley amid Loeb’s exit. Lansdowne Partners Ltd., one of the
biggest European hedge funds that invests in equities, bought
1.92 million shares valued at $42.2 million at the end of March,
while Moore Capital purchased 4.49 million shares valued at
$98.6 million.  Revenue Falls  While the combined first-quarter profit for the six biggest
U.S. banks increased by 45 percent, their combined revenue fell,
leaving most of them to rely on a mix of tax benefits, staff
reductions and cost cuts to increase earnings.  Citigroup, the third-biggest lender, and No. 2 Bank of
America “had tremendous problems,” said Tom Brown, CEO of
Second Curve Capital LLC, a  New York  hedge fund that owns stakes
in both.  “Now it’s just betting the management teams at both
companies can reduce expenses relative to revenues,” Brown
said. “And they will generate a tremendous amount of excess
capital so we will see favorable capital actions,” such as
dividend increases and share repurchases, he said. Citigroup is
a better long-term bet because of its emerging-markets and
transaction-processing businesses, he said.  Bank shares, which have been held back amid new
regulations, will climb higher and toward their full book values
as the rules are finalized, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein said yesterday in a
presentation in Santiago,  Chile .  “Regulation will not turn up as bad as it’s judged to be,
the economic certainties will clear up and people will decide
there’s growth,” Blankfein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  