-- Egypt Anti-Mursi Campaign Collects Signatures, Calls for Rallies
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-05-16T14:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/egypt-anti-mursi-campaign-collects-signatures-calls-for-rallies.html
Egypt ’s opposition has called for
rallies next month and is amassing signatures to force President
Mohamed Mursi from office and hold early presidential elections.  Opposition groups called for nationwide protests on June
30, the first anniversary of Mursi’s swearing in as Egypt’s
first democratically elected civilian president.  It will be the “day of toppling the oppressive regime of
the Muslim Brotherhood,” Ahmed Bahaa Eddin Shaaban of the
National Assembly for Change, a member of the main opposition
National Salvation Front, told a televised press conference
today.  Egypt’s opposition says Mursi has focused on entrenching
the power of his Muslim Brotherhood and stifling dissent,
instead of addressing the root causes of the 2011 uprising
against  Hosni Mubarak , such as unemployment and police
brutality. Mursi’s government has blamed the opposition for
violent protests that have delayed the economy’s recovery from
its deepest slump in two decades.  The organizers of an opposition campaign called
“Tamarod,” or rebellion, aim to collect 15 million signatures,
which would outnumber the votes the Islamist president got in
the 2012 election, demanding Mursi’s removal. Campaigners will
then take the signatures to the Supreme Constitutional Court,
demanding Mursi’s removal and an early presidential election,
said Eslam Hammam, a spokesman for the campaign.  “Mursi has broken all his promises, a deteriorating
economic and security situation, more poverty, things are
actually getting worse and people are fed up,” Hammam said in a
phone interview today. Tamarod has collected more than 2 million
signatures in two weeks, he said.  Islamists have started counter-campaigns to support Mursi.
Assem Abdel-Maged, a leading member of the Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya
group, this week started a counter-initiative named “Tagarod,”
or “Impartiality,” to collect signatures in support of the
president, the state-run Middle East news agency reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  