-- Eltel Cable Set to Bring Power to New Angola Refinery by October
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-05-16T10:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/eltel-cable-set-to-bring-power-to-new-angola-refinery-by-october.html
Eltel Networks Te AB, a Swedish
power-transmission provider, said it will electrify an $8
billion refinery project in  Angola  as the southwest African
country seeks to cut fuel imports following a 27-year civil war.  The company plans to switch on a 250-kilometer (155-mile)
transmission line in October, linking the Cambambe hydroelectric
dam with the 200,000-barrel-a-day plant under construction near
Lobito, site supervisor Jens Sjolin said in an interview. The
$130 million, 220-kilovolt line will be the first to connect the
country’s north and center.  The Eltel project, which has required surveyors to steer
around unexploded grenades left from the war to prepare the
route, forms part of Angola’s rebuilding plans following the end
of the conflict in 2002. The country wants the refinery to cut
$250 million a year in fuel imports by 2016, according to the
state petroleum company  Sonangol EP . The government also plans
new power plants to more than double electricity output.  Angola’s grid is more advanced than those in other nations
in the region such as Tanzania,  Mozambique , the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo and Zambia, Sjolin said at a work camp near
Sumbe, 330 kilometers south of the capital Luanda. “It’s built
a lot of new roads over the past 10 years that give access to
build transmission lines,” he said.  The country,  Africa ’s largest crude producer after  Nigeria ,
pumps 1.8 million barrels of oil a day from offshore fields
operated by companies including  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Total SA, and
already has a refinery in Luanda that processes about 41,000
barrels a day.  Project Setbacks  The transmission-line venture, funded by a loan from
Stockholm-based Eltel to Angola that’s backed by the Swedish
government, uses Turkish steel in 641 towers, Sjolin said.
Bureaucracy and difficulties importing equipment have delayed
the project by about two years, according to the supervisor, who
said the company also encountered relics from the war.  “We found some grenades, but there were no explosions,”
said Sjolin, who surveyed the entire route on foot. “We had to
go around some properties like the local petroleum school and
land belonging to generals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  