-- Telus Will Acquire Mobilicity for $373 Million
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-05-16T20:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/telus-will-acquire-mobilicity-for-373-million.html
Telus Corp. (T) ,  Canada ’s third-largest
wireless operator, has agreed to buy struggling mobile-phone
provider Mobilicity for C$380 million ($373 million) to gain
ground on larger rival  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)   All of the money committed to buy Mobilicity, formally
known as Data & Audio-Visual Enterprises Holdings Inc., will be
used to pay off Mobilicity’s debt, Vancouver-based Telus said in
a statement today. The acquisition also needs the approval of
Canadian regulators and Mobilicity’s debt holders.  Buying Mobilicity would eventually give Telus more of the
valuable wireless spectrum that all Canadian carriers are
seeking, letting it accommodate data-hungry smartphone users.
Rogers agreed to buy unused spectrum from  Shaw Communications
Inc. (SJR/B)  for about C$300 million earlier this year. Current rules,
however, prohibit the transfer of ownership of spectrum
purchased in a 2008 government auction before 2014.  Telus shares  rose 1 percent to C$37.33 at the close in
Toronto trading. The stock has climbed 15 percent this year.  If the deal is approved, Telus said it will retain all of
Toronto-based Mobilicity’s 150 employees. The company expects an
“expeditious legal and regulatory review in view of the current
circumstances Mobilicity is facing.”  Big Three  Canada’s new crop of wireless operators -- Mobilicity, Wind
Mobile and Public Mobile -- have struggled to undercut the
dominance of Rogers, Telus and  BCE Inc. (BCE) , which together control
about 90 percent of the Canadian mobile-phone market. Mobilicity
paid about C$243 million for spectrum in the 2008 auction, which
was designed to trigger fresh competition for the big three.  Wind Mobile -- the largest of the three new entrants, which
paid about C$442 million for airwaves in 2008 -- has been put up
for sale by its backers, a person familiar with that process has
said.  “Our government has taken significant action to promote
competition in the wireless sector,” Industry Minister
Christian Paradis said in an e-mailed statement. “The
government will take the time required to review the proposal
carefully.”  Catalyst Capital Group, a Toronto-based investment firm and
Mobilicity’s largest bondholder, said today in a statement that
it welcomed the deal. Catalyst said that it had neither bid for
Mobilicity nor had any plans to acquire it.  “Catalyst still believes that the Canadian wireless market
can support an independent, strong, national fourth carrier that
will offer consumers real choice, while meeting the government‘s
priority to provide greater wireless coverage at better rates
for consumers,” the firm said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  