-- Emerging-Market Technology Stocks Rise as Russia, Brazil Slide
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-05-16T21:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/emerging-stocks-advance-to-one-week-high-on-technology-earnings.html
Emerging-market technology stocks
rose on better-than-estimated earnings at  Tencent (700)  Holdings Ltd.
Russian and Brazilian shares fell led by commodity producers.  Tencent,  China ’s largest Internet company by revenue,
surged to a record in Hong Kong, while  NHN Corp. (035420) , South Korea’s
biggest search-engine operator, jumped 7.5 percent in  Seoul . OAO
Novolipetsk Steel, a Russian steelmaker, plunged in London and
Asseco Poland SA, a Polish software maker, led declines in
Warsaw as MSCI Inc. said it was removing the stocks from its
country indexes.  Turkey ’s lira weakened as the central bank cut
interest rates more than forecast.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed at
1,046.33. Sixty-eight percent of the technology companies in the
MSCI index that reported first-quarter earnings  beat  analysts’
estimates, compared with 49 percent for the  broader  index.  “Most technology and telecom companies will show strong
earnings growth this year on new products and higher demand,”
Sasikorn Charoensuwan, head of research at Phillip Securities
( Thailand ) Pcl in Bangkok, said by phone. “Still, the global
economy remains weak, with disappointing economic data.”  U.S. government reports today showed housing starts dropped
more than forecast while jobless claims jumped to the highest
level in six weeks. The Federal Reserve may reduce its $85
billion in monthly bond-buying as early as this summer amid
signs the economy is gaining strength, Fed Bank of San Francisco
President John Williams said today.  Foreign direct investment in China rose 0.4 percent from a
year earlier to $8.4 billion, the Ministry of Commerce said in a
statement today. That was less than the 5.7 percent gain in
March and the 6.2 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of eight analysts.  Rising Yields  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 275 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund lost 0.4 percent to $43.23. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 2.8 percent to 18.87.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa declined 0.3 percent as oil company OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA slumped 4.8 percent. Iron-ore
producer Vale  tumbled  2.4 percent, falling a fifth day.  Russia’s Micex Index fell 1.3 percent, retreating for a
fifth day, its longest losing streak since April 18. Novolipetsk
slid 4.9 percent in Moscow, while its depositary  receipts  lost
4.7 percent in London.  Asseco Poland  Asseco Poland dropped 3.7 percent, snapping a five-day
rally. The WIG20 Index slipped 0.8 percent. Alior Bank SA, a
Polish lender, surged 6.7 percent in Warsaw after the
announcement of its pending inclusion in the MSCI Poland Index.  Turkey’s lira pared losses after the country’s credit
rating was raised to investment grade by Moody’s Investors
Services Inc. for the first time in two decades as the
government reduced its debt and current-account deficits.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index added 1.2 percent, while
the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong dropped 0.6 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi
index (KOSPI)  advanced 0.8 percent to the highest since April 1.  Tencent gained 6.5 percent after net income rose 37 percent
to 4.04 billion  yuan  ($657 million) in the three months through
March. Profit exceeded the 3.75 billion-yuan average of eight
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. (042660) , the world’s
third-largest shipbuilder, lost 11 percent in Seoul, its biggest
drop since August 2011 and the steepest decline in the
developing-nations gauge. The shipbuilder reported yesterday a
42 percent decline in first-quarter profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in  London  at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  