-- Empire State Building IPO Has Almost All Votes Needed
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-05-16T20:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/empire-state-building-ipo-has-almost-all-votes-needed.html
A plan to form a real estate
investment trust holding New York’s Empire State Building has
almost all of the votes needed to proceed, Malkin Holdings LLC
said today.  Holders of 79.6 percent of the units of Empire State
Building Associates LLC, which owns the Manhattan landmark, have
voted in favor of the transaction, Malkin Holdings said in a
regulatory filing. That’s up from 75 percent as of April 3, the
most recent update. Eighty percent approval is needed.  The votes indicate that Malkin Holdings Chairman Peter Malkin and President Anthony Malkin, who control the tower, are
edging closer to victory in their plan for an initial public
offering of the building and 20 other properties. The Malkins,
who have been fighting opposition from some of the investors,
recently won two court rulings that eliminated potential
obstacles to the plan.  The filing, a letter being mailed to all investors,
“creates a sense that the vote is a fait accompli,” said David Reiss, a professor of real estate finance at Brooklyn Law School
who isn’t involved in the transaction. “It is an effective
document for creating a sense that this is a done deal.”  Court Rulings  On May 2, New York Supreme Court Justice O. Peter Sherwood
said he intended to approve a $55 million settlement of a class-action lawsuit by a set of unit-holders. He has yet to make his
approval official. Two days earlier, he denied a request by
objectors to the settlement to declare a provision illegal which
could result in opponents getting a token $100 a share if they
didn’t switch their votes to “yes” within 10 days of official
approval by 80 percent of the building’s units.  Malkin Holdings had said it would leave the voting on the
IPO open until Sherwood ruled on the $100 provision, or until
May 2. The voting has been open since late January, and the
Malkins have the option to extend the ballot period until the
end of 2014.  Each Empire State Building unit may be worth more than
$300,000, according to the  offering statement .  In today’s filing, investors are reminded that the buyout
provision is “legally binding and enforceable.”  While the Malkins may invoke the provision to get the
needed unanimity, they “may not enforce the $100 price,” Reiss
said.  Legal Challenge  “For the hypothetical person in a coma or who is otherwise
unavailable during the 10-day period, they would get terrible PR
and may face a serious legal challenge on those facts,” he said
in an e-mail.  Sherwood found that the opponents didn’t have standing to
challenge the buyout, which Thomas E.L. Dewey, an attorney for
the Malkins, argued was done to protect small minorities from
thwarting actions that majorities wanted. The provision was
disclosed from the inception of the partnership more than 50
years ago.  The opponents’ attorney, Stephen Meister, is pursuing an
appeal of the ruling.  The 3,300 Empire State Building units are divided into
three 1,100-unit groups, and 80 percent of each group has to
approve the transaction. That threshold has been achieved in one
of those three groups, the Malkins said in today’s filing.  “The math is very simple: Far more investors support the
transaction than oppose it,”  Brandy Bergman , a spokeswoman for
Malkin Holdings with Sard Verbinnen & Co., said in an e-mail.
“We are proceeding with our solicitation to deliver what the
vast majority of our investors want. We encourage all investors
who have yet to vote in favor of the transaction to do so now.”  Other Buildings  The Malkins are also close to getting approvals from
investors in two other  midtown Manhattan  buildings slated for
the REIT: 60 E. 42nd St., formerly called the Lincoln Building,
and the Fisk Building at 250 W. 57th St.  They have more than the required votes from Fisk Building
unit-holders, and they have 98.8 percent of the approvals they
need from an unspecified number of groups of 60 E. 42nd St.
investors, according to the filing.  Voters are permitted to change their decision in either
direction as long as the solicitation period remains open. Non-votes are equivalent to rejecting the plan.  Opposing investors have battled with the Malkins over
various provisions they thought were unfair, including assigning
roughly half of the Empire State Building’s estimated $2.5
billion value to a sublease holder majority-owned by the estate
of Leona Helmsley. The REIT conversion is in large part driven
by the estate’s need to liquidate, the Malkins have said.  ‘Lousy Alternative’  Dissidents have said a REIT conversion would mean giving up
a reliable income stream that should rise as renovations on the
Empire State Building are completed. The Malkins have said their
plan would give unit-holders liquidity, regular dividends and
greater growth opportunities.  “The proposed REIT, with a projected dividend of 1.8
percent, is still a lousy alternative to current ownership,”
Richard Edelman of Solana Beach,  California , a unit-holder who
operates a  website  critical of the plan, said in an e-mail.
“Fifty days after the original voting deadline, the REIT is
still not approved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  