-- Energy Future’s Woes Stunt Oncor’s Power Growth Ambitions
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-05-16T19:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/energy-future-s-woes-stunt-oncor-s-texas-power-growth-ambitions.html
Oncor Electric Delivery Co.,  Texas ’
largest power utility, may not be able to take full advantage of
the nation’s fastest-growing electricity market because of
capital constraints lingering from its parent’s 2007 leveraged
buyout.  Oncor would have to cut dividend payments to Energy Future
Holdings Corp. if the Texas electricity distributer wanted to
fund another major project in the state where it serves more
than 3 million homes and business, Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman Bob Shapard said.  “The biggest challenge we have today is access to
capital,” Shapard said yesterday in an interview with  Bloomberg
News  in  Dallas . “If we wanted to go out and expand and do some
things, the only source we would have for equity capital is to
hold back dividends.”  Energy Future, which is teetering toward bankruptcy with
about $40 billion in debt after the largest leveraged buyout in
history, owns an 80 percent stake in Oncor, an independent
regulated utility. The Energy Future unit that holds Oncor
depends on the utility’s dividend payments to help meet
approximately $807 million in annual interest expense.  Provisions set up at the time of the buyout in 2007 led by
 KKR & Co. (KKR) , TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs Capital Group Partners
will shield Oncor from any potential restructuring, Shapard
said. Moody’s Investors Service expects a “material
restructuring” at Dallas-based Energy Future within a year.  Annual Investment  Oncor plans to spend about $1 billion a year on its Texas
distribution network, Shapard said. About half of that will go
toward building new transmission lines, with the rest spent on
serving new customers from Dallas to West Texas, upgrading and
maintaining existing equipment and investing in new gear that
protects against power failures.  The utility reduced its dividend payments to Energy Future
to about 20 percent of its earnings in order to finance its $2
billion share in a power-line project connecting West Texas wind
turbines to the state’s power grid. Oncor will be able to boost
its dividend after completion of that project next year, Shapard
said.  If the utility wanted to invest beyond its planned
spending, it would have to continue to limit its dividend to
Energy Future, he said. The company can’t raise much additional
money by borrowing because it’s near the 60 percent debt cap set
up by regulators as part of the buyout, he said.  Oncor’s investment decisions are governed by a board
independent from Energy Future.  Dividend Payments  Oncor is expected to pay its corporate parent about $248
million this year and $224 million next year, according to
financial projections that Energy Future provided creditors and
detailed in an April 15 filing.  The annual payment to the corporate owners is expected to
grow to $320 million in 2015 and $366 million by 2017, according
to the filing. It noted the distributions could be affected by
Oncor’s capital spending and changes to its earnings before
interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization.  Oncor is well-protected from the financial fall out at its
parent by structural, legal and regulatory provisions that allow
it to operate separately from its majority owner, Dimitri Nikas,
a New York-based credit analyst with Standard & Poor’s Financial
Services LLC, wrote in a May 14 report.  Bankruptcy Rumblings  As bankruptcy rumblings grew louder for Energy Future over
the past year, Oncor further separate itself from its parent by
bringing under its sole control common business functions that
the two had shared, such as accounting, payroll and insurance.  Even so, the issues at Energy Future continue to weigh on
Oncor’s bonds, which “trade wide” with greater yields than
peers such as Ameren  Illinois , Dot Matthews and Scott Greenstein, analysts with CreditSights Inc., wrote in a May 7
report.  Oncor’s $299.6 million of 4.55 percent, first-lien bonds
due 2041 traded at 106.27 cents on the dollar May 8 to yield
4.17 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  TXU Receivables  An Energy Future bankruptcy may squeeze Oncor’s liquidity,
however, since it distributes power for Energy Future’s retail
electricity unit, TXU Energy. That contract accounted for 29
percent of Oncor’s 2012 revenues, Nikas said.  “There’s no question that’s our single biggest liability
in the case of their default,” Shapard said.  The company estimated that in its worst-case scenario -- an
Energy Future bankruptcy filing during the hottest days of
summer -- receivables at risk would total as much as $150
million from the retail marketer, company spokesman Chris Schein
said. Oncor’s operations and investment plans wouldn’t be
affected even if it couldn’t fully recoup that amount, Shapard
said.  “We’ll take a hit from that,”he said. “Beyond that we
should be fine.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  