-- Tennis With Evert, Baseball With Microsoft: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-05-16T16:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/tennis-with-evert-baseball-with-microsoft-d-c-scene.html
Former Senator John Breaux said
tennis taught him “how to handle winning and losing.”  Last night, Breaux, now senior counsel at Patton Boggs LLP,
was honored for his contributions to the sport, along with
former tennis ace  Chris Evert , during the Geico Champions
Celebration dinner at the residence of Swedish Ambassador Jonas Hafstrom.  Hafstrom’s wife, Eva, filled in as host as he was in his
home country with Secretary of State  John Kerry .  Breaux, who has been involved with a number of charity
tournaments through the years, started playing the sport as a
boy in  Louisiana . He said his first court was asphalt with
“cracks so big you could break your ankle.”  His game has progressed but remains modest compared to
Evert’s: “She’s won 18 Grand Slam Championships. I’ve won
none.” Evert joked that his “grip was a little dodgy.”  The dinner raised about $170,000 for the Junior Tennis
Champions Center and its Game On program, which sends the
center’s players and coaches into inner-city schools.  Other guests included Mark Ein, owner of the  Washington 
Kastles tennis team and chief executive of Venturehouse Group
LLC; Rynthia Rost, vice president of public affairs at Geico
Corp.; and Swedish tennis champion  Mats Wilander .  Home Runs  Matt Gelman, senior director of congressional affairs at
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , practiced his swing at last night’s Home Runs
for Horton’s Kids at Nationals Park.  He was joined in the batting cage by congressional staff
members, other lobbyists and their children.  “This really is Washington at its best. Everybody
leverages their contacts and pitches in,” said Ivan Zapien,
vice president for federal relations at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  The
event, now in its fifth year, helps the needy children of
Washington’s Ward 8.  Microsoft and Wal-Mart were among the grand slam sponsors,
helping bring in more than $350,000.  Jeanne Wolak, senior director for legislative and
regulatory strategy for Southern Co., wasn’t too confident about
her batting ability, but “it’s fun,” she said.  Congresswoman Cynthia Lummis, Wyoming Republican, was
raring to get behind the plate, even in her red suit, after a
day on the Hill.  Dean’s Book  Federal prosecutor Paul Nitze introduced author  Vali Nasr 
at a book party at the Georgetown home of his parents, art
collectors William and Ann Nitze, Monday night. William Nitze is
chairman of Oceana Energy Co.  It seemed the appropriate thing to do as Nasr is the dean
of the Paul Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at
 Johns Hopkins University . The younger Nitze and the school share
the name of the late secretary of the Navy and acclaimed Cold
War policy strategist.  Guests including French Ambassador Francois Delattre,
Italian Ambassador Claudio Bisogniero and Japanese Ambassador
Kenichiro Sasae gathered in the Nitze family’s parlor for
deviled eggs, artichoke fritters and smoked bacon bites, and
some current-affairs chat spurred by Nasr’s new book, “The
Dispensable Nation: American Foreign Policy in Retreat.”  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina, Philip Boroff,
Thomas Mulier and Scott Reyburn on art  auctions .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 