-- Merkel Draws Bank Fire in Pre-Election Regulation Splurge
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-05-16T10:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/merkel-draws-bank-fire-in-pre-election-regulation-splurge.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  is drawing
fire from Germany’s banks for pushing through regulation they
say is rushed and meant to appeal to voters more than lenders.  The legislation, bundled into three votes scheduled today
and tomorrow in the lower house in Berlin, the Bundestag,
includes bills to force banks to segregate proprietary trading
starting in 2017 and to anchor Basel III proposals on capital-adequacy into German law.  It was in fact  Peer Steinbrueck , Merkel’s first-term
finance minister and her Social Democratic challenger in Sept.
22 elections, who first advocated a split of banks, a proposal
adopted in watered-down form by Merkel’s government. Hurrying
the bills through the Bundestag now, six weeks before lawmakers
leave for the summer recess, is a ruse intended to undermine the
opposition’s campaign platform, said banks analyst Dirk Becker.  “There’s pure election campaigning and little economic
sense in the haste to get the bank separation bill through,”
Becker, deputy head of German research at financial advisers
Kepler Cheuvreux in Frankfurt, said in a telephone interview.
“Germany should wait to legislate after the European Commission
knows where it’s going with this plan.”  Germany ’s banks say they have been swamped by more than 30
regulation packages since the September 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., pushing up their cost of doing business
relative to foreign competitors and making services for clients
more expensive.  ‘Gold Plates’  Lawmakers are due to debate and vote from about 3:30 p.m.
today on a Basel III bill which calls for banks to more than
triple reserves for absorbing losses, and on a bill adopting a
European Union directive for the supervision of hedge funds and
private equity funds. The Basel III bill “ gold plates ” EU
proposals by incorporating steps not required in the directive,
Deutsche Kreditwirtschaft, the German bank lobby group, said in
a May 6 statement.  Tomorrow, lawmakers will discuss draft legislation for
transferring national bank supervision to the European Central
Bank and vote on the bank separation bill.  Coalition lawmakers say the plan to push the legislation
through parliament may mean it will require amendments after the
election. “There’s no fine tuning” in the drafts, Ralph Brinkhaus, a lawmaker from Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union
who coordinates finance bills for his party, told reporters in
Berlin yesterday.  As many as 12 of Germany’s largest banks, including
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , will be required by 2015 to specify how they
will hive off proprietary trading from their deposit business,
the latest draft of the bank separation bill shows.  Steinbrueck Model  Merkel’s model falls short of calls by Steinbrueck for
banks to put their securities in separately capitalized units to
protect retail and corporate clients should traders run up
losses. That plan, which he announced last year, is similar to
measures suggested by ECB governing council member Erkki Liikanen and a plan U.K. regulators are pursuing.  Germany’s banking industry “doesn’t see the necessity for
hurrying” the bank separation bill through parliament before
other European Union countries, the group that represents the
five biggest bank lobbies said April 17.  Deutsche Bank told coalition lawmakers and Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble that it can “live with” the planned
legislation since it exited proprietary trading after the 2008
banking crisis, said Birgit Reinemund, chairwoman of the all-party Finance Committee.  “We’re on track to get these bills through the chamber by
the summer,” Reinemund, a lawmaker with Merkel’s Free
Democratic coalition partner, said in a May 7 telephone
interview. “There’s no compelling reason why we shouldn’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  