-- ESPN Signs 11-Year Deal for Exclusive Rights to U.S. Open Tennis
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-16T18:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/espn-signs-11-year-deal-for-exclusive-rights-to-u-s-open-tennis.html
ESPN reached agreement for exclusive
rights to the  U.S. Open , wresting the tennis tournament’s finals
away from CBS after 47 years.  The 11-year-deal with the  U.S. Tennis Association  begins in
2015,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN said in an e-mailed release without
mentioning the financial details. The deal is worth $770
million, according to the Sports Business Daily.  The final Grand Slam tournament of the year, the U.S. Open
is held at the National Tennis Center in Flushing, Queens,
starting at the end of August.  “Certain sporting events become synonymous with when they
are held, and there is no better -- or bigger -- way to
celebrate the end of summer than at the U.S. Open in New York,”
ESPN President John Skipper said in the release. “We look
forward to capturing every match, every star, every championship
and all the drama on this grand stage.”  ESPN will work to make every match on all 17 courts
available on ESPN3, its online video platform, over the course
of the contract, according to the release. Six of the courts
have coverage now.  “This wide-ranging and broad relationship with ESPN
positions tennis at the forefront of American sports,” USTA
Chairman Dave Haggerty said in the release.  CBS has been a broadcast partner of the tournament every
year since 1968, and is in the middle of a deal in which it
shares coverage of the event with ESPN. The network, which airs
the men’s and women’s finals under the current agreement, had a
45-day exclusive negotiating window that expired at the end of
April, according to Sports Business Daily, allowing ESPN to
negotiate for the entire tournament.  Best Wishes  “We are proud of our long-term association with the USTA
and wish them well,” the  CBS Corp. (CBS)  unit said in a statement.  The network said it has “profitable partnerships with all
of our key sports franchises locked up for many, many years to
come,” including the  National Football League , Southeastern
Conference football, the men’s national college basketball
tournament and golf’s  PGA Tour .  Today’s agreement means ESPN will air the championships for
three of tennis’ four Grand Slam tournaments. ESPN acquired the
rights to Wimbledon two years ago, ending NBC’s 43-year run of
showing the tournament, and has carried the Australian Open
since 1984. The cable network also has carried some action from
the French Open for more than a decade, with the championship
matches from Paris aired on Comcast Corp.’s NBC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  