-- Hess to Add Elliott Nominees to Board, Ending Proxy Fight
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-05-16T20:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/hess-to-add-elliott-nominees-to-board-ending-proxy-fight.html
Hess Corp. (HES)  ended a four-month proxy
battle with billionaire Paul Singer’s Elliott Management Corp.,
adding three of the activist investor’s five board nominees and
heading off a shareholder vote on competing candidates.  Elliott withdrew its proposed slate and supported the
company’s five board nominees in exchange for the three seats,
Hess said in a statement today. With departures, nine of the 14
people on the New York-based company’s board are new. The
agreement was announced hours before Hess was expected to
announce the results of shareholder voting at its annual meeting
in Houston.  “The settlement is a big win for Elliott,” said Stephen Simko, a Chicago-based analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , who rates
Hess four out of five stars. “If you look at the credentials,
the energy experience and the independence of this board, it’s
dramatically better than it was.”  Mark Williams, a former member of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s
executive committee nominated by Hess and elected by
shareholders today, was voted non-executive chairman at the new
board’s first meeting, Hess said today in a statement. That
fulfilled a May 10 promise by the company to strip the
chairmanship from Chief Executive Officer John B. Hess.  Seeking Changes  Elliott, the second-largest shareholder with a 4.5 percent
 stake , has been calling since January for changes at Hess. The
company should streamline operations and suffered from poor
oversight by a board that lacked experience and independence,
Elliott  said . Hess, formed 80 years ago by John Hess’ father,
expects to get $3.4 billion this year from selling assets as it
exits refining and divests gasoline stations and other units to
focus on oil exploration and production.  Hess fell 2.1 percent to $69.11 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 30 percent this year, the fourth-best
performance among the 43 companies on the  Standard and Poor’s
500 Energy Index .  The agreement with Hess resolves the latest in a series of
shareholder challenges to energy-company leadership. Investors
in  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  will vote tomorrow on whether to support the
company’s board or nominees from billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who is seeking to boost the dividend at the largest
offshore oil rig contractor.  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  Chairman Ray Irani, an executive
at the oil company for almost three decades, was forced to step
down May 3 after investors voted against him.  SandRidge Energy
Inc. (SD)  agreed in March to make changes to its board after
criticism from shareholder TPG-Axon Capital Management LP.
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  co-founder Aubrey McClendon was stripped
of his chairmanship before stepping down as CEO last month.  ‘Huge Bargain’  Of Elliott’s five original nominees, Rodney Chase, Harvey Golub and David McManus joined the board. Chase is a former
deputy CEO for  BP Plc (BP/) , Golub ran  American Express Co. (AXP)  from 1993
to 2001 and served for 11 months as chairman of American
International Group Inc. McManus was head of international
operations for  Pioneer Natural Resources Co. (PXD)   “For somebody who has very little stake in the company to
be allowed three of 14 seats, they got themselves a huge
bargain,” said Fadel Gheit, a New York-based analyst for
Oppenheimer & Co. who rates Hess the equivalent of a buy and
doesn’t own the shares. “It’s good for shareholders, because
the last thing that John Hess and the shareholders need is a
proxy fight.”  New Board  Also joining the board were Hess’s five previously
announced nominees, including Willams and  John Krenicki , a
former executive with  General Electric Co. (GE)  Krenicki, identified
by the company May 10 as willing to serve as chairman, called
Williams “the perfect choice,” in a statement.  Six board members are departing: Nicholas Brady, Gregory Hill, Thomas Kean, Samuel Nunn, Frank Olson and F. Borden
Walker.  The new board members may seek to improve operations in the
Bakken Shale of North Dakota, the company’s “best asset,”
Simko said. Hess is the largest holder of Bakken acreage behind
 Continental Resources Inc. (CLR) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company spends more per barrel to extract oil in
the Bakken than Continental, Simko said.  Hess made several moves to mollify Elliott before striking
the agreement announced today. The company offered to add two
Elliott nominees on May 13. In March, it expanded the assets it
planned to sell, proposed the new board members and said it
would buy back $4 billion in shares.  More Accountability  Hess said last week that it heard from shareholders who
wanted more accountability, increased board oversight and better
corporate governance. Elliott had criticized the board for its
lack of operating experience in the oil and natural gas industry
and for its close ties to the Hess family.  “We understand our shareholders’ views, and recognize that
our corporate governance structure should have been improved
sooner,” John Mullin III, Hess’s lead independent director,
said in the May 10 company statement.  John Hess, 59, has been chairman and CEO of the company
since his father retired in 1995. Leon Hess, a former owner of
the New York Jets football team, formed the company in 1933 to
deliver oil to residential customers near his home in Asbury
Park, New Jersey, according to Hess’s website.  “I’m glad it’s over,” John Hess told reporters after the
meeting. “All our shareholders wanted us to try and find common
ground.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  