-- EU Bank Stress Tests Delayed to 2014 on Asset-Quality Review
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-05-16T17:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/eu-bank-stress-tests-delayed-to-2014-on-ecb-asset-quality-review.html
The European Union’s top banking
regulator delayed stress tests until 2014, allowing time for a
European Central Bank-led probe into the quality of assets held
by some lenders in the debt-laden bloc.  The European Banking Authority said the ECB asset check
will “help dispel concerns over the deterioration of asset
quality due to macroeconomic conditions in  Europe ,” the London-based agency said in an e-mailed statement today. The EBA, set
up in 2011 to harmonize rules across EU, will still publish
details of bank holdings in the second half of this year.  The EBA carried out the last formal EU stress tests in
2011, which were criticized for failing to catch problems at the
lenders. Eight banks failed the exams with a combined shortfall
of 2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion). Investors expected as many
as 15 banks to fail and raise 29 billion euros after
assessments, according to a survey by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
 Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian lender, received a clean bill of
health and then failed after a bank run three months later.  “Concerns remain on asset quality and forbearance, which
need to be addressed,” Andrea Enria, chairman of the EBA, said
in the statement. “This is also a necessary precondition for
the credibility of the next EU-wide stress test.”  Eight Failures  The EBA told lenders last year in what it described as a
capital-raising exercise to hold on to more than 200 billion
euros in profits and investments accumulated to pave the way for
tougher global standards, known as Basel III, and in response to
concerns about the quality of their European sovereign bond
portfolios.  The ECB is set to take on supervisory powers next year over
all euro-area banks after legislation underpinning the system
was endorsed by  member states . The EBA said it is seeking
“alignment in methodologies and timeline” with the ECB’s
assessment.  “When the ECB takes over EU bank supervision, it will get
what in the U.S. we call a pig in a poke,” Karen Shaw Petrou,
managing partner of Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics
Inc., said in an e-mailed statement.  “Banks are finally making some progress improving their
capital, but asset quality is essentially a mystery at most EU
banks, where rules treat sovereigns as flawless and borrowers as
perfect up to the moment of default,” Petrou said.  27 Nations  Leaders of the bloc’s 27 nations agreed last year that the
central bank should become a regulator in a bid to ease the euro
area’s fiscal crisis by bolstering investor confidence and
breaking the link between bank solvency and national public
finances.  “We want to know what kinds of banks we supervise,”  Joerg Asmussen , a member of the ECB executive board, told reporters on
May 14. The review of balance sheets “will be done by the ECB
together with national supervisors” and “it should be finished
before the single supervisory mechanism starts,” Asmussen said.  The establishment of ECB supervision is a prerequisite for
banks to receive direct aid from the European Stability
Mechanism, the euro area’s bailout fund.  Financial ministers last month overcame German concerns
about the supervisor plan by committing to “work
constructively” on any proposals to amend the bloc’s treaties.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has said that the
EU’s current rulebook has hampered the design of the ECB’s
supervision arm, including in terms of separating oversight
decisions from monetary policy.  The draft law stipulates that the ECB must carry out a
“comprehensive assessment, including a balance-sheet
assessment,” of any banks that it intends to directly
supervise.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  