-- Euromar Delivers Cocoa on NYSE Liffe After Factory Slowdown
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-05-16T17:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/euromar-delivers-cocoa-on-nyse-liffe-after-factory-slowdown-1-.html
Euromar Commodities GmbH, the
European unit of cocoa processor Transmar Group, delivered some
cocoa into the expired May futures contract on NYSE Liffe in
London after slowing its factory in Fehrbellin,  Germany .  Euromar slowed processing capacity “significantly,”
resulting in excess cocoa beans, Peter G. Johnson, president of
parent company Transmar in Morristown, New Jersey, said in an e-mail in response to Bloomberg questions. The slowdown was due to
a drop in the so-called combined ratio, an indication of a
grinder’s profitability, he said. The German factory has
 capacity  to process 100,000 metric tons of cocoa a year.  “Transmar/Euromar delivered cocoa to the terminal market
to manage inventory levels,” Johnson said. “With the combo
ratio in negative territory, Euromar has slowed significantly
its processing capacity, creating excess raw material supply.”  The combined ratio in Europe fell 7.8 percent this year to
3.2 on May 10 because of lower prices for cocoa powder, used to
make cookies and ice cream, data from KnowledgeCharts, a unit of
cocoa researcher  Commodities Risk Analysis  in Bethlehem,
 Pennsylvania , show. That compares with 3.47 on Dec. 28 and this
year’s low of 3.05 on March 29. The combined ratio corresponds
to the price of byproducts cocoa butter and cocoa powder
relative to the bean futures on NSYE Liffe.  The total delivery on the exchange was 34,530 tons,
according to data on the NYSE Liffe’s website today. That is 37
percent of the  inventories  with a valid grading certificate in
warehouses monitored by the bourse. Beans delivered against the
March contract came to 72,350 tons and in May last year the
total was 44,010 tons, data on the exchange’s website showed.  Sucres et Denrees SA took all of the beans delivered
against the May futures, according to Derek Chambers, head of
cocoa at the Paris-based trading company. Johnson declined to
comment on what tonnage was sold by Transmar. Brokers Jefferies
Bache Ltd., Newedge U.K. Financial Ltd. and ABN AMRO Clearing
Bank NV delivered beans on behalf of clients, NYSE Liffe data
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  