-- Pandit Takes Stake in India’s JM Financial With Lead Role
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n ,   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-05-17T12:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/ex-citigroup-chief-pandit-to-help-oversee-expand-jm-financial.html
Former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
Officer  Vikram Pandit  is buying a stake in  India ’s JM Financial
Ltd. and taking a leadership role as it seeks to set up a bank,
the Mumbai-based company said.  Pandit is among a small group of investors who will share a
3 percent equity stake in JM Financial, the investment firm said
yesterday in a statement to  stock exchanges . The company said
it’s applying for a banking license and will nominate Pandit as
non-executive chairman. He’ll also help JM Financial create a
fund to buy distressed assets and expand its lending and
financing businesses.  The deal is Pandit’s first public investment since
Citigroup  directors  ousted him as CEO in October. The board
concluded that Pandit, 56, a native of Nagpur, India, had
mismanaged the bank’s operations, a person familiar with the
matter said at the time. Pandit had staked Citigroup’s
turnaround in part on boosting profit from  emerging markets 
including India.  “I continue to believe in the long-term growth prospects
of India,” Pandit said in the statement. “JM Financial can
provide the banking and financial services that the country
needs.”  JM Financial rose 13 percent to 26.70 rupees at the close
of  trading  in  Mumbai  today, after rising 16 percent yesterday.
The stock had slumped 16 percent this year through May 11. The
firm’s interests include  investment banking , trading and asset
management, according to its website.  Expansion Plan  Pandit agreed to help expand JM Financial’s lending and
financing businesses in a transaction the company valued at $100
million, according to the statement. The deal also calls for the
creation of a $100 million distressed-asset fund set up by JM
Financial and Pandit.  Pandit and Hari Aiyar will jointly take a 3 percent equity
stake in JM Financial through an issuance of warrants, according
to the statement. Aiyar and Pandit worked together at  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  before leaving to found hedge-fund firm Old Lane
Partners LP, according to a 2007 statement. Aiyar was chairman
of Old Lane India, the hedge fund’s subsidiary in that country,
according to another statement from that year.  Citigroup later bought Old Lane for $800 million. That deal
led to Pandit becoming CEO of the bank as the global credit
crisis pushed the company toward a $45 billion U.S. bailout,
which was later repaid. Pandit shut Old Lane early in his tenure
and the bank took a $202 million writedown.  Napier Park  Aiyar is part of the leadership team at  Napier Park Global
Capital , an investment firm with roots to the Old Lane purchase.
Citigroup spun out Napier Park earlier this year under a deal
that granted 75 percent of the firm to executives for free,
people familiar with the matter said at the time. Pandit oversaw
the creation of the spinout before his ouster. Aiyar’s
responsibilities at Napier Park include India infrastructure
strategies, according to the firm’s website.  JM Financial (JM)  is run by Nimesh Kampani, whom Pandit has
known for more than two decades, according to the statement. The
firm was involved in a joint venture with New York-based Morgan
Stanley until 2007. Pandit worked for Morgan Stanley for about
two decades before leaving in 2005 to set up Old Lane.  The ties between Pandit and JM Financial continued after he
exited Morgan Stanley. In 2006, Old Lane and JM Financial set up
a corporate private-equity fund, with Old Lane as its lead
investor and co-sponsor, according to a  statement  on JM
Financial’s website.  ‘Sound Credentials’  JM Financial is pursuing a banking license as India’s
central bank eases rules on new permits. Companies with a 10-year track record and “sound credentials” can apply by July 1,
the  Reserve Bank of India  said in a Feb. 22 statement. Foreign
ownership will be capped at 49 percent for the first five years,
and lenders are required to set up 25 percent of their branches
in villages with less than 10,000 people.  In seeking a banking license, Pandit and JM Financial will
compete with companies including one led by billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla and  Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd. (MMFS) ,
a unit of India’s largest tractor maker.  “Pandit entering the race for a permit elevates the game
to a new level,” said Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based banking
analyst at SMC Global Securities. “Pandit’s name and experience
will weigh in favor of JM’s banking ambition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  