-- Ex-NBA Players Union Chief Hunter Sues Association
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-05-16T20:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/ex-nba-players-union-chief-hunter-sues-association.html
Former National Basketball Players
Association  Executive Director   Billy Hunter  sued the union, its
president and his publicist, alleging that they engaged in
secret negotiations with team owners to end the 2011 lockout.  Hunter claims the secret talks were aimed at benefiting the
participants, the owners and certain players, according to a
complaint filed today in California state court in Oakland.  Hunter was fired as the union’s executive director in
February, ending a 16-year tenure. Player representatives from
24 of the 30 NBA teams in Houston for All-Star weekend voted
unanimously to oust the former federal prosecutor,  Derek Fisher ,
the association president, said at the time.  The lawsuit is the latest in a battle between the union,
Fisher and Hunter, who was criticized in an independent review
of association business and hiring practices.  Dan Wasserman , a spokesman for the New York-based union,
and Jamie Wior, Fisher’s publicist, declined to comment on
today’s complaint.  The claims in the 36-page complaint include breach of
contract, intentional misrepresentation and defamation.  Hunter said that on Oct. 27, 2011, he was telephoned by one
of the highest-paid NBA players and his agent. The player, whose
name wasn’t disclosed and who previously supported Hunter’s
hardline negotiating stance, told the executive director that a
deal had already been cut with owners and that he should just
accept it, according to the complaint.  Telephone Call  Hunter said that after the call he learned that Fisher and
Wior had negotiated in secret with the owners. Fisher denied the
allegation, according to the complaint.  Fisher, 38 is a 17-year veteran with five championships on
his resume. He has played for the  Los Angeles Lakers ,  Golden
State Warriors ,  Utah Jazz ,  Dallas Mavericks  and, this year,
Oklahoma City Thunder, who were eliminated from the playoffs
last night.  In 2011, in the midst of labor talks, Fisher was in the
second year of a three-year, $10.5 million contract. Given his
declining production, Fisher could have rightly assumed that
this contract would probably be his last, according to the
complaint.  ‘Great Pressure’  “Fisher faced great pressure to secure a soft landing for
himself as his career neared its end,” Hunter said in the
complaint. “Fisher knew full well that the key to landing a
well-compensated position with the NBA, a team’s front office,
or with the NBA’s partners is maintaining good relationships
with the NBA and team owners. Fisher had every incentive to
ingratiate himself with the NBA and team owners by aligning
himself with their interests rather than with the players’
interests.”  The union and the NBA settled the six-month lockout in
November 2011, agreeing on a 50-50 split of revenue compared
with 57 percent for the players in the previous contract.  The review that preceded Hunter’s firing, which was
conducted by the New York law firm Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton &
Garrison, concluded that while Hunter did nothing illegal, he
failed to manage conflicts of interest, lacked proper corporate
governance and didn’t disclose that his $3 million-a-year
contract wasn’t properly ratified.  The review followed Fisher’s public call for an examination
of union business, including its hiring practices. Hunter wasn’t
permitted to address the player representatives prior to being
ousted as head of the union.  The association since 2001 paid $4.8 million to Hunter’s
family members and their professional firms,  Bloomberg News 
reported in April, citing public records, a pattern of nepotism
that the audit called “unacceptable.” Hunter earlier this year
purged family members from the association.  Business Practices  The union’s business practices are being probed by the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Manhattan, the U.S. Department of Labor and
the New York State Attorney General.  Joe Lombardo, founder of Prim Capital Corp., which advised
the union and employed Hunter’s son, faces federal charges that
he obstructed a U.S. grand jury probe of a $3 million fraud
scheme.  Lombardo and Carolyn Kaufman, a Prim principal who served
as president of the company’s advisory services unit, were
charged in a criminal complaint unsealed last month in federal
court in  Manhattan  with obstructing the investigation.  In today’s complaint, Hunter alleged the union breached his
employment contract by firing him prior to the end of his term
and that he’s suffered “great financial and other harm.”  He seeks compensatory and punitive damages.  Average Salary  Hunter, a former National Football League player, helped
negotiate collective bargaining agreements that pushed the
average NBA player’s salary to more than $5 million, the highest
in U.S. team sports. The union, in debt when Hunter took over,
now has $80 million in net assets, according to his rebuttal to
the independent review.  Hunter also said in his online rebuttal that he’s
contractually owed more than $10 million.  The Paul Weiss report said the union had “no obligation”
to accept the document as enforceable.  The case is Hunter v. Fisher, RG13679736, California
Superior Court, Alameda County (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  