-- Texas Fertilizer Blast Probe Can’t Pinpoint Fire’s Cause
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-05-17T05:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/texas-fertilizer-blast-probe-examines-causes-including-golf-cart.html
The investigation of a fire and
explosion at a  Texas  fertilizer plant that killed 14 people
hasn’t pinpointed the cause, which may include a faulty golf
cart, the facility’s electrical system or an intentional act.  The probe is continuing, with none of the three possible
causes ruled out, Robert Champion, an official with the U.S.
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, said at a
news conference yesterday in West, Texas.  Along with the deaths more than 200 people were injured
April 17 at the Adair Grain Inc. fertilizer plant in West, near
Waco. The fire and ensuing blast, at a facility that stored
explosive ammonium nitrate fertilizer, was the nation’s worst
industrial accident since 2010. The explosion generated a 2.1-degree earthquake, according to the U.S. Geological Survey, and
damaged structures in a 37-block area.  “The investigation at the scene is complete,” said Chris
Connealy, state fire marshal, one of 30 agencies investigating
the fire and explosion. “The investigation will remain open.”  Investigators, who spent more than $1 million and 20,000
personnel hours sifting through the site, determined that the
fire began in a building used to store fertilizer and seed.
Pressure and heat from the fire on ammonium nitrate, some of
which was stored in wooden bins, triggered two explosions about
30 minutes after the blaze began, officials said.  Narrowed Cause  Authorities said they had narrowed the origin of the fire
to three possible causes: one of two electrical systems, a golf
cart in the building and arson. A 120-volt electrical system in
the plant couldn’t be ruled out, though officials did eliminate
a separate 480-volt system. The golf cart could have triggered a
fire from a malfunctioning battery, investigators said.  Officials also said they didn’t have enough evidence to
rule out arson.  “We have not ruled out an intentionally set fire,” said
Brian Hoback, an ATF supervisor. “There is an on-going criminal
investigation.”  Officials said the amount of ammonium nitrate stored at the
plant was about 150 tons, much less than the 270 tons that was
reported stored there in the plant’s federal filings.  The fertilizer plant was last inspected by the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration, a unit of the Labor
Department, in 1985. The risk plan filed with government
regulators listed no flammable chemicals.  The plant’s risk management report filed with the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency doesn’t list any potential
airborne hazards, according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg
News. The EPA fined West Fertilizer $2,300 in 2006, in part
because it was two years late in filing the plan.  President  Barack Obama  on April 25 in Waco led the area in
memorializing emergency workers and others killed in the fire
and explosion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  