-- Facebook, Twitter Unveil Software Tools for Google Glass
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-05-16T19:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/facebook-twitter-unveil-software-tools-for-google-glass.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Twitter Inc.
introduced tools to integrate their services with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Glass, the computerized eyewear touted by the search provider as
an alternative for smartphones.  Facebook created software that uploads photos taken on
Google Glass to its social-network service. Twitter users will
also be able to share pictures and keep up with people they
follow via an application for Glass, the microblogging service
 said  in a blog.  Google is stepping up efforts to broaden the appeal of
Glass by wooing developers and partners, as it did with the
Android operating system for mobile devices. By promoting the
use of its computerized spectacles, the world’s largest search
engine is seeking to provide another conduit to deliver
information and advertising to users.  “People are readily tweeting things out from wearable
devices,” Twitter Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo  said
yesterday at the  National Venture Capital Association ’s annual
conference in San Francisco.  Costolo said Twitter is increasingly being used to track
personal health with wearable computing gadgets and that he sees
opportunities for his service with wearable computing, including
watches.  Other new developers include Time Warner Inc.’s CNN, online
note-taking startup Evernote Corp. and blog-network Tumblr Inc.,
Google said.  Glass devices will feature about a day of battery life, a
high-resolution display and a five-megapixel camera, according
to a  statement  on its website last month. The digital eyeglasses
feature voice-recognition, removing the need for keyboards.
Google Glass, which is in use by a limited number of early
adopters, will be available later this year and cost less than
$1,500, Google co-founder  Sergey Brin  said at an event earlier
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  