-- Facebook Tells Court ‘Like’ Feature Vital to Free Speech
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-16T20:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/facebook-s-like-faces-free-speech-test-in-u-s-court.html
Facebook’s “Like” feature is vital
to 500 million people who share ideas on the social network and
must have free-speech protection under the U.S. Constitution, a
lawyer for the company told a federal appeals court.  “Any suggestion that such communication has less than full
constitutional protection would result in chilling the very
valued means for communication the Internet has made possible,”
Aaron Panner,  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s lawyer, told a three-judge panel
today in Richmond, Virginia.  Facebook is seeking to reverse a lower-court ruling, which
came in a retaliation lawsuit brought by six people fired from
the Hampton, Virginia, sheriff’s department, that a Facebook
“Like” isn’t First Amendment speech.  The case involves Danny Carter, a former Hampton jailer,
who claims he was fired after he posted a picture of his boss’s
opponent in the sheriff’s race on his Facebook page, along with
a link to the contender’s website.  The post, made almost four years ago because Carter clicked
the “Like” button on the “Jim Adams for Hampton Sheriff”
Facebook  page , was the subject of arguments today over how to
view one-click, online endorsements of a person, idea or
product.  ‘Liked Something’  “Carter clicked the Like because he liked something,”
U.S. Circuit Judge Stephanie Thacker said to a lawyer for
Hampton Sheriff  B.J. Roberts  during the 40 minute hearing. “How
is that any different than perhaps putting a sign in the yard
saying ‘I Like Ike’?” she asked.  Thacker’s question backed Facebook’s contention in legal
briefs that hitting the ‘Like” button on a candidate’s website
or Facebook account is no different from a yard sign, which were
ruled protected speech by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1994.  The Menlo Park, California-based company was given three
minutes of argument time today and received no questions from
the judges.  Carter, 40, joined by five others, sued Roberts when they
were fired after the sheriff won re-election in 2009. They claim
Roberts retaliated against them for supporting Adams, violating
their rights to political affiliation and to speak as citizens
on issues of public concern.  U.S. District Judge Raymond Jackson in Norfolk,  Virginia ,
on April 24, 2012, dismissed the lawsuit, rejecting the
plaintiffs’ First Amendment claims.  ‘Substantive Statement’  He ruled that simply “liking” a Facebook page didn’t
amount to “a substantive statement” that warrants
constitutional protection.  In his decision, Jackson said two federal court decisions
in 2011 that held constitutional protections extended to
Facebook involved actual statements posted on a user’s page.  “The court will not attempt to infer the actual content of
Carter’s posts from one click of a button on Adams’s Facebook
page,” Jackson, appointed by Democratic President Bill Clinton,
wrote in his decision. “For the court to assume that the
plaintiffs made some specific statement without evidence of such
statements is improper.”  Jackson’s ruling was criticized by constitutional lawyers
who said he ignored the fact that other protected speech on the
Internet, such as uploading a video or donating money to a
campaign, are done with one click of a button.  “You are expressing the relevance of a message and that’s
good enough,” Eugene Volokh, a law professor at the University
of California at Los Angeles, said in an interview.  Performance Issues  Roberts said in a deposition that he doesn’t use Facebook,
and found out about Carter’s online support for Adams from
someone else. He contends Carter and the other employees weren’t
fired for their opposing him. Rather, they were let go for
performance or other reasons, he said.  Jeff Rosen, a lawyer for Roberts, argued that “liking” a
Facebook page means many things and was too obscure an act to
warrant protection. People may “like” Target’s page to get a
coupon or because they’re curious about something that can only
be seen by hitting the feature, he said.  “It’s like opening a door into a room,” Rosen, of Pender
& Coward PC in Virginia Beach, Virginia, said. “You can’t see
what’s in there until you click on the button. That’s not
speech.”  Billion Clicks  “Facebook has 3 billion ‘like’ clicks a day,” he said.
“Is each one of those speech? I don’t think so.”  Rosen said one of the plaintiffs in the case had liked
Adams’s page accidentally, and asked how that could be
considered protected speech.  “That’s the problem with Facebook,” he said. “You don’t
know what your actions will do or the consequences they will
have.”  James Shoemaker, a lawyer for the fired employees,
countered that an e-mail or note inadvertently sent to the wrong
person about a political candidate would still be protected
speech.  The case is Bland v. Roberts, 12-1671, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal appeals court in Richmond, Virginia,
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 