-- Feces Contaminates More Than Half of U.S. Public Pools
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-16T18:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/feces-contaminates-more-than-half-of-u-s-public-pools.html
Human feces taint more than half of
public swimming pools, a finding U.S. health officials are using
to urge better personal hygiene as the summer months approach.  E. coli , which indicates the presence of fecal matter, was
detected in 58 percent of samples taken from pool filters by the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, according to
 data  released today by the Atlanta-based agency. Pools
frequented mostly by children were more likely to test positive
for E. coli, which can cause stomach and respiratory illness.  Municipal pools open to all were worse than public pools
requiring membership, the CDC said. Acute gastrointestinal
illness related to recreational water sports has substantially
increased since 1978, with diarrheal incidents and other poor
swimmer hygiene being a major contributor, the CDC said.  “Finding a high percentage of E. coli-positive filters
indicates swimmers frequently contaminate pool water when they
have a fecal incident in the water or when feces rinse off of
their bodies because they do not shower thoroughly before
getting into the water,” the agency said in a statement.  The CDC tested pool water from filters around the Atlanta
area in June through August 2012. It’s unlikely that swimmer
hygiene differs in other areas, the CDC said.  E. coli was in 70 percent of municipal pools tested and 49
percent of pools that require membership or are at a club. The
bacteria was detected in the same percentage of pools whether
they were outdoor or indoor, the  data show . Pools used primarily
by children tested positive 73 percent of the time.  Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a bacteria that can cause rashes
and ear infections, was found in 59 percent of the pools
sampled, the CDC said. The contamination comes mostly from dirt,
either from humans or pool toys, and underscores the need to
clean pools and keep chlorine at proper levels, the CDC said.  The CDC recommended swimmers shower with soap before
getting in a pool, don’t swim when they have diarrhea and wash
their hands with soap after using the toilet or changing
diapers. Also, don’t swallow pool water, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  