-- Fisher Urges Cutting Mortgage Bond Buying to Avoid Disorder
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-05-16T13:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/fed-s-fisher-urges-cutting-mortgage-bond-buys-to-avoid-disorder.html
Richard Fisher , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, urged the central bank to slow
purchases of mortgage-backed securities to avoid disrupting the
market.  “When refinancing activity eventually shifts down, the Fed
could soon be buying up to 100 percent of MBS issuance if the
current purchase program continues,” Fisher said today in
remarks prepared for a speech in Houston. “I believe buying
such a high share of gross issuance in any security is not only
excessive, but also potentially disruptive to the proper
functioning of the MBS market.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said May 1 it will keep
buying Treasuries and mortgage bonds at a pace of $85 billion a
month and would be prepared to increase or reduce the pace in
response to changes in the outlook for inflation and the labor
market.  Fisher, who opposed the current program and doesn’t vote on
monetary policy this year, has been among the Fed officials
urging a slowing of asset purchases, or quantitative easing. The
 Dallas  Fed leader said in February he didn’t want to stop “cold
turkey” to ensure the transition wasn’t disruptive.  “In my view, the housing market is on a self-sustaining
path and does not need the same impetus we have been giving
it,” Fisher said to the National Association for Business
Economics in Houston. With the success of continued buying
“questionable,” he said, “I think we can rightly declare
victory on the housing front and reel in -- or dial back -- our
purchases, with the aim of eliminating them entirely as the year
wears on.”  Housing Market  Fisher said he was encouraged by recent economic data and
believes it’s likely growth will exceed private economists’
forecasts of 2.4 percent this year. The housing market is on the
rebound, banks are easing lending standards and state and local
government cutbacks are no longer a major drag on growth, he
said.  The jobs report for April as well as a downward trend in
initial claims for  unemployment insurance  may have signaled an
improvement in the labor market as well, the Dallas Fed chief
said. Employment picked up more than forecast in April, and the
jobless rate unexpectedly declined to a four-year low of 7.5
percent, a Labor Department report showed on May 3. Revisions
added a total of 114,000 jobs to the employment count in
February and March.  Sales at U.S. retailers unexpectedly advanced in April,
Commerce Department figures showed this week. Fisher called the
figures “a nice upside surprise.”  Tax Rebates  “This indicates that consumers may have digested delayed
tax rebates and the increase in payroll taxes and are reaping
the benefits of lower gasoline and food prices,” he said. “So
the recovery presently appears to be strong enough to propel
hopes that employment growth will continue improving over the
near term.”  Inflation reports have been benign, with price measures
likely to end the year between 1.5 percent and the Fed’s 2
percent goal, he said.  Labor Department figures today showed the cost of living
fell in April for a second month, the first back-to-back
declines in inflation since late 2008, as fuel prices retreated.
The consumer-price index decreased 0.4 percent, the biggest
decrease since December 2008, after falling 0.2 percent in
March.  Some Fed officials, including St. Louis Fed President  James
Bullard , said last month that a further decline in inflation
that persisted might warrant additional stimulus. Consumer
prices rose 1 percent in March from a year earlier, the lowest
level since October 2009, according to the Fed’s preferred gauge
of inflation.  Fed’s Goal  Inflation that has “persistently” stayed below the Fed’s
goal is a concern and may suggest policy hasn’t done enough to
support growth, Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said today.  “The longer we in the U.S. remain so far below our 2
percent target, the greater the risk that inflation expectations
could fall and real  interest rates  rise,” Rosengren said in the
text of prepared remarks delivered in Milan. Low inflation and
high unemployment “could lead one to argue that policy has not
been sufficiently accommodative.”  Fisher has been president of the Dallas Fed since 2005 and
will be a voting member of the FOMC next year. In 2011, he
dissented twice against efforts to push down long-term borrowing
costs and keep the benchmark interest rate near zero for a
prolonged period. He voted in favor of tighter policy five times
in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  