-- Rosengren Says Low Inflation Risks Echoing Japan’s Malaise
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-16T13:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/fed-s-rosengren-says-low-inflation-risks-echoing-japan-s-malaise.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said inflation that has
“persistently” stayed below the Fed’s goal is a concern and
may suggest policy hasn’t done enough to support growth.  “The longer we in the U.S. remain so far below our 2
percent target, the greater the risk that inflation expectations
could fall and real  interest rates  rise,” Rosengren said in the
text of prepared remarks delivered in Milan today. Low inflation
and high unemployment “could lead one to argue that policy has
not been sufficiently accommodative.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said May 1 that it will
increase or decrease the pace of its monthly bond-buying in
response to changes in inflation and the labor market. Several
officials in recent weeks have signaled concern about slowing
inflation, which was at 1 percent in March as measured by the
personal consumption expenditures index.  “My own assessment is there’s still a fair amount of
capacity that we need to make up for, which is one reason I
think it makes sense to have an accommodative policy to make
sure we get the labor market to rebuild more quickly than it
would,” Rosengren said in response to audience questions at the
event.  Inflation Outlook  In his speech, he said the level “to which the inflation
rate has fallen would actually be of some concern in the event
that the economy was hit by a negative shock.” While price
expectations have remained stable in the U.S., he cited the
experience of  Japan , “where low rates of inflation were not
addressed.”  “A significant negative shock caused Japan to experience
deflation, which has been quite difficult to reverse,” he said.  Rosengren said one reason U.S. inflation rate hasn’t fallen
further “is because I think there have been inflation
expectations that over the longer run the Federal Reserve will
be successful in hitting the 2 percent target.”  “That has helped bound how low the inflation rate has
gotten despite the very weak economy,” he said.  Bullard, Evans  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  is among policy
makers who have said a further slowdown in inflation could
prompt more asset purchases by the central bank. Inflation is
“too low” though “it’s too early” to respond with a policy
shift, Chicago Fed chief  Charles Evans  said May 9.  Rosengren, Bullard and Evans vote on monetary policy this
year under the FOMC’s rotating system for presidents of regional
Fed banks.  The FOMC affirmed its plan this month to keep buying $85
billion per month in  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  and mortgage securities, seeking
to bolster growth and deliver a “substantially” improved labor
market. The  unemployment rate  in April declined to 7.5 percent,
which Rosengren said is “at least” 2 percentage points above
his estimate of full employment.  Also speaking in Milan, Philadelphia Fed President  Charles
Plosser  said his forecast for a falling  unemployment rate  would
warrant ending bond purchases this year.  “Unless we see a significant reversal in current trends
that jeopardizes my forecast of near 7 percent unemployment rate
by the end of this year, then I anticipate that we could end the
program before year-end,” He said. Plosser doesn’t vote on the
FOMC until 2014.  Rosengren said recent cutbacks in  government spending  are
among the reasons the Fed has missed its objectives of stable
prices and full employment. Monetary stimulus has been “quite
effective” at offsetting the drag from fiscal tightening.  “Given the economic realities I would urge policy makers
to consider scenarios where some elements of fiscal rebalancing
take effect only after the economy has more fully improved, and
the possibility of a less restrictive fiscal stance until that
time,” he said. “The  Federal Reserve  should, and will,
continue to consider the likely state of fiscal policy, like
many other economic factors, in making monetary policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  