-- Fiat Sparks Italy Worries With Possible Headquarters Move
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-05-17T09:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/fiat-considering-u-s-headquarters-sparks-italy-concerns.html
Fiat SpA (F) ’s deliberations over moving
its headquarters to the U.S. after a merger with Chrysler Group
LLC. sparked concern among Italian unions and politicians about
the plans of the country’s biggest manufacturer.  Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne is evaluating a
switch to the U.S. from Turin, where Fiat was founded in 1899,
three people familiar with the matter said. The CEO is
considering the move because Fiat’s main sources of revenue and
profit are shifting to North America, with 75 percent of 2012
 operating earnings  coming from the region.  No final decision on the headquarters has been made and
other options are being examined, the people said. Marchionne
said last month that he favored a primary listing in New York
for the company.  “We ask the government to urgently open a formal
discussion to face the crisis in the auto sector,” Michele De
Palma, a leader of Fiom union, said in a statement. “Fiat is
relocating abroad.” Fiom was the only union which opposed the
the automaker’s current contract.  Politicians and labor leaders spoke out against Fiat
shifting its headquarters away from Turin’s iconic Lingotto, a
former car plant with an oval track on its roof, after Italian
media, including Corriere della Sera, La Repubblica and Ansa,
cited the story first reported by Bloomberg. The backlash in the
debt-ridden country, where the industrial sector is in decline,
prompted a response from Fiat.  High Unemployment  The headquarters issue is “not on its agenda now,” the
carmaker said late yesterday in a stock-exchange statement.
Fiat, citing the Bloomberg story in it remarks, said no decision
has been made on the matter. The automaker had declined to
comment prior to Bloomberg publishing its story.  Talk of the potential shift is especially sensitive in
Italy, where the  unemployment rate  is near a 20-year high as
companies refrain from hiring amid the country’s longest
recession in more than two decades.  “It wouldn’t be good news,” Carlo Dell’Aringa, a Labor
Ministry undersecretary, said in a televised interview with Sky
Tg24 yesterday. “Even if moving the headquarters to the U.S.
doesn’t mean abandoning plants and production, it would be a
step that will harm the future of the company in Italy.”  Shares Drop  The shares  dropped  as much as 15 cents, or 2.8 percent, to
5.23 euros, and were down 2.1 percent as of 11:14 a.m. in Milan
trading. The stock has gained 39 percent this year, valuing the
company 6.58 billion euros ($8.47 billion).  Fiat’s dependence on Europe has been reduced since it took
control of Chrysler in 2009. The region in 2012 represented 24
percent of the group’s 84 billion euros in  revenue . When
Marchionne was named CEO in 2004, Fiat relied on Europe for more
than 90 percent of its 27 billion euros in sales.  Chrysler has become the Fiat-Chrysler group’s profit
generator as Fiat struggles to end losses in Europe, which
totaled more than 700 million euros last year. Fiat’s market
share in Europe fell to 6.4 percent through April from 6.5
percent a year earlier.  “Europe is becoming a less and less relevant fact in the
scheme of things,” Marchionne told analysts last month. “It’s
a reflection of the ability of this house to shift its interest
and to shift its resources to markets that are much more
rewarding in terms of investment and return.”  Marchionne also said the decision on the location of the
headquarters will depend on access to capital markets and the
ability of the company to get financing at “reasonable rates.”  Regional Headquarters  Fiat first has to buy the remaining 41.5 percent Chrysler
staked owned by the United Auto Workers retiree health-care
fund. The two sides are disputing in court the price for a
portion of the shares Fiat is seeking to buy by exercising
options.  Fiat will keep its European headquarters at the Lingotto
building, which opened in the 1920s after founder Giovanni Agnelli visited Ford Motor Co.’s Detroit-area plants, the people
familiar with the deliberations said. Auto production at the
complex stopped in the 1980s.  The carmaker is boosting production of upscale models in
 Italy , including the $130,000 Maserati Quattroporte, as it aims
to end losses in the region by 2016. Fiat’s plan calls for 16
new high-end cars, which will help fill capacity at the
company’s under-utilized lines.  Fiat, which has about 29 percent of its  215,000 employees 
in Italy, doesn’t plan to reduce its workforce in the country.  Although moving the headquarters “doesn’t look good for
the company, what we care about is that Fiat will keep its
plants” in the country, Ignazio Abrignani, deputy chairman of
parliament’s economic activities, trade and tourism committee,
said in a statement late yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  