-- Foreign Investment in China Misses Estimates Amid Growth Concern
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-16T02:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/foreign-investment-in-china-misses-estimates-amid-growth-concern.html
Foreign direct investment in  China 
lagged behind analysts’ estimates in April, highlighting concern
at the  growth  outlook for the world’s second-biggest economy
after an unexpected slowdown last quarter.  Investment rose 0.4 percent from a year earlier to $8.4
billion, the Ministry of Commerce said in a statement today in
Beijing. That was less than the 5.7 percent gain in March and
the 6.2 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
eight analysts.  Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. this week
cut 2013 growth estimates for China to 7.6 percent after April
industrial production and investment trailed forecasts. Besides
concerns about the short-term outlook for the economy, gains in
labor costs may make the nation less attractive as a
manufacturing base.  “The old model can no longer work,” Shen Jianguang, chief
Asia economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said
before the release of the data. “China can no longer be the
most competitive in the labor-intensive sectors” amid rising
wage costs, increasing concern for the environment and stricter
employment laws, Shen said.  Premier  Li Keqiang  this week said the government will
simplify bureaucracy to encourage private investment, building
on a March pledge to pare the state’s role in the economy.  Economic growth of 7.7 percent in the first quarter trailed
the median forecast of 8 percent in a Bloomberg News survey and
fourth-quarter expansion of 7.9 percent. The government in March
set a 2013 goal of 7.5 percent, the same target as in 2012.  A survey of 325 members of the American Chamber of Commerce
in China in November and December found that rising labor costs
were the biggest business risk in the country.  Li, who became premier in March, said this week that the
nation has limited room for economic  stimulus . At the same time,
he said there’s “potential” for China to boost private and
foreign investment.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  