-- Scaled-Back U.S. Fracking Rule Draws Qualified Praise
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-17T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/fracking-on-federal-lands-said-to-get-scaled-back-rule-proposal.html
Oil and gas industry representatives
offered qualified support for a U.S. proposal to govern
hydraulic fracturing on public lands that establishes federal
oversight while deferring to state standards in some cases.  In the proposal released yesterday, the U.S. Interior
Department made a second attempt to establish national
 regulations  for hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.  While industry officials said they prefer state to federal
regulation, they welcomed the changes made by the Bureau of Land
Management from its initial proposal last year.
Environmentalists expressed disappointment at what they saw as a
weakening of disclosure requirements. The new proposal calls for
drilling chemicals to be listed with a website established by
the industry.  “While changes to the proposed rule attempt to better
acknowledge the state role, BLM has yet to answer the question
why BLM is moving forward with these requirements in the first
place,” Erik Milito, director for industry operations for the
trade group  American Petroleum Institute , said in a statement.  Closely Watched  The rule is being watched closely by the drilling industry
because fracking is used in about 90 percent of the wells
drilled on  federal lands . The standards will also serve as a
marker for states regulating the process locally. Fracking is a
technique in which water, chemicals and sand are shot
underground to free oil or gas from rock.  A draft rule released last year was so heavily criticized
by companies and Republicans that the administration of
President  Barack Obama  went back to the drawing board.  “It appears BLM has addressed some of the concerns, but we
still must guard against duplicative and potentially
contradictory regulations,” Alaska Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski said in a statement yesterday.  The new,  171-page regulation  would cost industry as much as
$20 million a year, about half what Interior estimated for its
previous proposal. “Our thorough review of all the comments
convinced us that we could maintain a strong level of protection
of health, safety, and the environment while allowing for
increased flexibility and reduced regulatory duplication,” said
Neil Kornze, the principal deputy of BLM.  Outside parties have 30 days to comment on the proposal
after publication in the Federal Register. Interior didn’t say
when it plans to issue its final regulation.  Largest Landowner  BLM, the  largest landowner  in the U.S., oversees
approximately 700 million subsurface acres of mineral rights.
Farmers or ranchers own the surface rights on large tracts of
federal land. Domestic production from more than 92,000 wells on
public lands accounts for about 13 percent of U.S. natural-gas
production and 5 percent of oil production.  “If you set aside the argument about whether the rule is
necessary or duplicative, I think the BLM listened to industry
and made a number of significant changes” on technical issues,
said John Northington, of Northington Strategy Group, an oil and
gas public-policy firm in  Washington .  The rule lets state or tribal rules that “meet or exceed”
the U.S. standard to take priority, limiting duplication. In
announcing the revision, the agency cited regulations in
 Colorado ,  Wyoming ,  North Dakota  and  Texas , without specifying
that drilling in those states would qualify.  FracFocus Disclosure  In addition, drillers would need to disclose the chemicals
they mix with the water and sand to the industry-created website
FracFocus. That’s a concession to industry that drew the ire of
environmental groups, which argue the site makes it difficult to
track or aggregate the data. In addition, drillers can withhold
details on “trade-secret” chemicals.  “The proposal does not require drillers to disclose all
chemicals being used for fracking and continues to allow trade-secret exemptions for the oil and gas industry,”  Michael Brune ,
executive director of the  Sierra Club , said in a statement. “We
believe the administration is putting the American public’s
health and well-being at risk.”  The Interior Department did offer a hint of a change that
might be welcomed by environmental groups. It said it wanted
comment on whether it should ban the use of open pits for the
water that flows back after a well is fracked. Those pits can
leak or leach chemical-laden liquid, which can contaminate
groundwater.  “We would like to explore the idea of tanks being the
standard,” Kornze told reporters yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  