-- Fraport Delays New Frankfurt Terminal as Traffic Growth Slows
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-16T09:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/fraport-delays-new-frankfurt-terminal-as-traffic-growth-slows.html
Fraport AG, the operator of Europe’s
third-largest airport, said it will start operating a third
passenger terminal about 3 years later than previously planned
as demand for air traffic slows.  Construction of the new  Frankfurt  terminal will start in
2015, as the operator will only need it from about 2020, the
company said today. Passenger growth will be unchanged this year
and remain “weak” in 2014, Fraport said, paring an earlier
forecast for higher passenger numbers next year. Chief Executive
Officer Stefan Schulte made the comments in an interview with
Bild newspaper, and spokesman Christopher Holschier confirmed
his remarks.  Airport operators in Europe are suffering from airlines
adding capacity at a slower pace as they drop unprofitable
routes and aim for higher load factors of their planes in a push
to restore profitability.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , which uses
Frankfurt as its main hub, said on May 2 that it will add less
capacity on long-haul flights than previously planned, while
reducing short-haul services.  Lufthansa operated 6.2 percent fewer flights at its
passenger airline business in the four months through April,
contributing to a 4.8 percent decline of aircraft movements in
Frankfurt. At Charles de Gaulle and Orly airports in Paris,
movements were down 3.4 percent in the same period, while
Heathrow, Europe’s biggest hub, had 2.9 percent fewer movements
in the period.  Additional Spend  Construction of the first phase of the terminal will cost
about 1.2 billion euros ($1.5 billion), Fraport today said. The
company earlier had estimated the cost to be about 1 billion
euros, with an additional 500 million euros to be spend on
infrastructure connecting the terminal to existing buildings and
highways, parking facilities and apron areas.  Fraport earlier had said inauguration of the new terminal
was planned for 2016 or 2017, while construction would start
after all individual construction stages had been tendered by
the middle of 2013.  “The timing of Terminal 3 is strictly driven by demand
capacity,” Schulte said on a  conference call  with analysts on
May 8. “We still have around 10 million spare passenger
capacity in Frankfurt, so there is no need to start now. We
start with construction only when the demand is projected to
come. Our philosophy is better to have Terminal 3 too late than
too early.”  Frankfurt handled 57.5 million passengers last year, behind
Charles de Gaulle with 61.6 million and Heathrow at 69.9
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  