-- Gene-Testing Dispute Focuses on How Much a Patient Should Know
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-05-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/gene-testing-dispute-focuses-on-how-much-a-patient-should-know.html
Should patients undergoing broad  DNA 
testing for a specific ailment be told of unexpected findings
that signal risk of cancer or other serious diseases, even if
they don’t request the information?  The question is at the core of a battle brewing among
doctors and ethicists amid growing use of gene sequencing for
clinical use and the plethora of information that results from
such tests. Writing today in the journal  Science , a team of
ethicists said patients should decide how much they want to know
and how deeply scientists should look into their genome.  The disagreement is with an April recommendation by the
 American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics . The group
said labs testing large swaths of patients’ DNA should routinely
seek and report back on 57 gene abnormalities that signal
treatable or preventable illnesses. Patients should be given the
option not to learn about those risks, the ethicists led by
 Susan Wolf  of the  University of Minnesota , said in the Science
article.  “If doctors are going to analyze all that information,
they should get consent from the patient,” said  Sherman Elias ,
a geneticist at  Northwestern University  in  Chicago  who co-wrote
the essay criticizing the guidelines. “This is a question of
whether patients have a right to decide what testing is done on
them and for their children.”  A separate contribution to the journal supports the
guidelines that were issued by the American College of Medical
Genetics and Genomics.  European Recommendations  The  European Society of Human Genetics  also released
recommendations today that call for limits on the use of broad
DNA sequencing. Doctors should target genetic sequencing, when
possible, to avoid deciphering the content of genes that may
contain information patients might not want to know, the
European society said today in a statement.  “Analysis should be limited to genome regions linked to
the clinical problem for which the analysis is being
undertaken,” according to the Vienna-based society’s statement.
“We are opposed to the type of opportunistic screening that
throws up large numbers of incidental results.”  Faster, cheaper DNA sequencing with machines made by
 Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  and  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  allows doctors to
quickly sift through the 6 billion letters, or bases, of a
patient’s DNA code for possible causes of serious disease. While
the technique sometimes finds a genetic cause for rare or
unexplained conditions, the genome is still largely unexplored,
and many cases go unsolved.  To make sure they investigate all possible genetic sources
of illness, doctors read either the entire genome or just the
portion that contains protein-coding genes, called the  exome .  Helpful Information  The American society’s guidelines were written to help
doctors who fear that some patients might not be getting
potentially beneficial information from the test that might help
avoid known diseases, said  James Evans , a geneticist at the
University of  North Carolina ,  Chapel Hill .  A patient being evaluated for a broken rib should be
informed if imaging indicates  lung cancer , whether or not they
have asked to be told, said Evans, who didn’t contribute to the
guidelines or to either of today’s two journal essays. Likewise,
if a broad-based gene test for an unexplained condition shows
that a patient has a high risk of  colon cancer , the information
should be relayed along, he said.  “It’s incumbent on you to do a systematic analysis of the
data that might reveal something highly important to your
patient,” he said.  Patient Decision  The lung imaging analogy doesn’t apply in this situation,
because laboratories have to make an effort to seek out the 57
disease-related genes that the guidelines say should be
analyzed, Elias said.  “This isn’t something that you just trip over,” he said.
“We’re saying, let the patient know and decide whether to
proceed with this or not.”  The recommendations also don’t give much guidance about how
to counsel patients about the mutations that appear on the list
of 57 abnormalities, said  Arthur Caplan , director of the
division of medical ethics at  New York  University’s Langone
Medical Center.  “Most doctors wouldn’t know much about half of these
diseases to begin with,” he said. “They should be given
concrete information about how to do the communication and how
to do it well.”  Children are particularly vulnerable when information
becomes known about their risk of disease later in life, Caplan
said. Even the most well-meaning parents might treat their child
differently because of supposed vulnerability to disease, and a
very high standard must be met for giving that information to
them, he said.  Recommended Targets  The panel’s list of mutations that should always be
investigated when broad sequencing is done includes the BRCA1
and BRCA2 genes that raise the risk of  breast cancer  in women,
and Lynch syndrome genes that increase the likelihood of colon
and rectal cancer. It also includes genes linked to hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy, a heart condition that can kill young athletes
unexpectedly.  The recommendations, including the list of mutations and
diseases that should be reported, is likely to change as more
understanding is gained, said scientists led by  Amy McGuire  of
the Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Medical Ethics and
Health Policy in Houston, who wrote an editorial in the journal
defending the U.S. guidelines.  The U.S. society “acknowledged that the list will evolve
over time and is developing a mechanism for community input,”
McGuire and her colleagues said in the essay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  