-- Germany Beating European Peers in Income Equality, OECD Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-05-16T10:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/germany-beating-european-peers-in-income-equality-oecd-says.html
Incomes in  Germany  have been more
evenly distributed than in other big European Union countries
since the start of the financial crisis, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Germany’s Gini coefficient, a measure of  income inequality ,
has been below that of France, Italy and the U.K. as well as
below the OECD average since 2007, the Paris-based body  said  in
a report released yesterday and posted on its website. Income in
the EU’s four biggest economies was distributed more evenly than
in the U.S.  “In the first three years of the financial and economic
crisis, the inequality of gross income in the OECD increased
more than in the twelve years before,” the OECD said. In
Germany, “inequality in market and disposable income remained
near the pre-crisis level.” The data cover the period from 1995
through 2010.  The OECD report further bolsters  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
government four months before a federal election amid broad
voter support for her handling of the euro region crisis. While
“the world is growing more uneven, Germany isn’t,” Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union-led bloc said today in a Twitter Inc.
message referencing the OECD’s findings.  IG Metall , Germany’s biggest labor union, won a 5.6 percent
pay deal in the state of Bavaria yesterday that sets a benchmark
for a national accord and raises wages at companies from  Siemens
AG (SIE)  to Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. The union and the
Gesamtmetall employers group agreed to the increase over 20
months for about 770,000 workers.  German Exuberance  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  reached an accord with the Ver.di
union on May 1 on pay and  job security  covering 33,000 employees
that grants pay raises of as much as 5.2 percent in two stages,
one in August and the other a year later.  Germany contrasts with the wider euro area. Exports from
Germany increased 3.2 percent in March while French shipments
rose 3.1 percent and Italian exports grew 0.5 percent, the EU’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Germany’s  adjusted
jobless rate  held at 6.9 percent in April, just above a two-decade low, as euro-area unemployment reaches a record 12.1
percent.  The OECD report showed that of Europe’s four biggest
economies the share of the population with an income of less
than 50 percent of the national median was the lowest in  France ,
followed by Germany, the U.K. and then Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  