-- Germany Defends Drone Order Scrapping With Minister Under Fire
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-05-16T10:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/germany-defends-drone-order-scrapping-with-minister-under-fire.html
German Defense Minister Thomas de Maiziere said the government will scrap any future defense
projects with cost overruns as he defended the termination of a
508 million-euro ($653 million) order for Euro Hawk drones.  De Maiziere, whom the opposition accused of deceiving
parliament and squandering millions of euros of taxpayers’
money, said the procurement process will be improved with the
government’s planned military overhaul so that cost issues are
identified earlier. Still, projects that exceed budget will face
being pulled, he said.  “If we see that these problems can’t be adequately
resolved, if costs threaten to get out of hand, then we would
rather pull the plug,” de Maiziere told lawmakers today in the
lower house in Berlin, saying the government would rather face a
“contained shock than an endless shock.”  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government said yesterday that
it will cut off spending for the unmanned Euro Hawk designed to
spy on enemy communications and radar after 250 million euros
had already been allocated. The  Defense Ministry  said it won’t
buy four more drones beyond the one already built after
confronting procurement problems for equipment overseas.  To meet U.S. and German security requirements, elements of
Euro Hawk work between  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  had to be separated during the
development phase. EADS said yesterday that equipment developed
for the five high-flying spy drones can find other uses.  Rainer Arnold, a lawmaker with the opposition  Social
Democrats , said “hundreds of millions have been buried in the
sand” and accused de Maiziere of failing to inform parliament
or the Cabinet of problems in time.  Euro Hawk is a modified version of the Global Hawk unmanned
aircraft used by the U.S. Air Force, with EADS providing the
sensor payload after it teamed up with Northrop in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  