-- Glencore Xstrata Chairman John Bond Voted Out at First AGM
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-05-16T10:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/glencore-xstrata-director-steve-robson-resigns-before-first-agm.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  Chairman  John Bond  was voted out by shareholders at the first annual general
meeting of the world’s biggest exporter of power-station coal.  Bond told the meeting today in Zug,  Switzerland  he didn’t
have enough votes to be re-elected and handed over the meeting
to  Tony Hayward , a fellow board member. Hayward, the former  BP
Plc (BP/)  chief executive officer, will be appointed interim chairman,
according to a person familiar with the plan, who asked not to
be named as the information isn’t public.  Bond said in November he wouldn’t take on the role of
chairman as planned and would leave after the board created from
Glencore’s takeover of Xstrata Plc found a replacement.  Glencore completed a $29 billion acquisition of Xstrata
this month to create the world’s fourth-biggest miner, with a
market value of about $67 billion. The resignation of Bond, 71,
and director Steve Robson, who also announced he was quitting
today, adds to a list of Xstrata executives who departed in
recent months as the completion of the takeover neared.  Shareholders also vote today to elect Ian Strachan, Con Fauconnier and Peter Hooley to the board. CEO Ivan Glasenberg
must vote for all directors under conditions of the takeover.
Glencore management own 25 percent of the company.  Glencore was little changed at 333.85 pence by 11:00 a.m.
in London trading.  Xstrata Departures  Robson will step down immediately and a resolution to vote
on his election to the board at the meeting has been withdrawn,
the Baar, Switzerland-based company said in a statement. Robson
was a non-executive director of Xstrata Plc from 2002 and among
three members of the Glencore Xstrata nominations committee,
along with Bond.  Mick Davis , the 55-year-old former CEO of Xstrata, said
last month he won’t serve six months in the role at the new
company before handing over to Glasenberg as previously
announced.  Senior Xstrata executives including  Charlie Sartain , head
of copper, nickel chief Ian Pearce and Loutjie Smit, interim CEO
of Xstrata alloys, have also departed. Strategy and corporate
affairs head Thras Moraitis and chief legal counsel Benny Levene
will leave after acting as consultants for six months.  Xstrata Chief Financial Officer Trevor Reid said in
December he won’t stay on at the combined company.  Payments Criticized  Bond announced his intention to resign after investors
defied the Xstrata board’s recommendation to approve a 144
million-pound ($219 million) package of retention bonuses for
about 70 Xstrata managers.  The proposed payments were criticized for being offered
without any performance criteria. Xstrata in June amended the
package, making all bonuses payable in shares and linking
payments to the executives to cost-saving targets.  Bond was chairman of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  from 2006 until
2011. He had held the same post at HSBC Holdings Plc after
joining the lender more than 40 years earlier.  Glencore Xstrata has interests in about 35 coal mines in
Colombia, Africa and  Australia , accounting for about 10 percent
of global seaborne supplies of the fuel. It is the fourth-biggest producer of mined copper and third-largest in nickel,
and employs about 190,000 people in more than 50 countries
across its industrial and trading divisions.  Glasenberg told analysts this month he expects to generate
synergies “well above” the stated target of $500 million a
year. He plans to close Xstrata’s Zug and London offices, and
plans regional centers in Sydney, Johannesburg, Toronto,
 Stamford  and  Singapore .  Closing Offices  The group may save $150 million a year by eliminating
Xstrata’s London office, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said
this month. They estimate possible cost savings of $1 billion a
year by 2015.  The company has retained two former Xstrata executives as
division heads among its 14 senior managers.  “We expect Glencore senior management to dominate the new
board and we expect them to impose Glencore’s leaner corporate
structure,” Liam Fitzpatrick, Michael Shillaker and James Gurry, analysts at Credit Suisse, wrote in a report this month.
The new company may cut duplication and management costs by $200
million to $300 million a year at its copper, coal and zinc
units, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  