-- Glencore Names Tony Hayward Interim Chairman After Bond Ousted
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-05-16T20:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/glencore-names-hayward-interim-chairman-after-bond-ousted-at-agm.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  appointed former
 BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  as interim chairman
after  John Bond  was ousted by shareholders of the world’s
largest exporter of power-station coal.  Bond stepped down at the start of Glencore’s annual general
meeting yesterday in Zug,  Switzerland , saying he didn’t have
enough support. Glencore later said in a statement that 81
percent of the votes cast were against his selection. The
company said it’s consulting external shareholders and seeking
candidates for the chairman’s job. Hayward will stand aside once
a replacement is found.  Glencore completed its $29 billion acquisition of Xstrata
Plc this month, creating the fourth-biggest mining company. The
ousting of Bond and director Steve Robson, who quit hours before
yesterday’s meeting, swells the ranks of Xstrata executives who
have departed as the takeover is completed. Hayward has been on
Glencore’s board since April 2011.  “Shareholders must be pleased to have a veteran, a guy of
his caliber, involved,” Paul Gait, a mining analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein Ltd. in  London , said by phone. “It did feel
slightly shambolic to have the ex-chairman announce his
departure on the day of the AGM. Should this not have been
arranged beforehand?”  Xstrata Directors  Bond, 71, said in November he wouldn’t take on the role of
chairman as planned and would leave once the board created by
Glencore’s takeover of Xstrata Plc found a replacement.
Yesterday Glencore shareholders also rejected former Xstrata
board members Ian Strachan, Con Fauconnier and Peter Hooley as
directors. The remuneration report was passed, with 22 percent
of votes against.  Glencore, based in Baar, Switzerland, gained 1 percent to
337 pence in London yesterday. The largest publicly traded
commodities supplier may consider a listing of shares in
Switzerland, CEO Ivan Glasenberg told the meeting yesterday in
response to a question from an investor.  Hayward, 55, is the CEO of  Genel Energy Plc (GENL) , the largest
oil producer in  Iraq ’s Kurdish region. He resigned from BP,
 Europe ’s second-biggest energy company, in October 2010
following the Gulf of Mexico  oil spill  earlier that year. Eleven
workers on the Deepwater Horizon oil platform died following the
blowout of the Macondo well on April 20, 2010, which unleashed
the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  Hayward teamed up with financier  Nathaniel Rothschild  to
create Vallares Plc, a shell company that raised 1.33 billion
pounds ($2.03 billion) through an initial public offering in
London in June 2011. Vallares agreed to merge with Genel in
September 2011.  Mick Davis  Mick Davis , the 55-year-old former CEO of Xstrata, said
last month he wouldn’t serve six months in the same role at
Glencore Xstrata before handing over to Glasenberg as previously
announced.  Senior Xstrata executives including  Charlie Sartain , head
of copper, nickel chief Ian Pearce, and Loutjie Smit, interim
CEO of Xstrata alloys, have also departed. Strategy and
corporate affairs head Thras Moraitis and chief legal counsel
Benny Levene will leave after acting as consultants for six
months.  Xstrata Chief Financial Officer Trevor Reid said in
December he won’t stay on at the combined company. The departure
of Bond and Robson yesterday reduces the three-man nominations
committee, responsible for steering the selection of the new
chairman, to just Hayward.  29-Year Veteran  Glasenberg, a 29-year veteran of Glencore Xstrata, is its
largest shareholder with an 8.3 percent stake. He’s navigated
the group through two decades of private ownership and headed
the company’s $10 billion initial public offering two years ago.  “Glencore needs a chairman with a strong enough
personality to stand up to Ivan, a counterbalance and a foil,
but without being the type of personality who will curb the
entrepreneurial spirit and the dynamism,” Bernstein’s Gait
said.  Bond announced his intention to resign after investors
defied the Xstrata board’s recommendation to approve a 144
million-pound package of retention bonuses for about 70 Xstrata
managers.  “Given the level of sentiment and given how vocal certain
shareholders were about the process, surely this can’t have come
as a surprise to Sir John,” Bernstein’s Gait said.  The proposed payments were criticized for being offered
without any performance criteria. Xstrata amended the package in
June, making all bonuses payable in shares and linking payments
to the executives to cost-saving targets. Bond handed control of
yesterday’s AGM to Hayward as the meeting opened.  ‘Strong Opposition’  “I recognize and respect the strong opposition among many
to the retention arrangements which the board felt appropriate
to ensure management stability,” Bond said in a statement
yesterday.  Bond was chairman of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  from 2006 until
2011. He had held the same post at HSBC Holdings Plc after
joining the lender more than 40 years earlier.  Glencore Xstrata has interests in about 35 coal mines in
Colombia, Africa and  Australia , accounting for about 10 percent
of global seaborne supplies of the fuel. It’s the fourth-biggest
producer of mined copper and third-largest in nickel, and
employs about 190,000 people in more than 50 countries across
its industrial and trading divisions.  Glasenberg told analysts this month he expects to generate
synergies “well above” the stated target of $500 million a
year. He plans to close Xstrata’s Zug and London offices, and
plans regional centers in Sydney, Johannesburg, Toronto,
 Stamford  and  Singapore .  Cost Savings  The group may save $150 million a year by eliminating
Xstrata’s London office, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said
this month. They estimate possible cost savings of $1 billion a
year by 2015.  The company has retained two former Xstrata executives as
division heads among its 14 senior managers.  “We expect Glencore senior management to dominate the new
board and we expect them to impose Glencore’s leaner corporate
structure,” Liam Fitzpatrick, Michael Shillaker and James Gurry, analysts at Credit Suisse, wrote in a report this month.
The new company may cut duplication and management costs by $200
million to $300 million a year at its copper, coal and zinc
units, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  