-- MGM China Sees Macau’s VIP Gaming Business Continuing to Pick Up
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-05-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/mgm-china-sees-macau-s-vip-gaming-business-continuing-to-pick-up.html
MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282) , the  Macau 
casino unit of  MGM Resorts International (MGM) , said it expects the
city’s business from high-stake gamblers to continue to pick up
“slightly” as the Chinese economy improves.  Double-digit growth from VIP customers is “sustainable”
for the industry and the casino operator’s business from high-stake gamblers is “solid,” Chief Executive Officer Grant Bowie
said in an interview in Macau yesterday.  High-rollers from China’s mainland curbed spending amid a
slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy last year. In the
first quarter, the city’s VIP baccarat revenue rose 9.8 percent
to 57.82 billion patacas ($7.2 billion) from a year earlier.  “Everyone was speculating some negative impact, but the
leadership change wasn’t an impact,” Bowie said, referring to
the government transition in mainland  China . “There’s also a
level of resilience in terms of how China market is performing
relative to the global market.”  VIPs account for about two-thirds of casino revenue in
Macau. New attractions coupled with an improved rail connection
with Northern China are drawing more mainland visitors to Macau,
the world’s biggest gambling hub.  MGM earlier this month posted a 9.7 percent increase in
first-quarter profit, while turnover at its VIP-room gambling
tables rose 15 percent from a year earlier.  Macau, the only place in China where casino gambling is
legal, raked in $38 billion in revenue last year, six times that
of the Las Vegas strip. Deutsche Bank AG estimated casino
revenue will rise 17 percent to $44.5 billion this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  