-- MGM Studio Says Earnings Soar on Films ‘Skyfall,’ ‘Hobbit’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-05-16T22:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/mgm-studio-says-earnings-soar-on-film-hits-skyfall-hobbit-.html
MGM Holdings Inc. (MGMB) , the film studio
that emerged from bankruptcy more than two years ago, said
first-quarter profit more than doubled with the film hits
“Skyfall” and “The Hobbit.”  Net income increased to $57.4 million from $23.3 million a
year earlier, the closely held Beverly Hills, California-based
company, which has filed for an initial public offering, said
today on its  website . Revenue also more than doubled, to
$481.7 million from $179.5 million.  The two pictures added theatrical revenue of $139.5
million, compared with $500,000 a year earlier, the studio said.
Future results will reflect the cinema performance of releases
such as “Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters” and “ G.I. Joe :
Retaliation,” according to the studio.  “The film slate is strong with two more ‘Hobbit’ films,
‘Hercules,’ a ‘RoboCop’ remake and additional James Bond
films,” said Steven Azarbad, co-founder of New York-based
Maglan Capital LP, which owns about 1 percent of the company.
With brighter film prospects and TV revenue stable, “MGM has
the wind at its back and will continue to grow their Ebitda and
cash flow for years to come.”  An IPO remains one of several options the company is
considering, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Gary Barber 
said in response to a question on a conference call.  ‘Driving Value’  “We are evaluating all of our options, which include a
possible IPO,” he said, without elaborating. “We’re no longer
just a library company. We’re really driving value for
stockholders across all of our business lines.”  Management didn’t address whether billionaire investor
 Daniel Loeb , the activist investor who is trying to break up
 Sony Corp. (6758) , is buying MGM shares on the private market. The
 Hollywood Reporter  said yesterday that Loeb has been purchasing
the stock. Loeb’s Third Point LLC declined to comment.  In a letter delivered to Sony Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo
Hirai  on May 14, Loeb recommended that the Tokyo-based company
sell as much as 20 percent of its entertainment unit in an IPO
to free it from the struggling electronics business.  MGM Holdings’ home entertainment revenue also soared in the
first quarter on sales from the James Bond film “Skyfall,” to
$201.7 million from $36.2 million a year earlier.  Shares of MGM Holdings, intermittently traded over the
counter, rose 12 percent to $54.75 at the close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  