-- Gol Shifts to Add Routes Abroad With Cuts Reaching Limit
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e ,   T e l m a   M a r o t t o   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-05-16T21:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/gol-shifts-to-add-routes-abroad-with-cuts-reaching-limit.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL3) ,
Brazil’s biggest airline, is counting on routes outside the
country to boost revenue as it exhausts possible cost savings
after eliminating jobs, flights and planes.  Additional service will start in 2013’s second half between
Santo Domingo in the  Dominican Republic  and  North America ,
Central America and the Caribbean as Gol opens an international
hub in the nation’s capital, Chief Executive Officer Paulo Sergio Kakinoff said yesterday.  “We are very close to our limit in cost cutting,”
Kakinoff said in an interview at Bloomberg’s office in  Sao
Paulo . Flying abroad will help double Gol’s share of foreign-currency revenue, now at about 8 percent, in five years,
creating a “natural hedge” against exchange-rate swings that
balloon dollar debt, leasing and fuel bills, he said.  Kakinoff, 38, the former Brazil head of  Audi AG (NSU) , is undoing
a growth-at-any-price strategy that bulked up Sao Paulo-based
Gol with mergers and new routes before a 71 percent stock-price
collapse in the five years through 2012. Since becoming CEO in
July, he has moved to dump all the jets from a 2011 acquisition
and sold part of the Smiles frequent-flier plan in an initial
public offering raising 1.1 billion reais ($544 million).  Gol has jumped  20 percent  since June 18, the day Kakinoff’s
hiring was announced, while the benchmark Ibovespa index fell
2.5 percent.  The shares  slid 3.6 percent to 11.37 reais at the
close today in Sao Paulo.  Foreign Currency  Building out the Santo Domingo base will let travelers in
the U.S. and elsewhere fly to the Dominican Republic on a new
Gol unit, advancing the goal of generating revenue in currency
beyond the real, Kakinoff said. Such sales are important because
 jet fuel , Gol’s biggest expense, is priced in dollars.  With only 12 percent of Gol’s seating capacity  outside
Brazil , more international flights also would cushion the blow
of the nation’s slide in passenger traffic, which dropped 1.3
percent this year through March. Economic growth tapered off to
a rate of 0.9 percent in 2012 after a 2.7 percent advance in
2011.  Gol is in talks with three carriers in  Europe  and two in
 Asia  for a so-called code-sharing agreement, enabling passengers
to seamlessly book an itinerary across multiple airlines, said
Kakinoff, who declined to identify the prospective partners.  Delta Alliance  Such an accord would be similar to one with  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL)  that takes full effect in July, Kakinoff said. As part of
that deal, Delta bought more than 8 million shares, giving it a
6.15 percent of Gol’s outstanding stock. While a deal with
European or Asian companies “wouldn’t necessarily” include a
stake sale, it’s part of the talks, Kakinoff said.  “We can add passengers with no additional costs,”
Kakinoff said. “We are being super conservative and we are
considering that the domestic scenario will stay the way it is.
That’s what going to guarantee the survival of the company.”  While Gol’s rally suggests that investors are betting on a
Kakinoff-led turnaround, the carrier still hasn’t returned to
profit after net losses in seven of the past eight quarters. Of
seven  analysts surveyed by Bloomberg , four list the shares as a
buy, two say hold and one rates Gol as sell.  Fuel and the depreciation of the real continue to weigh on
results, said Rodolfo Amstalden, an analyst at consultant
Empiricus Research who doesn’t publish recommendations.  Not Enough?  “Cost cuts and the possibility of expanding international
operation and regional routes around  Brazil  may help to improve
revenue, but will not be enough to put the company back on the
profitability track,” Amstalden said by telephone from Sao
Paulo. “How can I recommend that investors buy shares of a
company that says it’s focusing its efforts on survival?”  Gol’s net debt ballooned to as much as  64 times earnings 
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in 2012’s
third quarter from a ratio of 1.8 at the end of 2010 after costs
increased and Brazil’s real plunged 11 percent, boosting the
value of dollar liabilities. Gol said about 73 percent of its
debt is denominated in a foreign currency.  The airline did post a first-quarter  operating profit  of
101 million reais on May 13, a feat that it had failed to
accomplish since the same three-month period -- a span that
includes Brazilian summer travel -- a year earlier.  Gol’s success in curbing expenses surprised the market,
said Matheus Mufarej, an analyst at Victoire Brasil
Investimentos, which owns 77,000 shares of Gol, according to
 data compiled by Bloomberg . It has 2.1 billion reais under
management.  Cost Surprise  “Costs were expected to have grown,” Mufarej said. Fuel
accounted for 46 percent of Gol’s first-quarter operating
expense.  Kakinoff has been trimming spending. First-quarter seating
capacity was chopped by 15.7 percent and will fall by 5 percent
to 8 percent for all of 2013, according to Gol, and the
workforce has been shrunk to 16,200 from a peak of 20,525 in
2011 before the CEO’s arrival. In November, Gol said it was
returning 20 older-model  Boeing Co. (BA)  737 jets to lessors while
shutting the newly acquired Webjet unit.  In targeting  Santo Domingo  as a place to reach into the
U.S. and other markets and boost sales in foreign currency such
as the dollar, Gol is taking a “logical” step, said Stephen Trent, a Citigroup Inc. analyst in  New York .  “They are tapping into high-density long-haul traffic
where there’s been a low supply of Brazil-originating flights to
the U.S.,” he said. “These guys really are in a good position
to return to more normal growth and profitability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Telma Marotto in Sao Paulo at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  