-- Goldman Sachs Wins Even When Muzzled by the Feds
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-05-16T22:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/goldman-sachs-wins-even-when-muzzled-by-the-feds.html
Almost three years ago, when  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  paid $550 million to settle fraud accusations
by the Securities and Exchange Commission, one of the claims was
that Goldman misled the bond-insurer ACA Financial Guaranty
Corp. in a horribly complex deal named Abacus.  Goldman  settled  without admitting to the accusations. The
terms also prohibited Goldman from denying the SEC’s allegations
in its public statements. Then, this week, a funny thing
happened. A  New York  state appeals court, in a 3-2  ruling ,
dismissed ACA’s lawsuit against Goldman. ACA said Goldman misled
it. The court said the insurer’s claims didn’t hold up.  The case captures perfectly why much of the public detests
“ neither admit nor deny ” regulatory settlements. We don’t know
whose facts to believe. Without trials or admissions of
liability, the government’s allegations remain unproven. Sure,
Goldman paid a big fine. That doesn’t establish anything. For
all we know it paid the money just to make the SEC go away.  The  result  is surreal: Goldman still isn’t allowed to  deny 
the agency’s claims that it misled ACA. However, a court has
thrown out ACA’s claims that Goldman did, in fact, mislead it.  To make matters more confusing, there may not be anything
factually inconsistent between this week’s court ruling and the
SEC’s earlier allegations. To win a fraud suit as a private
litigant, ACA needed to show that it justifiably relied on
Goldman’s misrepresentations. (The court said the insurer failed
this test.) The SEC, by contrast, doesn’t have to prove that an
investor relied on a defendant’s misstatements. Plus, the SEC
 said  Goldman defrauded multiple parties, not just ACA.  SEC Accusations  Let’s back up a bit. Abacus was a financial product known
as a synthetic collateralized debt obligation. The SEC’s suit
accused Goldman and a junior executive, Fabrice Tourre, of
making false and misleading statements to investors about the
deal, which the SEC said was designed to fail.  Goldman’s main offense,  allegedly , was telling a German
bank that ACA had picked the mortgage-related investments
underlying the deal -- when actually the selection process was
heavily influenced by a hedge fund,  Paulson & Co. , which later
made $1 billion betting against Abacus. As part of its SEC
accord, Goldman said it was “a mistake” not to disclose
Paulson’s role, but it didn’t admit violating the law.  Echoing the agency’s allegations, ACA  accused  Goldman of
misleading it into believing that Paulson would take a long, or
bullish, position in the equity portion of Abacus, aligning it
with ACA’s interests. In its majority opinion, the appeals court
said it dismissed ACA’s claims because “such misrepresentations
were specifically contradicted by the offering circular’s
disclosure that no such equity position was being taken.”  In other words, ACA should have known Paulson wasn’t long
when the insurer sold credit protection on a $909 million slice
of the deal in 2007. ACA had acknowledged in writing that it
wasn’t relying on any representations other than those in the
circular and in written agreements, the court said. ACA  said  it
will appeal this week’s ruling. The company is being wound down
and isn’t writing new policies.  Although Goldman settled with the SEC, Tourre, 34, is still
fighting the agency. He’s now pursuing a doctorate in economics
at the  University of Chicago . Should his case ever go to trial,
we may find out what really happened here.  The usual criticism of “no admit” settlements is that
they suggest the government is soft on corporate crooks. No
doubt this is often true. But there is also a flip side.
Settling without admissions of liability may tempt regulators to
pursue weak cases, knowing that some defendants would rather
write a check than spend years battling in court.  Warren’s Query  This week, U.S. Senator  Elizabeth Warren  asked this
question in a letter to SEC Chairman Mary Jo White, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and Attorney General Eric Holder:
“Have you conducted any internal research or analysis on trade-offs to the public between settling an enforcement action
without admission of guilt and going forward with litigation as
necessary to obtain such admission and, if so, can you provide
that analysis to my office?”  Back in February, Warren put the same question to
Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry . His agency, which
regulates the country’s largest banks, replied last week that it
had no such research or analysis.  Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat and former Harvard Law
School professor,  wrote  in her May 14  letter : “I believe
strongly that if a regulator reveals itself to be unwilling to
take large financial institutions all the way to trial -- either
because it is too timid or because it lacks resources -- the
regulator has a lot less leverage in settlement negotiations and
will be forced to settle on terms that are much more favorable
to the wrongdoer.”  Perhaps, too, the regulator would try harder to make sure
it brings only strong cases if its goal were to actually prove
its allegations. As for the SEC’s claims in the Abacus suit, we
can only wonder. Did Goldman rip off ACA? This week a court
ruled no.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 