-- Golden Parachutes Face Clampdown in EU Law on Executive Pay
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-05-16T11:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/golden-parachutes-face-clampdown-in-eu-law-on-executive-pay.html
Golden parachute pay packages to
departing company executives may face greater scrutiny from
shareholders as part of European Union proposals to stem
excessive awards.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, said he’ll seek to give shareholders more power to veto
compensation packages, including payouts to exiting managers,
in a draft law later this year.  “Lucrative severance packages for managers who have
underperformed are the subject of increasing criticism,”
Barnier said in prepared remarks for a speech in Dublin today.
“Shareholders now care about the relationship between executive
compensation and the performance of the company,” he said.  The European Commission’s push for more shareholder power
over pay adds to binding curbs on banker bonuses that were
agreed on by the EU this year. Barnier said that his plans were
inspired in part by a referendum in  Switzerland  on limiting
bonuses.  “First of all, we need more transparency on remuneration,
and secondly, shareholders should be given a binding ‘say on
pay,’” Barnier said. “Our revision of the Shareholder Rights
Directive will address these issues. I intend to present the
legislative proposal after the summer,” he said, adding that
the proposals would apply to listed companies.  Increased Scrutiny  Payments to top managers in the EU are under increased
scrutiny amid the bloc’s recession and austerity measures from
Ireland and  Spain  to Cyprus. The commission sees the EU economy
shrinking 0.1 percent this year, a second annual contraction,
before returning to growth in 2014.  A U.K. pension group recommended last month that members
vote against London-based  AstraZeneca Plc’s (AZN)  remuneration policy
at the company’s annual general meeting on April 25 to protest a
so-called golden hello payment and planned incentives for Chief
Executive Officer Pascal Soriot.  Novartis AG met similar pressure earlier this year over
plans to pay outgoing Chairman  Daniel Vasella  $77 million as
part of a non-compete agreement. Vasella’s golden parachute came
to light after details were leaked to the press, leading to a
public outcry in Switzerland and prompting him to give up the
money.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Hester  last year waived his 963,000-pound ($1.5 million)
bonus after the U.K.’s opposition  Labour Party  said it would ask
the national parliament to vote on the award at the bailed-out
lender -- part of a series of pay revolts by bank investors that
Barnier described as a “shareholders’ spring.”  “The financial crisis has shown that excessive bonuses can
lead to excessive risk-taking,” he said in today’s speech.
“Big bonuses also raise issues of social justice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  