-- Goldman Sachs Tax Deal Didn’t Break U.K. Law, Judge Rules
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-05-16T09:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/goldman-sachs-tax-deal-didn-t-break-u-k-law-judge-rules.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s deal with
the U.K. government that may have saved the investment bank as
much as 20 million pounds ($30.6 million) on its taxes didn’t
break any laws, a judge ruled.  Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs’s decision to reduce the
New York-based bank’s tax bill was properly conducted, a judge
in London ruled today. Still, Judge Andrew Nicol criticized tax
officials who considered the potential embarrassment to
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne if a deal with
Goldman Sachs wasn’t completed.  “The settlement with Goldman Sachs was not a glorious
episode in the history of the Revenue,” Nicol said in his
written ruling.  The U.K. government has pledged to clamp down on tax-avoidance schemes following widespread media and public anger
caused by the amount of corporation tax the likes of Google
Inc.,  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and Amazon.com Inc. pay in the country.
Lawmakers said in a report last month that increased
transparency about companies’ tax affairs would build pressure
on multinational businesses to “pay a fair share.”  UK Uncut Legal Action, an advocacy group that lobbies for
alternatives to government spending cuts, said HMRC reached the
agreement with Goldman Sachs on the day Osborne announced a
bankers’ code to counter tax avoidance. An HMRC executive said
in an e-mail cited by UK Uncut that he was concerned the bank
might drop out of the code if the deal was scuttled.  Played Politics  “Obviously while we are deeply disappointed that this deal
has not been declared unlawful, the judge’s ruling that top HMRC
officials played politics with major tax deals to protect
Osborne’s reputation is a major victory in exposing the truth
behind these secret deals,” Anna Walker, campaigns director of
UK Uncut Legal Action, said in an e-mailed statement.  Goldman Sachs wasn’t involved in the litigation. Fiona Laffan, a London-based spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment.  HMRC said the ruling “puts to rest the fallacy that HMRC
is soft on large businesses.”  “The High Court’s judgment confirms what HMRC has always
said: that while we made errors in settling the Goldman Sachs
dispute, we made the right settlement in the circumstances, and
that our decision was both proper and lawful,” HMRC Director
General for Business Tax, Jim Harra, said in an e-mailed
statement.  2010 Meeting  UK Uncut said the deal between HMRC and Goldman Sachs
revolves around a 2010 meeting between Dave Hartnett, the tax
secretary at the time, and the bank’s then-tax director, Mike Housden. Lawyers for UK Uncut said at an earlier hearing that
Hartnett overruled advice from lawyers and an internal HMRC
review to proceed with the deal.  The deal resulted in the company paying back taxes it owed
on National Insurance payments for bankers’ bonuses, while
forgoing interest payments. Lawmakers said last year that the
amount involved was about 10 million pounds. UK Uncut argues it
is close to 20 million pounds.  The case is a judicial review, a legal mechanism that
examines the decision-making process of public bodies. While an
authority may be ordered to reconsider an action, it may be
allowed to draw the same conclusion provided all procedures are
correctly followed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  