-- Google Told by U.K. Lawmaker It Is ‘Evil’ Over Tax Practices
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2013-05-16T13:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/google-denies-misleading-parliament-over-u-k-tax-liabilities.html
A U.K. parliamentary committee
chairwoman said  Google Inc. (GOOG)  was “evil” because of the way it
sought to minimize its U.K. tax bills.  In an often-heated exchange with a Google executive today,
 Margaret Hodge , a Labour Party lawmaker who chairs the Public
Accounts Committee, said the company was exploiting the rules
and acting unethically.  “Your company says you don’t do evil; you do do evil, you
use smoke and mirrors,” Hodge told California-based Google’s
vice president for sales and operations in northern and central
 Europe , Matt Brittin. Hodge said Google practiced “devious,
calculated and, in my view, unethical behavior.”  At stake is an attempt by lawmakers to get Google to pay
more tax in the U.K. by establishing whether the company is
selling its services in the U.K. Google says that its U.K.-based
employees aren’t closing sales as that is done by employees in
Ireland, and sometimes by the software itself, which has its
non-U.S. international intellectual property rights based in
Bermuda.  Brittin said he hadn’t misled Parliament at a November
hearing, saying the company pays tax where it creates “economic
value.”  “Nobody in the U.K. has had an opportunity to close a
transaction with a customer,” Brittin told the cross-party
panel in  London . “I stand by what I have said.”  Today’s probe follows a wider international effort to get
companies to pay more tax as governments cut spending programs
to curb deficits.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook 
will be the subject of a May 21 Senate hearing on U.S.
companies’ offshore tax practices, two people familiar with the
inquiry said yesterday. Apple uses a similar strategy to the one
used by Google to cut its income taxes.  Amazon Taxes  The Guardian reported this week that the U.K. arm of
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  paid 3.2 million pounds ($4.9 million) in
corporate income taxes in 2012. In its annual report in the
U.S., Amazon reported U.K. sales that year of almost $6.5
billion.  Hodge pressed him on details obtained from former Google
employees she called “whistleblowers.” She said they showed
sales are being executed in the U.K.  “If sales activity is taking place in the U.K. you are
misleading Parliament and the tax authorities in suggesting that
is not happening,” Hodge said.  “Why don’t you call a spade a spade?” asked Richard Bacon, a Conservative lawmaker.  ‘Double Irish’  In November, the committee grilled executives from Google,
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and Amazon.com over their methods for avoiding
U.K. taxes by pushing profits offshore. As first reported by
Bloomberg in 2010, Google uses a pair of tax-shelter strategies
known as the “Double Irish” and “Dutch Sandwich” to avoid
taxes around the world.  Since 2010, Google has avoided about $6 billion in income
taxes around the world by shifting billions in royalties through
a subsidiary in the Netherlands and then into a Bermuda shell
company, according to company filings in the U.S. and offshore.  The strategy has helped cut the company’s worldwide tax
rate roughly in half, to 19.4 percent in 2012, compared with the
combined U.S. federal and typical state income tax rate of 39.2
percent. On the profits it said it derived overseas, Google
reported a tax rate of just 5.3 percent in 2012, according to
its annual report.  Under Scrutiny  In the U.K., the company’s subsidiary reports similarly low
taxes. The company reported nearly $4.1 billion in sales in the
U.K. in 2011, according to Google’s annual report. Its U.K.
subsidiary reported paying taxes of 6 million pounds.  As reported by Bloomberg in December, Google avoided about
$2 billion in worldwide income taxes in 2011 by shifting $9.8
billion in revenues into a  Bermuda  shell company, almost double
the total from three years before, filings show.  Google’s taxes are undergoing scrutiny around the world.
The French tax authority in 2011 proposed increasing the
company’s taxes by about $1.3 billion, as part of an examination
first reported by Bloomberg. Google has said it is cooperating
with French tax authorities.  During a second part of today’s hearing, Lin Homer,
permanent secretary of Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs, said the
law needs to be changed before Google can be compelled to pay
more tax.  Hodge said the tax authority was failing in its duty and
should take a tougher stance with Google.  “We don’t trust your judgment,” Hodge said. “You have
lousy judgment and the people making those judgments aren’t fit
for purpose.”  In an interview with  Bloomberg News , Hodge said she has had
conversations with staff at the Treasury about changing the laws
that make such profit shifting possible.  “They make some of the right noises, but when you see what
they do in practice, you haven’t got the evidence that they are
really determined,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Drucker in London at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  