-- Google Glasses Quizzed Over Snooping by U.S. Lawmakers
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-05-16T21:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/google-glasses-quizzed-over-snooping-by-u-s-lawmakers.html
U.S. lawmakers asked  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to
explain how the company will protect the privacy of people
viewed by those wearing the company’s Web-enabled eyeglasses.  Google’s Glass, a wearable computer in use by a limited
number of testers, can take pictures and videos and share
information via the Internet, according to a company  blog post .  “Is it true that this product would be able to use facial
recognition technology to unveil personal information about
whomever?” Representative Joe Barton, a Texas Republican, and
seven other lawmakers asked in a letter today to Google Chief
Executive Officer  Larry Page .  The lawmakers asked whether bystanders could opt out of
information gathering, and whether Google would collect data
about users.  Google, operator of the world’s largest Internet search
engine, has been grappling with scrutiny by government officials
around the world over how it handles private information.  Google is “thinking very carefully about how we design
Glass because new technology always raises new issues,”
Samantha Smith, Google’s Washington spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The company will take comments from people using the
glasses in trial runs, she said.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , in March agreed
to pay $7 million to settle an investigation by states over the
collection of data from unsecured wireless networks by vehicles
taking images for the company’s Street View product. The Federal
Communications Commission fined Google $25,000 last year for not
cooperating with a probe into the Street View data collection.  In 2011, Google agreed to 20 years of independent privacy
audits to settle claims with the Federal Trade Commission that
it deceived users and violated its own privacy policies with the
Buzz social network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  