-- Gulf Gasoline Weakens, New York Gains After Colonial Line Shut
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-05-16T17:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/gulf-gasoline-weakens-new-york-gains-after-colonial-line-shut.html
Gasoline on the U.S. Gulf Coast
weakened against futures for a second day after Colonial
Pipeline Co. shut a segment of a line linking the region’s
refineries to the Northeastern market.  Line 1 was shut for an hour after Colonial discovered
leaked product yesterday, and operations downstream of Hebert,
Texas, returned to normal today,  Steve Baker , a spokesman based
at the company’s headquarters in Alpharetta,  Georgia , said by e-mail today. The pipeline isn’t accepting gasoline from Houston
sources until it locates the leak and makes repairs, Baker said.  Conventional, 85-octane gasoline, or CBOB, on the Gulf
Coast dropped 0.63 cent to a discount of 18.13 cents a gallon
versus gasoline futures traded on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 12:08 p.m., data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
the fuel’s weakest level in four days.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in New York Harbor climbed
0.12 cent to 8.63 cents a gallon below futures, a one-week high.  The Colonial segment shutdown may curtail shipments on the
line, which can carry 1.5 million barrels a day of gasoline from
the Houston area to Greensboro,  North Carolina . Line 1 supplies
fuel to states in the Southeast and connects at Greensboro to
Line 3, which ends at Linden, New Jersey.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel  fuel on the Gulf Coast gained 0.5
cent against ULSD futures on the Nymex to a discount of 4.25
cents a gallon.  Motiva Enterprises LLC’s 255,000-barrel-a-day Convent
refinery in Louisiana restored power after a bird landed on a
transformer today, triggering a failure, Jean Kelly, a
spokeswoman for the Louisiana Environmental Quality Department,
said by e-mail from Baton Rouge.  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) ’s 302,300-barrel-a-day
 refinery  in Texas reported flaring and emissions from a unit
“due to an operational change,” the company said in a filing
with state regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  