-- Heat Oust Bulls as Grizzlies Knock Out Thunder in NBA Playoffs
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-16T05:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/miami-heat-win-94-91-to-oust-chicago-bulls-in-nba-playoff-series.html
The Miami Heat and  Memphis Grizzlies 
wrapped up their National Basketball Association playoff series
in five games and advanced to the conference finals.  The Heat topped the visiting Chicago Bulls 94-91 last night
to reach the Eastern Conference finals against the Indiana
Pacers or New York Knicks. The Grizzlies beat the host Oklahoma
City Thunder 88-84 to and will face the San Antonio Spurs or
Golden State Warriors in the Western Conference finals.  “Each round gets tougher,” Heat coach  Erik Spoelstra  said
in a news conference. “We were challenged in this series. We
can expect it only to get more difficult.”  In tonight’s games, the Pacers can wrap up their best-of-seven second-round series with a win at the Knicks and the Spurs
can knock out the host Warriors. The Pacers lead their series
3-1, while San Antonio is up 3-2.  LeBron James scored 23 points for Miami and  Dwyane Wade ,
playing with a sore knee that was re-taped before the final
quarter, added 18 for the Heat -- who dropped the first game and
then won the next four against the Bulls.  “We gave everything we had,” James said in a televised
interview. “It’s tough to beat a team four times.”  Miami scored the first 10 points of the game and opened an
18-2 lead en route to a 30-21 lead at the end of the first
quarter, only to have Chicago respond by outscoring the hosts
32-17 in the second quarter for a six-point halftime lead.  Chicago led 77-69 entering the fourth quarter.  Shane Battier  had eight points, including a pair of 3-pointers, as the
Heat opened the period with a 20-7 run to take the lead for
good.  “Mentally, we had to not get too high, not get too low,”
James said of the roller-coaster game.  ‘Young Team’  Carlos Boozer  led Chicago with 26 points and 14 rebounds
and  Nate Robinson  contributed 21 points.  “We’re a young team,” said Joakim Noah, who scored three
points. “Someday we’ll get our shot.”  Bulls guard Kirk Hinrich missed his seventh straight game
with a bruised calf and forward Luol Deng was sidelined for the
sixth consecutive game with an undiagnosed illness. Former Most
Valuable Player  Derrick Rose  has not played all season for
Chicago while recovering from knee surgery.  “Obviously we’re disappointed in losing the series,”
Bulls coach  Tom Thibodeau  said. “But I was never disappointed
in our team. If everyone comes back healthy, we’ll have quality
depth. We have to add the right type of guys, but we’re
optimistic. We can’t hope for it, we have to make it happen.”  At Chesapeake Energy Arena in Oklahoma City,  Zach Randolph 
had 28 points and 14 rebounds and Mike Conley added 13 points
and 11 assists for the Grizzlies, who outscored the Thunder
32-15 in the second quarter to hold a 50-38 halftime lead before
Oklahoma City came back within two, 64-62, going into the final
quarter.  Kevin Durant  scored 21 points for the Thunder and Serge Ibaka contributed 17 points before fouling out with 85 seconds
remaining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  