-- Highbridge Alumnus’s North Asia Hedge Fund Trails Japan Rally
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-05-16T01:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/highbridge-alumnus-s-north-asia-hedge-fund-trails-japan-rally.html
Arena Capital Offshore Fund, a Japan-focused hedge fund run by Highbridge Capital Management LLC
alumnus Toby Bartlett, trailed its peers even as the nation’s
stocks surged to the highest since 2008.  The $44 million hedge fund, backed by a division of  Man
Group Plc (EMG) , returned 2.6 percent this year through April,
according to its April newsletter to investors seen by Bloomberg
News. This year’s gain compares with the 8.8 percent return by
the Eurekahedge Asia Hedge Fund Index and the 19 percent gain by
the index that tracks Japan-focused funds.  Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  surged to the
highest since June 2008 last month as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
and the Bank of Japan expanded money supply to beat deflation,
weakening the yen and boosting earnings of exporters. The fund,
which employs a market-neutral strategy that seeks to profit
regardless of market directions, is focused on risk-adjusted
returns used by investors to measure performance, said Arena
Capital Management Ltd.’s Chief Investment Officer Bartlett.  “There is ample demand for market-neutral hedge funds,”
he said in an e-mailed response. “Considering the large
directional move in the market year-to-date, we believe that
low-volatility market-neutral strategies are an even more
attractive option for investors.” He declined to comment on the
fund’s specific performance, citing confidentiality agreement
with investors.  The fund, which began trading in October, lost 0.3 percent
in its first three months of trading.  Japan Bets  The fund, which was 100 percent invested in  Japan  at the
end of April, doesn’t take a view on the market or industries,
minimizing such risks by trading buckets of related stocks,
according to the newsletter. Net exposure, the difference
between its bets on rising and falling stocks, was below 2
percent, the newsletter showed.  It targets mid-teen annual returns and invests in liquid
stocks mainly in Japan and North Asia domestic-demand-related
industries, the newsletter said.  Man Group’s FRM Capital Advisors Ltd. division invested $25
million in the Arena fund, Patric de Gentile-Williams, FRM’s
head of seeding, said in an e-mail in January.  Bartlett was an Asian equities fund manager at Highbridge
between 2009 and 2011, focusing on consumer-related companies,
according to an FRM Capital Advisors statement in January. He
worked for Citadel LLC between 2007 and 2009 as a fund manager
running Japan-focused stock investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  