-- Time Warner Cable Said to Weigh Stake in Hulu Video Site
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-05-16T21:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/time-warner-cable-said-to-weigh-stake-in-hulu-video-site.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest U.S. cable-TV provider, is considering taking an equity
stake in online-video site Hulu LLC, according to people with
knowledge of the situation.  Discussions are at an early stage and a transaction isn’t
certain, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. Another pay-TV company is also weighing a
Hulu bid, said one of the people.  A deal would make New York-based Time Warner Cable a co-owner with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , which
each hold about a one-third stake, said the people. Time Warner
Cable could offer Hulu to its customers as a bundled service
inside and outside of the home with its current products, one of
the people said. The company is focusing more on its broadband
business as traditional pay-TV growth stalls.  Ownership in Hulu would open the door to more ad revenue at
Time Warner Cable and, eventually, could help the cable company
transcend regional limits to its growth. Hulu also would
potentially improve the company’s access to local advertisers, a
group it has targeted.  “Hulu’s a great asset,” said  Rich Greenfield , an analyst
with BTIG LLC in New York. “Conditions like a national
footprint will seem silly 10 years from now.”  Meredith Kendall, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
declined to comment, as did Justin Venech at Time Warner Cable.  Comcast’s Role  Having its cable rival as a partner could also allow
Philadelphia-based Comcast, the biggest cable-TV service, to
piggyback on any deals Time Warner Cable makes with Hulu.
Comcast agreed not to make management decisions at Hulu as part
of its January 2011 purchase of NBC Universal.  Hulu, which surpassed 4 million paid customers for its
$7.99-a-month service in the first quarter, is seeking to double
the number of advertisers this year as it targets local
businesses, Jean-Paul Colaco, senior vice president of
advertising, said this month.  “It’s the best brand for streaming television,”  David Bank , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in New York, said in an
interview. He said ownership of Hulu would help Time Warner
Cable control online distribution of video.  Time Warner Cable fell 2 percent to $97.22 at the close in
New York. The shares are little changed this year.  Earlier Offers  Hulu’s board reached out to potential strategic buyers,
people with knowledge of the situation said in March. Its
controlling owners, Burbank, California-based Disney and  Rupert Murdoch ’s New York-based News Corp., disagree on Hulu’s future
direction and discussed one partner buying out the other’s
stake, people said in March.  Former News Corp. Chief Operating Officer  Peter Chernin ,
who helped found Hulu, offered at least $500 million, people
with knowledge of the situation said last month.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) 
Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  met with senior executives
of the online television service, people said this month.  Amazon.com Inc. and Guggenheim Partners LLC have also
expressed interest, people familiar with the situation have
said.  Dow Jones reported Time Warner Cable’s interest earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  