-- IMF Urges More Polish Rate Cuts as Main Tool to Boost Economy
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-05-16T16:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/imf-urges-more-polish-rate-cuts-as-main-tool-to-boost-economy.html
Poland ’s central bank should cut
interest rates “without delay” to boost the flagging economy,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Growth in the European Union’s largest eastern economy will
slow to 1.2 percent in 2013 and start to recover “later in the
year,” depending on improvements in the euro area, the IMF said
today in a statement following its mission in Warsaw. As the
slowdown saps budget revenue, it projects the  deficit  will widen
to 4 percent of economic output from 3.9 percent in 2012.  “With fiscal space limited, monetary policy remains the
main tool through which macroeconomic policies can support the
economy,” Julie Kozack, who headed the fund’s mission to
Poland, told a news conference. “We see scope for further rate
cuts as the real policy  interest rates  remain high from the
global and regional perspective.”  The central bank has lowered its benchmark interest rate by
a total of 175 basis points since November to a record-low 3
percent last week. While the inflation rate dropped to a seven-year low in April and the economy expanded the least since 2009
in the first quarter, policy makers are split on the need for
further easing.  More rate cuts would have “immediate” effects on the cost
of servicing household and corporate debt because most corporate
lending is based on floating interest rates, Kozack said.  Following “impressive” fiscal consolidation, Poland
should let “automatic stabilizers” operate, meaning the
government should permit a small shortfall in budget revenue
resulting from slower economic growth, she said.  The expansion will accelerate to 2.2 percent next year,
with the  budget deficit  to narrow to 3.3 percent of GDP,
according to the IMF.  “As the economy recovers, additional fiscal consolidation
will be needed to put the public debt ratio firmly on a downward
path and rebuild fiscal buffers,” the fund said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  