-- India’s Nifty Futures Fall After Sensex Climbs to Two-Year High
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-05-16T02:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/india-s-nifty-futures-fall-after-sensex-climbs-to-two-year-high.html
India’s (SENSEX)  stock futures dropped,
signaling benchmark indexes may decline after surging to the
highest in more than two years yesterday.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for May delivery fell 0.2
percent to 6,152.5 at 9:48 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index jumped 2.5 percent to 6,146.75 yesterday, the
highest close since Jan. 3, 2011. The S&P BSE Sensex index
advanced 2.5 percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR
Index of U.S.-traded shares rose 0.8 percent.  Stocks climbed yesterday amid speculation the central bank
may cut lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios after inflation
slowed to a more than three-year low, pushing the Sensex’s
valuation to the highest level in seven months.  “At the current levels, valuations are near the long-term
average and will need the support of government reforms to move
up,” Sanjeev Zarbade, vice president of private client group
research at Kotak Securities Ltd., wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  The Sensex has rallied 11 percent since sinking to a seven-month low on April 9, as foreign funds extended  purchases  of
Indian stocks amid monetary easing by global central banks. The
gauge is valued at 13.9 times  forecast 12-month profits , the
most expensive since October, compared with the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index’s 10.6 times.  Shares of  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM)  may be active after the
company said yesterday it will terminate its American Depositary
Receipts program and delist from the New York Stock Exchange.  Earnings Forecasts  Motorcycle maker  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT)  may report today fourth-quarter net income of 7.1 billion rupees ($130 million),
according to the median estimate of 42 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Profits at just two of the 15 Sensex companies that have
reported March-quarter earnings have  trailed  estimates, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with about 43 percent
that missed forecasts in the three months ended Dec. 31, and 40
percent in the previous two quarters.  Overseas funds  bought a net $84 million of shares on May
14, taking this year’s net inflows to a net $12.82 billion, data
from the market regulator show. That’s a record for the period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  