-- Intel CEO Krzanich Plans Faster Shift to Mobile Chips
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-05-16T18:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/intel-ceo-krzanich-plans-faster-shift-to-mobile-chips.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Brian Krzanich, who
took over today as chief executive officer, said the world’s
largest computer chipmaker has the assets it needs to accelerate
a push into mobile devices.  “We see that we’ve been a bit slow to move into that
space,” Krzanich said at the annual shareholder  meeting  at the
company’s headquarters in  Santa Clara , California. “The base of
assets that we have will allow us to grow in that area much
faster moving forwards.”  Krzanich, Intel’s sixth chief executive, takes the helm as
the company struggles to cut into  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s lead in the
$85.4 billion mobile-chip market. Industry-leading manufacturing
and new products will enable the company to start making inroads
in phones and tablets, he said.  Krzanich said he and newly promoted company President Renee James will try to make Intel more outward-looking in order to
predict future trends in computing, Krzanich said.  That’s more important as consumers, rather than
corporations, take the leading role in determining which devices
and technologies are successful, Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith said in an interview following today’s meeting.  “The lifecycle of those devices and the lifecycle of the
leadership of the market is very short,” he said. “The
consumer is driving these very fast technology shifts.”  Krzanich, a former factory manager, succeeds  Paul Otellini ,
who retired. Intel has improved its execution in creating
products for new markets and Krzanich, with his background in
operations, is very focused on making sure that there are no
slip ups, said Smith.  Intel  shares  rose less than 1 percent, to $24.23 at 2:05
p.m. in  New York . While the stock has gained 18 percent this
year, it dropped more than 6 percent during Otellini’s tenure,
which began in May 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  