-- Invensys Plans $913 Million in Acquisitions With Siemens Cash
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-05-16T10:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/invensys-plans-913-million-in-acquisitions-with-siemens-cash.html
Invensys Plc (ISYS) , which sold its rail
business to  Siemens AG (SIE)  last year, plans to use as much as 600
million pounds ($913 million) on acquisitions of higher-margin
software business, Chief Executive Officer Wayne Edmunds said.  The engineering company is planning three to four “bolt-on
deals” a year over the next three to four years, Edmunds said
in a telephone interview, adding Invensys expects the targets to
cost 30 million pounds to 50 million pounds.  “The best targets in terms of growth and availability are
in software and energy controls,” said Edmunds, who took over
as CEO of the London-based company in March 2011. “Often the
only way to get into India or  China  is to acquire or partner
with a local company.”  Invensys, which today reported 2013 fiscal-year operating
profit before one-time items that climbed 41 percent, said
before the 1.74 billion-pound Siemens deal that it received an
exploratory takeover approach from  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  that
failed to produce an agreement. The rail-infrastructure unit
sale has prompted analysts to speculate that Emerson may be
tempted again.  Edmunds declined to comment today on whether further talks
have been held since it reported the first set of discussions in
June. He didn’t rule out the divestment of further units.  “Should situations arise such as with rail, we will
certainly be sure to be sensitive to shareholder needs,” he
said about the prospect of further sales.  Invensys is using 625 million pounds from the Siemens deal
for pension contributions and will also return the same amount
to shareholders as soon as practicable, the company said today.  The company’s software division will average 10 percent
growth over the next few years, with “low single-digit”
percentage expansion anticipated in the industrial automation,
energy controls and appliance segments, Edmunds said. Revenue
climbed 1.6 percent last year to 1.79 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  