-- Lion Air Copilot Handed Control to Pilot Just Before Bali Crash
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-05-16T07:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/lion-air-copilot-handed-control-to-pilot-just-before-bali-crash.html
Indonesia’s National Transportation
Safety Committee found that the copilot of a  passenger jet 
operated by PT Lion Mentari Airlines handed control to the pilot
just before it crashed off Bali’s main airport last month.  The 24-year-old copilot, with 1,200 hours of flying
experience, relinquished control of the Boeing Co. 737-800
passenger jet when it was at an altitude of 150 feet, NTSC said
in a 28 page  preliminary report  posted on the Ministry of
Transport website. He told the senior pilot he couldn’t see the
runway twice during the approach, the report says.  Lion Air should “review the policy and procedures
regarding the risk associated with changeover of control at
critical altitudes or critical time,” the report says. It
doesn’t indicate the cause of the crash.  Indonesia ’s investigation into at least its fourth aircraft
accident in 16 months focuses attention on Lion Air, the
country’s biggest private carrier, just as it plans an
expansion. The Jakarta-based airline has placed orders of more
than $45 billion with Airbus SAS and Boeing in the past two
years and has 559 narrow-body planes pending, the world’s
biggest backlog.  Lion Air is banned from the European Union, which
blacklisted Indonesia’s airlines after a number of fatal
accidents. The country’s flag carrier, PT Garuda Indonesia, and
three other operators were allowed to return to  Europe  in 2009.  The report also recommends Lion Air “ensure pilots are
properly trained during the initial and recurrent training
program with regard to changeover of control at critical
altitudes and or critical time.”  Runway Visibility    The copilot was second-in-command and “Pilot Flying” from
the plane’s departure from Bandung, the provincial capital of
West Java, until few moments prior to attempting to land at
Ngurah Rai Airport.  He said twice during the approach that he couldn’t see the
runway as the weather changed from clear, four minutes before
the crash, to rain a few seconds prior to the incident,
according to the report.  The pilot-in-command, 48 with 15,000 flying hours, took
control of the aircraft and decided to abort the landing one
second before the aircraft crashed into the sea, the report
said. All 108 passenger and crew survived the April 13 crash.  The aircraft’s manufacturing date was Feb. 19 and its
airworthiness certificate was issued March 21. It had almost 143
flying hours and had completed 104 cycles, according to the
report. One cycle is defined as one takeoff and landing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  