-- Third U.S. House Committee Approves Keystone XL Pipeline
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-16T16:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/third-u-s-house-committee-approves-keystone-xl-pipeline.html
The House Transportation Committee
approved a measure that would allow construction of the Keystone
XL pipeline without action by President  Barack Obama , the third
panel to push the pipeline bill this year.  The bill now goes to the full House after the committee
voted 33-24. The Republican-led initiative is largely symbolic.
The Democratic-controlled Senate isn’t considering a similar
bill and it would be subject to a veto by Obama.  “The administration has had enough time,” said
Representative Bill Shuster of  Pennsylvania , the Republican
chairman of the House transportation panel. “The studies have
been done and this project checks out. It’s time to let this
project proceed.”  The House Natural Resources Committee and the Energy and
Commerce Committee previously approved the Keystone bill. The
measure seeks to bypass the permit process that requires the
State Department to review and decide on the pipeline because it
crosses an international boundary.  Democrats on the transportation panel said the jobs that
would be created by the project would only be temporary and
building the pipeline posed risks to the environment.
Representative Nick Rahall of  West Virginia , the top Democrat on
the panel who said he supported Keystone, opposed the bill
because he said it would give Calgary-based  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) 
the permits it needs for construction, an advantage he said
isn’t available to U.S. companies.  TransCanada’s $5.3 billion pipeline, which would carry tar-sands oil from  Canada  to U.S. refineries near the  Gulf of
Mexico , has been among the most prominent energy fights for the
past two years. Obama’s administration is expected to decide on
whether to permit the pipeline to cross the border later this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  