-- IRS Scandal Bolsters Code Revision, Top Tax Writers Say
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2013-05-16T21:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/irs-scandal-bolsters-tax-revision-camp-and-baucus-say.html
The scandal at the  Internal Revenue
Service  reinforces the case for revising the U.S.  tax code ,
Congress’s top tax writers said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  “This actually leads to new momentum for  tax reform ,”
said Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  in a joint
interview with House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp . The pair spoke in the Capitol today with Bloomberg
Television’s Peter Cook for “ Capital Gains ” airing May 19.  Camp, a Michigan Republican, will lead the first
congressional hearing tomorrow into the selective scrutiny
applied to small-government groups applying for tax-exempt
status.  Baucus, a Montana Democrat, and Camp said the IRS
revelations showed problems in the tax system that warrant a
comprehensive approach to revising it.  Groups with “tea party” or “patriot” in their names
received tougher questioning and had longer delays than others
in a practice that the IRS acknowledged May 10.  “Clearly there has been taxpayer confidential information
leaked, and potentially for political reasons,” Camp said.
“And obviously only one political perspective was targeted, so
it does seem to have significant political overtones. But we
just don’t know where this will lead until we take a serious
look at it.”  Camp said Americans now understand “the fear the IRS can
put into people.”  The Senate Finance panel will follow with a hearing May 21.  Miller’s Resignation  Steven Miller , acting commissioner of the IRS, was forced
to resign yesterday. Today, President  Barack Obama  announced
that he has chosen Danny Werfel, controller of the Office of
Management and Budget, as acting commissioner.  Camp and Baucus have been working together on rewriting the
tax code to broaden the tax base and lower marginal rates.
They’re cooperating even though they disagree on whether a tax
rewrite should generate more revenue.  “There have been 15,000 legislative changes to the code
since 1986,” Baucus said. “That’s created lots of barnacles,
lots of stuff that is just not needed there.”  Baucus says some tax changes should pay for deficit
reduction; Camp disagrees and wants rate reduction only.  “The big question about revenues is one that I think that
can be put off for a while,” Baucus said.  Baucus has announced that he won’t seek re-election in 2014
and will retire from the Senate after six terms. Camp, under
Republican rules, must give up his gavel as chairman of the Ways
and Means panel after next year.  “The calendar’s kind of like the weather,” Camp said.
“It’s pretty hard to predict. But I think we’re all looking at
trying to do this as soon as possible and trying to get it done
certainly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  