-- Is This Another Bubble? We Can’t Know Without Better Data
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-16T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/is-this-another-bubble-we-can-t-know-without-better-data.html
Are the easy-money policies of the
world’s central banks setting financial markets up for a crash?
We would have a much better idea if we measured how much of the
buying is being done with borrowed money.  In recent months, soaring prices of stocks and bonds have
left many investors wondering whether the potential returns are
worth the risk. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  is in record
territory despite a weak economic recovery.  Junk bonds  included
in a BofA Merrill Lynch index are yielding only 4.4 percentage
points more than  U.S. Treasuries , close to the narrowest spread
since late 2007.  So is it a bubble? To get a sense, it is helpful to know
what is driving prices higher. If investors are putting in very
little of their own money and using a lot of borrowed money,
also known as leverage, that can be a troubling signal.  When, for example, lenders allow people to buy a $100,000
house with a down payment of only $1,000, they give speculators
immense power to bid up prices beyond the reach of those who
want houses to live in. Similarly, if someone with only $1
million can borrow enough to buy $100 million in risky bonds,
traders looking for quick gains can push prices up to levels
that make little sense for people who want bonds as a source of
fixed income.  Disastrous Dynamic  Leverage makes the whole financial system more fragile.
Investors who use only their own money can lose no more than 100
percent of what they put in. By contrast, an investor who uses
$1 million of his own money and $99 million of borrowed money to
buy $100 million in securities can be wiped out by a price drop
of only 1 percent: The new value of the investment, at $99
million, is just enough to pay off the debt. Larger declines can
force investors to sell other assets to pay their creditors -- a
dynamic that can turn seemingly isolated losses into widespread
disasters.  Economists have long advocated that regulators pay more
attention to leverage and do a better job of measuring it. In a
2011  paper , John Geanakoplos of Yale University and Lasse
Pedersen of  New York  University proposed publishing a suite of
leverage indicators. In consumer markets such as mortgages and
auto loans, they would monitor down payments. In the so-called
repo market, where investors put up securities as collateral for
loans, they would track the “haircuts” that define how much
money can be borrowed against different types of securities.
Data on new transactions would offer insight into what was
driving current buying, while averages for all loans outstanding
would give a sense of the market’s fragility.  To a large extent, regulators are on board. The  Office of
Financial Research  -- which the Dodd-Frank act equipped with
subpoena power to improve the quality and accessibility of
financial information -- has  identified  the paucity of leverage
data as an important gap that needs filling. In a  speech  last
week, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  cited leverage as a
vulnerability that can “amplify and propagate” financial shocks.
The New York Fed publishes some limited information on repo
haircuts.  Unfortunately, this sense of urgency might be getting lost
in broader efforts to monitor systemic risk. The Office of
Financial Research is spreading its resources across complex
modeling and data standardization initiatives that, while
necessary and promising, probably won’t provide useful real-time
information for years. In trying to put the whole puzzle
together, they could be missing an opportunity to do something
useful right now.  Almost six years after the last financial crisis began, we
are again reaching a point where robust, transparent measures of
leverage would help regulators and investors understand whether
markets are headed for trouble. The data would be relatively
easy to produce, and officials have all the powers they need to
do so. What are we waiting for?  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 