-- Israel Seeks to Authorize West Bank Outposts, Peace Now Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-05-16T13:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/israel-seeks-to-authorize-west-bank-outposts-peace-now-says-1-.html
Israeli authorities are seeking to
legalize four unsanctioned Jewish settlement outposts in the
 West Bank , a move that could hobble U.S. efforts to revive peace
talks.  The government’s bid was publicized today in a statement by
 Peace Now , a group that views settlements as an obstacle to
peacemaking because they stand on land the Palestinians claim
for a future state.  In a May 13 response to the  Supreme Court , government
lawyers rebutted Peace Now’s claims that three of the outposts
were built on privately held Palestinian land, a practice
Israeli law bars. The fourth site has been bought by Jews from
its Palestinian owners, according to the document obtained from
the Justice Ministry.  The document states that “the defense minister has ordered
an examination of possible legal arrangements for the buildings
constructed on state land.”  Palestinian government spokeswoman Nour Odeh denounced the
Israeli move.  “Settlements in all their forms, whether they’re called
outposts, authorized or whatever, are illegal, null and void
under international law, and  Israel  can’t change that no matter
what they try to do in their own courts,” Odeh said in a phone
call from Ramallah.  Kerry Trip  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s, which the government considers legal and
the Palestinians, the U.S. and  United Nations  condemn.  An additional 100 settler enclaves, which Israel calls
unauthorized outposts, were built beginning in the early 1990s,
with the government’s knowledge though without its official
approval, expanding the Jewish presence in the West Bank.  Palestinians have refused to return to peace negotiations
until Israel freezes construction of new settlement homes in the
West Bank and east  Jerusalem , lands Israel captured in 1967 that
they want for the core of their hoped-for state. About half a
million settlers live in those territories, among 2.7 million
Palestinians. Several thousands live in the outposts.  President  Barack Obama  has said the U.S. “does not accept
the legitimacy of continue Israeli settlements” though he
supports limited land swaps with the Palestinians that would
bring the most heavily populated settlements under Israeli
sovereignty under a peace agreement.  Obama is sending U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  to the
region later this month on his fourth visit since taking office
in February to explore possibilities for resuming talks that
deadlocked, with the exception of three weeks in 2010, more than
4 years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  