-- Israel Warns Syria on Action to Prevent Arms Transfers
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-05-16T09:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/israel-warns-syria-on-action-to-prevent-arms-transfers.html
Israel ’s Deputy Foreign Minister Zeev Elkin warned Syria today that his country would act to prevent
any further shipments of advanced arms to Lebanon’s Hezbollah’s
militia.  “From our perspective, if there is a transfer of arms we
will do everything we can to stop it,” Elkin said today in an
interview with Army Radio. Shipments of advanced arms outside
Syria “changes the status quo” in the region, he said.  The warning follows three air strikes this year on Syrian
convoys and installations. Israeli officials have declined to
say whether their military carried out the assaults. They have
repeatedly voiced concern about weapons falling into the hands
of anti-Israel militants amid the chaos of the Syrian civil war.  After the latest strike on military facilities in a
Damascus suburb on May 5,  Syria  warned it might retaliate with
attacks on the Israeli-occupied section of the Golan Heights.  Two mortars fired from Syrian territory landed yesterday in
the Golan, with no injuries or damage reported. A previously
unknown Palestinian militant group, the Halal Abd al-Qader al-Husseini brigade, claimed responsibility for the attacks on the
area, which Israel captured from Syria in 1967. The Israeli
military had said it appeared to be stray fire from internal
Syrian fighting.  An unidentified Israeli official told the  New York Times 
yesterday that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad “risks
forfeiting his regime” if Syria or “its terrorist proxies”
try to attack Israel.  “No one is threatening Assad,” Elkin said. “We haven’t
intervened in the Syria civil war over a long period -- perhaps
unlike some other countries -- but we do have red lines where
our citizens’ security is concerned.”  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu met Tuesday with
Russian President Vladimir Putin at the Black Sea resort of
Sochi to discuss the Syria conflict. Putin said afterward that
“in this critical period it is especially important to avoid
any moves that can destabilize the situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  