-- Mitchells & Butlers Advances on Earnings Outlook: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-05-16T14:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/mitchells-butlers-advances-on-earnings-outlook-london-mover.html
Mitchells & Butlers Plc (MAB) , the owner of
the All Bar One pub chain, rose to the highest in more than five
years amid investor optimism that trading will improve and boost
profit.  The  shares  jumped as much as 8.3 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Jan. 31, and were up 4 percent at 392.4
pence at 3:03 p.m. in  London , the highest since March 2008.
Mitchells & Butlers has gained for nine straight days, the
longest winning streak since October 2006. The volume of shares
traded was more than twice the daily average.  The stock broke through its upper Bollinger band today.
Trend investors employ strategies that aim to benefit from
momentum in prices, whether rising or falling. They look for
signals that a trend will continue or may end, often using
technical indicators, such as Bollinger bands, a measure of
stock price volatility, and moving averages.  Pretax profit for the six months ended March 31 may rise 9
percent to 74 million pounds ($113 million), Douglas Jack, an
analyst at Numis Securities Ltd. with a  buy recommendation  on
the stock, said in a note to clients two days ago. The company
is scheduled to publish the results on May 23.  The increase will be driven by the company’s expansion and
falling interest costs, said Jack, who raised his 12-month price
target to 450 pence from 400 pence.  The shares trade at about 10 percent less than those of
similar companies and offer good value considering the business
has one of the best pub estates with 45 percent of its outlets
in southeast  England , he said.  Enterprise Inns Plc surged 13 percent yesterday after
reporting a fall in debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  