-- Liverpool Offer $6 Million for Lisbon’s Ilori: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-16T10:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/liverpool-offer-6-million-for-lisbon-s-ilori-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Liverpool Chasing Portuguese Star  Liverpool has put a 4 million pounds ($6 million) bid in
for Sporting Lisbon center-half Tiago Ilori to replace  Jamie
Carragher , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The six-foot-three Ilori, a former striker who was born in
London, also plays for Portugal’s Under-20 team.  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  is also interested in
signing  FC Twente ’s Brazilian defender Douglas.  Chelsea Close to Lampard Deal  Chelsea is close to agreeing on a new deal for  Frank
Lampard , the  Evening Standard  reported.  Lampard’s current agreement with the London side ends this
summer. The 35-year-old, the club’s top scorer with 203 goals,
has made it clear he’d like to stay at Chelsea.  A new deal may be signed soon, with a “significant
reduction” of Lampard’s current weekly wages of 150,000 pounds,
the paper said.  Schmeichel to Premier League?  Kasper Schmeichel, the son of former Manchester United
goalkeeper Peter Schmeichel, may follow in his father’s
footsteps and play in the Premier League next season.  The Leicester goalkeeper is wanted by Hull, West Ham and
Swansea, the paper reported. Hull may have the edge because
manager  Steve Bruce  is an old teammate of Peter Schmeichel.  Arsenal’s Sagna Hints at Departure  Arsenal player Bacary Sagna may leave for Paris Saint-Germain or Monaco this summer, the  Sun  reported.  The 30-year-old right-back from  France  told French
newspaper Le 10 Sport that it made him “proud” to read PSG
were interested in signing him and that he hadn’t made up his
mind about whether he’d stay at Arsenal or not after this
season.  “I don’t close any door to PSG, Monaco or Arsenal,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  