-- IVF Chain Virtus Said to Raise $333 Million in Share Sale
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-05-16T08:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/ivf-chain-virtus-said-to-raise-333-million-in-share-sale.html
Virtus Health Pty, an Australian
provider of fertility services, raised A$338 million ($333
million) in  Australia ’s largest initial public offering in seven
months, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Virtus, part-owned by buyout firm Quadrant Private Equity
Pty Ltd., and investors sold shares at A$5.68 each, said the
people, asking not to be identified as the information is still
private. The total amount raised is more than Virtus had
initially expected after Quadrant sold its entire stake in the
company, the people said.  With Virtus included, Australia’s IPO market has raised the
most money since 2007, with companies generating $578 million
from new share sales so far this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Virtus’s IPO is the country’s largest since
 Shopping Centres Australasia Property Group (SCP) , spun off from
Australia’s largest retailer  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , raised $483
million in October, the data show.  “It is positive for the market, especially in this
environment where confidence is a big issue for investors,”
said Stan Shamu, a markets strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in
Melbourne. “Any successful IPO is going to be looked on kindly
by the market.”  Doctors’ Stake  The shares were offered in a range of A$4.92 to A$5.68
apiece to raise between A$264.2 million and A$291.5 million,
according to a presentation obtained by  Bloomberg News  this
month. That total assumed Quadrant would retain about a ten
percent stake in the company.  The stock will start trading on June 14. Part of the funds
will be used to pay debt, the presentation material said.  The company’s 33 fertility clinics in Victoria, Queensland
and New South  Wales  provided 35 percent of the IVF treatment
cycles performed last year in Australia, according to the
presentation. The stake held by the company’s fertility doctors
will be cut in half to about 23 percent, said the people.  The share sale was managed by  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
according to the presentation. Marcus Darville, a Sydney-based
director at Quadrant, couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  