-- J&J Will Stop Sales of Metal-on-Metal Hip Replacements
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-17T20:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/j-j-will-stop-sales-of-metal-on-metal-hip-replacements.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
biggest maker of health-care products, said it will stop selling
metal-on-metal and ceramic-on-metal hip replacements as demand
wanes for the devices and U.S. regulators seek new rules.  Metal liners in the Ultamet Metal-on-Metal Articulation and
the Complete Ceramic-on-Metal Acetabular Hip System will no
longer be available worldwide after Aug. 31, the  New Brunswick ,
New Jersey-based company said in an e-mail. J&J’s DePuy
Orthopaedics unit will stop selling related products through
2014 to simplify and streamline its offerings, the company said.  Metal-on-metal hip sales in the U.S. and  Europe  plunged
from 20 percent of the market in 2007 to less than 2 percent
last year as doctors questioned their safety and patients filed
lawsuits citing flawed products. The global hip-implant market
may be $5.7 billion in 2013, according to Lawrence Biegelsen, an
analyst at Wells Fargo in  New York . U.S. regulators earlier this
year requested extensive study of all metal-on-metal hips.  “We won’t have any metal-on-metal or ceramic-on metal hips
any longer,” said Mindy Tinsley, a spokeswoman for J&J’s DePuy
unit, said in a telephone interview. “We’ve seen, for example,
a 90 percent decline in metal-on-metal sales industrywide in the
U.S. and Europe since 2007. There’s really not a viable market
for these bearing combinations anymore.”  The decision to stop selling the hips isn’t related to
safety or effectiveness, and it isn’t a recall, J&J said.  Existing Products  J&J will still market the  Pinnacle Acetabular Cup  System,
one of the most widely used systems for hip replacement. It will
also sell a wide range of liners and cups made with other
materials, including ceramic and medical-grade plastics.  J&J rose less than 1 percent to $88.09 at the close in New
York. The  shares  gained 39 percent in the past 12 months.  The decision to stop selling the products was unrelated to
the 2010 recall of J&J’s ASR metal-on-metal hips, Tinsley said.
The company is facing more than 10,000 lawsuits over the ASR
products. J&J lost the first trial on March 8, when a Los
Angeles jury ruled the ASR was defectively designed.  Ultamet was approved in 2000 through a less-extensive
510(k) process, which lets manufacturers compare their new
offerings with similar products already on the market. The  Food
and Drug Administration  in January said it wants hip replacement
products that reached the market through the 510(k) process to
undergo more rigorous study typically required for entirely new
devices.  “DePuy made the decision to discontinue these products
because of low clinician use of Ultamet and Complete, the
availability of other options that meet the clinical needs of
patients and proposed changes in FDA regulation of the entire
class of metal-on-metal products, which includes Ultamet,” the
company said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  