-- Jamie Oliver Starts Food Revolution With Hug for London
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-05-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/jamie-oliver-starts-food-revolution-with-hug-for-london.html
Jamie Oliver  has sold more than 30
million cook books, starred in television shows around the world
and owns more than 30 restaurants, from  London  to Sydney.  Today, he’s holding  Food Revolution Day , an international
celebration bringing together communities to share cooking
skills and focus on healthy eating. In London, there’s a street
festival.  In New York , there’s a mobile farm and kids’ events.  If Oliver, 38, is feeling smug about all he has achieved
since being discovered by a TV production company while working
as a young chef in 1995, it doesn’t show. He’s still full of
charm as he runs though plans for Food Revolution Day.  “There is a disparate dream from different people, from
 Sierra Leone  to  Israel  to  South Africa  to  England , America,
 Australia ,” he says. “They’re all passionate about passing on
skills.”  The idea is to encourage good cooking and less junk food.
This is the second Food Revolution Day. Last year’s involved
more than 1,000 events in 664 cities across 62 countries,
according to the official website. This time, it will be bigger,
the organizers say.  Oliver also wants to share the love with a whole new group:
The community of the  City of London  financial district.  His first brush with the City crowd was when he opened
Barbecoa in 2010 and it’s the group he wants to attract to
nearby Fifteen, which has celebrated its 10th anniversary with a
new look, a new chef, a new bar, a new menu and a new attitude.  Barbecoa Clients  “I’ve got to know the City more through Barbecoa and
they’re a very important part of our client base and I’m getting
to know them,” Oliver says in an interview at Fifteen. “It’s men
in suits but you’ve got to get under the skin of that more: What
do they want, what speed do they want it, how can we look after
them more? They all want different things and we want them back.  “Here in Fifteen, we’re so close. But what happened in the
early days is we became so famous so fast and I was so young and
naive that I was actually proud of being booked out six months
in advance. That ain’t good for a City boy.  “That’s not convenient. So just the way we manage bookings,
being able to just walk up and always get looked after, we’ve
got eating at the bars, bar snacks. They are divine and also
changing daily and they’re naughty as well.  “My biggest dream for Fifteen for the next 10 years is
being relevant locally and we really want to work with the City,
and City workers are really important to restaurants. Those boys
-- I say boys, that sounds a bit sexist -- the boys and girls,
they’re very loyal to their restaurants. They’re going to love
it here. It’s a nice place to be.”  Maturing View  I’ve interviewed Oliver a few times over the years and he
has never changed: The enthusiasm you see on television is
there. But he says he has matured as his business has grown.  “I’m not like a ducking-and-diving little puckered up 24-year-old anymore,” he says. “I’m a 38-year-old dad of four and I
want to come to my restaurant and feel really hugged and
comfortable. Ten years on, I feel settled and confident, not in
a smug way but in a weathered way.  “If you look back five years to when we started Jamie’s
Italian, recession hit. Do you remember? It hit like that. I
remember one week and I’d signed for three leases and whatever
you think, I’m not like  Richard Branson : It was everything for
me. I was so scared that I had ruined everything. Now we have 31
restaurants, nearly 600,000 meals a month.”  Party Chefs  Oliver isn’t only popular with home cooks. Among the chefs
who showed up for a party at Fifteen this week were  Fergus
Henderson  (St. John),  Philip Howard  (The Square), Bruno Loubet
(Bistrot Bruno Loubet) and  Jun Tanaka  (ex-Pearl). These are some
of London’s culinary stars and Oliver returns the compliment.  “London is dynamic and buzzing and you’ve got the old boys
-- not old in age but the ones who’ve been around -- like Eric
Chavot and Bruno Loubet who are the best working chefs in this
city doing their own thing. Bruno’s about to open up in King’s
Cross and I can’t wait to go there. Eric’s just done the thing
he’s dreamt of for years. He’s amazing. Then you’ve got young
whippersnappers popping up. It’s exciting.”  He should know. In addition to Jamie’s Italian, Union Jacks
and other restaurant businesses, Oliver has  opened a temporary
diner  on London’s Shaftesbury Avenue with chef Arthur Potts
Dawson.  Food Revolution Day:  http://bit.ly/177ADkN .  Fifteen:  http://www.fifteen.net/  or +44-20-3375-1515.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on London weekend,  Farah
Nayeri  on film,  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene
Last Night and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 