-- Japan Prime Minister’s Aide Meets Senior N. Korean Official
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-05-16T09:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/japan-prime-minister-s-aide-meets-senior-north-korea-official.html
An aide to Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe met a senior North Korean party official in
Pyongyang, raising the possibility of an easing in regional
tensions after months of threats from the totalitarian state.  Isao Iijima yesterday met Kim Yong Il, secretary of the
 Central Committee  of the Workers’ Party of  Korea , the state-run
Korean  Central News Agency  said in a statement that didn’t give
further details. He toured two parks and dolphin aquarium today,
KCNA said in a separate statement today.  Iijima arrived May 14 in an unannounced trip that Abe has
declined to discuss. The aide also was a secretary to former
Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi , who visited Pyongyang in 2002
and 2004 in a bid to resolve the issue of Japanese citizens
abducted by  North Korea  decades ago.  Japan broke off talks with Kim Jong Un’s regime on the
abduction issue in December after North Korea announced plans to
fire a long-range rocket in defiance of international sanctions.
North Korea then detonated an atomic bomb and warned of
preemptive nuclear strikes against the U.S. and  South Korea ,
threats that have moderated since the start of May.  China hopes the contact can ease tensions on the Korean
peninsula, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said today. South
Korea today criticized Japan for taking unilateral action on
North Korea and not notifying President Park Geun Hye’s
government ahead of Iijima’s trip.  The visit is “not helpful” for international efforts to
remain closely coordinated on the North Korean issue, Foreign
Ministry spokesman Cho Tai Young told reporters today in Seoul.
 Japan  yesterday explained the reason behind the trip, he added,
without elaborating.  Summit Question  Abe declined to comment in parliament yesterday on Iijima’s
visit. Asked whether there were plans to hold a summit with Kim,
he told lawmakers he would consider doing so only if a meeting
would help resolve the abductee problem, as well as the nuclear
and missile tensions.  “Meeting is not the point,” he said. “There must be
results.”  The North admitted in 2002 to kidnapping 13 Japanese in the
1970s and 1980s, a key issue in the normalization of ties
between the two countries, and allowed five of them to return
home, saying the others were dead. Japan says at least 17 people
were kidnapped and that there must be a full accounting for all
those who have not been returned.  North Korea has been ready to conduct a fourth nuclear
weapons test since its last atomic detonation in February, the
South Korean  Defense Ministry  said last month. Two ballistic
missiles have been withdrawn from a launch site in the east of
the country,  CNN  reported May 6. U.S. and South Korean forces
declined to confirm or deny the possible missile withdrawal.  Abduction Issue  Abe, who visited Pyongyang with Koizumi a decade ago, has
been closely associated with the campaign for the return of
abductees. In a February policy speech to parliament, he said
his mission would not be complete until all families of
abductees were reunited with their missing relatives.  Glyn Davies , the U.S. special envoy on North Korean issues,
said on May 14 in Seoul that while he was unaware of Iijima’s
trip “it will obviously be something that I discuss with the
Japanese.” He arrived in  Tokyo  today after meetings in Beijing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  