-- JPMorgan Leads Surge in Indonesia-Tied Note Sales to 3-Year High
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-05-16T05:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/jpmorgan-leads-surge-in-indonesia-tied-note-sales-to-3-year-high.html
Issuance of structured notes tied to
 Indonesia ’s sovereign debt surged to the most in three years,
led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , as investors seek to capitalize on
the second-highest yields among major Asian economies.  Sales of notes linked to Indonesian  government bonds  jumped
to the equivalent of $519.7 million this year through May 14, 89
percent higher than the same period of 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The volume is the highest since 2010 and
90 percent of the products were issued by JPMorgan, which rose
to No. 1 after being ranked eighth last year, the data show.  Overseas investors pumped a net 18 trillion rupiah ($1.8
billion) into local-currency sovereign notes in April, pushing
 holdings  to a record 299 trillion rupiah, according to the
finance ministry data. The country’s 10-year bonds yielded 5.55
percent yesterday, the highest behind Indian debt among 14 Asia-Pacific countries tracked by Bloomberg.  For foreign investors, Indonesia “offers high yield, but
the risk is controllable,” said Nurul Eti Nurbaeti, head of
treasury research at PT Bank Negara Indonesia in Jakarta.  JPMorgan on May 6 issued the largest notes tied to
Indonesia this year in a 1.93 trillion rupiah offering. The 20-year securities, issued at a 4.4 percent premium, both pay a
6.625 percent annual coupon and are redeemed in U.S. dollars.
The U.S. currency gained against the rupiah for two consecutive
years through 2012.  Long-Term Investments  Polly Leung, a spokeswoman at JPMorgan in Hong Kong,
declined to comment on the notes.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  have also issued the securities this year,
according to Bloomberg data.  More than two-thirds of the products sold this year have
maturities of 10 years or longer, Bloomberg data show. Such
tenors are popular among pension funds and other foreign
institutional buyers, as they tend to seek long-term
investments, Nurbaeti said.  Indonesia on May 14 kept  interest rates  unchanged for a
15th consecutive time as predicted. The central bank won’t
resist raising rates if needed, Assistant Governor Hendar said
May 8.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating outlook on Indonesia’s
debt to stable from positive this month, citing slow progress in
improving infrastructure, regulatory uncertainty and
bureaucratic obstacles. The agency ranks the country at its
highest junk level, while Fitch Ratings Ltd. and Moody’s
Investors Service restored Indonesia to investment grades in
December 2011 and January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  