-- JPMorgan Names Ventresca, Cristerna as Global M&A Co-Heads
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-05-16T17:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/jpmorgan-names-cristerna-ventresca-as-global-m-a-co-heads.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co., the largest
U.S. bank by assets, named  Chris Ventresca  and  Hernan Cristerna 
as co-heads of global mergers and acquisitions.  Ventresca, 46, previously was JPMorgan’s head of North
American M&A, while Cristerna, 48, oversaw M&A for Europe,
Middle East and Africa, according to a memo obtained today by
Bloomberg News. They will report to  Jeff Urwin , global head of
investment banking.  Tasha Pelio , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan, confirmed the memo’s contents.  JPMorgan, led by Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, is
overhauling top management on its M&A team. Ventresca and
Cristerna will have global responsibilities, with each
overseeing their former regions, Pelio said. They will share
responsibility for deals in Asia, she said.  Combining global M&A under two leaders streamlines the
bank’s decision-making, Ventresca said in a phone interview.  “We can move more quickly with common leadership,”
Ventresca said. “When an opportunity arises, we can put the
right advisory resources in place.”  Until February, Ventresca shared oversight of North
American M&A with  Jim Woolery , 44, who left the company that
month to become deputy chairman at corporate law firm Cadwalader
Wickersham & Taft LLP.  Ventresca led JPMorgan’s work with Virgin Media Inc., which
was acquired by Liberty Global Inc. for $18.3 billion in
February. Cristerna worked on InBev NV’s $61 billion purchase of
Anheuser-Busch Cos. Inc. in 2008.  “Clearly our clients have become increasingly global in
their outlook over the last few years,” Cristerna said in an e-mail. “So it makes perfect sense for our M&A platform to mirror
that global outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julie Alnwick at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net  