-- Kuroda Faith Waning Halts Deals as Forecasts Blown: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a ,   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-05-16T04:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/kuroda-faith-waning-halts-deals-as-forecasts-blown-japan-credit.html
Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s stimulus policies pushed bond yields above analyst
forecasts for the first time since at least July as the widest
price swings in a decade halted two debt offerings.  Benchmark 10-year Japanese government bond yields reached
0.92 percent yesterday, the highest since April 2012. That put
the rate above the 0.7 percent year-end forecast by analysts in
a Bloomberg News survey. The rate later pared gains after the
central bank announced a 2.8 trillion yen ($27.4 billion)
infusion of funds. Analyst forecasts for 10-year Treasury yields
are at 2.2 percent compared with the current 1.93 percent.  Kuroda’s doubling of bond purchases last month to achieve 2
percent inflation in two years has failed to cap borrowing
costs, with the 10-year yield rising the most since August 2003
in the three sessions through May 14.  Toyota Industries Corp. (6201) 
joined  Lixil Group Corp. (5938)  in canceling debt sales this week due
to market volatility, casting doubt on the BOJ’s plan to boost
investment and growth by keeping borrowing costs low.  “It’s probably not realistic for the BOJ to think that it
can keep bond yields low despite monetary easing aimed at 2
percent inflation because it buys” lots of JGBs, said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co. That’s “contradictory,” he said.  Volatility Swing  The swing between high and low 10-year JGB yields on April
5, the day after the BOJ expanded stimulus, was 30 1/2 basis
points, the widest since July 2003. The benchmark rate surged 25
1/2 basis points, or 0.255 percentage point, in the three
sessions ending May 14, the steepest three-day increase since
August 2003.  “The BOJ’s operation is too infrequent and too big,” said
Shogo Fujita, the chief Japanese bond strategist in Tokyo at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, one of the 24 primary dealers
obliged to bid at government debt auctions. “The operation is
so big that it threatens to break the market, and uncertainty on
when it might happen is regarded as a risk.”  The central bank buys bonds about eight times a month for a
total of at least 7 trillion yen, according to a statement last
month.  Bond yields reversed an earlier gain yesterday as the BOJ
offered 2 trillion yen of 0.1 percent, one-year loans to
financial companies, adding to a regular injection of 800
billion yen. It separately bought government bonds for a third
time this month with total purchases of 410.8 billion yen.
Japan’s  10-year yield  closed at 0.85 percent yesterday and was
at 0.825 percent today, according to Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.  JPMorgan Samurai  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
registered to sell as much as 500 billion yen of Samurai bonds,
according to a filing yesterday with the Ministry of Finance.
The U.S. bank offered 161.5 billion yen of the yen notes in
February 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samurais, which are yen-denominated bonds offered in Japan
by overseas borrowers, have handed investors a 0.26 percent loss
this month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
That compared with a 1.5 percent drop for Japanese government
notes and a 0.58 percent decline for domestic company paper.  The yen traded at 102.24 per dollar as of 12:54 p.m. in
 Tokyo  after yesterday touching 102.76, the weakest since October
2008. Japan’s currency has lost 21 percent in the past six
months, the worst performance among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Bond Auction  The five-year yield yesterday jumped as much as 5 1/2 basis
points to 0.455 percent yesterday, a level unseen since May
2011. It fell 2 1/2 basis points to 0.39 percent today after a
Ministry of Finance auction of about 2.5 trillion yen of the
notes showed the strongest demand in three months. The sale drew
bids valued at 3.39 times the amount available, according to the
ministry’s data.  Japanese investors bought a net 186.4 billion yen of
foreign bonds in the week ended May 10, the third straight week
of purchases, separate ministry data showed. Overseas investors
sold 413.5 billion yen of Japanese debt last week, the largest
net sale amount since the week ended March 22, the data showed.  Lenders in Japan held 163 trillion yen of government bonds
in February, or 19 percent of their total assets, according to
the latest data from the BOJ. In dollar terms, that’s about the
same as the combined annual economic output of South Korea and
 Taiwan . The proportion was 10.5 percent a decade ago.  ‘Bond Standard’  “Japan’s financial system is based on the bond standard,
as the securities make up a large portion of bank assets,” said
Satoshi Yamada, a manager of debt trading in Tokyo at Okasan
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $11
billion in assets. “A big rise in bond yields would negatively
affect financial markets and the economy.”  Toyota Industries canceled a 20 billion yen sale of seven-year and 10-year securities because of market volatility,
according to an e-mailed statement from Nomura Securities Co.
yesterday. Lixil, a supplier of aluminum doors and windows, also
called off plans to sell seven-year and 10-year notes, citing
“sudden market changes,” according to a Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. statement on May 14.  JFE Holdings Inc., Japan’s second-biggest steelmaker,
delayed a plan to sell 10-year bonds, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  U.S. Recovery  Signs of an improvement in the U.S. economy are sending
yields on Treasuries higher, attracting flows from Japanese
money managers. The 10-year rate reached 1.985 percent
yesterday, a level unseen since March 15.  Employers in the U.S. added an average of about 196,000
workers in the first four months of 2013. Growth in the world’s
biggest economy is seen at 2 percent this year, outpacing an
expansion of 1.4 percent in Japan, according to median analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s first-quarter  gross domestic product  increased an
annualized 3.5 percent, compared with 1 percent growth in the
last quarter of 2012, the Cabinet Office said today. Economists
in a Bloomberg News survey estimated a 2.7 percent expansion.  “Yields are rising, not just in Japan but in other nations
as risk appetite improves after stronger U.S. jobs data,” said
Naomi Muguruma, a Tokyo-based senior fixed-income strategist at
a Tokyo-based senior fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley.  Mitsubishi UFJ, which predicted the 10-year JGB yield would
range from 0.3 percent to 0.65 percent in the fiscal year ending
March 31, may revise up its forecast this week, according to
Muguruma.  The BOJ will meet on May 21-22 after Kuroda’s policy board
 decided  last month to double in two years the monetary base,
which is total money in circulation plus reserve deposits at the
central bank. Kuroda said last week government bond yields will
rise if economy improves.  “BOJ policy has become more unpredictable,” said
Muguruma. “As BOJ purchases drains liquidity in the market,
there’s a risk that the bond buying can backfire.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  