-- N.Z. Sees 2015 Surplus as Christchurch Rebuild Boosts Growth
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-16T03:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/n-z-sees-2015-surplus-as-christchurch-rebuild-boosts-growth-1-.html
New Zealand (NZNTGDPC) ’s government projected a
small budget surplus in 2015, the first in seven years, as
rebuilding earthquake-devastated Christchurch city bolsters
economic growth and tax revenue.  The operating surplus will be NZ$75 million ($62 million)
in the year through June 2015 from a previously forecast
NZ$66 million, Finance Minister Bill English said in his 
annual budget released today in Wellington. The balance will
improve from a NZ$6.29 billion deficit in the year ending
June 30, 2013, as the government curbs new spending and sells
assets to limit debt.  Prime Minister John Key’s government forecasts the
estimated NZ$40 billion rebuild of Christchurch will help lift
revenue by boosting employment, residential investment and
company profits. The track to surplus will be achieved even as a
drought and the nation’s strengthening currency curb the pace of
economic growth over the next year.  “We’re on track with reasonably robust tax revenue
growth,” English told reporters. “We’re not stretching to
reach the target. It has been an important anchor for our growth
plans.”  New Zealand’s economy is being underpinned by rebuilding in
Christchurch, the third-largest city, after earthquakes that
struck the South Island city from late 2010. A February 2011
temblor killed 185 people, destroyed homes and required
demolition of more than 1,000 central city buildings.  Currency Strength  The economy will grow 2.8 percent in 2014-15 from 2.3
percent in 2013-14, led by earthquake-related investment, the
Treasury Department said today. Growth in 2013-14 is slower than
the 3 percent rate previously projected, reflecting the drought.
The economy grew 3 percent in 2012.  “The budget is in line with expectations as to the path
toward balance,” Steven Hess, Senior Vice President, Moody’s
Investors Service, wrote in an e-mailed note from New York.
“Thus, it does not change our view of the country’s
creditworthiness.”  The New Zealand dollar gained 7.9 percent the past 12
months, the best performing Group of 10 currency. It was little
changed after the budget was released, trading at 82.52 U.S.
cents at 3:05 p.m. in Wellington.  The kiwi will remain  elevated  against a basket of its
largest trading partners this year and next, before falling in
the years to 2017, Treasury estimated in the budget papers.  The government’s contribution to the earthquake recovery
will increase by NZ$2.1 billion to NZ$15.2 billion, the
government said today. That includes a NZ$900 million investment
in two hospitals and spending on the university.  Christchurch Rebuild  Residential investment is forecast to double in the
forecast period, mainly as a result of Christchurch rebuilding,
boosting revenue from sales tax, the Treasury said. Demand for
workers in the city is expected to boost employment by 1.5
percent in the year through March 2014 and 2.7 percent in the
following 12 months, boosting the income tax take.  The budget contains new spending of NZ$5.1 billion over the
2013-2017 period, in part paid for by savings and
reprioritization, as well as some minor tax adjustments, English
said. The government needs to limit spending to achieve its
budget surplus target, and will reduce the allowance for new
spending in next year’s budget to NZ$1 billion from NZ$1.2
billion, he said.  Housing supply is a priority for the government, English
said. The government is introducing legislation that allows
councils to create special housing areas where construction can
be fast-tracked. It will spend NZ$2.9 billion over three years
on new developments and repairs to existing homes, particularly
in Christchurch.  Housing Risks  Central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler last week said rising
house prices reflect supply constraints, particularly in
Auckland, and were “problematic” as higher values could stoke
inflation and drive up household debt. Prices rose 9.8 percent
in April from a year earlier, the biggest annual increase since
2007, the Real Estate Institute said May 13.  Interest rate increases “may be warranted if house-price
and credit expansion begin to fuel inflationary pressures,” the
International Monetary Fund said in a report on New Zealand
published May 14 in  Washington .  Wheeler is reluctant to raise borrowing costs as that may
stoke demand for the currency. Last week, he said the central
bank had sold the currency and was prepared to sell again to
attempt to curb its gains.  Banking Tools  The government has signed a memorandum with Wheeler giving
the central bank the power to enforce balance sheet and lending
restrictions on banks if the housing market poses a risk to
financial stability, English said today. The so-called macro-prudential tools include proposals to mandate funding ratios or
capital buffers, and specify minimum loan-to-property value
levels.  To help boost business investment and hiring, the
government will cut levies paid to its accident insurance unit
by NZ$300 million in 2014-15, rising to about NZ$1 billion a
year by 2015-16.  “Businesses are the primary drivers of growth and jobs,”
English said. “Reduction in the levies delivers benefits
directly to households.”  The government will offer shares in Meridian Energy Ltd.,
the nation’s largest power company, in the second half of the
year, English said.  The initial public offering will be the
second for the government after it raised NZ$1.7 billion from
the sale of 49 percent of Mighty River Power Ltd. earlier this
month.  Asset Sales  Key’s government wants to raise between NZ$5 billion and
NZ$7 billion from reducing its stakes in power companies and the
national airline Air New Zealand Ltd. to no less than 51
percent, he has previously said. The proceeds of the sales go to
a fund for spending on capital projects and reduce the need for
the government to borrow, English said.  Net government debt is expected to rise to 27.1 percent of
gross domestic product this fiscal year from 13.9 percent in
2009-10 as the government borrowed to meet the costs of the
Christchurch earthquakes. Debt will rise to 28.7 percent of GDP
at its peak in 2014-15 and decline to 20 percent by 2020,
according to the budget.  The government is delaying contributions to the New Zealand
Superannuation fund, set up to pay for future pensions, until
the 20 percent target is achieved. The contributions, which were
suspended when the budget went into deficit, were expected to
resume once a sustainable surplus was achieved.  Narrower Deficit  The projected deficit in the current year is narrower than
the NZ$7.34 billion forecast in December’s half-year update
because of stronger revenue, the Treasury said. The deficit will
narrow to NZ$2.03 billion in the year through June 2014.  New Zealand’s 2013-14 deficit will amount to 0.9 percent of
GDP, the budget showed. That compares with  Australia ’s shortfall
of 1.1 percent, according to that nation’s budget papers
released in Canberra two days ago. The International Monetary
Fund’s fiscal monitor shows the U.S. deficit representing 5.4
percent of the economy,  Japan ’s shortfall of 7 percent and the
euro area’s gap of 2.6 percent of GDP in the period.  The government will offer NZ$10 billion of bonds in the
year ending June 30, 2014, down from NZ$14 billion in the
current year, the Debt Management Office said in a statement
today. Bond sales are forecast to drop to NZ$8 billion in
2014-15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  