-- National Grid Profit Rises as U.K. Growth Offsets U.S. Costs
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-05-16T14:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/national-grid-profit-rises-as-u-k-gains-offset-u-s-storm-costs.html
National Grid Plc (NG/) , the operator of
energy networks in the U.K. and  North America , said fiscal full-year earnings rose 6 percent as growth in its British business
countered costs from a hurricane that hit the U.S. in October.  Operating profit climbed to 3.75 billion pounds ($5.7
billion) in the 12 months through March from 3.54 billion pounds
a year earlier, the London-based company said today in a
statement. That exceeded the 3.68 billion-pound median estimate
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. storms including  Hurricane Sandy , which knocked out
power to about 1.1 million National Grid customers in  Long
Island , cut operating profit by about 136 million pounds, the
company said. Results were bolstered by business growth back
home, where operating profit from gas distribution rose 4
percent and earnings from transmission jumped 19 percent.  National Grid started a new dividend policy on April 1,
aimed at raising the ordinary annual payout at least in line
with inflation for the “foreseeable future.” It expects to pay
a full-year dividend of 40.85 pence a share for the year ended
March 31, compared with 39.28 pence a share a year earlier.  Ofgem, the U.K. energy regulator, introduced price controls
in April governing the company’s power and gas grid. The “well
designed” measures will last for as much as twice as long as in
the past, allowing the utility to deliver returns for
shareholders while investing in infrastructure, it said.  “We are changing gear now, we’re entering a period of
exceptional clarity for all of our businesses,” Chief Executive
Officer Steve Holliday said today on a conference call. “These
price controls with Ofgem give us clarity for eight years, a
clear framework against which we will invest some 25 billion
pounds in the U.K. over that period.”  The utility invested 3.7 billion pounds over the fiscal
year, contributing to 2.7 billion pounds of growth in regulated
assets. National Grid’s shares dropped 1.7 percent to 830 pence
in  London  at 3:05 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  