-- New Zealand Plans Biggest IPO as Meridian Prepped for Sale
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-16T03:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/new-zealand-plans-biggest-ipo-as-meridian-prepped-for-share-sale.html
New Zealand will offer as much as 49
percent of state-owned power company Meridian Energy Ltd. in an
initial public offering in the second half of this year, Finance
Minister Bill English said in today’s budget.  The government will hire advisers to help sell down
Meridian, the nation’s biggest generator in terms of output, by
June, English said in budget papers released in Wellington
today. It’s the second sale in a planned divestment program
after the government raised NZ$1.7 billion ($1.4 billion) by
selling almost half of Mighty River Power Ltd., which completed
earlier this month and was the nation’s biggest IPO.  New Zealand Prime Minister John Key has pledged to raise
between NZ$5 billion and NZ$7 billion selling shares in state-owned companies. He has previously announced an intention to
also sell as much as 49 percent of Genesis Power Ltd. and to
reduce the government’s stake in Air New Zealand Ltd. to not
less than 51 percent from 74 percent.  “The share offer program remains important for the
government’s books and for the economy,” English said in a
speech to parliament today. “As well as raising money to invest
in new public assets, it benefits the companies themselves
through greater market discipline.”  The sale proceeds go into a fund for investment in new
schools, roads and the rebuild of quake-hit Christchurch without
requiring the government to raise more debt, English has said.  The announcement “provides certainty” for Meridian, Chief
Executive Officer Mark Binns said in a statement after the
budget was released. The Wellington-based company is well
prepared for its move to a publicly traded company, he said.  Assets, Sales  Meridian had assets of NZ$8.57 billion at Dec. 31 and
revenue of NZ$1.2 billion in the six months through December,
according to its  website . That compares with Mighty River, which
had assets of NZ$5.7 billion at Dec. 31 and a market value of
NZ$3.6 billion, based on a stock price of NZ$2.58 at 3:15 p.m.
in Wellington.  The government didn’t provide an estimate of how much the
Meridian sale would raise. Separately, proceeds are no longer
expected from a part sale of coal miner Solid Energy New Zealand
Ltd. before mid-2017, according to today’s budget.  Power company valuations have been affected by uncertainty
over industry structure after opposition parties last month said
they’d create a state agency to buy wholesale electricity at a
regulated price if they successfully form a government after an
election due next year.  Contract negotiations are also continuing between Meridian
and  Rio Tinto Group Ltd. (RIO) , the majority owner of the nation’s
only aluminum smelter, which used about 13 percent of national
power output last year. If Rio closed the plant, that may result
in a sustained drop in power prices, Mighty River said in its
offer documents last month.  Meridian operates seven South Island hydro power stations
including the nation’s two largest at Benmore and Manapouri. It
also has four wind farms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  