-- Note to Media: The First Amendment Protects All of Us
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-05-16T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/note-to-media-the-first-amendment-protects-all-of-us.html
(UPDATE: As this column was being 
edited,  a new version  of the Free Flow of Information Act was 
introduced in Congress. The revised bill addresses some of my 
minor criticisms, but unfortunately does little to change the 
largest problem: a narrow definition of “covered person” that 
would exclude from statutory protection, for example, bloggers 
and others who do not engage in journalism “for financial gain 
or livelihood.” This narrow definition remains an outrage against
the First Amendment. I certainly should have included a 
discussion of the new proposal in the original column, but my 
conclusion that it’s a bad bill stands.)  President  Barack Obama ’s administration  announced this week  
that it is throwing its support behind the press shield law that 
has been stalled in Congress since time immemorial. Critics 
insist that the administration, suddenly mired in scandal, is 
simply trying to curry favor with the news media, but the 
proposal deserves to be judged on its merits.  And on its merits, the shield law is a bad idea. Let me
explain why.  I believe that the First Amendment is the single most
important provision in the Constitution. Part of what makes it
so is that it protects all Americans -- not just journalists.  The avowed purpose of the shield law is to make it
difficult for the government to compel testimony from
journalists. It is self-evident that being forced to disclose
confidential information would make it harder for reporters to
do their jobs. In effect, the risk of compelled disclosure
increases the cost of journalism.  A useful analogy is the case of  NAACP v. Alabama , decided
55 years ago, in which the  Supreme Court  held that forced
disclosure of membership lists would burden the freedom of
association. This seems plainly correct. If all the world can
know which organizations you join, your cost of membership is
effectively increased. That, wrote the justices, the
Constitution does not allow the state to do.  Drafting It  Very well. If compelling journalists to disclose their
sources is analogous to compelling members of an interest group
to disclose their membership, what’s wrong with the shield law?
The answer, as the late Judge Bailey Aldrich wrote in  a
different context , is that “the statute is not too happily
drafted.”  There are several versions of the shield law pending in
Congress. The one that seems to have the most support is
grandiloquently  titled  the “Free Flow of Information Act.” But
this bill, much like  the guidelines  on which the  Justice
Department  was supposed to rely before seizing telephone records
of Associated Press reporters, is chock-full of exceptions --
particularly for national security cases.  The statute, in any case, says only that the government
can’t subpoena documents or testimony from journalists until it
has exhausted other reasonable means of getting the same
information. In a saner world, this would be a universal
standard -- but it probably wouldn’t be a significant change for
the practice of journalism. Even in the absence of a shield law,
most prosecutors are too savvy to go after journalists. The
price can be too high. If a prosecutor does decide to try to pry
a source out of a reporter, chances are he has indeed run out of
other ideas.  Put otherwise, the protections themselves might change the
status quo only a little. And there is reason to think that the
shield law, even if it existed, would have  offered scant
protection  to the AP.  But the rather limited effect isn’t the largest problem
with the proposed statute. After all, the protections can always
be strengthened. The larger problem is the class the bill would
protect. The protection applies only to a “covered person,”
and a covered person is defined with disturbing narrowness:  “A person who regularly gathers, prepares, collects,
photographs, records, writes, edits, reports, or publishes news
or information that concerns local, national, or international
events or other matters of public interest for dissemination to
the public for a substantial portion of the person’s livelihood
or for substantial financial gain and includes a supervisor,
employer, parent, subsidiary, or affiliate of such covered
person.”  Defining It  Let’s think about this definition for a moment. Consider a
whistle-blower, A, who tells B of something nefarious going on
at a hypothetical federal agency, which we’ll call the  Internal
Revenue Service . B in turn tells the world. Scandal ensues.
Investigations, denunciations, calls for reform. As matters
unfold, a prosecutor decides that his case requires the identity
of the leaker. Should a subpoena be issued?  The statute, as written, would permit the subpoena if B is,
say, a blogger who obtains no income from her writing, or a
wealthy philanthropist who distributes a newsletter but derives
no income from it, or a law student using the information as the
basis of a project to be published in her school’s law review.
One cannot make a serious case that any one of these forms of
publication contributes less to public debate and the public
good than the coverage of the same news on television or in a
newspaper. A different distinction is necessary.  The obvious argument therefore has to do with the chilling
effect -- that is, intimidating professional journalists is more
dangerous to public debate than frightening bloggers or
philanthropists or law students. This is a scary reading of the
First Amendment, which does not on its face divide free speakers
into different classes -- but that’s not the main problem with
the argument.  The main problem is that the statute, by protecting only
those who commit journalism professionally, would drive a fully
informed and rational leaker to go to a reporter for a
mainstream media organization rather than to a blogger or a law
student. To which you might say: So what? Maybe it’s better that
the leak be published in the  New York  Times or broadcast on CBS.  Maybe -- but do we really want the government, as a matter
of policy, making judgments about where leakers ought to be
encouraged to leak? By raising the costs on others who would
cover the news, the shield law in effect subsidizes the working
press. It isn’t at all clear why this is a proper government
function.  Improving It  The shield law can be improved. There’s no good reason to
limit its coverage to a person who “regularly” engaged in the
spectrum of activities that it protects -- because it is the
activities, not their regularity, that are crucial to the
functioning of the democratic process. An accountant who writes
only a single op-ed article in her lifetime, and therein
discloses what she was told by a confidential source, is
potentially providing as vital a service as any working
journalist.  And, certainly, there is no justification for the limit of
coverage to one who engaged in these activities “for a
substantial portion of the person’s livelihood or for
substantial financial gain.” One would think that people who
give information away free would receive, if anything, greater
solicitude from government. The provision limiting protection to
those who make money from disseminating information should be
deleted entirely.  I have heard it said that a more broadly worded statute
would never pass, not least because media companies might yank
their support. Let’s hope this isn’t true, because if it is,
it’s hardly an argument in favor of the Free Flow of Information
Act. It would instead be evidence that the statute itself is an
elaborate form of rent-seeking in the guise of protecting
sources.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or  @StepCarter  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 