-- NWR Climbs Most in 11 Months on Cost-Cutting Plans: Prague Mover
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-05-16T09:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/nwr-climbs-most-in-11-months-on-cost-cutting-plans-prague-mover.html
New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the largest
producer of steelmaking coal in the  Czech Republic , jumped the
most in 11 months in Prague trading after announcing plans to
rein in expenses.  NWR rose as much as 8.4 percent, the biggest intraday gain
since June 15, and was up 4.9 percent at 43 koruna as of 10:39
a.m. local time. Trading volumes already exceeded the three-month daily average. The stock climbed 6.1 percent in  London .  The company plans 100 million euros ($129 million) of
“short-term” measures to buoy finances, including a 10 percent
cut in salaries, reductions in  capital spending  and sales of
thermal-coal inventories, NWR said today in a statement. It
reported a first-quarter net loss of 80.3 million euros.  Coal producers from  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  to Rio Tinto Group
are scrapping or deferring investment plans to lower costs after
slowing economic growth eroded demand, dragging down prices. NWR
today cut its 2013 output forecast to 9 million to 10 million
metric tons of steelmaking coal, from a February estimate of as
much as 11 million tons.  “We consider positive NWR’s effort to cut expenses,”
Bohumil Trampota, a Prague-based analyst at J&T Banka, said in a
note. “The new projection slightly exceeded our estimate.”  Operating expenses will be reduced by 25 million euros this
year as NWR cuts salaries and staff, the statement shows.  “We now need to plan for a tougher environment for a
longer period of time,” Chairman Gareth Penny said by phone.
“There’s going to be a thorough review of our entire
business.”  Coke Divestment  NWR, registered in Amsterdam, has started the process of
divesting its coke operations, OKK, and hopes to find a buyer by
August, Penny said. It’s contacting banks to manage the sale
before reaching out to potential buyers, he said.  The company will also review all current mines and may shut
or mothball some unprofitable sites, according to the chairman,
who said the Debiensko mine in  Poland  remains viable.  Prices of hard coking coal for foundries fell about 25
percent in the first quarter from the previous three months,
quashing NWR’s hopes that prices may recover in the second half,
he said.  Revenue dropped 31 percent to 240 million euros, while the
loss before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization totaled
22 million euros, the company said, citing an “extremely
difficult” market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  