-- To Help Worker Safety, Bring Back Managed Trade
-- B y   A l a n   T o n e l s o n
-- 2013-05-16T22:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/to-help-worker-safety-bring-back-managed-trade.html
If all it took were official
cajoling, public shaming, technical assistance or corporate
promises, factory jobs in  Bangladesh  and other developing
countries wouldn’t be so deadly.  Their failure to make a difference unmistakably signals
that disasters such as the building collapse last month near
Dhaka that killed more than 1,100 people stem from systemic
problems in global trade rather than the shortcomings of
individual companies, industries and countries.  Some barriers to better  work conditions  in the developing
world defy quick solutions. Limited skill requirements will keep
wages in light industry relatively low. So will the abundant
labor available. As a result, tougher responses -- such as trade
sanctions -- would mainly harm the victimized workers
themselves.  There is one action, however, that can at least ease
pressure toward lower wages and margins, and create some genuine
incentives for better pay and safer workplaces: re-establishing
the quota system that once governed world apparel trade.  Import barriers such as those available under the
 Multifibre Arrangement  seem unlikely candidates for helping
garment workers. And a major aim of such trade management was to
try to slow the decline of higher cost U.S. and European textile
and apparel industries.  Spreading Benefits  Yet  developing countries  clearly were the big winners
during the MFA’s 1974-2005 lifespan. As garment production and
employment plummeted in developed countries, the sector boomed
in the developing world, largely thanks to exports. Production
also dispersed geographically, enabling dozens of very poor
economies outside  East Asia ’s early and rapid developers to
start reaping industrialization’s benefits.  Success was owed largely to the agreement’s pragmatic,
flexible provisions, combined with the mobility of apparel
production. Importer governments retained great leeway in
imposing quotas and could even waive them selectively. Moreover,
garment tariffs stayed relatively high. Trade policy could be
used to channel production toward and away from certain
countries, serving a variety of national goals, including
favoring former colonies, winning and supporting allies, and
providing some protection for domestic industries.  Yet importing countries also pledged to increase quotas
according to a specified schedule, which permitted continued
growth in production and employment in poorer nations. Even
better for the poorest, quotas on their own competitors among
developing nations meant that they could create garment
industries without excessive reliance on undercutting by the
likes of  China  and  India  in terms of wages and regulatory
safeguards.  Similarly, businesses didn’t have as much incentive to
create margins by maximizing exploitation. In fact, the system
could have been used to reward employer responsibility -- though
it seldom did.  U.S. trade data make clear the MFA’s benefits for
developing countries. From 1989 (the earliest consistent figures
readily available) until 1995, apparel imports rose almost 62
percent in nominal terms, to $39.44 billion from $24.35 billion.
The established major low-income Asian exporters -- especially
China, India and  Indonesia  -- more than doubled their U.S.
sales. And  Mexico ’s exports more than quadrupled, thanks largely
to the North America Free Trade Agreement. Similar preferences
helped spur even faster growth in Central America and the
Caribbean. The  Middle East  and sub-Saharan  Africa  registered
sizable gains, too, and many smaller African countries entered
the U.S. market for the first time.  Phasing Out  Yet the global treaty that created the  World Trade
Organization  decreed a 10-year phase out for the MFA starting in
1995. This decision was a response to the retail industry’s
seeking maximum sourcing flexibility, Western governments seized
by post-Cold War free-market purism, larger developing-world
exporters counting on dominating world markets and many smaller
developing countries swept up in misplaced Third World
solidarity.  Apparel exports still faced tariffs, which meant importing
countries could continue to dole out limited policy favors.
Moreover, a few new restraints were approved, including WTO
permission to impose temporary tariffs on surges of Chinese
garment shipments after China joined the trade body.  But without quota-granted guaranteed market access, cost-cutting became all the more important for smaller exporting
countries simply to preserve their new gains. As U.S. trade data
demonstrate, most of the freed-up customers were won by the huge
Asian producers that enjoyed big natural and government-created
cost advantages. For example, China’s share of U.S. apparel
imports rose to 33.44 percent from 26.07 percent during the
first two years of quota- free trade  (2005-07) alone. Indonesian
and Vietnamese sales boomed, too.  Significantly, Bangladesh also excelled, and like China,
Indonesia and especially  Vietnam , its market share has continued
to grow, reaching 5.25 percent last year, despite the sluggish
 U.S. economy .  Unfortunately, however, much of the surge in Bangladeshi
exports can be attributed to that country’s reliance on rock-bottom wages and firetrap factories, with the tragic
consequences we recently witnessed.  Worse, the dynamics of today’s quotaless apparel trade
practically guarantee that better, costlier work conditions in
Bangladesh will simply drive much production and jobs elsewhere.
That is what occurred in higher-cost garment exporters such as
 Turkey  and  South Africa , as well as smaller Western Hemisphere
and African producers -- most of whose U.S. exports have fallen
in absolute terms since the quotas ended in 2005.  Perverse Incentives  Re-establishing quotas, especially with expansion
requirements, could begin reversing today’s perverse incentives.
The biggest exporting countries could easily block WTO adoption
-- as well as any moves toward mandatory international labor
standards. But management of the garment trade could be re-created through less orthodox approaches outside the WTO,
especially since broad international support is easily within
reach.  U.S. consumers appear increasingly receptive to such ideas.
The European Union has already warned Bangladesh that it could
face sanctions. And even before the quotas ended, dozens of non-Asian garment producers signaled their second thoughts by
agitating for extensions.  The biggest missing ingredient is interest from President
 Barack Obama , who remains silent three weeks after the
Bangladesh disaster.  (Alan Tonelson is a research fellow at the U.S. Business
and Industry Council, which represents almost 2,000 domestic
manufacturing companies. He is the author of “The Race to the
Bottom: Why a Worldwide Worker Surplus and Uncontrolled Free
Trade Are Sinking American Living Standards.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Alan Tonelson at  tonelson@usbusiness.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 