-- Obama Labor Board Pick Ruled Invalid as Case Reversed
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-16T20:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/obama-labor-board-pick-ruled-invalid-as-case-reversed.html
A National Labor Relations Board
decision against a New Jersey nursing home was thrown out by an
appeals court that ruled one board member was improperly
appointed by President  Barack Obama .  The U.S. Constitution’s Recess Appointment Clause refers
only to intersession breaks, invalidating one NLRB member’s
appointment in 2010 during a 17-day adjournment, the U.S. Court
of Appeals panel in Philadelphia said today in a 2-1 ruling.  The NLRB “lacked the requisite number of members to
exercise the board’s authority because one panel member was
invalidly appointed during an intrasession break,” the appeals
court ruled. “We will therefore vacate the board’s orders.”  The appeals court panel is the first to consider the
validity of the president’s recess appointment powers since an
appeals court panel in Washington ruled Jan. 25 that NLRB
appointments last year were “constitutionally invalid.” The
Obama administration is awaiting a decision by the U.S. Supreme
Court on whether it will hear the  Washington  case.  Allison Price, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on today’s ruling.  The case heard in Philadelphia involves appeals filed by
New Vista Nursing and Rehabilitation, a  Newark , New Jersey-based
nursing home, over an NLRB decision dated Aug. 26, 2011, that
the company unlawfully refused to bargain with a union
designated as a collective-bargaining representative, according
to court filings.  Nursing Home  New Vista filed four motions for reconsideration with the
board and challenged its authority to act because it lacked a
quorum of three legitimate members. The company argued during a
hearing in March that by the time it made its final request for
reconsideration, three of the NLRB’s five members had been
improperly installed during recesses.  Craig Becker  was appointed to the board on March 27, 2010,
one day after the Senate adjourned for two weeks. Two other
members,  Richard Griffin  and Sharon Block, were appointed on
Jan. 9, 2012, according to the ruling. The panel’s ruling today
didn’t address Block and Griffin’s appointments.  “Member Becker is the only member of the delegee group
that issued the Aug. 26 order who was recess appointed and thus
the only one whose appointment is in question,” the panel said.  According to the ruling, a recess is defined as the period
between congressional sessions, known as an intersession recess,
as opposed to the more frequent breaks the Senate takes
throughout a legislative session.  Dissenting View  The decision would presumably find that the appointments of
Block and Griffin are likewise invalid, U.S. Circuit Judge
Joseph Greenaway said today in a dissenting opinion.  Greenaway said the appointments were a “valid exercise of
the executive power granted to the president” under the Recess
Appointments Clause.  “The majority’s rationale undoes an appointments process
that has successfully operated within our separation of powers
regime for over 220 years,” Greenaway wrote.  Today’s ruling didn’t go as far as the decision by the
Washington court, which said valid appointments could be made
only for vacancies that arose while the Senate was adjourned for
an intersession recess. In rejecting Becker’s appointment, the
Philadelphia court said it wasn’t necessary for them to consider
that interpretation of the Recess Appointments Clause.  On April 25, the NLRB asked the U.S. Supreme Court to
reverse the Washington court’s decision. The high court hasn’t
decided whether it will consider the case.  The case is NLRB v. New Vista Nursing and Rehabilitation,
11-11340,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  