-- Obama Said to Choose Acting IRS Chief as Hearings Start
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-05-16T17:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/obama-said-to-choose-acting-irs-chief-as-hearings-start.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
choose a new acting commissioner of the  Internal Revenue Service 
this week as the first congressional hearings begin into the
agency’s selective scrutiny of small-government groups,
according to an administration official.  Obama, who forced out acting commissioner  Steven Miller 
yesterday, won’t nominate a permanent head for the agency soon,
said the official, who asked for anonymity to discuss personnel
matters.  Asked if anyone at the White House knew about the IRS
matter before the counsel’s office was informed April 22, Obama
said today at a news conference that he wasn’t aware of it.  “The minute I found out about it, then my main focus is
making sure that we get the thing fixed,” he said in the White
House  Rose Garden  today.  Obama also said the IRS inspector general would be seeking
a further investigation.  The House Ways and Means Committee tomorrow will be the
first panel to hold hearings on the matter. Miller is set to
testify alongside Russell George, the inspector general whose
May 14 report showed that IRS employees used terms such as “tea
party” and “patriot” to select which applications for tax-exempt status would receive tougher questioning.  ‘Wants’ Facts  “This committee wants the facts, and the American people
deserve answers to why they were targeted on the basis of their
political beliefs,” Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican, said in a statement. “The IRS has demonstrated a
culture of cover-up and has failed time and time again to be
completely open and honest with the American people.”  Lawmakers’ questions will focus on at least three separate
areas: Why the targeting started, why it wasn’t stopped sooner
and why senior IRS officials didn’t tell Congress after they
learned what had happened.  Senator  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , the Republican leader,
today called on the IRS inspector general to investigate other
potential agency matters, such as the disclosure of information
from the National Organization for Marriage. The group, which
opposes same-sex marriages, said that the IRS released some of
its confidential records.  The Senate Finance Committee will hold a hearing May 21 and
the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee will meet
May 22.  IRS Apology  The IRS scandal burst into public view May 10, when Lois
Lerner, the mid-level official who oversees tax-exempt
organizations, acknowledged the selective scrutiny and
apologized for it.  Her comments confirmed what tea party groups and Republican
lawmakers had been saying for more than a year and what IRS
officials, including Miller and former commissioner  Douglas Shulman , had denied.  “It’s inexcusable, and Americans are right to be angry
about it, and I am angry about it,” Obama said as he described
Miller’s departure in televised remarks at the White House
yesterday. “It’s important to institute new leadership that can
help restore confidence.”  Miller had been running the IRS since November 2012, when
Shulman’s term expired. Shulman, who was appointed by President
 George W. Bush , announced in April 2012 that he wouldn’t stay,
meaning that Obama has had 13 months to choose a nominee.  ‘Incredibly Difficult’  “This has been an incredibly difficult time for the IRS
given the events of the past few days,” Miller wrote in a
letter to IRS employees yesterday. “And there is a strong and
immediate need to restore public trust in the nation’s tax
agency.”  The IRS said Shulman and Miller were informed of the
targeting of small-government groups in May 2012. They didn’t
inform Congress, a decision the agency said was made to avoid
interfering with an inspector general’s report.  Miller told lawmakers in July 2012 that the IRS had grouped
together tax-exempt applications of politically oriented groups
to ensure consistency. He didn’t say how the grouping was done.
Miller’s term as acting commissioner was nearing its end.  The IRS is required to determine whether groups applying
for tax-exempt status as social welfare organizations are going
to be primarily political, which would disqualify them.  Holder’s Investigation  Attorney General Eric Holder has opened a criminal probe,
and four separate congressional committees are investigating the
IRS. Holder said the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation inquiry
wouldn’t be limited to IRS employees in Cincinnati, where the
applications were handled, and may include Washington employees.  Federal prosecutors may consider civil rights violations,
false statements to Congress and a law prohibiting political
activity by federal employees, Holder told the House Judiciary
Committee yesterday. Proving some of those crimes would require
prosecutors to show willful lawbreaking.  “You would want some direct evidence of intent, that
people knew what they were doing was wrong and they decided to
do it anyway,” said  Nathan Hochman , who led the Department of
Justice’s Tax Division under President George W. Bush.  Hochman, now a partner at Bingham McCutchen LLP, said
proving to Congress that statements were false would probably
require evidence that officials knew they were false and that
they provided incorrect responses to clear questions.  Possible Prosecution  House Speaker  John Boehner  said today that it was “very
clear” that IRS employees could be prosecuted under a federal
law that makes it a crime to commit “extortion or willful
oppression under the color of law.”  Justice Department prosecutors may be able to get more
information than the inspector general, Hochman said, because
they can convene grand juries and offer immunity.  The Washington-based American Center for  Law and Justice ,
which says it seeks to protect religious and constitutional
freedoms, will file civil lawsuits next week on behalf of
affected tea party groups, said Executive Director Jordan Sekulow.  The IRS targeting of tea party groups shows “it cannot be
trusted” to enforce the 2010 health-care law, Representative
 Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , a former IRS attorney, said
today.  She said it is fair to wonder whether the IRS would use
“intimate information” to delay or deny health care or use
those details to blackmail or embarrass opponents of the
administration. Such questions, she said at a news conference,
“would have been considered unreasonable a week ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  