-- Obama Appoints OMB’s Werfel as Acting IRS Commissioner
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-05-16T21:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/obama-said-to-pick-omb-s-werfel-as-acting-irs-chief.html
President  Barack Obama  appointed
Danny Werfel, controller of the White House budget office, as
acting commissioner of the  Internal Revenue Service .  Werfel on May 22 will replace  Steven Miller , who was forced
to resign yesterday following disclosure of the agency’s
selective scrutiny of small-government groups seeking tax-exempt
status.  “As we work to get to the bottom of what happened and
restore confidence in the IRS, Danny has the experience and
management ability necessary to lead the agency at this
important time,” Obama said in a statement released by the
White House today.  Werfel, 42, will serve until the fiscal year ends Sept. 30,
the White House said. The acting IRS commissioner position
doesn’t require Senate confirmation.  Obama hasn’t nominated a permanent commission since the
term of Douglas Shulman, a George W. Bush appointee, ended in
November.  OMB Controller  Werfel was confirmed as controller of the Office of
Management and Budget in October 2009. He is in charge all
federal programs on financial reporting, curbing improper
payments, selling surplus government property and streamlining
government purchasing and information technology programs.  The IRS announced today that a second official will leave
the agency. Joseph Grant, who oversees tax-exempt organizations
and government entities, will retire June 3, according to an IRS
memo.  Grant had been appointed to his position on May 8. At the
time, Miller issued a statement saying Grant would “provide
strong leadership and continuity.”  Grant was previously the deputy commissioner over tax-exempt groups and government entities. He is a former member of
the Democratic staff of the House Ways and Means Committee,
according to the memo.  At a news conference earlier today, Obama said he wasn’t
aware of the IRS matter before the counsel’s office was informed
April 22.  “The minute I found out about it, then my main focus is
making sure that we get the thing fixed,” he said in the White
House  Rose Garden .  Obama also said the IRS inspector general would be seeking
a further investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  