-- Obama’s Auditing Vacancies Leave Vacuum, Watchdogs Say
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-05-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/obama-s-auditing-vacancies-leave-vacuum-watchdogs-say.html
President  Barack Obama ’s failure to
appoint inspectors general to five cabinet-level agencies,
including the Pentagon, is putting taxpayer money at risk,
oversight groups said.  The departments of State,  Homeland Security , Labor,
Interior and Defense don’t have permanent audit chiefs. Those
five positions, as well as the U.S. Agency for International
Development, are subject to confirmation by the  U.S. Senate .  Inspectors general are independent officials who typically
remain outside of an agency’s management structure and have the
authority to investigate their departments’ actions.  The vacancies are gaining attention following the Treasury
Department inspector general’s May 14 report on the  Internal
Revenue Service ’s scrutiny of the tax-exempt status of small-government advocacy groups.  The IRS first disclosed last week that it had singled out
groups for extra examination based on whether their names
included words such as “tea party” and “patriot.” Lois
Lerner, a mid-level agency official who oversees tax-exempt
groups, acknowledged the practice and apologized.  “The only reason the IRS admitted targeting conservative
groups with improper and intrusive scrutiny after three years is
because they knew the inspector general report was due to be
released,” said Richard Manning, a vice president for public
policy and communications at Americans for Limited Government, a
free-market advocacy organization based in Fairfax, Virginia.  ‘Ineffective Management’  While the inspector general’s report blamed “ineffective
management” at the IRS for inappropriate and slow handling of
applications for tax-exempt status, it didn’t find evidence of
partisan motivation or influence from outside the agency.  The report said “inappropriate criteria were used to
identify tax-exempt applications for review.”  Nevertheless, the disclosure of the tax-status reviews has
triggered four congressional inquiries and a U.S.  Justice
Department  criminal investigation. Obama said yesterday that
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew asked for and has accepted the
resignation of  Steven Miller , the acting IRS commissioner.  Joe Newman, communications director at the Project on
Government Oversight, a Washington watchdog group, said the IRS
controversy puts inspector general vacancies in the
“spotlight.” It serves as a “prime example of why IGs are
important,” he said.  A White House spokesman didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the vacancies.  ‘Suffering’ Taxpayers  Newman cited a 2012 report by General Services
Administration Inspector General  Brian Miller  that revealed
lavish spending by the agency at a conference near Las Vegas.
That work highlighted the value of independent scrutiny of
 government spending .  GSA Administrator Martha Johnson resigned amid the scandal,
and the inspector general referred the matter to the Justice
Department.  While acting inspectors general and career staff perform
auditing work during a vacancy, they don’t have the same degree
of independence as a presidentially appointed official, Newman
said. Those appointees can only be removed by the president, who
is required to notify Congress of any dismissal or reassignment.  “Taxpayers are suffering because you don’t have people in
those positions, who are independent and aggressive,” Newman
said.  Lawmakers such as Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat,
and Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, urged Obama in a
Jan. 24 letter to fill the vacant positions.  “A sustained absence of permanent leadership is not
healthy for any office -- particularly one entrusted with as
important and challenging a mission as an Office of Inspector
General,” according to the letter.  The senators were particularly concerned about the State
Department, which they wrote has “lacked a permanent leader
since January 2008.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  