-- Oldest Rookie in 64 Years Made Knicks’ Prigioni Rio Tercero Hero
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-05-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/oldest-rookie-in-64-years-made-knicks-prigioni-rio-tercero-hero.html
Maria Enrici said she cried when her
son Pablo Prigioni called her in July to tell her he was joining
the  New York Knicks .  Prigioni had spent the last nine seasons playing in
Europe’s top basketball league. After previously expressing
little interest in joining the  National Basketball Association ,
according to his parents, Prigioni told his mother he was
planning to move his family to New York and become, at age 35,
the league’s oldest rookie in 64 years.  “He has always known what he wanted and always been
perseverant enough to go get it,” said Enrici, who moved to
 Spain  from  Argentina  in 2006 to be with her son and his family.
“We knew it was going to be important for him, but at the same
time it was going to be a dramatic move for everybody.”  The transition to  New York  from Spain, which Prigioni said
was difficult for his family, grew easier as the Knicks finished
with their best regular-season record in 16 years and advanced
to the postseason’s second round for the first time since 2000.
He’s started all but two of the team’s playoff games, defending,
rebounding and setting up NBA scoring champion Carmelo Anthony
and Sixth Man of the Year J.R. Smith.  New York’s season could end with a loss tonight to the
 Indiana Pacers  at Madison Square Garden. The Knicks trail 3-1 in
the best-of-seven series.  “On the court there are some different rules, the speed of
the game is different and there are many more games,” Prigioni
said in an interview at the Knicks practice facility in
Tarrytown, New York. “It took me time to adjust to the schedule
and my role on the team.”  Prigioni, who turns 36 tomorrow, is signed to a one-year
deal worth $473,604, the NBA rookie minimum. Before accepting
the Knicks offer, he said he sought the advice of Olympic
teammates who faced the same decision, including San Antonio
Spurs guard  Manu Ginobili  and Luis Scola of the  Phoenix Suns .  Ginobili’s Advice  Ginobili, who came to the NBA from the Euroleague at age 25
in 2002, said in an interview that he told Prigioni to make the
jump “because, you know, he’s 35 and he has done almost
everything in Europe.”  Back in Argentina, Prigioni says his hometown of Rio
Tercero, a factory- and farm-driven city with 48,000 residents,
is closely following the Knicks’ playoff run. He returns every
summer, and last year invested in 600 acres to use for soybeans
and livestock, according to his father, Raul Prigioni.  While the land is worth around $2.7 million, according to
Compania Argentina de Tierras, a private land-appraisal company,
Prigioni paid less because parts were undeveloped, and has
rented it to soybean producers, said his 67-year-old father.  “Pablo has always proved to be a determined man and a
professional,” said the elder Prigioni, who admitted to
thinking Pablo’s older brother Martin was originally a better
player. “He is still that way.”  Argentina Return  When the Knicks’ season ends, Prigioni said he will return
immediately to Argentina with his wife, Raquel, and two
children, Alessandra and Nicolas, to run a five-day  youth camp 
from June 19-23 in his hometown. Claudio Papini, who first
coached Prigioni at age 8, is organizing the camp.  “He always wanted to win, even when playing marbles, and
he cried every time his team lost a game,” Papini, 50, said in
a telephone interview. “I had to console him many times.”  Enrici, 64, said her son told her at age 11 that he would
become a professional basketball player. She returned to
Argentina when her son moved to New York, and says they never go
more than three days without speaking.  Prigioni played 13 years in Spain, twice winning the
country’s league title and advancing four times in nine seasons
to the semifinals of the Euroleague, Europe’s top club level.
His parents, who are now separated, said he never talked about
playing in the NBA.  Point Guards  One of three point guards, along with  Raymond Felton  and
 Jason Kidd , to average more than 20 minutes a game in the
playoffs, Prigioni is third on the Knicks with a .435 three-point shooting percentage in the playoffs and his team-best 4.3
assists-to-turnovers ratio is twice as good as every Knicks
player outside of Felton.  “A solid veteran and a true professional,” Felton said.  Prigioni’s success is an example of how advanced statistics
are helping NBA teams evaluate overseas talent, according to
Ryan Blake, senior director of NBA scouting operations, who says
that teams are now looking to fill upward  of 17 specific
positions, as opposed to the traditional five. Age, Blake said,
probably was a secondary factor.  “Anything that can fill a void in one of those positions
is essential,” Blake said in a telephone interview.  Prigioni said he will focus on next year’s plan once the
current season ends.  “I’m open to staying in the States, and to going back to
 Europe ,” he said. “But why think about that now?”  Spanish Offers  Teams are already thinking about it. Claudio Villanueva,
one of his agents, said Prigioni has offers from at least five
Spanish clubs, and would only consider staying with the Knicks
if offered a contract worth three times his current salary.  Knicks General Manager Glen Grunwald declined to comment
for this story.  When Prigioni scored eight points in the fourth quarter of
the Knicks’ Game 2 victory over the Pacers, the sold-out crowd
at Madison Square Garden chanted, “Pa-blo! Pa-blo!” as he was
removed from the game. More than a quarter century after the 8-year-old Pablo was inconsolable after every loss, and 10 months
after the decision and phone call that brought his mother to
tears, it was his father’s turn to grow sentimental.  “I got goose bumps,” Raul Prigioni said. “I almost cried
because of that emotion.”  -- With assistance from Rob Gloster in  San Francisco . Editors:
Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net 
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  