-- Hollande Thanks France’s Rich for Their Taxes After First Year
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-05-16T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/hollande-thanks-france-s-rich-for-their-taxes-after-first-year.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
thanked wealthy taxpayers, promising to try to avoid burdening
them further while defending his  Socialist  credentials.  “We’ve asked a lot of the French in 2013 and in 2012 -- it
has been heavy,” Hollande said yesterday at a press conference
in Paris marking his first year in office. “I want to salute
their efforts, including the wealthiest, because we’ve asked a
lot of them.”  With his popularity at a record low, the economy in
 recession  and joblessness at an all-time high, Hollande is
fighting to retain support for a program that he hinted
yesterday may include raising the retirement age and cutting
spending.  The remarks underline Hollande’s attempts to win over the
country’s entrepreneurial classes -- after calling finance his
“greatest adversary” during his election campaign and once
saying that he “didn’t like” the rich -- as he seeks to cap
unemployment, spur investment and boost  France ’s competitiveness.  While Hollande’s original plan to tax earnings of more than
1 million euros ($1.29 million) at 75 percent was thrown out by 
a French court, he still plans such a levy on salaries above 
that level and has restored higher taxation of household assets 
for France’s wealthiest citizens.  “The more spending cuts we can do, the less we’ll have to
increase taxes,” Hollande said. “The ideal would be not to
increase taxes on households in 2014.”  Hollande said yesterday that revamping the French pension
system and spurring investment at both European and national
level will be priorities for his second year in office.  Pension Losses  Talks between unions and business representatives to end
“unsustainable” losses in the state retirement system would
last from June through September. While skirting the politically
sensitive subject of the official  retirement age , he said that
longer  life expectancy  will require the French to spend more
years paying into the system.  “As long as we’re living longer, we’ll need to work a bit
longer,” Hollande said. The reform isn’t simply to satisfy the
European Commission, he said. “As president, can I leave us
with a pension deficit of 20 billion euros in 2020?”  One of Hollande’s first acts as president was to partially
roll back his predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s increase in the
retirement age to 62. He allowed some workers who began working
as teenagers to resume retiring at 60.  Hollande asked Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault to present
in June a 10-year investment plan, focusing on the digital
economy, energy, health, and transport projects. He said he’d
tap European Union funds, private companies, and overseas
investors.  Merkel Compromise  During the press conference in the presence of his entire
cabinet, which lasted more than 2 1/2 hours, Hollande touched on
subjects ranging from family policy to  Syria  and his
relationship with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  German-French leadership of  Europe  demands compromise, he
said.  “With Mrs. Merkel, we’ve always gotten there even if it
took time,” he said. “Yes of course I would have preferred it
to go faster” on easing austerity, he said, adding that “she’s
aware Germans have made a lot of efforts and can’t be asked to
pay for others.”  He said he’s ready to meet German calls for greater
political union to match the tighter economic coordination
that’s resulted from the euro crisis. On Britain, he said he
wants the country to remain in the EU while warning that the
group existed well before the U.K. joined in 1973 and that his
priority is the euro area, of which Britain isn’t a member.  Hollande avoided a question about whether he had become a
“social-democrat,” the term used in France for leftists who
support the welfare state and robust free markets. “I am a
Socialist, do I have to add social-democrat?” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  