-- Hollywood Horror Flick Gets Wide Release on Apple Devices
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-05-16T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/hollywood-horror-flick-gets-wide-release-on-apple-devices.html
Hollywood’s latest horror flick,
“Haunting Melissa,” opens today on the small screen.  Hooked Digital Media, distributor of the film, said it’s
making the movie available through an application on  Apple
Inc. (AAP) ’s tablets and smartphones and giving a new twist to how
stories are told by offering users the chance to download the
title one segment at a time for just a few minutes’ viewing.  While the app for “Haunting Melissa,” a ghost story, is
free on Apple’s  App Store , users who want to progress after the
first installment must either share their experience on  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  for more free episodes or pay as much as $1.99 for each
segment, or $6.99 for the full film.  The venture is the latest attempt by studios and content
providers to snag viewers who are increasingly watching movies
and TV shows on mobile devices. Hollywood studios, grappling
with a decline in home video sales, which can account for 40
percent of a title’s total receipts, are signing online
streaming services like  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Amazon.com Inc. as
distributors.  “The way stories are consumed has changed, so we set out
to alter how stories are told,” said Neal Edelstein, founder of
Hooked Digital Media, in an interview. “It’s terrifying to
studios the drain that these devices have placed on the
industry, so we have to find a new way to harness them,” said
Edelstein, who was a producer on “Mulholland Drive” and “The
Ring” movies.  Scene Edits  The new film cost about $5 million to produce, according to
Edelstein. He declined to comment on the number of episodes that
will be available or the length of the movie.  Hooked Digital Media ’s app enables users to go back to
previous installments and see different edits and angles of
scenes. It can also send notifications of new content to entice
customers to purchase more material, Edelstein said.  Apple’s current direct-to- iTunes  film distribution gives it
30 percent of a film’s revenue, while an additional 15 percent
may go to the company that formats the title for playback on
Apple devices.  Apple’s iTunes store also offers traditional television and
movie downloads for between $1.99 and $19.99.  Ted Miller, a spokesman for the Cupertino, California-based
company, declined to comment on individual application
developers.  Media companies are trying to determine whether the
industry is undergoing a change in consumer preference from
ownership of movies to rentals, through subscription services
and other Web-delivered ventures.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC this month began testing a service in
 New York  and Philadelphia called Watch ABC, offering live access
to network shows on computers and mobile devices.  Netflix, the leading online subscription company, accounted
for almost a third of video-viewing on tablets in the U.S. in
March, according to researcher NPD Group Inc.  Hooked Digital Media, based in  Los Angeles , is working next
on a comedy, Edelstein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  