-- Thomas Cook Plans $2.4 Billion Refinancing With Bond Sale
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-16T12:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/thomas-cook-plans-2-4-billion-refinancing-including-bond-issue.html
  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) , the 172-year-old tour operator that required an emergency loan 18 months ago,
plans to raise 1.6 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) to restructure
its borrowings as it cuts jobs and closes stores to pare costs.  Thomas Cook shares rose 15 percent after the London-based
company said it had negotiated 691 million pounds in loans and
would raise 425 million pounds in a rights offer and share
placement and 525 million euros ($675 million) from a  bond  sale.  The world’s oldest holiday company has begun a 90-day
consultation to cut 2,500 jobs, or 16 percent of the total, as
it closes unprofitable shops and consolidates airline operations
under a three-year recovery plan. The financial restructuring is
fully underwritten and will reduce the proportion of debt on its
balance sheet and extend the maturity of existing arrangements
while paving the way for a return to dividend payments.  “This successful synchronization of a new bank facility,
new bond issue and new equity issue, which reduces leverage and
strengthens our liquidity profile, highlights a new-found
confidence,” Chief Financial Officer Michael Healy said.  Yield Boost  The yield investors demand to hold Thomas Cook’s existing
euro bonds fell to a record 3 percent after reaching 45 percent
in August, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings both said they envisage
a one-level upgrade in Thomas Cook’s “B-” credit rating
-- six levels below investment grade -- to “B” after completion
of the company’s refinancing. S&P said in a statement that the
move should “significantly improve” liquidity.  Shares of Thomas Cook were trading almost 14 percent higher
at 164.50 pence as of 1:32 p.m. in  London  after earlier reaching
166.70 pence. The stock has more than tripled in price this
year, giving a market value of 1.5 billion pounds.  Thomas Cook will place 87 million shares at 137 pence
apiece to generate 120 million pounds and raise a further 305
million pounds through a two-for-five rights offer of 401
million new ordinary shares. Both steps require approval by
investors at their annual meeting on June 3, it said.  The new bonds are due to mature in 2020, Thomas Cook said,
while the loans include a 300 million-pound revolving credit.
Borrowing costs are little changed at around 8 percent and
financing fees are below 5 percent.  Dividend Option  The restructuring will help put Thomas Cook in a position
to consider resuming dividend payouts following completion of
the turnaround strategy in 2015, Chief Executive Office Harriet Green said on a conference call.  “The rights and refinancing considerably de-risks the
business in our view,”  Wyn Ellis , an analyst at Numis Securities
in London with a “hold” rating on the stock said in a note.  The debt restructuring was announced as Thomas Cook cut its
loss before tax and interest for the first half ended March 31
to 197.5 million pounds from 248.1 million pounds a year
earlier, even as sales fell 2.7 percent to 3.22 billion pounds.
Net debt fell by 175.4 million pounds to 1.2 billion pounds.  Summer bookings are “developing well,” according to the
company, which left its full-year guidance for improved
profitability unchanged while lifting its savings target by 40
million pounds to 390 million.  Thomas Cook is continuing to review its assets, the CEO
said, and is stepping up efforts to sell its share in National
Air Traffic Services Ltd., Britain’s airspace controller.  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  and Gleacher Shacklock are joint sponsors of
the capital refinancing and are acting as joint financial
advisers with Short Partners.  Credit Suisse is the lone global coordinator and joint
corporate broker with Jefferies Hoare Govett for the rights
offer. Members of the banking syndicate that are providing the
new facilities will be joint bookrunners for the bond issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  