-- Honda Returns to F1 Racing as Engine Supplier to McLaren
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-05-16T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/honda-returns-to-f1-racing-as-engine-supplier-to-mclaren.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  will return to
Formula One as an engine supplier to help develop its technology
after exiting the racing series in 2008.  The maker of Acura NSX sportscar will provide motors to its
former F1 racing partner McLaren Automotive Ltd. starting in
2015, Takanobu Ito, president of the Tokyo-based automaker, told
reporters yesterday. He declined to comment on how much the
automaker intends to spend on the effort.  Honda previously owned F1 teams and won 15 of 16 races in
1988 as a supplier to the McLaren team including three-time
world champion driver Ayrton Senna. The automaker’s role as an
engine supplier for a team to be renamed McLaren Honda comes
after it took over the British American Racing team in 2005,
only to drop out three years later to cut costs amid the global
financial crisis.  “Racing is like a backbone for Honda, so their return
carries a very good image,” said Takeshi Miyao, a Tokyo-based
industry analyst at Carnorama  Japan . “Their return should be
good advertising.”  Racing Costs  The automaker, which forecasts the highest annual profit
since 2008 as a weaker yen boosts overseas earnings, said
yesterday the F1 racing series provides feedback for improving
cars it manufactures in volume. The company had said in 2008 it
saved at least 20 billion yen ($195 million) by dropping out of
F1.  “It’s very costly to participate,” Yoshiaki Kawano, a
Tokyo-based industry analyst IHS Automotive said. “Since Honda
is coming back after being away from the racing series for a
while, they may have to spend some extra on initial
investments.”  Honda will develop F1 engines in Tochigi, Japan, where it
is already working on a new 1.6-liter turbocharged V6, the
automaker said yesterday in a statement.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Honda’s bigger Japanese rival, dropped
out of the series in 2008 as did Munich-based Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG.  New Engines  Honda will be rejoining the series after a revamp of the
rules replaces the 2.4-liter V8 engines with 1.6-liter six-cylinder powerplants. The change, initially proposed for 2013,
will be implemented in 2014, Honda said yesterday.  “Honda has a long history of advancing our technologies
and nurturing our people by participating in the world’s most
prestigious automobile racing series,” Ito said. “The new F1
regulations with their significant environmental focus will
inspire even greater development of our own advanced
technologies and this is central to our participation in F1.”  The automaker said last year a revamped Acura NSX, to be
built in  Ohio , would go on sale within three years. The
sportscar is expected to sell for more than $100,000, according
to Honda executives.  Acura NSX  The original $89,000 NSX that sold from 1989 to 2005 was
built in Suzuka, Japan, and drew performance-car fans with a
light, all-aluminum body. It gained pop-culture fame when it was
driven in 1994’s “Pulp Fiction” by Winston “The Wolf” Wolfe,
played by Harvey Keitel.  Honda introduced an Acura NSX concept car at the North
American International Auto Show in January, saying the car will
feature a direct-injected V6 that powers the rear wheels and two
electric motors that drive the front.  Honda’s “engine technology and passion for motorsport make
them a natural Formula 1 contender,” Bernie Ecclestone, chief
executive officer of Formula One Group, said yesterday in a
statement.  Toyota has no plan to return to the F1 racing series,
spokesman Dion Corbett said by e-mail.  Honda also participates in the Indy car race series and
motorcycle competitions including Moto GP, considered the
equivalent of F1 for motorcycles. The automaker’s Moto GP joint
team with Spain’s Repsol SA has won 12 out of the past 15 races,
according to Honda’s website.  F1, partly owned by CVC Capital Partners Ltd., withdrew a
plan to raise as much as $3 billion in an initial public
offering in June last year.  The next event on F1’s 19-race calendar is May 26 in
 Monaco .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  