-- Housing Starts in U.S. Probably Fell From Almost Five-Year High
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-05-16T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/housing-starts-in-u-s-probably-fell-from-almost-five-year-high.html
Housing starts in the U.S. probably
fell in April from an almost five-year high, indicating a pause
in the industry’s progress as builders slowed work on apartment
buildings, economists said before a report today.  Beginning  construction  of new homes dropped to a 970,000
annual rate after jumping in March to a 1.04 million pace, the
fastest since June 2008, according to the median estimate of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Other figures today may show
cheaper gasoline helped keep the cost of living in check.  Near record-low  mortgage rates  and improving job
opportunities are drawing buyers into a market that remains a
bright spot for the expansion. The increase in demand is
stretching beyond builders and giving a boost to lenders,
brokers and suppliers of construction materials.  “It’s a sector right now that’s providing a lot of support
to the economy and certainly has a lot of room to run,” said
 Brett Ryan , a U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in
 New York , who projects starts may reach a 1.2 million pace by
year-end. “It’s going to be a key driver of growth in the back
half of the year.”  The Commerce Department will release the housing starts
data at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from rates of 873,000 to 1.05 million.  Building Permits  The number of building  permits , a proxy for future
construction, climbed to 941,000 in April, the highest since
June 2008, from 902,000 a month earlier, according to the median
Bloomberg projection.  Builders began work on 780,000 homes in 2012, a 28 percent
increase from the prior year and the third straight annual
advance. Even with the gains, starts remain short of the 2.1
million reached in 2005 at the peak of the boom, which was a
three-decade high.  A measure of  builder optimism  climbed in May for the first
time in five months, a National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo index of builder confidence showed
yesterday. The gauge rose to 44 from 41 in April, according to
the Washington-based group.  “There is no question there is a lot of positive momentum
in the marketplace,”  Ara Hovnanian , chairman and chief
executive officer at  Red Bank , New Jersey-based builder
 Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , said at a May 9 conference. “In
terms of sales, office activity and traffic, we’re feeling
positive momentum.”  Builder Shares  Homebuilder shares have outperformed the broader market.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has
surged 23.6 percent this year, compared with a 16.3 percent gain
in the  S&P 500 .  Cheaper borrowing costs are attracting buyers with access
to credit. The average rate on a 30-year, fixed purchase loan
was 3.42 percent for the week ended May 9, down from 3.83
percent a year ago, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie
Mac . The rate reached a record low of 3.31 percent in November.  Suppliers have been racing to keep pace with orders. Sales
at Ply Gem Holdings Inc. in Cary,  North Carolina , increased 7.5
percent in the first quarter compared with a year earlier on
demand for its windows, doors, vinyl siding and other
construction materials.  A strengthening housing market is also giving a lift to
brokers and mortgage lenders.  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  is helping to
meet growing demand for large purchase-money mortgages known as
jumbos. The real-estate financing company, based in  Mill Valley ,
 California , issued about $2.5 billion worth of home loan
securities in 2012 and expects to issue $8 billion this year.  ‘Strong’ Housing  “Now is a great time to be taking credit risk on newly
originated loans,” Redwood President Brett Nicholas said at a
May 14 conference. “There has been a recovery in housing,
particularly in the jumbo markets, really nationwide because
housing has really come back strong.”  Real estate agents saw the biggest surge in commissions
last month for any April in data going back to 1996, according
to  Jonathan Basile , director of U.S. economics at Credit Suisse
in New York.  “It blows every other April away,” Basile said. “It’s a
great sign. It hits home when you hear it echo, and it’s echoing
now to the people who sell the homes.”  While Americans may be paying more to Realtors, another
report today is projected to show cheaper gasoline is keeping a
lid on inflation. The consumer-price index fell 0.3 percent in
April after a 0.2 percent decrease a month earlier, the first
back-to-back decline since the end of 2008, according to the
Bloomberg survey median. The Labor Department will release
figures at 8:30 a.m. in Washington.  The cost of living probably rose 1.3 percent from April
2012, the smallest year-over-year gain since November 2010,
according to the median forecast.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 