-- How a Texas Paper Brought Down Billie Sol Estes
-- B y   A m y   R e a d i n g
-- 2013-05-16T20:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/how-a-texas-paper-brought-down-billie-sol-estes.html
Billie Sol Estes, the Texan con man
whose exploits rattled the administrations of Presidents  John F. Kennedy  and  Lyndon B. Johnson , died in his sleep  May 14 . From a
penniless background, Estes built up a $40 million West Texas
empire of cotton, grain, real estate and fertilizers, and then
lost it all when a series of newspaper articles in 1962 revealed
that many of his dealings were fraudulent.  Estes once wrote that “Everything I touched made money.”
The truth was that everything he touched was tainted. His
downfall toppled five federal officials, was linked to seven
mysterious deaths and was rumored to have almost cost Johnson
his spot on the 1964 presidential ticket (though you won’t read
a word about Estes in Robert A. Caro’s four-volume biography,
“The Years of  Lyndon Johnson ”). As it turns out, even the story
behind the story that brought down Estes has a shady element.  On Feb. 12, 1962, the Pecos Independent published the first
of four unsigned articles that referred to Estes only as a
“Pecosite.” They detailed a huge swindle in 11 West Texas
counties. The paper’s editor, Oscar Griffin, wrote that farmers
had been approached by a businessman who offered to pay a 10
percent commission if they would take out a mortgage to buy
anhydrous ammonia tanks, used to store fertilizer for growing
cotton on the alkalized Texas soil. The tanks would then be
leased back to the businessman for the exact amount of the
monthly mortgage payments.  Credit Scam  The businessman explained that he was essentially paying
farmers to use their credit so he could expand the
infrastructure of West Texas agriculture. Between 1959 and 1961,
West Texas farmers mortgaged 33,500 tanks at a cost of more than
$34 million. A single tank is sufficient for several hundred
acres of farmland. In Reeves County, where Pecos is located,
there was a tank for every four acres of cotton.  Griffin  would later write in the Saturday Evening Post that
most farmers refused to talk to him when he phoned and mentioned
the phrase “tank deals.” He got a lucky break when he visited a
farmer named L.B. Johnson (not that one) and showed him a county
record for a $93,000 mortgage that he’d never heard of. Johnson
disclosed a series of conversations he’d had with Estes, and
remembered that he’d signed some blank papers, before calling
Estes’ office and asking to rescind his cooperation. Estes had
apparently ignored him and bought him a 131,000-gallon tank.  Not a single one of those tanks was ever found. It was a
vast swindle whereby Estes sold the mortgages that the farmers
had signed to various financial companies and funneled the
profits through one of his holding companies.  Ten days after the last article appeared in March, Estes
was arrested on federal fraud charges, covering not just the
tank swindle but also a complicated scheme to defraud the
federal government’s grain storage program. He was eventually
convicted and served six years in prison. He was tried again in
1979 for  tax fraud  and served another four years.  The effects of the Independent articles were very different
for Oscar Griffin. Later that year, on the last day before the
deadline, Griffin gathered his four articles on Estes, tied them
together with a shoelace, and sent them north to the Pulitzer
Prize Board. It paid off. He won the 1963  Pulitzer Prize  for
investigative reporting.  But as Estes’ daughter Pam pointed out in her 1984 book,
the “Eastern and national media that lionized the editor for
fearless journalism didn’t really want to know the paper’s real
motivation.” And she was right.  Economic Motivation  As the journalism historian  Stephen Bates  uncovered in his
investigation of Griffin’s work, the Independent had an economic
interest in bringing Estes down. He was directly threatening the
paper’s livelihood.  Estes first roused the ire of the publishers of the Pecos
Independent in 1961 when he made an initial foray into politics.
He had his eye on the governor’s mansion, but he started with a
run for the Reeves County school board as a liberal Democrat
with strong Christian values. His campaign promises included
lowering cheerleaders’ skirts, banning school dances and
segregating children’s public swimming pools by gender.  He approached the Republican Independent and offered them
thousands of dollars in advertising if they would decline to
oppose him. The newspaper’s response came the next day in the
form of an editorial that said, “We will put our advertising
columns up for sale, as will any other newspaper, but we WILL
NOT sell our editorial support.”  Estes responded by spending a small fortune to put the
Independent out of business (he lost the school board election).
He founded the Pecos Daily News, which began publication on Aug.
1, 1961, and Bates estimates that he spent as much as $600,000
to strong-arm advertisers and undercut prices, while the
Independent lost $400,000 as it fought back. The Independent was
losing the battle and was about to declare bankruptcy when it
began its expose of Estes’ swindle. Bates wrote that the
Independent probably wouldn’t have run those articles if it
weren’t for the Daily News.  The Daily News was forced into receivership after Estes’
arrest and was soon purchased by its rival. The two papers
merged to become the Pecos Enterprise.  ( Amy Reading  is the author of “The Mark Inside: A Perfect
Swindle, a Cunning Revenge and a Small History of the Big Con,”
recently published in paperback by Vintage. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amy Reading at  info@amyreading.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  