-- Patriot Coal Can Pay $6.9 Million in Executive Bonuses
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-05-16T21:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/patriot-coal-can-pay-6-9-million-in-executive-bonuses.html
Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ)  can pay
$6.9 million in bonuses to key employees, a judge said,
rejecting a union’s claims that the payments wrongly benefit
corporate insiders.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kathy A. Surratt-States in St. Louis
today granted the company’s request to pay 274 people under two
bonus plans. Patriot said the money would give managers an
incentive to improve the company’s performance and stay through
its Chapter 11 reorganization.  The United Mine Workers of America, which represents
42 percent of Patriot’s workforce, objected, calling the
payments “massive bonuses to corporate insiders” at a time
when the company is seeking concessions from regular employees
and claiming it faces a liquidity crisis. The company’s top 35
officers, who make up 13 percent of the bonus-plan participants
by number, will get 42 percent of one payment plan by amount and
61 percent of the other, the union said.  “The facts remain that certain key personnel perform
duties that are more integral to the viability of the
organization and such individuals are generally compensated at
higher levels,” Surratt-States said in her opinion.  Patriot said the payments are needed to keep executives in
their positions and “perform their responsibilities at the
highest level possible under increasingly difficult
circumstances.” Average compensation has declined 20 percent
from about two years ago, the company said.  Insiders Excluded  Surratt-States said she was satisfied that insiders who
weren’t eligible for bonuses under the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  were
excluded from the plans.  Patriot didn’t disclose precisely who would be paid under
the plans. Chief Executive Officer Bennett K. Hatfield had a
base salary of $600,000 in 2011 and was eligible for a $600,000
bonus that year. He was paid $193,451, as the amount was
prorated because he joined the company Sept. 19, 2011, according
to a proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The company’s departing CEO, Richard Whiting, had a base
salary of $805,000, and was paid the same amount in bonus,
netting him $1.61 million for the year.  The union objected that Patriot is simultaneously seeking
concessions “numbering in the billions of dollars” that will
“drastically reduce the standard of living for those employees
and retirees.”  ‘Retention Bonus’  The union also said one of the two proposed bonus plans
“is in reality a thinly disguised retention bonus” for seven
individuals that was changed at the last minute to resemble an
incentive plan.  Surratt-States rejected those claims, saying the bonus
programs comply with federal law.  A 2005 bankruptcy law states that companies in Chapter 11
shouldn’t be able to pay so-called retention bonuses over a
certain amount just to keep an executive unless there’s proof
that the individual has a legitimate outside job offer.  Patriot’s July petition for court protection listed assets
of $3.57 billion and debt of $3.07 billion as of May 31. The
case was moved to  St. Louis , where Patriot is based, from  New
York  in November.  The case is In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-51502, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Missouri (St. Louis)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  