-- Paulson Said to Team With Insurer for Low-Tax Merger Fund
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-05-16T14:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/paulson-said-to-team-with-insurer-for-low-tax-merger-fund.html
Billionaire  John Paulson  will offer a
new fund designed to lower U.S. taxes for investors through
insurer  Philadelphia Financial Group Inc. , said two people with
direct knowledge of the matter.  Investors in Paulson Partners Premium LP can put money into
Paulson & Co.’s merger-arbitrage strategy either through an
annuity that defers income taxes or a life insurance policy that
is tax-free for beneficiaries, both of which are offered by
Philadelphia Financial, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. The vehicle
only invests in dollar-denominated share classes of the firm’s
merger funds, its oldest strategy, one of the people said.  The $18 billion hedge-fund firm decided to start the
offering after its high-net-worth and family-office clients, who
comprise a smaller percentage of Paulson & Co.’s assets than its
institutional investors, asked for a way to invest their money
that would mitigate income taxes, the person said. Paulson,
whose firm is based in  New York , began marketing the fund at a
presentation last month, according to an invitation obtained by
 Bloomberg News  at the time.  The manager and his employees aren’t allowed to invest in
the fund, the person said. In April 2012, Paulson executives set
up Pacre Ltd., a Bermuda venture that positions its owners to
avoid taxes on hedge-fund earnings by routing money through a
reinsurer. The 57-year-old manager is seeking to reverse two
years of losses in some of his strategies, including wrong-way
bets on gold that have countered this year’s gains from equity
stakes in financial companies and investments that profit from
merger activity.  Tax Rate  Paulson, a lifelong  New Yorker , explored a move to  Puerto
Rico  to lower his own tax bill, according to four people
familiar with the matter, before announcing in March that he
wouldn’t make the move.  Typically, hedge-fund investors pay either the 39.6 percent
maximum federal  tax rate  for ordinary income or the 20 percent
long-term capital gains rate, depending on how long securities
are held, plus a 3.8 percent health-law surcharge.  Paulson invited prospective clients to the firm’s offices
on April 24, where he gave a 75-minute presentation about the
new fund, according to the invitation. Investors in all of
Paulson’s funds must be qualified purchasers with at least $5
million in assets that can be invested, the person said.  “Philadelphia Financial is pleased to be involved with
Paulson & Co. and to include an Insurance Dedicated Fund managed
by Paulson in our insurance offerings,” Chief Executive Officer
John Hillman said in an e-mailed statement.  Insurance Strategies  Philadelphia Financial, based in the city of the same name,
provides insurance strategies to advisers of ultra-high-net-worth individuals. In addition to merger arbitrage, Paulson &
Co. runs strategies including credit; event driven, in which the
firm seeks to profit from corporate events such as
restructurings, takeovers and bankruptcies; and those that
invest in companies that the firm believes will benefit from an
economic recovery, and gold and related securities. Investors
can choose between dollar- and gold-denominated share classes of
most of Paulson’s funds.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co. at Walek &
Associates, declined to comment on the new fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  