-- Pentagon Said to Seek $80 Billion for War Amid Withdrawal
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-05-17T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/pentagon-said-to-seek-80-billion-for-war-amid-withdrawal.html
The Pentagon will ask Congress to
approve about $79.5 billion for combat operations, the least
since 2005, as U.S. troops withdraw from  Afghanistan , according
to administration officials.  The proposal for war operations, which aren’t included in
the main Pentagon budget, may be submitted as soon as today,
said the officials, who asked not to be identified discussing
the funding request before it’s presented.  War spending soared in the years after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, peaking at $187 billion in fiscal 2008, when
the U.S. had 166,300 troops in Iraq during the “surge” under
President George W. Bush.  The new request, the smallest since $75.6 billion in fiscal
2005, reflects President  Barack Obama ’s decision to draw down
U.S. forces in Afghanistan, with the goal of removing most of
them by the end of next year. The U.S. force in  Afghanistan  is
projected to decline to 34,000 by February from 63,000
currently.  Spending of $79.5 billion for the fiscal year that begins
Oct. 1 would be an 8 percent decrease from the $86.5 billion
approved by Congress for the current year. It’s also a decline
from the $88.5 billion the administration offered as a
“placeholder” estimate last month, when it sent Congress a
combined $615 billion budget for war and other Pentagon spending
for fiscal 2014.  The new request also would provide money to repair war-damaged equipment such as radios, helicopters and vehicles, a
sustained Persian Gulf presence including troops in  Kuwait , and
a military-equipment sales office in  Baghdad  to support  Iraq ’s
military.  Costs Questioned  Even with those expenditures, the request seems too high
based on the average cost per soldier in Afghanistan, according
to  Todd Harrison , a defense analyst.  The Pentagon “will need to fully explain why war funding
is much higher than anticipated, given the pace of the drawdown
in Afghanistan,” Harrison, of the Center for Strategic and
Budgetary Assessments in Washington, said in an e-mail.  “Costs should be declining much faster than this if troop
levels are indeed coming down as the administration has
previously indicated,” he said.  The war budget won’t decline dramatically “because there
are so many things going on,” Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale
said at an April 10 news conference. He cited the repair or
“reset” of equipment, and said “the costs of getting out of
Afghanistan will go up substantially.”  Withdrawal’s Costs  Even as the fighting continues in Afghanistan, the U.S. is
mounting what may become a $7 billion effort to withdraw most of
its forces and equipment, defense officials said in interviews.  The withdrawal will require sending Humvees, helicopters,
drones and 12 1/2-ton mine-resistant vehicles home by rail and
truck networks stretching from Karachi in  Pakistan  to ports in
the Baltic Sea.  Unlike Iraq, where “the fighting had for a good extent
stopped” before the U.S. began to withdraw, in Afghanistan
“there’s still certainly an active insurgency and an active
fight and essentially we’re in contact with the enemy as we do
this,” Alan Estevez, the U.S. assistant secretary of defense
for logistics, said.  Among the biggest contractors involved in the move are A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S, the Copenhagen-based owner of the world’s
largest container line, the American President Lines unit of
Singapore-based  Neptune Orient Lines (NOL)  Ltd., and Hamburg, Germany-based Hapag-Lloyd AG, according to Estevez.  Current Spending  The Pentagon spent $97.5 billion in fiscal 2012 for
Afghanistan operations, including improving Afghan security
forces, according to the Defense Department’s latest spending
figures through February.  It has spent $29 billion so far this fiscal year, or a
monthly average of about $5.9 billion, according to the
department’s figures.  Since the October 2001 invasion of Afghanistan, the
Pentagon has spent $468.5 billion on the war, excluding
Afghanistan reconstruction, State Department and intelligence
activities, according to the department.  So far, the conflict has led to the deaths of 2,212
Americans and injured 18,535. About 16,725 Afghan  civilians  have
been killed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  