-- Perez’s Nomination to Lead Labor Department Advances to Senate
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-05-16T13:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/perez-s-nomination-to-lead-labor-department-advances-to-senate.html
A Senate panel approved the
nomination of  Thomas Perez  to be labor secretary, advancing
President  Barack Obama ’s pick to succeed Hilda Solis as the
nation’s top labor-law enforcer to the full  U.S. Senate  where
Republican opposition is building.  The 12-10 party-line vote in the Democratic-led Senate
health and labor committee underscored continued Republican
resistance to Obama’s second-term cabinet picks, with partisan
splits also possible over selections including  Hyatt Hotels
Corp. (H)  heiress  Penny Pritzker  to be secretary of commerce and
 Gina McCarthy  to head the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  Republicans have criticized Perez, a child of Dominican
immigrants who would be the only Hispanic in Obama’s second-term
Cabinet so far, for what they say are ideological decisions he
made as head of the  Justice Department ’s civil rights division.
Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky in a floor
speech last week said he will oppose Perez, who he said is
willing “to bend or ignore the law” in pursuit of “far-left
ideology.”  Perez, a former Maryland secretary of labor, has clashed
with Republicans over his handling of two whistle-blower
lawsuits that the department declined to pursue. A Republican-led House panel has held hearings this month on the legal cases,
with Democrats decrying what they said was a partisan effort to
derail Perez’s selection.  Minnesota Case  Senate Republicans also differed with Perez over the
whistle-blower matter and his related role in persuading
officials in  St. Paul , Minnesota, to drop a Supreme Court case
that risked undermining a Justice Department enforcement tool in
housing discrimination cases.  Senator  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee, the panel’s top
Republican, said he opposes Perez because he “orchestrated a
quid pro quo arrangement” that left a whistleblower “hanging
in the wind” by agreeing to keep the department out of two
unrelated whistle-blower cases against St. Paul that might have
reaped as much as $200 million for the  U.S. Treasury .  Senator  Tom Harkin  of Iowa, the committee’s Democratic
chairman, defended Perez, arguing that he did nothing unethical
and offered “unprecedented levels of disclosure” on the cases.
He said Perez’s extensive experience in government shows he
would be an effective labor secretary.  “He clearly has the management skills to run a large
federal agency effectively,” Harkin said. “Perhaps more
importantly, Tom Perez knows how to bring people together to
make progress on even controversial issues, without burning
bridges.”  Republican Criticism  Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, has said he
will block the confirmation in the full Senate. Unless he drops
that threat Perez will need support of 60 senators to end
delaying tactics and advance to a final vote. Democrats control
55 of the Senate’s 100 seats.  Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, one of two Hispanic
Republican in the chamber, said he’ll vote against Perez.  At the White House, spokesman  Jay Carney  has said Perez has
a long record of aiding poor and middle-class Americans, and
that Republicans are politicizing the confirmation.  “There has not been a case made that is not political and
partisan against his nomination, and we hope and expect the
Senate will move forward,” Carney said last week.  Minimum Wage  If confirmed to replace Solis, who quit in January, Perez
would play a prominent part in pushing Obama’s agenda on issues
including an immigration overhaul and raising the  minimum wage 
to $9 an hour from $7.25. Perez, 51, was Maryland’s labor
secretary from 2007 to 2009.  In his April testimony, Perez stressed the perspective he’s
gained as a first-generation Dominican American. His father,
Rafael, was a doctor who earned U.S. citizenship after enlisting
in the Army. His mother arrived after her father was named the
Dominican Republic’s ambassador to the U.S.  He said his top goal at the Labor Department would be to
focus on creating U.S. jobs, and pledged tough enforcement of
wage and hour laws. He also sought to reach out to Republicans
by stressing his work for  George H.W. Bush  and  Ronald Reagan .  The St. Paul matter involves the city’s Supreme Court
appeal of a case that risked striking down the legal support for
Justice Department enforcement in lending discrimination cases
against financial institutions. The approach used the
“disparate impact” analysis, in which statistical evidence can
prove bias even without provable intent.  Housing Cases  The city agreed to drop the appeal in return for the
department declining to join two whistle-blower lawsuits that
alleged St. Paul misused federal housing dollars.  Perez testified that St. Paul first raised the possibility
of linking the cases. He said he conferred with Justice
Department ethics officials and followed their advice before
continuing talks. He said officials in the civil division told
him the whistle-blower case was weak.  “The value to the U.S. of losing a case is zero,” Perez
said.  Dena Iverson, a Justice Department spokeswoman, has said
the department negotiated the deal based on “appropriate
considerations.”  The Senate is working its way through Obama’s nominees to
second-term posts. Last month, the Senate confirmed Sally Jewell, an outdoor-equipment company executive, to become U.S.
Interior secretary.  Meanwhile, Senate Commerce Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, said he will hold
confirmation hearings May 23 for Pritzker, and a May 22 hearing
for Anthony Foxx, Obama’s nominee for Transportation secretary.
He has yet to set a date for a hearing into the nomination of
Tom Wheeler to lead the Federal Communications Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  