-- Perpetual Sues Cameron Harrison Over Lost Clients
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-05-16T06:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/perpetual-sues-cameron-harrison-over-alleged-poaching-of-clients.html
(Corrects Cameron Harrison’s name in eighth paragraph.)  Perpetual Ltd., which managed A$26
billion ($26 billion) at the end of last year, sued  Cameron
Harrison Private Pty , accusing it of poaching clients after
hiring away two senior managers.  John Clark, former senior manager of consultant investment
services at Perpetual, and  Paul Ashworth , senior manager-director of investment services, quit July 15, 2011, and moved
to Cameron Harrison, a 15-month old investment management
startup, according to a statement of claim filed last month in
the Federal Court of  Australia  in Sydney.  Clark and Ashworth took client lists with confidential
information belonging to Perpetual, according to the complaint.
Cameron Harrison then solicited the customers, 48 of whom moved
their accounts to the startup, the plaintiffs said.  “Ashworth and Clark were not authorized by Perpetual to
use Perpetual’s client contact information,” the plaintiffs
said in the court filing. At least four customers were contacted
at private e-mail addresses they hadn’t disclosed to Cameron
Harrison, according to the complaint.  Cameron Harrison hasn’t filed a statement of defense. No
one at the firm was immediately available to comment, according
to a receptionist. Ashworth didn’t respond to an e-mailed
request for comment on the lawsuit from him or Clark.  The two companies may attempt to resolve the dispute in
mediation should Perpetual gain access to documents it needs,
the firm’s lawyer Yaseen Shariff said at a hearing in Sydney
today. Federal Court Justice Peter Jacobson scheduled a
preliminary hearing for June 27, if the matter doesn’t go to
mediation.  Damage Recovery  Perpetual sought to recover damages for loss of income,
including future income from the lost clients, as well as loss
of profit, goodwill and market share. The company didn’t specify
the amount of damages it was asking for.  Perpetual also sought an order to stop Cameron Harrison
from advertising itself as having been in business for more than
10 years, responsible for the management of various funds for
more than 10 years and employed or engaged in the industry since
2000. Perpetual claims those representations are misleading.  The case is  Perpetual Ltd. (PPT)  v Cameron Harrison Private Pty.
NSD691/2013. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  