-- Manufacturing in Philadelphia Fed Area Unexpectedly Contracts
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-05-16T14:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/philadelphia-fed-manufacturing-index-decreases-to-5-2-from-1-3.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly contracted in May for the first time in
three months as new orders retreated and factories cut back on
employment and hours.  The  Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  declined to minus 5.2 from 1.3 the prior month. Readings
greater than zero signal expansion in the area covering eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware . The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a gain
to 2.  The data corroborate other figures this week showing
manufacturing in the  New York  Fed region unexpectedly contracted
as  factories  received fewer orders and sales stagnated. Another
report from the Federal Reserve indicated output at factories,
mines and utilities declined in April by the most in eight
months, reflecting broad-based cutbacks at producers.  Economists monitor the Fed’s regional surveys for clues
about the Institute for Supply Management national  figures  on
manufacturing. The next ISM report is due June 3. Manufacturing
makes up about 12 percent of the economy.  Estimates of 57 economists in the Bloomberg survey before
the Philadelphia Fed’s factory index ranged from minus 5 to 5.  The Philadelphia Fed’s  new orders  measure slumped to minus
7.9, the weakest since June, from minus 1 in April, while
shipments decreased to minus 8.5, the poorest reading since
September, from 9.1. A measure of  employment  dropped to minus
8.7, the worst since September 2009, from minus 6.8.  A gauge of the factory workweek decreased to minus 12.4 in
May from minus 2.1.  The gauge of prices paid climbed to 6.9 in May after 3.1 a
month earlier. An index of prices received rose to minus 3.3
from minus 7.5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  