-- Platts Retains Energy Trader Confidence Amid Price-Fix Probe
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2013-05-16T05:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/platts-retains-energy-trader-confidence-amid-price-fix-probe-1-.html
Traders are standing by Platts, the
company that provides benchmark prices for much of the world’s
energy products, amid a European probe into market manipulation.  A total of 34 out of 55 traders, brokers and analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  yesterday, or 62 percent, said the
pricing system run by Platts, the energy news and data unit of
 McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) , is still the best way to determine
prices in the $3.4-trillion a year market for crude and refined
products.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  said
they’re also being investigated by the European Commission
following raids in three countries May 14.  As much as 80 percent of all crude and oil-product deals
are linked to reference prices including those published by
Platts, according to estimates by Total SA, Europe’s third
biggest producer. The European investigation marks the third
time global pricing benchmarks have drawn regulators’ scrutiny
in the past year following inquiries into bank manipulation of
the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and ISDAFix, the
benchmark for the $379 trillion swaps market.  “Blaming Platts is akin to shooting the messenger,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of Schork Group Inc., a consultant in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Given the quantity of oil being
traded in hundreds of different markets around the globe, the
price assessments are a fast, reliable method to broadcast
information to the general market in a timely fashion.”  Distorted Prices  European regulators didn’t name the subjects of their probe
and haven’t specified the markets they are investigating or the
methods in question. “Companies may have colluded in reporting
distorted prices to a Price Reporting Agency to manipulate the
published prices for a number of oil and biofuel products,”
according to a May 14  statement  by the EC.  Kathleen Tanzy, a Houston-based spokeswoman for Platts,
yesterday said it didn’t have anything to add beyond earlier
confirmation that the EC has undertaken a review at its office
in London in relation to its price assessment process. In a
 submission  to a 2012 report by the International Organization of
Security Commissions on oil pricing regulation, the company said
external controls over its activities would be an “unacceptable
intrusion” on its rights as a publisher.  “For now there’s no proof of anything, so it’s important
to wait and see if anything comes out of this or nothing,” said
 Olivier Jakob , managing director at Petromatrix GmbH, a
consultant in Zug,  Switzerland . “It’s difficult to make a price
assessment of the physical market, it’s not a clear-cut
process.”  Dated Brent  Platts’s North Sea Dated Brent benchmark sets the price of
half the world’s crude, from  Canada  to  Australia . Its kerosene
assessments are used by the  airline industry  where fuel accounts
for about a third of operating costs, according to the
 International Air Transport Association . Among pricing
companies, Platts assessments represent as much as 95 percent of
crude trades and 90 percent of oil products and over-the-counter
derivative deals, Total said in a submission to a report on oil
pricing last year.  The influence of price reporters stretches beyond oil. The
assessments published by Platts and its competitors including
Argus Media Ltd. and ICIS, a unit of Reed Business Information,
are used to value the raw materials used in the $2.2 trillion
global base chemical industry as well as coal, power, metals,
emissions, liquefied natural gas and shipping rates.  Statoil described the EC’s allegation as a “serious
suspicion.” The suspected violations are related to the Platts’
 Market-On-Close  assessment process, or so-called window, and may
have been ongoing since 2002, Statoil said.  Energy Markets  Platts determines daily prices in the over-the-counter
energy markets in one of two ways, the first being transactions
made online during prescribed times, known as the MOC  window , a
process in place since 1992 and used only for selected products
that have industry-agreed specifications. The second method
involves Platts employees discussing prices with market
participants each day, many of them anonymous, and then
determining the daily settlement.  These methods in the so-called physical markets contrast
with the daily prices seen for exchange-traded futures ranging
from Brent and West Texas Intermediate crudes to Nymex gasoline,
which trade almost around the clock and are publicly disclosed.  Platts determines prices at particular times in its MOC,
for example 4:30 p.m. in  London . Only Platts customers can view
the window and any registered company can post bids and offers.  Trader Survey  Two of the four people surveyed who said the EC
investigation was damaging to Platts replied that it will result
in permanent changes to how prices are assessed in the physical
oil market. Eleven of the 55 respondents, who asked not to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak on the
matter, said it’s too early to decide whether the inquiry poses
a threat to the Platts MOC, and six declined to comment.  One trader among the 34 people who said that the current
pricing methodology works added that, even if several market
participants have disagreed over the years with Platts
assessments, the company’s system is transparent and functional.  The EC’s inquiry calls into question the capacity of
agencies such as Platts to “filter out manipulative behavior,”
and the possible rigging of  oil prices  “has serious
implications for national economies,” said Roderick Bruce, an
analyst at IHS Energy, a consultant in London. The MOC window
may be vulnerable to distortion because it focuses on
transactions in a short time period, Bruce said.  Wrong Price  “If the EU actually finds something at one of these big
oil houses, then it will be ugly,” said Schork. “It could
happen but I am skeptical they will find something.”  The International Organization of Security Commissions, a
global financial supervisor based in  Madrid , is also reviewing
whether benchmark price-setters are meeting international
standards, the group’s Secretary General,  David Wright , said in
an interview in Brussels yesterday.  Price assessments could be prone to manipulation because
traders participate voluntarily, meaning they may selectively
submit only trades that benefit their positions, IOSCO said in
October. Total said in a submission to the forum of global
regulators that the published oil price is wrong “several times
a year.”  Weighted Average  The MOC process replaced a system where reporters made
assessments based on volume-weighted averages. This methodology,
favored by competitors including Argus Media Ltd., takes into
account deals done throughout the day.  Platts moved away from this process because the company was
concerned it could result in assessments that lag actual market
levels and aren’t repeatable, Bassam Fattouh, director of the
oil and Middle East program at the Oxford Institute for Energy
Studies, said in a January 2011  report  on oil pricing.  “It’s not going to be the death of benchmarks by any
means,” said Phil Verleger, a former energy adviser to U.S.
President  Jimmy Carter  and founder of consulting firm PK
Verleger LLC in Carbondale,  Colorado . “Hopefully, the
government doesn’t get into trying to mandate a certain
reporting system, because that would be a bad idea.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy markets news and
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  