-- Polling Specialists Question Pentagon Sex-Assault Survey
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-05-17T01:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/polling-experts-question-pentagon-sexual-assault-survey.html
Findings from a Pentagon survey on
sexual assault in the military, which triggered outrage about
what the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff calls a
“crisis,” may be based on scanty response rates, questionable
data and broad definitions of what constitutes abuse.  The confidential poll of active-duty troops has been
conducted three times -- in 2006, 2010 and 2012 -- with varying
results that show the challenge of even measuring the extent of
sexual assault in the ranks, much less stopping it.  Extrapolating survey results to the entire force, the
latest Defense Department report last week suggested there were
26,000 incidents of unwanted sexual contact in 2012, a 35
percent increase over two years. The previous survey in 2010 had
shown a 44 percent plunge since 2006.  In contrast to those estimates, the annual number of
military sexual assault victims in actual reports to authorities
rose 13 percent from 2010 to 2012, and 14 percent from 2006 to
2010.  While nobody has questioned the importance of preventing
sexual assaults, survey shortcomings may make it hard to gauge
the Pentagon’s progress.  “This is an extremely important topic, and it deserves to
be measured very carefully,” said Paul Lavrakas, a pollster and
president of the  American Association  for Public Opinion
Research, who said he’s troubled that three years of survey data
produced such different estimates.  “When you see them jump around like that, the first thing
that comes to mind is there’s something wrong with the
numbers,” said Lavrakas, who said he hasn’t reviewed the
Pentagon’s survey methodology.  Action Sought  The survey’s estimate of a 35 percent increase in sexual
assaults since 2010, along with allegations that two soldiers
charged with combating sexual abuse were themselves abusing
women, have sparked demands for action. President  Barack Obama 
called Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and the Joint Chiefs to the
White House yesterday for a meeting, and a bipartisan group of
Senate and House members proposed legislation that would relieve
military commanders of the power to prosecute sexual abuse
cases.  The existence of sexual abuse in the military is undisputed
and has persisted for generations. As women make up a growing
percentage of the force and are being considered for combat
assignments, the Pentagon may lack solid information on whether
the problem is increasing or diminishing, said David Segal, a
professor of sociology and director of the Center for Research
on Military Organization at the  University of Maryland .  ‘Squishy’ Data  “The data are squishy,” Segal said. “I would be loath to
infer trends from two or three data points.”  Army Major General Gary Patton, director of the Pentagon’s
Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office, defended the
survey’s accuracy.  “I got a team of Ph.D.s and statisticians that look at
this every year,” Patton said at a Pentagon news conference
last week. “It’s the same questions, the methodology is
consistent from 2006 to 2010 to 2012.”  While public and political attention has focused on the
persistent problem of men in uniform abusing women, the survey
found that more victims of sexual assault and harassment in the
military are male than female, largely because men make up about
85 percent of the total force.  About 1.2 percent of men reported unwanted sexual contact
last year, a percentage that amounts to 14,000 victims when
extrapolated across all men on active duty.  The percentage of female troops victimized is larger -- at
6.1 percent -- which amounts to 12,000 victims across the force.  Broken System  In the survey, respondents were asked whether they
experienced any involuntary sexual contact, from being
“sexually touched” to rape.  “That’s a function of the gender distribution of the
force,” Segal said. “It doesn’t mean it’s a gay thing at all.
If you’re in a deployed situation with no women involved, you do
what’s available. The same thing happens in prisons.”  Nancy Parrish, president of Protect Our Defenders, a
victims’ support group, said, “The epidemic of rape and sexual
assault is not about gender. It is about power and a
fundamentally broken military justice system.”  Greg Jacob, policy director for the Service Women’s Action
Network, another victims’ advocacy group, said the Pentagon
should conduct its survey yearly to better gauge trends.  Still, he said, the number of incidents probably has
increased in recent years as awareness of the problem grows.  “I don’t think the numbers are inflated,” Jacob said.
“They reflect that the situation isn’t getting better.”  Fearing Retaliation  The military uses a confidential survey, which Patton said
will now be conducted every two years, because the vast majority
of sexual assaults go unreported. Victims have said they’re
afraid to come forward, partly because they fear that doing so
would risk their careers in the service.  “We’ve got to create an environment in which victims feel
that they’re comfortable coming forward,” Obama said after
meeting yesterday with the Pentagon leadership. “They’ve got to
know that they should have no fear of retaliation, no fear of
stigma, no damage to their careers and certainly no protection
for criminals.”  Obama said he wants the Pentagon to “make sure that we’ve
got effective metrics and feedback loops, so we are continually
evaluating how well we’re doing.” Reported sexual assault may
initially increase if soldiers become more confident that
justice will be done, he said.  ‘Despicable Behavior’  “On the other hand, I then want those trend lines to start
going down because that indicates that we’re also starting to
fix the problem, and we’ve highlighted it, and people who are
engaged in despicable behavior, they get fully punished for
it.”  In 2012, there were 2,949 reported assaults in which a
military service member was the victim, an 8.3 percent increase
from the previous year, according to the Pentagon’s annual
study.  When reported cases are compared with the results of the
confidential survey, “it shows that sexual assault is a vastly
underreported crime,” Patton said.  Still, the accuracy of the survey is difficult to assess.  The total sample used in the survey, conducted Sept. 17 to
Nov. 7 last year, was 108,478 active-duty troops. Of those,
22,792 respondents submitted completed surveys, amounting to a
“weighted” response rate -- adjusted for non-proportional
sampling -- of 24 percent.  That “is not a good response rate, though it’s a common
one,” Lavrakas said.  ‘Survey Exhaustion’  “For civilian surveys, we look for higher response rates
than that,” said Segal. He said it’s impossible to know whether
many choose not to participate because they’re unaffected by
sexual assault, or if they simply suffer from “survey
exhaustion” in a heavily polled military.  Parrish, whose advocacy group is lobbying for a bill to
investigate sexual assaults outside the military chain of
command, said the survey’s numbers “are definitely not
inflated. It has always been our concern that these surveys
don’t come near to capturing the extent of the crisis. This is
based on what we see and hear from veterans and service members
facing the crisis in real time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  