-- Portnoy-Managed REIT Reappoints Trustee After Vote Fails
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-05-16T15:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/portnoy-managed-reit-reappoints-trustee-after-vote-fails.html
Hospitality Properties Trust (HPT) , whose
manager operates a separate real estate investment trust that’s
fighting off activist investors, said one of its trustees has
been reappointed after failing to receive enough shareholder
votes for re-election.  William Lamkin resigned from the board after receiving less
than the majority of votes required to be re-elected at the
REIT’s annual meeting, Newton, Massachusetts-based Hospitality
Properties said today in a statement.  “The board determined that the insufficient vote for Mr.
Lamkin appeared not to be directed at any personal failings of
Mr. Lamkin, but rather to be the result of a policy position
taken by the board in opposition to a proposal by the California
Public Employees’ Retirement System,” the company said.  Hospitality Properties is managed by Reit Management &
Research LLC, the operator of  CommonWealth REIT (CWH) , which said
yesterday it re-appointed one of its trustees after he received
insufficient votes at its annual meeting. The management company
is owned by Adam Portnoy and his father, Barry, who also serve
on the boards of both CommonWealth and Hospitality Properties.  Calpers, the largest U.S. pension fund, proposed that
Hospitality Properties’ board be re-elected every year instead
of every three years, according to a proxy filing by the REIT.
The proposal was defeated, Hospitality Properties said in
today’s statement.  ‘Entrenching Mechanisms’  “Calpers believes that corporate-governance procedures and
practices, and the level of accountability they impose, are
closely related to financial performance,” the fund said in a
statement contained in the proxy filing. “A staggered board has
been found to be one of six entrenching mechanisms that are
negatively correlated with company performance.”  CommonWealth said yesterday that its board determined the
vote against Joseph Morea was the result of its battle with
investors Corvex Management LP and Related Cos., its second-largest shareholders, and not because of any personal failings.
Corvex, founded by activist investor Keith Meister, and Related,
the New York-based property developer, are soliciting votes to
remove the trustees, claiming that the overlap in board
membership and the ownership of the management company has led
to conflicts of interest and mismanagement.  Hospitality Properties owns almost 500 properties,
including 289 hotels, in the U.S. and  Canada , according to the
company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  