-- Power Grab Trumps Nanotechnology in Putin’s Russia
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-05-16T22:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/power-grab-trumps-nanotechnology-in-putin-s-russia.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin ’s
changing attitude toward two giant government-led high-tech
projects sends a troubling message about his third term in
office: Maintaining power is more important than modernizing the
economy.  The projects, known as Rusnano and Skolkovo, were meant to
propel  Russia ’s raw-material economy into the technology age.
They involved multibillion-dollar government investments, the
first in nanotechnology and the second in a new city that would
become Russia’s answer to Silicon Valley. They were supposed to
provide the infrastructure and stability required to attract
large amounts of foreign investment.  Now, both have become targets in Putin’s campaign to
demonstrate that he’s being tough on corruption and
mismanagement of government funds. As a result, their chances of
succeeding are looking increasingly remote.  Putin himself ordered the establishment of Rusnano in 2007,
endowing the state-owned company with $5 billion to invest in
ventures that would put Russia at the forefront of the
nanotechnology revolution. Headed by  Anatoly Chubais , the
architect of Russia’s early 1990s privatization, Rusnano
initially had to place most of its money in  bank deposits  for
lack of ready projects. Since then, it has managed to invest
more than $3 billion.  Trouble came in April, when the Accounting Chamber, a body
charged with auditing  government spending ,  accused  Rusnano of
inefficient management in a report that received ample coverage
on state-owned TV. It said that Rusnano had transferred about
$40 million to shell companies and pointed out that a silicon
factory in which Rusnano invested about $450 million was not
functioning and was about to be declared insolvent. The report
also highlighted the state company’s 2012 losses of 2.5 billion
rubles ($80 million) and the 24.4-billion-ruble (about $800
million) in reserves Rusnano had formed against potential losses
from risky ventures.  In a recent televised call-in  session , with questions
carefully screened, Putin did little to support Rusnano and
Chubais, who is still reviled by many for his role in the 1990s
privatization program. “I believe that he and a number of people
who worked with him then made many mistakes,” Putin said in
response to a caller who asked when Chubais would finally go to
jail. Putin then declared that CIA operatives had been among
Chubais’s advisers.  Moving on to Rusnano’s losses, Putin suggested that
investing in alternative-energy projects such as solar batteries
doesn’t make sense in a hydrocarbon-rich country with long, dark
winters. “It’s dark when you get up and dark when you go to bed,
when would these batteries charge?” he said. All he could say in
Rusnano’s support was that “it has invested inefficiently, but
this is not theft.”  The company  responded  that its initial strategy was geared
toward maximizing sales, not profit, and that it was far ahead
of plan in that respect. But the objections did not get much
airplay, and to a large extent the damage was done. Putin’s
coldness and the widely publicized Accounting Chamber report
offered a clear indication that the project is out of favor with
the Kremlin. That’s not good for Chubais’s plan to have Rusnano
fully privatized by 2020, with the first partial sell-off coming
this year.  Skolkovo was a pet project of Dmitri Medvedev, the former
president and now increasingly sidetracked prime minister. The
plan, conceived in 2010, was to invest 85 billion rubles ($2.8
billion) in taxpayer money and offer other special incentives to
attract Russian and foreign tech companies to a new city just
outside Moscow. The  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  was
enlisted to set up an educational partnership called Skoltech.
Billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg  signed on as head of the Skolkovo
Foundation, receiving and administering both government and
private funding. On the government’s side,  Vladislav Surkov ,
then seen as the eminence grise of Russian politics, was
appointed the project’s “curator.”  At about the same time as the Accounting Chamber published
its Rusnano report, Russia’s Investigative Committee charged
Skolkovo vice president Alexei Beltyukov, a former McKinsey
consultant, with illegally paying $750,000 to parliamentary
deputy Ilya Ponomaryov, ostensibly for a series of lectures and
research papers. Ponomaryov, a vocal Putin opponent, responded
in a lengthy LiveJournal  post  that the money was for a major
promotional campaign aimed at attracting foreign and domestic
investors.  “I am proud of what has been achieved,” Ponomaryov wrote.
“MIT in Russia, 860 resident companies, thousands of people
prevented from emigrating -- these are the direct results of the
work that has been done.” He called on the investigators to
leave Skolkovo alone: “If you have to investigate opposition
figures, deal with me directly. Skolkovo is just two years old
and it is supposed to yield results only in 10 years. Do not
touch the innocent, do not kill off projects of fundamental
importance to the Russian economy.”  Vekselberg has sought to distance himself, evidently
spooked by the investigators’ mention of a potential conflict of
interest in which a Vekselberg-owned bank held the project’s
endowment. “Even in a bad dream I could not imagine a deputy
head of a parliamentary committee submitting fake reports” to
receive money, the state-controlled RIA Novosti news agency
 quoted  the billionaire as saying. The Skolkovo foundation, which
Vekselberg heads, has filed suit to get the money back from
Ponomaryov.  Surkov, who has normally shunned public appearances,
publicly defended Skolkovo during a question-and-answer session
at the  London School  of Economics. “I believe Skolkovo is one of
the cleanest projects in terms of possible graft. If some pig
has spoiled our reputation that does not mean the whole cause
should be multiplied by zero,” he said,  according  to the  BBC .
“In my view, it is wrong to talk about possible transgressions
prior to a trial.”  Investigative Committee spokesman  Vladimir Markin  responded
to Surkov in an  article  written for the pro-Putin newspaper
Izvestia: “How long would Her Majesty’s minister keep his job
if, on a private visit to Moscow, he publicly condemned Scotland
Yard for doing its job?” Skolkovo managers must have been
“stoned,” he wrote, when they approved the contract with
Ponomaryov.  Markin’s words proved prescient: On May 8, the day after
the Izvestia article was published, Surkov’s resignation was
announced. On May 15, Putin appointed presidential adviser
Andrei Fursenko to oversee Skolkovo, effectively taking it out
of Medvedev’s control.  Political commentator  Alexander Morozov  likened the
campaign against the “innovation institutions” with Ivan the
Terrible’s drive to extinguish potential treachery among his
courtiers. In the 16th century, czar Ivan’s personal guard, the
oprichnina, terrorized the land, riding around with dogs’ heads
tied to their saddles, killing and burning on the czar’s behalf.  “To the approving cries of the masses, demanding that
corrupt courtiers be executed for conspiring against the czar,
the oprichnina will receive colossal political dividends,”
Morozov  wrote  on the website snob.ru. “Skolkovo, whether any
wrongdoing occurred there or not, will be quickly forgotten.”  Whether or not Putin is turning into a modern-day Ivan the
Terrible, he clearly cares more about appeasing the masses with
the appearance of a major anti-corruption campaign than about
furthering technological innovation. While the oil and gas last,
modernization can wait. There are more important items on the
agenda, like consolidating power.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 