-- Puerto Rico’s Best Start Excludes Development Bank: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-05-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/puerto-rico-s-best-start-excludes-development-bank-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico’s Government Development
Bank, with $4.6 billion of municipal debt, is being left out of
a rally that has driven the U.S. commonwealth’s bonds to their
best annual start since 2010.  Investors are penalizing the bank, rated one step above
junk, even as the island’s municipal securities are gaining at
three times the rate of the broader $3.7 trillion market. The
extra yield investors demand to own some of the lender’s bonds
reached the highest in 15 months in April, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The institution sells bonds and provides loans and
financial advice to the commonwealth and its authorities. The
bank is “fragile” because of unpaid loans to agencies, its
president, Javier Ferrer, said in an interview from San Juan.
Loans to the Puerto Rico Highways & Transportation Authority
were a record $2.2 billion as of March 31, from $84 million in
fiscal 2008.  Any limit on the institution’s ability to support Puerto
Rico “would be a big negative,” said Joseph Pangallozzi,
managing director at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which
oversees $109 billion of munis. It “has been an integral part
of providing liquidity, providing loans to the agencies and the
commonwealth.”  Risk Calculus  With municipal yields near  five-decade lows , investors have
taken on added risk to boost returns. The self-governing
commonwealth, whose debt is tax-exempt nationwide, has lured
buyers even as its general-obligation grade is one step above
junk.  Puerto Rico is struggling to bolster its economy as it
grapples with a pension-funding ratio lower than any state. The
island’s  14.2 percent  jobless rate in March, while down from
16.9 percent in 2010, eclipsed the level in all states.  Still, munis from the island of 3.7 million people have
gained 3.3 percent this year, beating all states and territories
and compared with 1.1 percent for the entire market, Barclays
Plc data show.  National and state-specific muni mutual funds favor Puerto
Rico for its tax-exempt benefit. Commonwealth general
obligations sold last year and due in July 2041 were the most
frequently traded muni in 2012, according to the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board.  Rally Reject  Even with the Puerto Rico rally, the yield penalty has
grown on the development bank’s munis, which are federally
taxable. The bank is a public corporation formed in 1942 to spur
economic growth and finance infrastructure.  Taxable bonds due in February 2019 are valued by BVAL
pricing analysis at a yield spread of about 3.9 percentage
points above Treasuries. That compares with 3.1 percentage
points Dec. 12, the day before Moody’s Investors Service dropped
the bank to the lowest investment grade and assigned a negative
outlook. The gap reached 4.2 percentage points last month, the
highest since the bank sold the debt in February 2012.  Puerto Rico’s government and its agencies owe the bank $6.9
billion as of March 31, with $3.2 billion of that payable from
commonwealth revenue or legislative appropriation, Ferrer said.  The highway authority, which oversees roads and bridges,
owed almost $2.2 billion as of March 31, the most it has ever
borrowed, and amounting to 24 percent of the development bank’s
loan portfolio, Ferrer said. The road agency also has $5 billion
of munis, Ferrer said.  Capital Preservation  “We need to resolve this situation by June 30,” the last
day of the fiscal year, for accounting purposes, Ferrer said.
“We want to make sure we preserve our equity, our capital
base.”  The bank is discussing revenue options with the highway
authority, the legislature and the administration, and plans to
announce a strategy “shortly” that will enable the roads
agency to issue munis and repay the bank, Ferrer said.  He is scheduled to update investors tomorrow at an annual
conference in San Juan on the commonwealth’s finances.  Irma Moyeno, spokeswoman for the highway authority, didn’t
respond to e-mails and phone messages.  “The commonwealth has endeavored to maintain GDB’s capital
and liquidity position as weaker corporations,” including the
highway agency, “lean on it for support,” Moody’s said in a
statement yesterday.  ‘Vital’ Role  Daniel Solender, who helps manage $19.5 billion of munis at
Lord Abbett & Co., said the bank has helped Puerto Rico and its
agencies maintain their operations. The commonwealth’s recurring
expenditures have exceeded revenue since 2000, according to the
bank’s financial audit for the fiscal year that ended June 30.  “There’s definitely a need to have that backing when the
revenues aren’t sufficient whether it’s the highways authority
or any other agency,” said Solender, who’s based in Jersey
City, New Jersey. “So it’s really vital to the credits that the
bank is funded sufficiently.”  In the broader market, local-debt is on pace to outperform
Treasuries for the second straight month.  At  1.8 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with  1.94 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the two interest rates, a gauge of relative
value, is about 92 percent, close to the lowest since March 11.
The lower the figure, the more expensive local-government bonds
are when compared with federal securities. The ratio has
averaged 92 percent since 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  