-- Qatar Buys 40% Stake in Milan’s Porta Nuova Business District
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-05-16T14:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/qatar-buys-40-stake-in-milan-s-porta-nuova-business-district.html
Qatar Holding LLC, a unit of the
Persian Gulf emirate’s sovereign-wealth fund, agreed to buy a 40
percent stake in Milan’s newly built Porta Nuova business
district to expand its Italian real estate holdings.  Qatar Holding signed a strategic partnership with Hines
Italia SGR, the project’s developer, and agreed to purchase the
stake through a subscription of newly issued shares, the
companies said in an e-mailed statement today. While the
purchase price wasn’t disclosed, they said the project is valued
at about 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion).  Qatar Holding’s investment “further diversifies its global
portfolio in general, and increases its participation in the
Italian real estate market in particular,” the companies said.
“The landmark project is expected to have a transformative
impact for Milan and create value for all stakeholders.”  Hines, a division of the closely held Houston-based
developer of the same name, is building office towers, shops and
buildings at the new  business park  designed by architects
including Cesar Pelli and Patricia Viel. The project encompasses
more than 290,000 square meters (3.1 million square feet) in
downtown Milan.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank, signed a
lease last year to move its headquarters into three Porta Nuova
skyscrapers in 2013.  Porta Nuova is financed by banks including  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) , Unicredit and  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA. (BMPS)  The
remaining 60 percent stake in the project will continue to be
owned by the current sponsors, Qatar and Hines said in the
statement, without disclosing more specific ownership
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  