-- Quinn Emanuel, Kirkland, Shearman: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/quinn-emanuel-kirkland-shearman-business-of-law.html
Quinn Emanuel  Urquhart & Sullivan LLP
hired John Rhie as chairman of the firm’s Asian international
arbitration practice and to open a Hong Kong office.  Rhie, who will become managing partner of the office when
it opens after receiving approval, was recently with Korean firm
Kim & Chang, where he focused on international arbitration in
 Seoul .  Quinn Emanuel partner Carey Ramos will move from  New York 
to join Rhie in Hong Kong as a senior partner. Ramos, who has
media and intellectual property expertise, concentrates on
complex business litigation, particularly in cross-border
disputes and international arbitration.  Rhie has acted as both an arbitrator and an advocate in
arbitrations.  “John’s joining us is the culmination of an investigation
and sifting of candidates that we have conducted for several
years. He is a perfect fit for our international arbitration
platform and our Asia strategy in particular,” managing partner
 John Quinn  said in a statement. “Carey brings a wealth of
experience in representing Asian companies in complex business
disputes. Together, John and Carey present a formidable team to
expand our practice in Asia.”  Ramos will assist the firm’s Asian clients with litigation
in the U.S. and European Union, the firm said. He will also work
with Rhie to develop the firm’s international arbitration
practice in Asia.  “This takes me closer to the Asian clients that I have
served in cross-border disputes for years,” Ramos said in a
statement.  Quinn Emanuel has more than 600 lawyers in the U.S.,  Europe 
and Asia. The Hong Kong office will be the firm’s 14th.  Edwards Wildman Opens in Istanbul With M&A Boutique Association  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP is opening an office in Istanbul
through an association with the Ismen law firm, a mergers and
acquisitions and private equity boutique law firm.  “Istanbul has become a hub for sophisticated M&A and
private equity activity as multinational companies and private
equity firms are attracted to the increasingly active CEEMENA
region,” Ted Cominos, a partner in Edwards Wildman’s private
equity practice group, said in a statement.  The 12-lawyer Ismen law firm, founded in 2004, focuses on
M&A transactions, including privatizations and private equity
investments. Ismen also has experience in complementary practice
areas, such as corporate and commercial services, finance, real
estate and  capital markets , among others. The firm is led by
partners Tolga Ismen and Arzum Gunalcin.  “The arrangement with Edwards Wildman presents an
opportunity for our lawyers to tap into a new network of
sophisticated clients while offering a broad array of cross-border legal services to our existing clients,” said Ismen.  Edwards Wildman has over 600 lawyers at 15 offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  News  Boston Bombing Judge Emerges as Target as Prosecution Advances  A former Harvard Medical School research assistant who went
on to serve as a U.S. judge for 23 years now finds herself at
the center of the  Boston  Marathon bombing case, and by extension
the post-Sept. 11 issue of whether, and when, suspected
terrorists should benefit from constitutional rights.  Marianne Bowler, who began her career as a researcher and
freelance writer before going to law school, became a civil
litigator for the  Justice Department  in the late 1970s. She put
her background to use, specializing in personal injury cases,
medical malpractice, swine flu and asbestos litigation, before
eventually rising to be the second-most powerful federal
prosecutor in  Massachusetts .  Now 66 and a federal magistrate judge, her career as an
attorney and jurist took on a new headline when, at a bedside
court hearing in Boston’s Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center
last month, she advised bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev of his
rights under the U.S. Supreme Court ruling Miranda v. Arizona.  On May 30, she is scheduled to preside over the first full
court hearing in Tsarnaev’s prosecution, as the government seeks
to show a trial is warranted on the two capital charges he
faces. Tsarnaev, 19, is accused of carrying out the April 15
attack that killed three and injured 260 with his brother
Tamerlan, 26, who died after a shootout with police. Bowler also
presides over the prosecution in Boston federal court of three
of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev’s friends accused of hindering the probe.  Bowler read Tsarnaev his rights to remain silent and seek
legal counsel in the hospital room hearing on April 22, three
days after he was captured. During those three days, Tsarnaev,
according to law enforcement officials, revealed details of the
attack to investigators who were acting under a so-called public
safety exception that allows pre-Miranda questioning if there is
a reasonable belief there is imminent danger to the public.  Brendan Garvin, Bowler’s spokesman, declined to comment on
the lawmakers’ statements.  The Tsarnaev case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  IRS Says Chief Counsel Wilkins Not Involved in Meetings in 2011  Internal Revenue Service Chief Counsel William Wilkins
didn’t attend an August 2011 meeting on the agency’s treatment
of political nonprofit groups and didn’t learn about the
selective scrutiny of small-government groups until this year,
the IRS said in a statement yesterday.  The timeline in an inspector general’s report released May
14 said that “Chief Counsel” was involved in an Aug. 4, 2011,
meeting. Wilkins, one of two presidential appointees at the IRS,
is the agency’s top lawyer.  The IRS said in the statement that “chief counsel” is
standard language for referring to any of the 1,600 attorneys
who work for him.  Wilkins “is not involved” in the issue involving
nonprofit groups and didn’t discuss the applications with the
Treasury Department’s general counsel, the IRS said.  Deals  Kirkland Advises Pamplona in Coinmach, Air-Serv Acquisition  Kirkland & Ellis LLP was legal adviser to Pamplona Capital
Management LLP, which agreed to buy Coinmach Service Corp., the
biggest laundry-equipment service provider in the U.S., and Air-Serv Group LLC in a transaction valued at $1.4 billion. White &
Case LLP advised Coinmach.  Air-Serv provides car-tire inflation services in  North
America , according to a statement yesterday. Pamplona is
combining the companies into a new entity, CSC ServiceWorks Inc.
Robert Doyle, currently chief executive officer of Coinmach,
will lead the merged company along with the existing management
team from Air-Serv, the statement shows.  The Kirkland team for Pamplona was led by corporate
partners Michael Brosse and Michael Movsovich, with tax partners
Greer Phillips and David Grenker, debt finance partners
Christopher Butler and Michelle Kilkenney, and  executive
compensation  partner  Scott Price .  White & Case partner Dan Latham worked on the deal for
Coinmach.  Coinmach is London-based Pamplona’s first acquisition in
the U.S. The private-equity firm, whose investments are mostly
in Europe, may look for more acquisitions in the U.S. since
hiring former Cerberus Capital Management LP executive Robert Warden, an American, as a partner last year, a person familiar
with the matter said last month. Warden was a managing director
at Cerberus and focused on industrial-company deals, a person
with knowledge of the move said at the time.  For more, click here.  Moves  Shearman Adds Three Private Equity Partners in London  Global private equity lawyers Mark Soundy, Sarah Priestley
and Simon Burrows have joined Shearman & Sterling LLP from Weil,
Gotshal & Manges LLP as partners in  London . They worked closely
with private equity partner Jeremy Dickens, who joined
Shearman’s New York office in April.  “The team’s arrival will allow us to offer private equity
sponsor houses even stronger capability,” Creighton Condon,
Shearman & Sterling’s senior partner said in a statement.
“Mark, Sarah and Simon will work closely with our M&A,
leveraged finance, debt capital markets, high yield and tax
lawyers, as well as with colleagues in asset management and
executive compensation and employee benefits, to deliver great
client service.”  Soundy was involved in the establishment of Weil’s Dubai
office and has more than 25 years’ experience handling M&A
transactions, the firm said. He is also experienced in early
stage investment and development capital work.  Priestley was head of Weil’s London corporate tax group,
focusing on complex U.K., multijurisdictional and pan-European
M&A and private equity transactions. She has experience in the
corporate tax, VAT, and stamp duty aspects of commercial
transactions, and corporate restructurings and spinoffs.  Burrows advises private equity and captive investors,  hedge
funds , public and private corporations, and management teams on
complex cross-border transactions in Europe, the  Middle East  and
the U.S., the firm said. He also has been involved in
restructuring, funds, and  equity capital markets  work.  Shearman & Sterling has almost 900 lawyers in 18 offices in
12 countries in the Americas, Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Skadden’s Antoinette Cook Bush Named News Corp. Executive  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP’s partner Antoinette
Cook Bush was named as executive vice president and global head
of government affairs for the new  News Corp. (NWSA) , the proposed
global publishing entity to be formed when the company splits
into two independent, publicly traded companies.  Bush, who was the partner in charge of Skadden’s
communications group, will report to Robert Thomson, chief
executive officer of the new News Corp., and will be based in
 Washington . She starts June. 24.  “Having worked with News Corp. for many years as a legal
adviser, I’m honored to have been asked to serve this important
role from inside the company,” Bush said in a statement. “As a
big believer in the power of news, information and education to
transform societies, I look forward to communicating the
company’s mission to key audiences in Washington and around the
world.”  News Corp. initiated the process to split itself into two
publicly traded companies in December. The media company,
controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , is dividing into the Fox Group and
a new News Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 