-- Rand Set for Longest Losing Streak in Year on Rating Concerns
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-05-16T10:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/rand-set-for-longest-losing-streak-in-year-on-rating-concerns.html
South Africa ’s rand weakened for a
sixth day, set for its longest losing streak in a year, on
concern that falling commodity prices and labor unrest at mines
are threatening the nation’s credit rating.  South Africa’s rating outlook remains negative and mining
strikes may hurt the economic growth outlook, Moody’s Investors
Service said yesterday. The  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI  Index (SPGSCI)  of raw
materials dropped for a fifth day as metals including gold and
platinum declined. Metals and other commodities account for more
than half of South Africa’s exports.  “There’s still some tension at the mines, and gold is
getting hammered,” David Gracey, head of currency and
derivatives trading at Investec Ltd., said by phone from Cape
Town. “It’s a dollar-buying story.”  South Africa’s currency depreciated as much as 1.1 percent
to 9.3582 per dollar, the weakest level since March 22. It
traded 0.8 percent down at 9.3294 per dollar by 11:37 a.m. in
Johannesburg, bringing its retreat in the past six trading days
to 3.5 percent. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due
December 2026 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point
to 6.85 percent.  Employees at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine returned to work
late yesterday after a two-day illegal strike, the company said
today. Rivalry between two labor unions that led to the strike
will persist and may cause disruptions at other mines, according
to  Brigid Taylor , head of institutional flow sales at  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg.  Tarnished Image  “The workers’ return is not the end of the industrial
action, which has shaken the industry and tarnished South
Africa’s image as a major international mining investment
destination,” Taylor said in e-mailed comments. “The market
has not fully priced in the risk of another credit rating
downgrade.”  If the strikes aren’t contained, it could weigh on South
Africa’s credit rating, Fitch Ratings analyst  Carmen Altenkirch 
told the Johannesburg-based Business Day newspaper on May 14.  The rand has lost 12 percent against the dollar since
Moody’s cut the rating by one level to Baa1 on Sept. 27. New
York-based Standard & Poor’s lowered South Africa by the same
magnitude to BBB on Oct. 12, while Fitch followed on Jan. 10.
Moody’s and S&P kept a negative outlook on the rating.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility against the
dollar has climbed 40 basis points in the past two days to 12.82
percent, indicating that options traders see wider swings in the
currency in coming months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  