-- Raskin Says Inequality, Cutbacks May Curb Growth for Years
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-05-16T17:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/raskin-says-inequality-budget-cuts-may-curb-growth-for-years.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said  income inequality  and government cutbacks may slow
economic growth for years.  “While I am hopeful that pressures will ease further as
 home prices  continue to rebound, I also believe that some of the
restraints on the recovery may be quite long-lasting,” Raskin
said today in prepared remarks for a speech in  Washington . “The
large and increasing amount of inequality in income and wealth,
which has been an ongoing development for decades, may have
exacerbated the crisis and I think more research is required to
determine whether it may also pose a significant headwind to the
recovery from the crisis for years to come.”  Fed officials have vowed to press on with $85 billion in
monthly asset  purchases  until the labor market has “improved
substantially,” an outcome that Raskin suggested may be far
off. The  unemployment rate  has remained above 7 percent since
December 2008 and Raskin said further unemployment declines are
likely to remain “modest.”  The central bank “will continue to conduct monetary policy
so as to promote a stronger economic recovery in the context of
 price stability ,” she said.  Income Growth  Answering audience questions after her speech, Raskin said
she is troubled that household incomes aren’t increasing at a
more rapid pace.  “Real disposable incomes have not been rising at a robust
level,” Raskin said. “The impact from this accommodative
monetary policy is going to differ based on how that household
has composed its components of wealth” but “monetary policy
has as its primary goal this idea of lifting all boats.”  She also said the central bank is monitoring student debt
levels, which she said may be discouraging some young people
from starting families.  “The mounting levels of student debt are something we are
keeping an eye on,” she said. There are “some hypotheses out
there that student debt is crowding out” household formation.  In her speech, Raskin said that “the recovery does appear
to have picked up steam in some sectors, most notably in
housing, likely reflecting the easing of some of the headwinds
that had been holding back the pace of the recovery in earlier
years.”  She called fiscal policy an “important source of
restraint” for economic growth. “Both the tax legislation
signed into law in January and the sharp spending cuts
associated with sequestration will likely significantly hinder
GDP growth this year,” Raskin said.  Budget Surplus  The U.S. posted its widest  budget surplus  in five years in
April as an improving economy swelled  tax revenue , while budget
cuts earlier in the year slowed spending.  The  surplus  for the month when tax payments are due
increased to $112.9 billion, the biggest since April 2008, from
$59.1 billion a year earlier, the Treasury said in its monthly
budget statement last week.  “Looking further ahead, fiscal policy seems likely to
remain restrictive at the federal level,” Raskin said in a
speech to the Society of Government Economists and the National
Economists Club. [bn:WBTKR=NHSPSTOT:IND]   Starts [] of new U.S. homes fell more than forecast in April
to a five-month low, indicating a pause in the industry’s
progress as builders slowed work on apartments. Building  permits 
surged to an almost five-year high.  Building applications that are higher than the level of
starts signal residential construction will rebound as near
record-low  mortgage rates  and improving job opportunities draw
buyers.  Raskin, 52, was appointed by President  Barack Obama  in 2010
for a term that expires in 2016. Before joining the Fed she was
 Maryland ’s Commissioner of Financial Regulation, according to
the Fed Board  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  