-- RBS to Reduce 1,400 Jobs in U.K. Consumer Unit Overhaul
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-05-16T16:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/rbs-to-reduce-1-400-jobs-in-u-k-consumer-unit-overhaul.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the
recipient of the world’s biggest banking bailout, will cut 1,400
head-office jobs in the next two years as part of an overhaul of
its consumer unit in the U.K.  RBS will spend 700 million pounds ($1.07 billion) updating
its branches and improving its complaints-handling and mortgage
processing, the Edinburgh-based company said in a statement
today.  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , 52, is struggling
to turn around the 81 percent government-owned bank and begin
the process of returning it to private ownership before the next
general election in 2015. RBS, which has announced 37,000 job
cuts since its 45.5 billion-pound bailout in 2008 and 2009,
employed about 123,000 people at the end of March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is clearly difficult news for our staff and we will
do everything we can to support them, including seeking
redeployment opportunities wherever possible to ensure
compulsory redundancies are a last resort,” Ross McEwan, chief
executive officer of U.K. consumer banking, said in the
statement.  Initial Loss  RBS will complete most of its restructuring next year,
allowing the government to start reducing its stake by the end
of 2014, Chairman  Philip Hampton  said on May 14. Hester said
earlier this month that he sees a “cogent” case for the
government to start selling its stake, even at an initial loss.
The average price the taxpayer would achieve for its entire
holding in RBS would be more than the government’s rescue price,
he said.  Hampton said on May 14 more  job cuts  and branch closures
are likely before the bank’s restructuring is complete.  “It is high time that the banks took social
responsibilities seriously,” Unite labor union National Officer
Dominic Hook said in an e-mailed statement. “The industry
almost caused the economy to implode in 2008 and now it is
contributing to a jobs crisis.”  U.K. retail banking contributed 4.97 billion pounds, or
about 23 percent of RBS’s net revenue, in 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The division’s return on equity, a profitability measure,
is 11.5 percent, analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG led by Carla Antunes-Silva wrote in a note to clients today. That compares
with 13.2 percent for competitor Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s U.K.
consumer business, 14.3 percent for HSBC Holdings Plc and 13.3
percent at Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse wrote.  Those estimates includes reductions in profitability caused
by the U.K. bank levy, payments to clients mis-sold loans
insurance and hedging products and restructuring charges, which
banks tend to exclude from their own calculations.  “With attention focused on plans for privatization and
government intervention, we continue to think that there is a
need for further restructuring at RBS,” the analysts wrote.
“In its current shape and with the current strategy in place we
continue to see RBS as the weakest player amongst U.K. banks.”  -- Editors: Simone Meier, Jon Menon  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  