-- Real Estate Overtakes Commodities as Top Sovereign Asset
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-05-16T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/real-estate-overtakes-commodities-as-top-sovereign-asset.html
Real estate topped the list of
sovereign wealth funds’ investments last year, overtaking
commodities and financial services, according to Institutional
Investor’s Sovereign Wealth Center.  Properties made up 26 percent of investments by these funds
last year, up from 14 percent in 2011, according to the center’s
report on investment trends by the funds released today. That’s
followed by financial services and commodities, each accounting
for 23 percent, down from about 30 percent a year earlier, it
said.  State funds have increased investments in alternative
assets including real estate and private equity after monetary
policy easing lowered the prospects for bond returns and added
to the volatility of stocks. They are expected to add more of
these holdings in 2013, Victoria Barbary, director at the
Sovereign Wealth Center, said in an e-mail.  “Sovereign wealth funds will continue to diversify their
portfolios into so-called alternative assets, responding to
macroeconomic risks by adopting niche alternative strategies and
making small adjustments to their asset allocations,” Barbary
said. The asset composition in 2013 will be similar to last year
and the investment trend is a “new normal” for these funds,
she added.  Sovereign wealth funds had sought out assets in developed
markets last year, especially commercial properties in London
and Paris, according to the report.  Norway’s Strategy  Norway’s Government Pension Fund Global will be among the
biggest buyers of real estate this year as it seeks to meet its
target allocation of property, the London-based institute said.  The $747 billion  sovereign wealth fund , the world’s
 biggest , has bought commercial real estate in London, Paris,
Frankfurt and Berlin as part of a plan to increase real estate
to 5 percent, according to the fund. Properties made up 0.9
percent of its holdings at the end of March, it said in April.  China Investment Corp. will add more real estate assets as
it seeks to cut an “over-reliance” on U.S. debt, Chairman  Lou Jiwei  said in January, while Abu Dhabi’s fund Mubadala
Development Co. said property helped boost assets last year.  Infrastructure made up 12 percent of the investments by the
state funds, followed by consumer goods at 4 percent, according
to the report.  “The emphasis on these sectors shows that sovereign funds
are undertaking more diversified, long-term strategies,”
according to the report. “Uncertainty in public markets is
driving this trend.”  Declining Investments  The amount of publicly disclosed investments by 21 funds it
tracks fell 17 percent to $53.3 billion last year, according to
the report. Europe drew the bulk of the investments, accounting
for 53 percent, followed by the Asia-Pacific region at 18
percent
and North America at 9 percent, it said.  The biggest investment was the $1.23 billion purchase of a
U.K. shopping mall, followed by a $1.1 billion office complex in
Switzerland, the report showed.  The decline in investments isn’t a sign that state funds
withdrew from the market, Barbary said.  “We suspect it is due to market uncertainty and a number
of large infrastructure and property deals which took time to
source and complete,” she said, adding that last year’s deal
volume and spending patterns were broadly similar to those in
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  