-- Treasury’s Brainard Says Adding European Demand Top Priority
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-05-16T15:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/treasury-s-brainard-says-adding-european-demand-top-priority-1-.html
The U.S. Treasury’s top international
official said that strengthening  European demand  is “the most
important immediate imperative” for reviving global growth.  Lael Brainard, the Treasury’s undersecretary for
international affairs, also said that  China  needs to increase
flexibility in its exchange rate system, while the world
recovery shouldn’t be overly dependent on U.S. demand.  “Domestic demand in the euro area is now lower than at the
low point of the global crisis in 2009 in real terms,” Brainard
said in the text of a speech delivered to the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in  New York . “All of the recovery in European output
since that time has come from net exports.  That is not
sustainable for a region that accounts for almost 20 percent of
the world economy.”  The euro-area economy shrank more than economists forecast
in the three months through March, a report said yesterday,
extending its recession to a record sixth quarter and increasing
pressure on the currency bloc’s leaders to spur growth. Gross
domestic product in the 17-nation euro zone fell 0.2 percent
after a 0.6 percent decline in the previous quarter, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said.  Financial Stability  “Restoring financial stability, while critical, is just
the first step for the economy to heal,” Brainard said, adding
that  Europe  must now turn to stimulating demand and employment.  Countries should be flexible as they seek to meet budget
targets, and nations should move toward “unclogging” credit in
southern Europe, among other steps, Brainard said during a
question-and-answer session after the speech.  “We’ve seen significant structural reforms that, over
time, will bear fruit,” she said. “The difficulty, of course,
is right now what is needed is demand.”  The idea of moving away from cost-saving may be gaining
momentum in Europe. French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici 
declared earlier this month that the era of government budget
cutting was over.  “We’re witnessing the end of the dogma of austerity,”
Moscovici said on May 5 on Europe 1 radio. “We’ve been pleading
for a growth policy for a year. Austerity on its own impedes
growth.”  Brainard also focused in her speech on tightly managed
exchange-rate regimes, which she said “put an undue burden of
adjustment on those emerging economies with market exchange
rates.” Such tightly managed systems also “contribute to the
weakness of demand in the advanced economies,” she said.  It is “imperative that China take additional measures to
increase the flexibility of its exchange rate regime,” Brainard
said, and it is “critical” for  Japan  to expand domestic
demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Costelloe in Washington at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  