-- Treasury Bond Futures’ Technicals Suggest Extension of Recovery
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-05-16T16:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/treasury-bond-futures-technicals-suggest-extension-of-recovery.html
Treasury bond futures will probably
extend today’s rebound as the contracts maintain the reversal of
a short-term, technically oversold condition that developed this
week, according to futures broker R.J. O’Brien & Associates LLC.  The slide in the CME Group Inc.’s 30-year bond futures due
next month to as low as 143 1/2 on May 14 from 149 21/32 on May
1 drove their short-term relative-strength index to a level that
signaled they might be about to reverse. The futures also had
moved below the lower limit of an indicator called the Bollinger
band, foreshadowing higher prices.  “After yesterday’s close, technical indicators from RSIs
to Bollinger bands suggested the market was oversold,” said
Todd Colvin, a senior vice president in  Chicago  at R.J. O’Brien.
“Oversold charts, yields hitting key resistance, and option
puts being bought by the handful indicated a perfect storm of
everyone expecting a big move up in yields. That was a signal
that it was a good time to fade the move lower in price.” A put
is an option that grants the right to sell the futures contract.  The June 2013 bond future rose 1 5/32 today in New York to
145 11/32. Cash Treasury 10-year note yields dropped as reports
showed jobless claims in the U.S. rose to the highest level in
six weeks, housing starts and Philadelphia-area manufacturing
slid and the cost of living in the U.S. fell in April for a
second month. The benchmark 10-year note yield fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, 1.87 percent, while the 30-year bond yield lost seven basis points to 3.09 percent.  The three-day relative-strength gauge on the June 30-year
bond future was 15 yesterday and 6.5 the prior day, below the 30
level that some traders view as indicating price declines may be
overextended. The 14-day RSI was 33 on May 14.  Yield Resistance  Yield resistance, where buy orders may make further yield
rises difficult, was at 2 percent today on the 10-year note and
3.25 on the 30-year bond, Colvin said.  R.J. O’Brien’s John Brady, the firm’s managing director of
futures and options, wrote in a note to clients published at
8:10 a.m. New York time that the technical indicators and option
positioning as of yesterday’s close signaled Treasury futures
prices may have “put in a short-term bottom.”  Open interest in options that profit if Treasury futures
fall, which corresponds to a rise in yields of cash government
debt, outstripped those yesterday for contracts that gain if
prices rise, according to data from CME Group, the world’s
largest futures exchange. The ratio of puts to calls was 1.5 to
one for all maturity Treasury contracts traded at the CME Group.
A call grants the right but not obligation to buy a contract.  Bollinger Bands  Open interest is the total number of contracts that have
not been closed, liquidated or delivered. Futures contracts are
agreements to buy or sell a specific amount of a commodity or
security at a specific price and time. The CME Group’s 30-year
bond future allows delivery of government bonds that mature in
15 years or more at expiration of the contract.  Bollinger bands, developed by the analyst John Bollinger in
the 1980s, signal when prices may change direction based on a
security’s volatility and moving average. The bands narrow and
widen to reflect the size of those moves and represent possible
support and resistance levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  