-- Three Fed Presidents Call to Phase Out Mortgage Bond Buys
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-05-16T17:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/three-fed-presidents-call-to-phase-out-mortgage-bond-buys.html
Three Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents called for phasing out the Fed’s monthly purchases of
$40 billion in mortgage-backed securities as the housing
recovery shows signs of gaining momentum.  Dallas Federal Reserve Bank President  Richard Fisher  said
today buying mortgage bonds risks disrupting the market, while
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said, “it’s not good
for the bank to be holding lots of mortgage paper.”  Jeffrey Lacker  of Richmond said to reporters yesterday the Fed should
“get out of the credit allocation business.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said May 1 it will keep
up its monthly purchases of mortgage bonds and $45 billion in
Treasuries, and is ready to increase or reduce the pace in
response to changes in the outlook for inflation and the labor
market. Plosser, Lacker and Fisher don’t hold a policy vote this
year.  The central bank’s so-called quantitative easing has pushed
 mortgage rates  close to record lows, fueling demand in some
housing markets as buyers compete for a tight  supply  of
properties. While values remain well below their peak, 133 of
the 150 metropolitan areas tracked by the National Association
of Realtors had price increases in the first quarter from a year
earlier. Areas such as  San Francisco , Atlanta, Phoenix and Reno,
 Nevada , saw jumps of at least 30 percent.  “When refinancing activity eventually shifts down, the Fed
could soon be buying up to 100 percent of MBS issuance if the
current purchase program continues,” Fisher said today in a
speech in Houston. “Buying such a high share of gross issuance
in any security is not only excessive, but also potentially
disruptive to the proper functioning of the MBS market.”  ‘Reasonable Step’  Lacker said yesterday the central bank should reinvest the
principal from its mortgage bond holdings into Treasuries.
“That would be a really reasonable step to contemplate at this
point given the strength in the housing market right now,” he
said to reporters in Baltimore.  Starts of new U.S. homes fell more than forecast in April
to a five-month low, indicating a pause in the industry’s
progress as builders slowed work on apartments. Building permits
surged to an almost five-year high.  Housing starts slumped 16.5 percent, the most since
February 2011, to an 853,000 annualized rate after a revised
1.02 million pace in March, the Commerce Department reported
today in  Washington . The median estimate of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 970,000 rate.  Plosser said today in a Bloomberg Television interview he
“would like to see us get out of mortgage-backed securities.”  Outspoken Opponents  Fisher said in response to audience questions he wants to
see the central bank’s balance sheet eventually returned to an
all-Treasuries portfolio. While Fisher has been one of the most
outspoken opponents to bond buying among Fed officials, he said
in February he didn’t want to stop purchases “cold turkey,”
which could destabilize the market.  “The housing market is on a self-sustaining path and does
not need the same impetus we have been giving it,” Fisher said
today to the National Association for Business Economics in
Houston. With the success of continued buying “questionable,”
he said, “I think we can rightly declare victory on the housing
front and reel in -- or dial back -- our purchases, with the aim
of eliminating them entirely as the year wears on.”  Fisher said he was encouraged by recent economic data and
believes growth will probably exceed private economists’
forecasts of 2.4 percent this year. The housing market is on the
rebound, banks are easing lending standards and state and local
government cutbacks are no longer a major drag on growth, he
said.  Downward Trend  The jobs report for April as well as a downward trend in
initial claims for  unemployment insurance  may have signaled an
improvement in the labor market as well, the Dallas Fed chief
said. Employment picked up more than forecast in April, and the
jobless rate unexpectedly declined to a four-year low of 7.5
percent, a Labor Department report showed on May 3. Revisions
added a total of 114,000 jobs to the employment count in
February and March.  More Americans than projected filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week. Jobless claims jumped by 32,000
to 360,000 in the week ended May 11, exceeding all forecasts in
a Bloomberg survey of economists and the most since the end of
March, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note dropped six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.88 percent at 12:12 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at 1,658.20.  Unexpectedly Advanced  Sales at U.S. retailers unexpectedly advanced in April,
Commerce Department figures showed this week. Fisher called the
figures “a nice upside surprise.”  “This indicates that consumers may have digested delayed
tax rebates and the increase in payroll taxes and are reaping
the benefits of lower gasoline and food prices,” he said. “So
the recovery presently appears to be strong enough to propel
hopes that employment growth will continue improving over the
near term.”  Inflation reports have been benign, with price measures
likely to end the year between 1.5 percent and the Fed’s 2
percent goal, Fisher said.  Labor Department figures today showed the cost of living
fell in April for a second month, the first back-to-back
declines in inflation since late 2008, as fuel prices retreated.
The consumer-price index decreased 0.4 percent, the biggest
decrease since December 2008, after falling 0.2 percent in
March.  Further Decline  Some Fed officials, including St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard , said last month that a further decline in inflation
that persisted might warrant additional stimulus. Consumer
prices rose 1 percent in March from a year earlier, the lowest
level since October 2009, according to the Fed’s preferred gauge
of inflation.  Inflation that has “persistently” stayed below the Fed’s
goal is a concern and may suggest policy hasn’t done enough to
support growth, Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said today.  “The longer we in the U.S. remain so far below our 2
percent target, the greater the risk that inflation expectations
could fall and real  interest rates  rise,” Rosengren said in a
speech in Milan. Low inflation and high unemployment “could
lead one to argue that policy has not been sufficiently
accommodative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  