-- Three Indian Cricketers Probed for Spot-Fixing in IPL Matches
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-05-16T07:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/three-indian-cricketers-probed-for-spot-fixing-in-ipl-matches.html
Three Indian Premier League
cricketers including a former national team bowler are being
investigated by police for spot-fixing in matches.  The Jaipur-based Rajasthan Royals said three unnamed
players have been called in by investigators. The Board of
Control for Cricket in  India , which runs the competition, said
it suspended Ankeet Chavan, Ajit Chandila and S. Sreesanth
pending the inquiry. Delhi Police spokesman  Rajan Bhagat  didn’t
answer three calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  “We are completely taken by surprise,” the Royals said in
a  statement  on their website. “We will fully cooperate with the
authorities to ensure a thorough investigation. The management
at Rajasthan Royals has a zero-tolerance approach to anything
that is against the spirit of the game.”  Fueled by sponsorships, broadcast revenue and ticket sales,
the IPL has grown into the world’s richest cricket competition,
worth $3.67 billion, according to London-based Brand Finance
Plc. The Twenty20 league, which showcases the sport’s newest and
shortest format, is in its sixth season.  Sreesanth is a fast bowler who played 27 Test matches and
53 one-day games for India. He made his one-day international
debut in 2005 and last played for the national team in 2011.  In spot fixing, players manipulate specific actions in a
game, such as the number of no-balls bowled or the number of
runs a batsman makes, rather than the result of a match.  “We will offer all cooperation to the Delhi police and all
other authorities in their investigations in this matter,” the
Mumbai-based BCCI said in a statement. “All information
required to bring the persons involved to book will be collected
and strictest action will be taken, if found guilty.”  Pakistan’s  Salman Butt ,  Mohammad Asif  and  Mohammad Amir 
were jailed in the U.K. in 2011 after being convicted of taking
bribes to manipulate incidents in an elite five-day Test match
against  England  at Lord’s in August 2010. That followed an
undercover sting by the defunct U.K. tabloid the News of the
World.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  