-- Renault Expects European Car Market to Decline 5% This Year
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-05-16T07:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/renault-expects-european-car-market-to-decline-5-this-year.html
Renault SA (RNO) , France’s second-largest
carmaker, is expecting European car market to shrink five
percent this year over last year,  Carlos Tavares , chief
operating officer, said.  The French carmaker, whose worldwide deliveries last year
fell 6.3 percent to 2.55 million cars and light vehicles,
expects the European market to be “slightly better” in the
remaining three quarters of this year than the first three
months, when European market sales fell 10 percent after a
“very poor performance,” Tavares said at a news conference in
Istanbul May 14.  Renault was expecting a contraction in Europe of at least 3
percent this year while the worldwide car and light-truck market
will expand 3 percent this year, with growth of as much as 11
percent in  India , it said Feb. 14. Backed by the revamped Clio
subcompact and budget Dacia Logan, the French automaker forecast
that its global deliveries will rise this year, it said.  “We are having a product blitz, introducing new models
this year,” Tavares said. Renault is broadening its product
range by reviving the Alpine sports-car label and developing the
Initiale Paris insignia into a full-fledged luxury brand, he
said. Initiale will come to the market in a “10 to 15 years of
time range,” he said.  Electric Vehicles  The carmaker expects to double its unit sales of electric
vehicles, including Zoe and Fluence models among the four
electric brands, globally this year from 18,000 units sold in
2012, Tavares said.  Renault doesn’t rule out making light commercial vehicles
in  Turkey , where its joint venture unit  Oyak-Renault Otomobil
Fabrikalari AS , Turkey’s biggest maker of cars, is producing
Fluence and Clio 4 models, he said. The Turkish plant will make
a record high of 340,000 cars this year, 20,000 short of its
capacity, he said.  Renault’s plants in Romania and Morocco are becoming
“cost-competitive” in terms of production costs and “Turkey
may not be a benchmark in terms of cost anymore,” he said.  Turkish car and van sales are expected to grow about 3
percent to 780,000 this year, Ibrahim Aybar, chief executive of
Renault Mais Motorlu Araclar Imal & Satis AS, the sales joint
venture between Renault and Oyak Group, said on Jan. 8. Turkey’s
total vehicle market contracted 11.5 percent to 815,000 units
last year after a September tax increase on cars added to slower
economic growth.  Tofas Turk Otomobil Fabrikasi AS (TOASO) , a joint venture made up
of  Fiat SpA (F)  and  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) , as well as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
 Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  are among manufacturers of
cars, vans, trucks and buses that sell local and imported brands
in Turkey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  