-- Resona to Tie Up With Malaysia’s Public Bank for Asia Growth
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-05-17T02:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/resona-to-tie-up-with-malaysia-s-public-bank-for-asian-expansion.html
Resona Holdings Inc. (8308) , Japan’s fifth-largest bank by market value, is poised to tie up with
 Malaysia ’s  Public Bank Bhd. (PBK)  as part of its efforts to expand in
Asia.  Resona will sign an agreement with Malaysia’s third-biggest
lender on May 20 to service Japanese companies looking to enter
the country and borrow in the local currency, President Kazuhiro Higashi said in an interview this week.  “There are many Japanese companies in Malaysia, so we want
to support them with a local banking partner,” said Higashi,
56, who became president last month. “We’ve covered most big
Asian countries by now,” he said, adding that he’s interested
in Myanmar, Laos and Cambodia.  Resona is tapping credit demand from faster-growing
economies as deflation and a shrinking population  limit  growth
at home. Higashi said in March that he plans to boost new loans
to Japanese businesses expanding in Asia by 25 percent to 50
billion yen ($490 million) within a year.  With no banking licenses outside Japan, Tokyo-based Resona
has so far forged partnerships with 12 banks in Asia, including
Bank of China Ltd. and Manila-based  Rizal Commercial Banking
Corp. (RCB) , to boost loans to companies with offshore operations.  Shares of Resona fell 0.6 percent to 532 yen at 11:30 a.m.
in Tokyo, paring this year’s gain to 36 percent. The benchmark
 Topix Index (TPX)  rose 0.3 percent and is up 45 percent in 2013.  Resona last week unveiled plans to complete a bailout
repayment in five years. The bank will pay the remaining 872
billion yen it owes to the government by March 2018, it said in
a  statement  on May 10. Resona is among lenders that were rescued
by taxpayers after amassing bad loans in the wake of Japan’s
property and stock-market bubble in the 1990s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  