-- Richemont Chairman Rupert to Take Sabbatical After 25 Years
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-05-16T11:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/richemont-chairman-to-take-sabbatical-after-profit-gains-30-.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  Chairman
and controlling shareholder Johann Rupert will take a year off,
leaving management of the world’s second-biggest luxury-goods
company to a team of  executives  including Cartier’s former CEO.  The stock rose as much as 7.6 percent to a record after the
Geneva-based maker of Montblanc pens and Chloe fashion said it’s
increasing its dividend 82 percent to 1 Swiss franc a share to
mark its 25th anniversary.  Rupert’s leave will put the company in the hands of Co-Chief Executive Officers Richard Lepeu and Bernard Fornas, who
previously ran Cartier. The 62-year-old South African
billionaire ended his third stint as CEO in March after having
taken on the job in 2010 to replace his predecessor who resigned
for health reasons. His sabbatical will start after the annual
shareholders meeting in September.  “There are things I want to see and want to do,” Rupert
said in a call with reporters, adding he may go to Antarctica
and has 50 books he’d like to read. “I have the right to take a
break after 25 years.”  While he is “perfectly healthy” and has stopped smoking,
losing several friends to heart attacks was one factor that
influenced his decision, he said. Rupert said he had to turn
down an offer to attend the  Rugby World Cup  in  New Zealand  in
2011 and has declined offers to go fly-fishing as he didn’t have
four days to spare to learn the sport.  Time Master  “I just want to be the master of my own time for a
while,” he said, adding he will return. “It’s ironic that
someone in the watch business isn’t in control of his time.”  Rupert, whose hobbies include wine-making, golf and vintage
cars, said he’ll stop taking phone calls and leave management to
Fornas, Lepeu and Chief Financial Officer Gary Saage. He gave up
his CEO role to Lepeu and Fornas last month.  The stock traded 6.7 percent higher at 88.05 francs at 1:08
p.m. in Zurich after the company said sales in April rose 13
percent following a 30 percent gain in profit in the 12 months
through March to 2.01 billion euros ($2.6 billion). The shares
have gained 53 percent in the past year, giving the company a
market value of 50.6 billion francs ($52 billion).  “The April number bodes well,” said Rey Wium, an analyst
at  Renaissance Capital  in Johannesburg. His forecast was for
growth in the “mid-single” digits.  New Management  The luxury-goods maker last week named Jerome Lambert to
become CEO of Montblanc, while Daniel Riedo, the industrial
director of the Jaeger-LeCoultre brand, will take Lambert’s
position as head of the watchmaker.  The company owns 19 brands, more than half of which are at
least a century old.  “I would not have taken a year off if I weren’t happy with
my colleagues and what is in the pipeline,” Rupert said.  Richemont is returning cash to shareholders amid a lack of
big takeover targets and as it has more than it needs to invest
in its own businesses, executives said. Net cash totaled 3.18
billion euros at the end of March, compared with 2.59 billion
the same date last year.  Any acquisitions Richemont makes aren’t going to “move the
needle,” Rupert said. The company prefers to invest in its own
brands, for example expanding Piaget in jewelry, rather than
make acquisitions.  The company aims to increase its dividend “steadily over
the long term,” and this year’s increase isn’t a guide for
future ones, CFO Saage said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  