-- Rinehart Urges Costly Australia to Follow Singapore’s Path
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-05-17T04:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/rinehart-urges-costly-australia-to-take-lessons-from-singapore.html
Asia’s richest woman  Gina Rinehart 
said Australia should follow the example of  Singapore ’s former
prime minister to stimulate development of its northern regions.  “The north has the potential to develop beyond our
imaginations,” Rinehart, 59, said in a video presentation to a
mining conference today in Melbourne. “We should learn from the
successful economic policies of Lee Kuan Yew, who transformed
Singapore.”  Rinehart, whose wealth is estimated at $17.1 billion by the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , has been a frequent critic of
taxes on  carbon emissions , coal and iron-ore profits, creating
tensions with Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s
government. Lee, Singapore’s first prime minister, is credited
with transforming his nation from a colonial backwater into
Southeast Asia’s only advanced economy by encouraging foreign
investment and averting corruption.  “ Lee Kuan Yew  kept taxes low, encouraged investment, and
look what happened to our neighbor,” Rinehart said in the
presentation to the Australian Mines and Metals Association.
“Without even any of the natural benefits our north has.”  Rinehart last year said high costs may prompt mining
companies to abandon iron-ore operations in Australia and
criticized her countrymen’s attitude toward work. She has a 15
percent stake in Fairfax Media Ltd., publisher of the Sydney
Morning Herald and The Age newspapers, and has failed to get a
board seat for herself after refusing to sign the publisher’s
Charter of Editorial Independence.  Project Cancellation  Taxes and costs associated with environmental regulations
and regulatory approvals were threatening the viability of major
resources projects in Australia, Rinehart said, citing  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ’s decision to cancel a plan to develop the Browse
liquefied natural gas project at an onshore site on the Western
Australia coast.  Rinehart’s closely-held Hancock Prospecting Pty is
developing the A$10 billion ($9.8 billion) Roy Hill iron ore
mine in Western Australia’s Pilbara region, while companies
including BHP Billiton Ltd. and Glencore Xstrata Plc have
deferred projects amid rising costs and falling prices.  The Roy Hill mine is on schedule to begin production in
2015 even as high costs and an elevated Australian dollar
present challenges, said Ian Plimer, a director at Hancock unit
Roy Hill Holdings Pty.  “All projects have those threats,” Plimer said today in
an interview. “If you are fleet-footed enough and flexible
enough then you can address them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in  Melbourne  at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  