-- Rio Stadium’s Lifetime Ticket Holders Demand Access to World Cup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-16T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/rio-stadium-s-lifetime-ticket-holders-demand-access-to-world-cup.html
The  Rio de Janeiro  stadium that will
host next year’s soccer World Cup final is at the center of a
dispute between a group of spectators who hold lifetime seats
and the city that promised to give the sport’s governing body
complete control over the facility.  The Maracana stadium, an iconic arena that staged the
championship match in 1950 when Brazil also hosted sport’s most-watched event, asked local residents to help fund its completion
before and after that tournament in return for “perpetual
seats.” The agreements dating back several decades guarantee
ticket holders, who pay an annual subscription, access to the
arena for any event staged there.  FIFA  signed accords with the 12 host cities and  Brazil ’s
government that the stadiums used during the 2014 World Cup
effectively become the property of soccer’s governing body for
the duration of the 32-team tournament and next month’s
Confederations Cup, a warmup event. On May 13, a court in Rio
lifted an injunction on the use of the 4,968 seats during FIFA
events at the 79,000-seat Maracana.  The Rio government successfully argued that maintaining the
injunction that would allow perpetual seat holders access to the
stadium for the soccer tournaments would “cause overcrowding of
the stadium, confusion and turmoil at the entrance gates, and
security risks and disturbances in press operations.”  Under Rio’s accord with FIFA, the Zurich-based soccer
organization “has the right to immediately terminate the
agreement” and take back its games if any terms of the
agreement over the use of the stadium is violated, said  a
statement  on the Rio court’s website.  Annual Payment  Seat holders including Jamile Thome, who works for
 Accenture Plc (ACN) , the world’s second-largest technology-consulting
company, said they will continue the fight to get places to the
World Cup, and could take further legal action. Thome said eight
seats have been in her family since her grandparents helped
complete the stadium’s reconstruction several decades ago. Each
seat requires an annual payment of R$740 ($365).  As well as seeing her local soccer team, Flamengo, the
seats at the Maracana have granted Thome access to concerts
featuring The Police, Madonna and the Back Street Boys and even
a visit by the late Pope  John Paul II  in 1997, his second trip
to the stadium.  “When they chose Maracana for the World Cup they knew
these tickets existed,” Thome, 27, said in an interview at a
cafe in the Botafogo neighborhood of Rio. “They can’t pretend
that we don’t exist. They chose a stadium with this kind of
rule, so they have to respect it.”  The seat holders stand a good chance of succeeding with any
appeals, according to Eduardo Carlezzo, a lawyer at Sao Paulo-based Carlezzo Advogados Associados who is not connected with
the case.  Brazilian Law  “There is a rule in the Brazilian legal system which says
that a subsequent law cannot affect the rights legally granted
to a person in accordance with a previous law,” Carlezzo said
in an e-mail. “It means that the right of the owners could not
be affected by a subsequent law.”  Still, seat owners may have to settle for compensation
“considering that the government assumed a commitment with FIFA
to deliver the stadium free of any obligations,” he added.  Thome added that she’s been going to the stadium since she
was first taken there as a 1-year-old, saying, “You could say I
was born in the Maracana.”  Jerome Valcke , FIFA’s general secretary and the official
responsible for the World Cup, yesterday underlined his
organization’s position on the matter.  ‘Clean Stadiums’  “For us it’s normal,” he said at a news conference
following an inspection visit to the Maracana. “What we’re
asking is for clean stadiums when we are organizing World Cups
anywhere in the world.”  The controversy is among the issues that have blighted
preparations to make the venue the centerpiece of the four-yearly championship. The stadium’s reopening after a three-year
refurbishment faced multiple delays, while critics also have
complained about the more than $500 million it cost to get it
ready for the World Cup.  The Maracana, which is scheduled to stage seven matches at
the tournament, set a World Cup-record attendance of 173,850 for
the 1950 final.  Many of its seat holders are professionals and include
lawyers and even a judge who sits on Brazil’s supreme court,
Thome said.  “The government has decided that FIFA is more important
than people who’ve been paying for more than 50 years,” she
said. “It feels so strange not having the possibility to watch
the World Cup in the Maracana from our seats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  