-- ThromboGenics Reports Jetrea Sales as Drug Fails Mid-Stage Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-05-16T17:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/thrombogenics-reports-jetrea-sales-as-drug-fails-mid-stage-study.html
ThromboGenics NV (THR)  reported sales of
its eye drug that reached $10 million after four months on the
U.S. market while saying the treatment failed in a study
targeting an expanded use.  Jetrea, which ThromboGenics started selling in the U.S. in
January, earned $10.2 million through the end of April, the
Heverlee, Belgium-based company said today in a statement. The
company also received milestone payments of 90 million euros
($116 million) from partner  Novartis AG (NOVN)  after the drug’s
European approval and the start of sales in the U.K.,
ThromboGenics said.  The revenue data suggest the company has reached about
2,500 patients, and shows the therapy is on target to reach
about $50 million in full-year sales, said Jan De Kerpel, an
analyst at KBC Securities in Brussels.  “That’s a very good number, that’s what I was hoping to
see,” De Kerpel said in a telephone interview.  ThromboGenics has gained 59 percent in the past year,
 compared  with a 36 percent advance in the BEL 20 Index.  Jetrea won U.S. clearance in October and European approval
in March for use in treating people with vitreomacular adhesion,
or VMA, a condition in which a gel inside the eye that
deteriorates with age sticks too strongly to the retina, harming
vision. The treatment separates the gel from the retina,
restoring sight and averting surgery, which had been the only
treatment.  Failed Study  In a mid-stage trial among patients with VMA who also had
wet age-related macular adhesion, a leading cause of blindness
in the elderly, Jetrea resolved VMA in 24 percent of patients
compared with 12 percent who got a sham injection, ThromboGenics
said in the statement. The difference wasn’t statistically
significant, meaning the result may have been the consequence of
chance. Larger trials to confirm the benefit are warranted, the
company said.  “I would have liked to see some stronger numbers,” De
Kerpel said. “They should do a better designed and better
powered study.”  De Kerpel said he’s interested in seeing results for some
of the trial’s secondary goals such as the degree to which the
patients’ eyesight improved.  About 40 percent of doctors targeted since January have
ordered Jetrea, and half of those re-ordered it, ThromboGenics
said. The company is selling the drug in the U.S. with its own
sales force, and gets royalties on sales in  Europe  from  Basel ,
Switzerland-based Novartis, which bought European rights to the
drug last year in a deal worth as much as 375 million euros.  “We are pleased with the positive reaction to Jetrea from
the U.S. retina community, and are confident that this momentum
will continue,” Chief Executive Officer Patrik De Haes said in
the statement.  About 500,000 people in the U.S. and the major European
markets may benefit from Jetrea, ThromboGenics has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  