-- Rousseff’s Ex-Professor Says Brazil Won’t Let Inflation Return
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-05-16T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/rousseff-s-ex-professor-says-brazil-won-t-let-inflation-return.html
Brazil  runs no risk of stoking
inflation even as the government tries to engineer a rebound in
growth and investment, said  Luciano Coutinho , president of
BNDES, the nation’s development bank.  Coutinho said raising the bank’s  long-term lending rate ,
currently at a record low 5 percent, to align itself with a
tightening cycle started by the central bank would stifle much-needed investment. In addition, price pressures that have kept
inflation hovering near the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
government’s target range are already easing, he said.  “It is easy to kill inflation just by producing a
recession,” Coutinho said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York . “But would that be good for Brazil?
Absolutely not.”  Coutinho’s comments come as speculation mounts that Brazil
is shifting economic policy to loosen fiscal targets in favor of
growth after the resignation this week of a top  Finance Ministry 
official. The Washington-based Eurasia Group, in a report this
week, said the departure of Deputy Finance Minister Nelson Barbosa sends a “poor signal” to investors that opens room for
less transparency in the fiscal accounts.  While Coutinho declined to comment on Barbosa’s exit,
saying only that he was a “valuable” economist, he said Brazil
won’t let spending get out of hand. The Finance Ministry on May
13 said Barbosa was leaving his post in June for personal
reasons.  Latin America ’s biggest  economy  grew 0.9 percent last
year, capping the slowest two years of expansion in a decade.  Checks, Balances  “I don’t see Brazil engaging in excessive fiscal stimulus
because that would require a sharper monetary policy,” said
Coutinho, who is a top adviser to President  Dilma Rousseff , his
former student when he taught economics at Campinas University.  Last year, after slashing taxes and a surge in  lending  by
state banks to reverse the slowdown, the government tapped its
sovereign wealth fund and discounted some infrastructure
investments to raise over 34 billion reais ($17 billion) needed
to meet its budget target.  The government also exempted BNDES from marking to market
losses from its equity investments, a move that enabled it to
pay a bigger dividend to the government.  Investors panned the accounting maneuvers, saying they
bring less transparency to self-imposed fiscal targets that have
been an anchor of price stability for more than a decade.  One reason for the added stress on the budget is because
tax receipts fell at a sharper rate than growth last year and
take a longer time to recover, Coutinho said.  Concerted Effort  Still, the government is making a concerted effort to meet
its primary surplus target, currently equal to 3.1 percent of
gross domestic product, and any issues surrounding that
commitment will be clarified by Finance Minister  Guido Mantega ,
he said.  While the extra stimulus being injected into the economy
contributes to demand pressures in the short-term, over a longer
period lending by BNDES reduces inflationary pressures by
relieving infrastructure bottlenecks that keep costs high for
businesses, Coutinho said. The central bank, which in April
raised its benchmark rate for the first time in almost two
years, to 7.5 percent, has also reacted in time, he said.  He said the two main sources of faster inflation -- higher
food prices and demand for services -- are easing amid a better
harvest this year and a slowdown in the pace of hiring.  “There is no real chance of Brazilian macro policy
indulging with an inflationary cycle,” said Coutinho. “It’s
not a wise thing. And politically speaking, could be absolutely
counterproductive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net 
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  