-- Rupee Forwards Advance as Cooling Inflation May Spur Rate Cuts
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-05-16T12:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/rupee-advances-on-optimism-cooling-inflation-will-spur-rate-cuts.html
India’s rupee forwards strengthened
on optimism easing inflation will allow the central bank to cut
 interest rates  and spur economic growth.  The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  of local shares jumped to its highest
level in more than two years after  Reserve Bank  of India
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said the slowest price increases since
2009 will be factored into policy decisions next month. Global
funds bought a net $12.8 billion of Indian shares in 2013, 45
percent more than a year earlier, exchange data show. Rupee
gains will be limited by the nation’s record current-account
 deficit , according to Edelweiss Financial Advisors Ltd.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.2 percent to
55.73 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts gained 0.2 percent to 55.54.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  The rupee was little changed from yesterday at 54.7850 per
dollar in the  spot market , after advancing as much as 0.2
percent earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The rupee is likely to be rangebound in the near term, as
strong foreign inflows are being partly offset by concerns over
the high  trade gap  and its consequent adverse impact on the
current-account deficit,” analysts at Edelweiss, including
Mumbai-based Vinay Khattar, wrote in a research report today.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 4.89 percent in
April, after a 5.96 percent gain in March, while the trade
deficit increased to a three-month high of $17.8 billion,
official data showed this week.  “We certainly will take note of the softening of inflation
and the external payments situation in the next policy statement
on June 17,” Subbarao said in Frankfurt on May 14.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, was unchanged at 8.36
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  