-- Rupiah Falls to Four-Month Low on Fuel, Finance Minister Concern
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-05-16T08:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/rupiah-falls-to-four-month-low-on-fuel-finance-minister-concern.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah fell to a four-month low and government bonds declined on speculation
uncertainty about the nation’s next finance minister and a plan
to cut fuel subsidies is shaking investor confidence.  The government still hasn’t announced a permanent
replacement for Agus Martowardojo, since Coordinating Minister
for the Economy Hatta Rajasa took over as acting minister on
April 19. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said on April 30
that a proposed increase in fuel prices would be conditional on
parliament approving a compensation package for the poor, which
still hasn’t been released. Global funds sold $115 million more
local stocks than they bought this week through yesterday,
exchange data show.  The rupiah fell 0.6 percent to 9,810 per dollar, the
weakest level since Jan. 10, as of 3:25 p.m. in Jakarta, prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg show. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate
used to price options, rose 10 basis points to 6.28 percent.  “Without decisions on the new finance minister and fuel
policy, the rupiah will continue to be depressed as investors
want certainty,” said Nurul Eti Nurbaeti, head of treasury
research at state-owned PT Bank Negara Indonesia in Jakarta.
“There was some disappointment over the current-account data
yesterday.”  The  shortfall  in the broadest measure of trade narrowed to
$5.27 billion in the three months through March, compared with a
deficit of $7.65 billion in the previous quarter and a $3.1
billion shortfall in the same period last year, central bank
data released yesterday show.  The yield on Indonesia’s bonds maturing in May 2023 rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.54 percent, the
highest since May 7, according to prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association. The rate has increased nine basis points
this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  