-- Russian Economy Probably Grew at Weakest Pace Since 2009
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-05-16T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/russian-economy-probably-grew-at-weakest-pace-since-2009.html
Russia ’s economy probably grew at the
weakest pace since 2009 in the first quarter as investment at
companies including OAO Gazprom cooled and the euro area’s
longest recession hurt demand for commodity exports.  Gross domestic product rose 1.2 percent from a year
earlier, slowing from 2.1 percent in the previous three months,
the fifth quarterly deceleration, according to the median
estimate of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The data are
due from the Federal Statistics Service today or May 20.  The economy of the world’s largest energy exporter is
stumbling as the recession in the euro-area, which accounts for
about half of Russian trade, extended into a sixth quarter.
That’s prompting companies to trim investment, while government
spending on the 2014 Sochi Olympics is drawing to a close and
public-wage growth is slowing after President Vladimir Putin won
a six-year term in elections last year.  “The very worrying thing is fixed investment growth,
especially in the longer run,” Vladimir Miklashevsky, an
economist and trading strategist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said in an
interview in Moscow. “The government and the president are
trying to figure out what they should do.”  Russian  stocks  have underperformed emerging- and developed-market peers, with the  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  down 2.5 percent in the first
three months, compared with a 2 percent decline in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index and a 10 percent advance for the S&P 500.  Currency Drop  The ruble recorded a first-quarter decline for the first
time since 2009, weakening 0.4 percent against the central
bank’s target basket of dollars and euros.  The GDP slowdown prompted the Economy Ministry last month
to cut its 2013 growth forecast to 2.4 percent from 3.7 percent
and last year’s pace of 3.4 percent. The government this week
submitted a draft plan to revive the economy to Putin, with
measures including lowering bank lending rates and slowing
increases in utilities tariffs.  Russia probably won’t slide into recession without an
external shock, such as a downturn in the global economy,
according to Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach . While the
euro zone is stagnating, some improvement there is expected in
the second half, he told reporters yesterday.  “For us, stagnation and low growth are no less of an evil
and no less of a threat,” he said after a government meeting in
Moscow. “Accelerating the pace of growth without starting
serious, national macroeconomic projects is impossible.”  Investment Slump  Fixed investment fell 0.8 percent from a year earlier in
March, the second contraction in four months, according to the
statistics service. Investment by Russia’s biggest
infrastructure companies dropped 10 percent last year and may
tumble 12 percent to 13 percent in 2013, led by Gazprom, Economy
Minister Andrei Belousov said yesterday.  About 40 percent of the slowdown in investment over the
past year is related to global factors, according to Clemens Grafe, chief economist for Russia at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Domestic uncertainty over policies including possible limits on
officials and state company managers holding foreign financial
assets may also have played a role, he said.  The slowdown has set off an argument between the government
and central bank about whether interest rates are to blame. The
 Economy Ministry  has called for lower borrowing costs and higher
investment spending by the state to stimulate domestic demand.
Bank Rossii has argued that unemployment near record lows and
consumer-lending growth at almost 40 percent mean cheaper loans
would only fuel inflation.  Policy Easing  “We’re getting out of the period in the base where you had
big fiscal spending around the election,” Grafe told a news
conference yesterday in Moscow. That will probably help boost
GDP growth to 2.7 percent in the second quarter from a 1.5
percent pace in the previous three months, he said.  Monetary-policy makers led by central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, who steps down next month, have resisted calls to
lower Russia’s key rates as inflation remains more than one
percentage point above their 5 percent to 6 percent target
range. They kept the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent for an
eighth month this week.  “The central bank is likely to start easing monetary
policy in the second half of this year,” Liza Ermolenko, an
 emerging-markets  economist at Capital Economics in  London , said
yesterday by e-mail. “We have penciled in a total of 75 basis
points worth of interest rate cuts by end-2013. That’s one more
reason to expect a rebound in growth over the coming quarters.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  