-- SAP Will More Than Double Investments in Venture-Capital Funds
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-05-16T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/sap-will-more-than-double-investments-in-venture-capital-funds.html
SAP AG (SAP) ’s venture-capital group said
it’s more than doubling investments in early-stage funds as it
seeks increased access to emerging business-software companies.  The SAP Hana Real Time Fund, formed a year ago, is
committing $405 million to invest in venture funds, up from $155
million, the company said today in a statement. That’s in
addition to the $353 million that SAP Ventures has raised to
invest directly in startups.  SAP, the largest maker of business-management software,
spun off SAP Ventures as an independent entity in 2011 to give
the 40-year-old German company a window into innovation in
Silicon Valley and beyond. The Hana fund has invested in 10
venture funds so far, including Ron Conway’s SV Angel and August
Capital in the U.S., Point Nine Capital in Berlin and Magma
Venture Partners in Tel Aviv.  “We’re building a bridge between the SAP ecosystem and the
startup ecosystem,” said Nino Marakovic, chief executive
officer of SAP Ventures, based in Palo Alto,  California .  The name of the fund-of-funds comes from SAP’s Hana
database, which stores data in faster computer memory instead of
on slow disk drives and lets customers handle transaction data
and its analysis in a single system. While SAP Ventures and the
Hana fund are set up to generate financial returns, the
investment group is looking for startups that could benefit from
using the Hana software, Marakovic said.  SAP Ventures manages the Hana fund as well as the growth
fund, which invests in companies. Over the next year to 18
months, the firm will be hiring a business development team of
as many as 15 people to work more closely with portfolio
companies, Marakovic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  