-- Scene Last Night: Hillary Clinton, Murdoch, Harrison Ford
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-05-16T14:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/scene-last-night-hillary-clinton-murdoch-harrison-ford.html
Former Secretary of StateHillary Clinton recalled  Harrison Ford  jumping out from behind a big
potted plant. He wasn’t playing Han Solo or Indiana Jones, but
rather a conservationist handing out a position paper on the
oceans.  “I was there for days,” Ford said of waiting for Clinton
at her far-flung hotel.  “He had moss growing on his hair,” Clinton joked.  The pair stood in front of a wall of moss last night, on
the stage of the Plaza hotel ballroom for  Conservation
International ’s 16th annual  New York  dinner.  Ford, a board member of the Washington-based organization
for more than 20 years, talked with Clinton for 45 minutes.
Topics covered: ocean health in the South Pacific and the
Arctic, potential threats of damming the Mekong River and
African elephants.  “Poaching animals is a huge, international, criminal
enterprise,” Clinton said. “It is no longer taking a tusk to
the nearest market. It’s carried out by highly armed, vicious
bands who come in helicopters wearing night goggles.”  Clinton said she’d like to fight back by helping African
leaders protect their natural resources; she’d also like to
impose more severe U.S. penalties on stores that falsely claim
to sell pre-ban ivory.  Rio, Jefferson  Clinton also mentioned how much she is looking forward to
the  Clinton Global Initiative  Latin America conference in Rio de
Janeiro Dec. 8-10. To avoid any conflicts, the initiative
avoided international events during her term as secretary of
state.  Roger Altman , chairman of  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , said the
statesman Clinton most resembles is  Thomas Jefferson , noting his
foreign service as U.S. minister to  France  and two terms as
president. The crowd applauded at the idea of a Clinton
candidacy.  Peter Seligmann, founder, chairman and CEO of Conservation
International, gave a tribute to former board member Julio Mario Santo Domingo, who died in 2011. He was introduced to
Conservation International by David Rockefeller Sr. and served
on its board for seven years. He also built a beer business and
investments, making his family the second-richest in  Colombia .  “He was the most ram-rod straight person you’ll ever meet.
He asked piercing questions,” Seligmann said.  The patriarch’s two sons offered more personal reflections.  Be Kind  “I learned to keep an open mind and to listen to people,”
said Alejandro Santo Domingo, who runs the family businesses.  “The most important lesson my father gave me is by his
example: Be kind to people, be kind to everything,” said Andres
Santo Domingo, dinner chairman. He also said his father admired
Conservation International for its “pragmatic, science-oriented
approach.”  Others attending:  James Murdoch , deputy chief operating
officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) , and Ian Snow of the private-equity firm
Snow Phipps Group LLC. Designer Oscar de la Renta and his wife,
Annette de la Renta, dined with Clinton on beet ravioli and
poached branzino.  Also among the 450 guests were  Tory Burch  and Huma Abedin.
The event raised $1.5 million.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina, Philip Boroff,
Thomas Mulier and Scott Reyburn on  auctions .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 