-- Scientists Endangered by Budget Cuts, SAIC’s Jumper Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-05-16T21:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/scientists-endangered-by-u-s-budget-cuts-saic-s-jumper-says.html
Scientists and engineers working as
contractors for the U.S. government and military may be the most
vulnerable to across-the-board sequestration cuts, John Jumper,
chief executive officer of  SAIC Inc. (SAI) , said.  “When you start to feel these pressures and it causes you
to have to reduce your workforce, a lot of the people you’re
laying off are scientists and engineers,” Jumper said in an
interview in Washington. “These are people who have grown up as
engineers and scientist in the defense or government service
that are now the most vulnerable to being laid off.”  U.S. vendors including SAIC are dealing with the effects of
automatic spending cuts known as sequestration even as federal
contract spending has slowed. The government spent $516 billion
on contracts in fiscal 2012, down from $533 billion a year
earlier.  Under sequestration, the  Department of Defense  will cut $37
billion in spending in the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30. The
Pentagon said this week that budget cuts will trigger 11 days of
unpaid leave for approximately 680,000 civilian workers.  SAIC, the seventh-largest government contractor, provides
engineering and technology services. The McLean, Virginia-based
company is in the process of splitting into publicly traded
companies: SAIC, which will focus on technical services and
 information technology , and Leidos, which will handle national
security, health and engineering.  Shares Surge  SAIC, which has surged 34 percent this year, extended its
gains for a third day to $15.32 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York 
trading.  Jumper will head Leidos as chairman and CEO, and SAIC Chief
Operating Officer Stu Shea will act as president and COO.  Both executives said today that SAIC hasn’t received enough
guidance from the Pentagon and other agencies to predict which
programs or contracts may lose funding. They said the National
Security Agency is the only office that has been able to provide
them with clear examples of program cuts.  “I liken it to standing blindfolded in the middle of the
interstate highway,” Jumper said. “You don’t know what hits
you until it hits you and you take your blindfold off.”  The uncertainty over funding levels may lead scientists and
engineers to stop working on government and military projects,
Shea said. “They say, ‘I’m not going back to that risky
environment.’ We may not get them back,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in  Washington  at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  