-- Sebelius Limited Fundraising For Health Law to Two Calls
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-05-16T15:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/sebelius-limited-fundraising-for-health-law-to-two-calls.html
The U.S. health secretary’s
solicitation of money from companies to promote the Affordable
Care Act ended after two phone calls, to  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  and the
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, according to her spokesman.  Enroll America, a nonprofit promoting the 2010 health law
had asked Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius 
to help raise money from a longer list of companies. Sebelius
solicited two for money, and only asked the others for technical
advice and nonfinancial support because they were regulated by
her department, said Jason Young a spokesman for the agency.  Sebelius’s activities are under investigation by  House
Republicans , who unanimously opposed passage of the Affordable
Care Act and have tried at least 37 times to repeal all or part
of the law. Sebelius has had to be creative in implementing the
law as Congress repeatedly rejects her requests for more money
and some Republican governors refuse to cooperate.  “She has encouraged the sharing of strategic insights,
technical expertise, marketing know-how and community-based
experiences to help nonprofits like Enroll America in
effectively reaching and working with uninsured Americans,”
Young said by telephone. He added in an e-mail that Sebelius has
made “no fundraising requests to entities regulated by HHS.”  Young said in his e-mail that Sebelius has “engaged in a
dialogue” with 18 categories of individuals and organizations
since January about how they can “join the public-private
effort to help uninsured Americans take advantage” of the
health law. The only companies he named were tax preparation
business H&R Block and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.  $14 Million  H&R Block, the biggest U.S. tax-preparation firm, declined
to discuss in detail any connection to Enroll America. The
 Kansas City , Missouri-based company has been trying to make a
business of advising clients on how to best comply with the
health law, which requires most Americans to carry medical
insurance or pay a tax penalty starting in 2014.  “Since the Affordable Care Act became law, we have been
working on behalf of our clients to understand what the law
means for them,”  Gene King , a company spokesman, said in a May
14 e-mail. “We have not made any decision to join any specific
advocacy or other health-care organization nor reached agreement
on any amount we would contribute to any specific group.”  The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, a $9 billion
philanthropy devoted to public health, has contributed $14
million to Enroll America since 2010, Christine Clayton, a
spokeswoman for the Princeton, New Jersey-based nonprofit, said
in a May 14 e-mail.  Consumer Options  Ron Pollack , the executive director of the consumer
advocacy group Families USA, began organizing Enroll America in
2010 as a coalition of health insurers, drug companies and other
organizations to help people take advantage of the health law’s
programs. The board includes people from  Kaiser Permanente , the
Oakland, California-based nonprofit insurer and hospital chain,
and Israeli drugmaker  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)   “Enroll America is focused on making sure the millions of
families, young adults, and other consumers who will be eligible
to enroll in a health care plan starting this fall have the
information they need to evaluate their options and make the
decision that is right for their budget and situation,”
President Anne Filipic said in an e-mail. “We’re working with a
broad range of organizations --- including consumer advocates,
companies, and other stakeholders.”  Beginning Oct. 1, new health-insurance marketplaces will
open in every state to sell coverage to people who don’t get it
at work, often with government subsidies to reduce the cost. The
health law will also expand some state Medicaid programs, which
cover people living in or near poverty.  HHS Mission  The organizations Sebelius has talked with include health
insurers, drug companies, pharmacies, hospitals, media
companies, telecommunications firms, restaurants and the
entertainment industry, Young said.  “Part of our mission is to help uninsured Americans take
advantage of new quality, affordable insurance options that are
coming, thanks to the health law,” Young said in an e-mail.  Sebelius’s department maintains that her solicitations,
both for money and nonfinancial help, are authorized under a
federal law, the Public Health Service Act. Past health
secretaries have used their authority under the law to seek
private-sector support for initiatives including the addition of
a prescription drug benefit to Medicare in 2003 and the creation
of the Children’s Health Insurance Program in the late 1990s,
Young said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  