-- SEC’s White Rebuffs Call to Forswear Political Spending Rule
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-05-17T01:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/sec-s-white-rebuffs-call-to-swear-off-rule-on-political-spending.html
Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman Mary Jo White rebuffed calls by  House Republicans  to
forswear a rule that would force public companies to disclose
political spending, saying she won’t “prejudge the issue.”  Responding to lawmakers who pressed her on the matter at a
Financial Services subcommittee oversight hearing today, White
said the SEC’s staff is reviewing a 2011 petition for such a
rule signed by a group of prominent law professors.  “No one is working on a proposal now,” she said.  The agency’s rulemaking agenda indicates it is studying
whether to propose a rule. Republicans urged White to swear off
any action on the issue, calling it a partisan undertaking that
would hurt the SEC’s credibility as a regulator.  Debate over corporate political spending gained attention
after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in a 2010 case known as
 Citizens United  that companies and unions could spend unlimited
money on election ads. More than 500,000 comments have been
filed in response to the petition, which is supported by the
Council of Institutional Investors and the American Federation
of State, County and Municipal Employees.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other large business
groups oppose the call for a rule.  “These types of political witch-hunts will only poison the
well and make achieving your other priorities all the more
difficult,” said Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey
Republican.  Selective Screening  Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the Texas Republican who
leads the Financial Services Committee, sought to tie the issue
to the furor surrounding the  Internal Revenue Service ’s
selective screening of nonprofit groups with ties to the Tea
Party movement, which caused the resignation yesterday of the
IRS’s acting commissioner.  “This rulemaking is well-known to be part of a partisan
political agenda of labor union bosses,  George Soros  and
assorted leftist groups who conveniently would not have to abide
by the rule,” Hensarling said.  The SEC has three statutory purposes -- protecting
investors; maintaining fair, orderly and efficient markets, and
facilitating capital formation, Hensarling said.  “That is why it is most disturbing to many of us to
realize that while the SEC has missed numerous mandatory
rulemaking deadlines, it is devoting time and resources to a
discretionary rulemaking and more specifically, a highly
controversial discretionary rule,” he said.  Cost-Benefit Analysis  White told lawmakers that a House bill that would mandate
how the SEC uses cost-benefit analysis would create new risks
for agency rule-writers. The legislation would require the SEC
to review existing rules on a regular basis and judge whether
they are outmoded or should be changed.  “That pops out to me as creating uncertainty for the
market and putting the rules under constant challenge,” White
said. “That would create a lot of litigation that would
undermine our ability to do our job.”  The House is scheduled to vote tomorrow on the bill, which
President  Barack Obama ’s administration has said it opposes.  The SEC issued new guidance to inform its economic analysis
in March 2012, eight months after the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the  District of Columbia  invalidated an agency rule citing
inadequate economic review.  A report sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce, issued in
March, said the SEC’s 2012 guidance should be an example for
other financial regulators. The Government Accountability Office
wrote in December that the SEC had improved its use of economic
analysis in rule-writing policies.  Tick Size  Lawmakers also pressed White to explain the SEC’s plan for
a pilot to test wider tick sizes for small stocks. The regulator
held a roundtable in February that solicited views on how to
build a pilot program.  Proponents of widening tick sizes, or the minimum quoting
increment for bids and offers, say it would encourage more
interest in lightly traded stocks.  “We’re sort of looking at whether there should be one or
more pilot programs in order to further that, and that decision
ought to be made pretty quickly,” White said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  