-- Senate Confirms MIT’s Moniz as Obama’s Energy Secretary
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-17T17:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/senate-confirms-mit-s-moniz-as-obama-s-energy-secretary.html
(Corrects loan amount to Solyndra in ninth paragraph.)  Physicist Ernest Moniz won Senate
confirmation to lead the Energy Department and help direct
clean-energy investments while deciding how much of the U.S.’s
natural gas bounty should be exported.  The Senate voted 97-0 for Moniz, who ran an energy research
institute while at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and
served on a blue ribbon panel studying nuclear waste issues
during President  Barack Obama ’s first term.  Obama has now filled two of three open slots to run U.S.
agencies responsible for implementing his energy and
environmental agenda. The Senate last month confirmed Sally Jewell, a former chief executive of an outdoors equipment
outfitter, as Interior secretary. Gina McCarthy’s nomination to
lead the Environmental Protection Agency has run into resistance
from Republicans.  Moniz will “be an outstanding secretary of energy, and we
look forward to working with him,” Senator  Lindsey Graham , a
South Carolina Republican, said before the vote.  Graham had placed a hold on Moniz’s nomination because of
an administration decision to suspend work on a South Carolina
plutonium processing plant beset by cost overruns.  Senator  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon , the Democratic chairman of the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said Moniz was
smart, savvy and “solution oriented” and understood how the
Energy Department worked.  Chu Replacement  Moniz, 68, served as Energy Department under secretary from
2007-2011. He replaces Steven Chu, also a physics professor
before joining the administration in 2009.  Chu was credited with setting up the Advanced Research
Projects Agency -- Energy and for overseeing a multi billion-dollar increase in clean-energy investment funded by 2009
economic stimulus spending.  Not all the federal spending has paid dividends.
Republicans criticized Chu for backing companies including
Solyndra LLC, a solar-panel maker in  California  that went
bankrupt after the U.S. backed more than $500 million in loans.  Moniz will take over management of the clean-energy loan
program, including an $8.3 billion guarantee under review for
Southern Co.’s Vogtle nuclear power plant.  One of Moniz’s first decisions probably will be on whether
to approve applications to build terminals to export liquefied
natural gas to nations including Japan that don’t have free-trade deals with the U.S.  The U.S. has about 20 applications for export facilities
under review.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  has argued that the U.S.
shouldn’t approve significant exports because it could raise
domestic prices for gas, which it uses as an ingredient for its
products.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  has said the market should determine how
much is sold overseas, and that exports will create jobs and
lower the  U.S. trade deficit .  The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee voted
10-8 along party lines earlier today to send McCarthy’s
nomination to the full Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  