-- Serbia’s January-April Budget Gap Hits 62% of Full-Year Target
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-05-16T14:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/serbia-s-january-april-budget-gap-hits-62-of-full-year-target.html
Serbia ’s budget gap reached 62.3
percent of the full-year target in the four months through April
as social-benefit payments doubled and payments of interest
rates on past debt more than tripled.  The central government’s deficit expanded to 75.9 billion
dinars ($883.7 million) compared with a 122 billion-dinar
shortfall planned for the entire year. The consolidated gap,
which includes both central and local governments, totaled 60.79
billion dinars in the first four months, the Finance Ministry in
Belgrade said on its website today.  The full-year target corresponds to 3.6 percent of economic
output, compared with 6.7 percent in 2012. Finance Minister
Mladjan Dinkic said on May 10 the gap will likely be 4.5 percent
of gross domestic product and his ministry has proposed spending
cuts equivalent to one percentage point of GDP to achieve the
goal.  The deficit of 49.8 billion dinars in the first three
months through March was equivalent to almost 6 percent of
quarterly GDP.  The budget figures were released before the International
Monetary Fund wraps up its two-week mission to Serbia to check
the health of the economy as part of the periodical Article IV
consultation. No loan agreement will be discussed, IMF resident
representative Bogdan Lissovolik said on May 7.  Serbia had two months to agree on fiscal policy goals that
would have paved the way for the start of talks on a new loan
with the IMF.  Prime Minister Ivica Dacic’s Cabinet, in office since last
July, needs to curb budget spending to keep its fiscal deficit
broadly within target. The IMF loan would have unlocked budget
support loans from the World Bank and  Russia , worth a combined
$600 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  