-- Severe Storms May Strike From Illinois to Texas Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-05-16T20:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/severe-storms-may-strike-from-illinois-to-texas-next-week.html
A round of destructive weather is
expected to strike an area from  Illinois  to Texas next week,
according to the U.S.  Storm Prediction Center .  Damaging winds, large hail and tornadoes may develop across
the region on May 19 and May 20, said the storm center in
Norman, Oklahoma. A storm that tore through Texas yesterday
spawned 10 tornadoes that left at least six people dead, seven
missing and 35 injured, according to the  Associated Press .  The new system may start with severe thunderstorms across
parts of South Dakota and  Nebraska  in two days, said Bill Bunting, chief of operations at the storm center.  “Sunday and Monday, it really becomes more widespread,”
Bunting said by telephone. “Strong tornadoes are not out of the
question Sunday and Monday.”  At least one of yesterday’s tornadoes is believed to have
been an EF-4, the second-strongest on the  Enhanced Fujita scale ,
according to the  National Weather Service  in Fort Worth, Texas.  Tornadoes over the weekend may be EF-2 or stronger, Bunting
said. An EF-2 tornado can produce three-second gusts of at least
111 miles (179 kilometers) per hour, the storm center said.  A severe thunderstorm watch was issued today for parts of
Nebraska and Kansas. Winds of 70 miles per hour and 2-inch (5-centimeter) hail are possible.  These storms and yesterday’s tornadoes are unrelated to the
impending weekend system, Bunting said.  ‘Tremendous Volatility’  “Yesterday was a reminder that when the right conditions
come together at the right time, the atmosphere is capable of
tremendous volatility,” he said.  About 11.2 million people live in the potential path of the
May 19 storms, an area that includes  Oklahoma City  and Tulsa,
Oklahoma, and Omaha, Nebraska. On May 20, the threat zone
expands to include Fort Worth and  St. Louis .  While the storm center’s forecast looks ahead only to May
20, Jack Boston, expert senior meteorologist with  AccuWeather
Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania,  said he expects severe
weather in the central U.S. through the week.  “We are going into a pattern that is more favorable for
severe weather,” Boston said. “Yesterday was the first sign of
the change that is taking place.”  Boston said this spring hasn’t had as much severe weather
as past years because warm, moist air from the  Gulf of Mexico 
has been prevented from spreading into the Great Plains.  Severe thunderstorms and damaging winds next week may reach
all the way to Chicago and  Milwaukee , he said, adding that the
weather is more likely to include thunderstorms and damaging
winds than a major outbreak of tornadoes.  Bunting said if the storms do continue through the week,
each day the area affected will move farther to the east, into
the Mississippi and Ohio River valleys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  