-- Shanghai Protests Force Battery-Maker to Abandon Factory
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-16T10:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/shanghai-protests-force-battery-maker-to-abandon-factory-plans.html
Protests in  Shanghai  forced a
battery-maker to abandon plans for a factory on the outskirts of
the city, in a victory for citizens wary of assurances that such
projects won’t pollute the environment.  Shanghai Guoxuan New Energy Co. will give up its investment
and return the land for the factory to the government, the
company said in a statement on the Songjiang district website
yesterday. It was responding to environmental concerns over the
production of lithium-iron phosphate batteries, according to a
separate statement on the district’s environment bureau website.  The protests reflect concerns among ordinary Chinese  about
the environmental costs of economic growth, which averaged 10.6
percent in the last decade. Further underscoring tensions,
hundreds of residents took to the streets of the city of Kunming
today to protest plans for a petrochemical plant, according to
the  South China Morning Post .  Pollution has replaced land disputes as the main cause of
social unrest in the country, Chen Jiping, a former leading
member of the Communist Party’s Committee of Political and
Legislative Affairs, told Bloomberg in March.  While an official environmental impact study showed the
battery project in Songjiang would cause little air or water
pollution, concerned residents began organizing protests last
month, the China Daily newspaper reported today.  Shanghai Guoxuan is a subsidiary of Hefei Guoxuan High-Tech
Power Energy Co.  Today’s protests in Kunming saw demonstrators shout “Get
out, refinery” and throw water bottles at police as they
demanded that state-owned China National Petroleum Corp. abandon
plans for  a chemical plant , the South China Morning Post
reported. Previous protests on May 4 in Kunming led the local
government to promise to cancel the project if “most of our
citizens say no to it,” the official Xinhua News Agency
reported May 10, citing Mayor Li Wenrong.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  