-- Shell to Start Iraq Oil Output Amid Plans for Saudi Investments
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-05-16T10:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/shell-to-start-iraq-oil-output-amid-plans-for-saudi-investments.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  will start
producing crude at Iraq’s Majnoon oil field as early as next
month and plans to increase energy investments in Saudi Arabia,
its regional vice president said.  Output from Majnoon, one of Iraq’s largest oil fields, will
start “around mid-year” and increase to 175,000 barrels a day
by the end of 2013, Mounir Bouaziz said in an e-mailed response
to questions. In Saudi Arabia, Shell is holding talks with
officials on a project to develop natural gas from the kingdom’s
Kidan field in the Rub al-Khali, or Empty Quarter, he said.  “Our discussions with our joint venture partner cannot
contractually be disclosed, but I can reiterate that Shell is
committed to the kingdom and we are keen to grow our investments
both upstream and downstream,” he said.  Saudi Arabia is the world’s biggest oil exporter.  Iraq ,
which holds the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves, overtook
 Iran  last year to become the top producer, after Saudi Arabia,
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Shell has faced “teething problems” at Majnoon, mainly
due to the unexpected quantities of unexploded munitions at the
field, customs-related delays of imported equipment and slow
processing of entry visas, Bouaziz said. “However, what is
encouraging is that we do see real improvements in these
administrative processes.”  Field’s Operator  Shell is lead operator of Majnoon, with a 45 percent share,
while  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd, known as Petronas, has
a 30 percent stake and Iraq’s government holds the remainder.
The field straddling the southern provinces of Basra and Maysan
contains estimated reserves of 12 billion barrels of crude and
9.5 trillion cubic feet of gas.  Shell is in “exploratory discussions” with the Iraqi
government about the target for oil output at Majnoon, Bouaziz
said. Iraq agreed in January with  Lukoil OAO (LKOH)  to cut targeted
production at the West Qurna-2 field, where Lukoil is the
operator. The government is also in talks with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and  Eni SpA (ENI)  to reduce targeted output at West Qurna-1 and
Zubair, respectively.  Whether the discussions result in a reduced plateau, “it
is important that the government keeps up with its efforts to
provide an enabling environment for the oil and gas
investments,” he said.  Associated Gas  Shell and its partner  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  started operations
on May 1 at a $17 billion joint venture for salvaging gas from
fields in southern Iraq. The venture, Basrah Gas Co., is now
capturing 400 million cubic feet a day of so-called associated
gas, which occurs together with crude, Bouaziz said. Iraq
estimates that it’s losing millions of dollars by flaring off
some 700 million cubic feet of gas because it lacks facilities
to store and sell the fuel.  Basrah Gas will start within 18 months exporting liquefied
petroleum gas, which is used for cooking and heating homes, he
said. Iraq currently imports 500 metric tons to 1,000 tons of
LPG a day, while it flares 4,000 tons daily, Bouaziz said.  The venture may eventually produce liquified natural gas.  “Considering the amount of gas that will be produced in
Iraq, it is very likely that the Basrah Gas Co. LNG project will
be needed,” he said. A final decision would be up to state-owned South Gas Co., the venture’s majority shareholder, Bouaziz
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  