-- Sibanye Leads Gold Stock Sell-Off: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-05-20T12:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/sibanye-leads-gold-stock-sell-off-on-unrest-johannesburg-mover.html
(Corrects to show Sibanye was spun off from Gold Fields in
sixth paragraph in story originally published on May 16.)  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL)  led losses among
South African gold producers as work stoppages at the country’s
platinum mines stoked investor concern that renewed labor unrest
will curb output.  The stock fell to a record low, the worst performer on the
166-member  FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index (JALSH) , which today rose 1
percent to a record.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) , Africa’s third-largest producer, extended its decline as the biggest loser on
the gauge this year.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-biggest gold miner, slid to its lowest since April 18.  Mineworkers on May 14 began a strike that shut  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s
Marikana platinum mine, where about 34 workers were killed in an
Aug. 16 clash with police, igniting concern the unrest will
spread. Strain is also being placed on  South Africa ’s power
system as Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., which generates about 95
percent of the nation’s electricity, deferred upkeep on some
aging plants to the current winter months.  “The industry in South Africa is enduring something of a
perfect storm,” Ryan Wibberley, a Cape Town-based trader at
Investec Asset Management, said in an e-mailed response. Lower
metal prices, looming wage negotiations in the  mining industry 
and government “meddling” with Anglo American Platinum Ltd.’s
plans to close shafts and cut jobs are also weighing on
sentiment, he said.  Revising Cuts  Amplats, as the Anglo American Plc unit is known, last week
said it was revising a proposal to cut as many as 14,000 jobs at
its South African operations, reducing the number to 6,000 after
the government intervened. The  National Union of Mineworkers 
will demand pay increases of more than 10 percent when
negotiating with the Chamber of Mines, the labor union’s
secretary-general, Frans Baleni, said April 28. Talks are due to
begin next month, the Johannesburg-based chamber said May 8.  Sibanye, which runs Africa’s largest gold operation,  fell 
7.8 percent to 7.45 rand in Johannesburg, the lowest since it
started trading on Feb. 12 after being spun out of  Gold Fields
Ltd. (GFI)  About 6.3 million shares traded, 76 percent of the three-month daily average.  Harmony  declined  1.7 percent to 38.34 rand, its worst level
since May 2005, and extending its losses this year to 48
percent, with share volumes reaching 1.3 times the three-month
daily average. AngloGold, the third-worst performer on the all-share index after Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd., decreased 0.4
percent to 164.50 rand.  The spot price of gold dropped 0.3 percent to $1,388.30 by
6:06 p.m. in Johannesburg, extending its losses for a sixth day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  