-- Singh’s Growth Push Imperiled as Graft Scandals Rattle: Economy
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-05-17T12:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/singh-s-growth-push-imperiled-as-graft-claims-slow-policy-making.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s latest skirmish with corruption risks setting back
efforts to spur growth, worsening a legislative logjam under a
government set to pass the fewest bills ever in a full term.  Singh, 80, is grappling with renewed allegations that he
has allowed corruption to fester after separate graft probes led
to the May 10 dismissal of the law and railways ministers.
 Parliament  ended two days early last week as opposition parties
demanding the men’s resignation blocked proceedings, with
proposals to open up the country’s pension and insurance
industries to overseas investment still stalled.  At stake is Singh’s ability to extend an eight-month push
to revive  Asia ’s No. 3  economy  that included allowing more
foreign investment in aviation and retail, measures for which
parliamentary approval weren’t required. With just the monsoon
and winter sessions left this year before a general election in
2014 and  India ’s expansion at a decade low, the government is
running out of time to complete its legislative agenda.  “This is going to hinder the economy’s recovery,” said
R.K. Gupta, New Delhi-based managing director at Taurus Asset
Management Co. “The chances of any meaningful reforms before
the elections are gone, that is almost a forgone conclusion
now.”  Since Singh’s Congress party won re-election in 2009, the
ruling coalition has passed 158 out of 194 bills introduced, on
course for the least of any government serving a full five-year
term, according to Parliament figures. The coalition has to pass
89 bills in its remaining time, more than half the number
achieved in the past thirteen sessions, to even match Congress’s
previous term, then the worst legislative record since
independence in 1947.  Rupee Declines  Almost 51 percent of the scheduled budget session of
Parliament’s lower house didn’t take place because of
disruptions, according to PRS Legislative Research.  The rupee has declined 2 percent this month to 54.885 a
dollar. India’s gross domestic product rose 5 percent in the
year ended March, the least since 2003, according to an estimate
from the statistics agency. Moderating investment, an extended
fight against inflation and a drop in exports hurt the economy’s
expansion.  The economy probably expanded 4.9 percent last quarter from
a year earlier, after growing 4.5 percent in the previous three-month period, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
 survey  before data due later this month.  “All these corruption issues must be a net negative for
the reform process and for the short-term growth prospects,”
said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , a Singapore-based economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG. “Spending ministries become more
cautious and it is creating a lot of noise which is distracting
the parliament from the structural reform measures.”  Six Ministers  Congress party chief  Sonia Gandhi  forced Singh to seek the
exit of the two ministers from his council, the Indian Express
reported on May 11. The president’s office issued a brief
statement the same day saying on Singh’s advice, President
 Pranab Mukherjee  accepted the resignations.  Rail Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal resigned after the  Central
Bureau of Investigation  earlier this month arrested a member of
his family on charges he accepted money to help secure an
official a top post in the rail department. Law Minister Ashwani Kumar quit after the CBI told India’s top court last month that
he was among officials who vetted a probe report on allocation
of coal mines and altered its contents. Both men deny any
wrongdoing.  Over the last four years, at least six ministers have
resigned after being accused in corruption cases, with the
opposition parties claiming this is the most graft-ridden
government in India’s history.  Chidambaram Roadshows  The scandals threaten to undermine progress made by Singh’s
administration since September to spur expansion and avert a
credit-rating downgrade. The steps included trimming the budget
shortfall, opening the retail and aviation industries to more
investment from abroad and reducing a levy on foreign investors
in local bonds.  Proposals for India’s biggest opening to foreign investment
since the 1990s may be ready in June, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram signaled in an interview last month. The
minister said then plans to ease caps on foreign direct
investment could be submitted to the Cabinet as early as June,
and that he had urged the opposition to back pending legislation
to open the  insurance industry  further and allow overseas
involvement in pensions.  The finance minister has traveled to major financial
centers including  New York ,  London  and  Tokyo  this year,
spearheading efforts to attract foreign investment in a bid to
bridge the current-account deficit.  ‘Short Memories’  He is under pressure to prevent a recurrence of the 1991
financing crisis, which prompted India to pledge gold as
collateral for a loan from the  International Monetary Fund  after
foreign reserves slid. The country devalued the rupee then,
tackled government monopolies, cut tax rates and let foreign
companies take majority stakes in sectors including automobiles
and pharmaceuticals to rescue the economy.  “Ultimately people have short memories and we are
potentially a year away from the next election,” said Satish Misra, an analyst at the Observer Research Foundation, a policy
group based in New Delhi. “Congress knows if they bring
inflation down and get the engine of the economy going the
damage of the last few years will be greatly reduced.”  Standard & Poor’s  Standard & Poor’s  today affirmed its BBB- long-term
sovereign-credit rating on India while keeping the outlook on
the rating negative.  “India’s external position remains resilient despite a
deterioration in the past two years,” S&P credit analyst
Takahira Ogawa said in a statement. “High fiscal deficits and a
heavy government debt burden remain the most significant
constraints on our sovereign ratings on India,” the company
said.  Compared to a year ago, while there’s some easing of
pressure toward a downgrade, there’s more-than one third chance
for a reduction unless India shows “a significant improvement
in the macro economy, fiscal policy and structural reform,”
Ogawa said in a conference call today.  “The current negative outlook will change to stable if the
government could have stronger commitment to fiscal
consolidation,” Ogawa said on the call.  Elsewhere in Asia today, Singapore exports fell less than
economists estimated in April, while  Japan  reported machine
orders rebounded in March. Data in  Europe  showed the region’s
construction output fell in March. In the U.S., confidence among
consumers probably rose this month, economists forecast before
the release of the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at   rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  