-- Singapore Court Told Todd Depressed Without Suicide Signs
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-05-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/singapore-court-told-todd-was-depressed-without-suicidal-signs.html
Shane Todd, a U.S. research engineer
found hanged in his  Singapore  apartment, suffered from
depression without appearing suicidal about two months before he
died, according to a psychiatrist who treated him.  “He had a lot of worrying thoughts that he could not
control,” Nelson Lee, the psychiatrist who saw Todd in April
2012, told a coroner’s inquest at the Singapore subordinate
court yesterday. “He did not feel that life had no meaning.”  Todd had “moderate severity” major depressive disorder
and was prescribed anti-depressant pills, Lee said. The American
had complained about his struggles with work stress, hand
tremors and palpitations, the psychiatrist said.  Singapore opened the  inquiry  after the Todd family said
their son was murdered, disputing an initial police finding that
he committed suicide by hanging. The Asian city’s government
lawyers have requested the family provide evidence and
information to support their hypothesis on Todd’s death.  Todd, 31 when he died in June, visited suicide-related
websites days before he was found hanging from a door in his
apartment, Tai Wei Shyong, a senior state counsel, said May 13.
A two-page suicide letter to family and friends was also found
on Todd’s laptop.  Todd was making preparations to return to the U.S.,
including selling some of his possessions, paying off debt and
packing, Raymond Lam, a lawyer for the Todd family, said in
court yesterday. He was also planning a holiday and received a
job offer days before he was found dead, Lam said, suggesting
these were signs that Todd wasn’t suicidal.  Todd’s father Rick has said his son’s death may have been
tied to his work at the Singapore’s  Institute of
Microelectronics  and connected to transfers of technology to
 China .  The Coroner’s Inquiry is Shane Truman Todd. CI002014 of
2012. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  