-- Sinopec Engineering Said to Raise $1.8 Billion in IPO
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2013-05-16T08:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/sinopec-engineering-said-to-raise-1-8-billion-in-hong-kong-ipo.html
Sinopec Engineering Group Co. (2386) , a unit
of China’s biggest refiner, raised $1.8 billion in Hong Kong’s
largest initial public offering this year.  The Beijing-based unit of China Petrochemical Corp. sold
1.33 billion shares at HK$10.50 each, near the low end of a
marketed range, said two people with knowledge of the matter.
The final price values the company at about 9.6 times estimated
2013 earnings, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified as the information is private.  The sale brings the value of Hong Kong IPOs in May to $2.9
billion, the highest monthly total since November, when People’s
Insurance Company (Group) of China Ltd. raised $3.6 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Hong Kong’s stock  benchmark  has
risen 7 percent in four weeks, reversing a decline that
diminished appetite for new stocks in the city.  “Market sentiment has improved and bankers say things are
way better than six months ago,” said Philippe Espinasse, a
former equity capital markets banker at UBS AG and Nomura
Holdings Inc. “Sinopec Engineering has gone well with high-quality demand by institutional investors and is reasonably
priced.”  Companies raised $1.1 billion from initial share sales in
Hong Kong in the first quarter, the least since early 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  It was a sign of improving investor confidence that Galaxy
Securities Co. increased the retail portion of its $1.1 billion
IPO to 30 percent from the usual 10 percent, Espinasse said.
Galaxy set the price for that sale yesterday.  Cornerstone Cancellation  Sinopec Engineering  completed the sale even as China
Shipping (Hong Kong) Holdings Co., the largest cornerstone
investor in the deal, has yet to obtain regulatory approval and
may have to cancel the $100 million investment, three people
with knowledge of the matter said.  The final allocation of Sinopec Engineering’s shares will
be announced by May 22, according to the IPO  prospectus , and
trading will begin the next day. The need for China Shipping to
obtain regulatory approval was noted in the sales document.  Clearance from the State-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission is needed for an overseas investment
unrelated to China Shipping’s core business, two of the people
said, asking not to be identified as the information is private.
 China  Shipping, a unit of China Shipping (Group) Co., may still
be able to make the investment if it obtains the approval, the
people said.  ‘Fairly Valued’  Sinopec Engineering isn’t aware of any information
inconsistent with the prospectus, a Hong Kong-based external
spokeswoman for the company said, when asked about China
Shipping’s potential cancellation. The spokeswoman declined to
comment on the final IPO price.  A Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for China Shipping declined
to comment.  Sinopec Engineering’s shares were originally offered at
HK$9.80 to HK$13.10 each, according to the prospectus. The
offering range was narrowed to HK$10.50 to HK$11 a share, people
with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  “This company should see stable growth going forward,”
said Shi Yan, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in  Shanghai . “You
could call it a defensive pick and it seems to be fairly
valued.”  Aerospace Science & Technology Finance Co. and China Export
& Credit Insurance Corp. are also cornerstone investors in the
offering with planned purchases of $50 million each. Only China
Shipping’s investment was flagged in the prospectus as needing
regulatory approval.  Cornerstone investors typically agree to hold the shares
for a certain period of time, in exchange for a guaranteed
allocation in the sale.  Wison Engineering Services Co. (2236) , a Chinese provider of
engineering and construction services for the petrochemical
industry, raised $239 million from a Hong Kong IPO in December.
The company has  rallied  about 49 percent from its offer price
and trades at  11.3 times  estimated 2013 profit, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  