-- Six Killed in Kabul Bombing Targeting Foreign Military Advisers
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-05-16T08:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/six-killed-in-kabul-bombing-targeting-foreign-military-advisers.html
A suicide car bomber killed at least
six civilians and wounded 35 people in an attack that targeted
advisers to foreign troops in  Afghanistan  as they traveled in a
convoy through the nation’s capital.  Hizb-e-Islami, a guerrilla group led by a former Afghan
prime minister, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, and allied to the Taliban,
claimed responsibility for the attack. The aim was “to kill
American advisers,” the group’s spokesman, Haroon Zarghoon,
said on the phone from an undisclosed location.  The bomber struck at about 8 a.m. near the house of a
member of parliament in the eastern part of Kabul, Mohammad Ayub
Salangi, the city’s police chief, said in a telephone interview.
The death toll is likely to rise and military advisers are among
those injured, Salangi said.  This was the first major blast in Kabul since early March
when a Taliban suicide bomber killed nine people outside the
Afghanistan defense ministry during a visit to the city by U.S.
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel.  Hostilities by the Taliban and other insurgents escalated
in the first three months of the year as the spring fighting
season began. Attacks  increased  47 percent in the first quarter
of the year, the Afghanistan NGO Safety Office, an organization
that provides advice to aid agencies in the country, said in a
report last month.  Major Bryan Woods, a spokesman for the U.S.-led
International Security Assistance Force, said the incident was
being investigated, without elaborating.  President  Barack Obama  has said a bulk of the 66,000 U.S.
forces now in Afghanistan will return home by the end of 2014,
after which a smaller number of troops may continue to train and
advise Afghan forces and carry out counter-terrorism operations.
While he hasn’t yet said how many U.S. troops will remain after
2014, the U.S. has indicated that about 8,000 to 12,000 allied
troops are likely to stay.  -- With assistance from Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi. Editors:
Sam Nagarajan, Mark Williams  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  