-- SocGen Unit CEO Charged With Bribery as Prokhorov Urges Freedom
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-05-16T16:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/socgen-unit-ceo-charged-with-bribery-as-prokhorov-urges-freedom.html
The head of  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s
Russian unit was charged with commercial bribery, a day after
allegedly being caught in a sting operation with cash on his
desk from a client seeking to modify the terms of a loan.  OAO  Rosbank (ROSB)  Chief Executive Officer Vladimir Golubkov faces
as long as seven years in prison if convicted, his lawyer,
Dmitry Kharitonov, said by phone after charges were filed in
Moscow today. Golubkov denies any wrongdoing, he said.  Golubkov, one of the most senior bankers ever arrested for
bribery in  Russia , according to the  Interior Ministry , received
moral support from his former boss billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who was president of Rosbank in 2000-2001.  “I wrote a request for Vladimir Golubkov because I think
people accused of financial crimes should be released on bail,
not placed under arrest,” Prokhorov said on Twitter.  Prokhorov, who owns the Brooklyn Nets basketball team and
ran for president against  Vladimir Putin  last year, told
Interfax today that Golubkov “has always been an honest and
professional person, and I’m sure he wouldn’t flee.” Tatiana
Kosobokova, his spokeswoman, confirmed the comment.  Rosbank managers and the lawfirm where Golubkov’s lawyer
works sponsored Prokhorov’s Pravoye Delo party in 2011 before
the billionaire split with the group, Vedomosti newspaper
reported that year.  A  video  on the Interior Ministry’s website shows police
officers with machine guns entering Golubkov’s office as he
stands by his desk with 10 stacks of 5,000 ruble notes laid out.  $1.5 Million  The CEO had 5 million rubles ($159,000) of the $1.5 million
he demanded from a company to prolong a loan and reduce its
 interest rate , according to police. The borrower is in the
automobile industry, and the loan was for about $80 million,
Andrey Pilipchuk, an Interior Ministry spokesman, said yesterday.  Golubkov had a senior vice president collect the bribe from
a company official who tipped off police, Pilipchuk said. The
vice president was detained when she accepted the money. After
agreeing to cooperate with police, she passed the cash to her
boss as investigators waited nearby. Tamara Polyanitsyna has
been charged as an accomplice, according to a statement on the
website of Russia’s Investigative Committee.  The CEO had received $1.2 million this year from the same
company official, according to Pilipchuk. The CEO was seeking
the remaining amount by May 1 before traveling to Paris and may
have been trying to make up for a cut in his compensation,
Pilipchuk said.  Golubkov joined Rosbank in 1999 from United Card Services
and became CEO in September of 2008, after Paris-based Societe
Generale,  France ’s second-biggest lender, gained control of the
lender, according to Rosbank’s website. Born in 1966, he
graduated from Moscow State Technical University in 1990.  Rosbank named First Deputy CEO Igor Antonov as interim
chief and is cooperating with the authorities, Dmitry Grachev, a
spokesman for the lender, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  