-- Solvay Plant May Have Earned Most From UN Carbon Offsets Sales
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-05-16T15:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/solvay-plant-may-have-earned-most-from-un-carbon-offsets-sales.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) ’s chemical factory in
Ulsan,  South Korea , may have earned the most from selling United
Nations carbon offsets in the five years through 2012.  The facility was awarded more than 73 million Certified
Emission Reductions from 2005 to last month, according to UN
data compiled by Bloomberg, the most of any individual project
registered under the UN’s Clean Development Mechanism. That’s 14
percent more than it initially estimated and would have earned
it as much as as much as 768 million euros ($992 million) over
the period, UN data show.  The CDM awards carbon credits, known as CERs, to
installations in  developing countries  that reduce climate
pollution compared with a business-as-usual scenario. Projects
can sell these offsets to buyers in mandatory cap-and-trade
markets such as  Europe ’s system, which use the credits to cover
emissions that cost more to reduce. Each CER represents one
metric ton of carbon dioxide.  The so-called decomposition plant destroys nitrous oxide, a
greenhouse gas 310 times more powerful than carbon dioxide, by
burning it. It therefore earns 310 CERs for each ton of removed
nitrous oxide, a by-product of making adipic acid, a raw
material for nylon. Cecile Fages, a spokeswoman in Paris for
Solvay Energy Services, wasn’t immediately able to comment when
reached by telephone.  Factories and power stations in the European Union’s
emissions market surrendered 62 million of the offsets generated
by the Ulsan plant to meet caps set by the European Commission,
the market regulator, from 2008 to 2012, according to  EU data .
The EU banned the use of nitrous oxide CERs from adipic acid
production, as well as offsets that represent cuts in
hydrofluorocarbon-23 emissions, from 2013.  Running Costs  The unit may have cost in excess of 6.5 million euros to
build, according to  documents  filed by Solvay on the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change’s website. The annual
fixed costs amount to about 230,000 euros a year, the documents
show. No figures for variable costs were given.  At an average price of 10.63 euros a ton for front-year
CERs from 2008 to 2012, the project may have earned as much as
776 million euros from selling its offsets, according to
calculations by Bloomberg. CERs for December were unchanged at
40 euro cents a ton on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange at
2:30 p.m. They’ve plunged 90 percent in the last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  