-- Soros Cuts AIG Stake as Jana Exits Insurer Investment Amid Rally
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-05-16T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/soros-cuts-aig-stake-as-jana-exits-insurer-investment-amid-rally.html
George Soros ’s family office and Jana
Partners LLC were among investment funds that reduced stakes in
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  amid a rally after the insurer
repaid its U.S. rescue.  Soros Fund Management LLC cut its AIG stake by two-thirds
in the first quarter to 2.89 million shares as of March 31,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday. Jana Partners, run
by  Barry Rosenstein , exited its 3.5 million-share investment and
Louis Moore Bacon’s Moore Capital Management LP also ended a
wager on AIG.  AIG, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche ,
rallied 10 percent in the first quarter, after ending a U.S.
bailout in December by selling assets and repurchasing shares
from the U.S Treasury Department. Benmosche, 68, is working to
boost earnings by improving results at the property-casualty
business and U.S. life insurance unit.  “It’s reasonable to take some money off the table,”
Charles Sebaski, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said in a
telephone interview. “There are no more Treasury selloffs. It’s
a much more traditional story now.”  AIG has rallied 17 percent since the end of March, and hit
a 28-month closing high of $46.08 on May 14. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, which reached a record yesterday, has gained
16 percent this year, while AIG is up 29 percent.  First-quarter operating profit beat analysts’ estimates as
margins improved at AIG’s property-casualty unit and rising
stocks helped lift investment returns. Benmosche has said he’d
like to restore a dividend to attract investors, after
bolstering the company’s  credit rating .  Permanent Owners  “Eventually, hedge fund and catalyst-driven investors get
replaced by more permanent owners of the company,” Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in an
interview. “The fact is, these guys are selling and other
people are buying.”  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest asset-management
company, and Vanguard Group Inc., the No. 1 U.S. mutual-fund
company, are among the largest holders of AIG, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Both added to their investments, as did
 Bruce Berkowitz ’s Fairholme Capital Management LLC, which had
the largest stake.  AIG is “leading the entire property and casualty industry
to higher prices, better underwriting profits,” Berkowitz said
in February. His AIG bet was part of a strategy to “embrace the
hated,” or invest in firms that other investors shun, he wrote
in a 2011 report.  Third Point LLC, the hedge-fund firm led by  Daniel Loeb ,
cut its AIG stake by 27 percent in the first quarter to 13.5
million shares.  David Tepper ’s Appaloosa Management LP reduced
its investment by 29 percent.  Baupost’s Wager  Baupost Group LLC, the Boston-based hedge-fund firm run by
Seth Klarman, added 4.85 million shares of AIG, bringing its
total to 11.9 million.  Analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded AIG to
neutral with a $46 price target in a May 7 research note.  “We see limited upside,” Goldman Sachs analysts including
Michael Nannizzi wrote in the research note. “Following recent
outperformance we believe that current shares now well reflect
the fundamental story.”  The shares will probably rise, if not as quickly as they
have so far this year, Sebaski said. He has a  $53 price target 
and said adding a dividend and improving underwriting can help
boost the stock.  “I still think it’s a good value,” Sebaski said. “There
are a lot of positive catalysts that will be coming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net 
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  