-- South Korean Corporate Bond Sales Pick Up After Rate Reduction
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-05-16T23:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/south-korean-corporate-bond-sales-pick-up-after-rate-reduction.html
Corporate bond sales in  South Korea 
picked up after a pause last week when the central bank
unexpectedly cut borrowing costs.  Three issuers raised a total of 165 billion won ($148
million) this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Bank of  Korea  lowered the benchmark  seven-day repurchase rate  to
2.5 percent from 2.75 percent on May 9, joining global easing
from  Europe  to  Australia .  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board’s decision to cut
borrowing costs for the first time since October came as a weak
yen dims the outlook for the nation’s exports and record
household debt weighs on consumption. Yields on three-year
corporate notes rated at AA- were last at 2.93 percent after
hitting a record-low 2.80 percent on March 28, data from the
Korea Financial Investment Association going back to 2000 show.  “We may see more bond sales in coming weeks on lower
borrowing costs but only in a limited scale,” said  Peter Park ,
fixed-income analyst at Woori Investment & Securities Co. in
Seoul. “I believe the monetary easing cycle is over here unless
the yen slides further to undercut our exports severely.”  The rate cut decision was opposed by one board member.
Central bank Governor Kim said on May 9 that fiscal and monetary
stimulus will help increase 2013 growth to 2.8 percent from the
BOK’s April forecast of 2.6 percent. Monetary conditions are
“accommodative,” he said.  Issuance Restrained  Artone Paper Manufacturing Co. (007190) , which produces paper for
books and magazines, sold 35 billion won of five-year bonds to
repay short-term borrowings to KB Bank, according to the
company’s regulatory filing.  “With another rate cut by the central bank, the overall
borrowing costs are considerably low, which will help our
overall financing costs by about 5 billion won this year,”
Artone’s finance team head Go Jeoung Han said in a phone
interview on May 16.  Doosan Engineering & Construction Co. (034020)  raised 70 billion won
this week, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  AJ Rent A Car Co. (068400) 
issued 60 billion won of three-year notes to repay debt. The
nation’s largest vehicle rental service provider plans to
diversify business using its client networks, according to its
regulatory filing.  “There are too many uncertainties in the economic outlook
and global monetary and currency policy directions, which will
restrain more aggressive bond issuance here,” Woori’s Park
said. “Companies rush to sell debt when they see a credit
squeeze or when  interest rates  are expected to jump suddenly,
but neither of those cases applies now.”  Negative Pressure  Japan ’s currency has slid 19 percent against the won in the
past six months, hurting South Korean exporters’ global price
competitiveness. To protect  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy from a
slowdown, the government unveiled a 17.3 trillion won
supplementary budget and added 11 trillion won of financial
support for exporters. The Bank of Korea expanded its special
loan programs for small firms by 3 trillion won to 12 trillion
won.  Negative rating actions for Korean private-sector corporate
issuers will continue to outnumber positive ones over the next
12 months, according to a Moody’s Investors Service statement on
May 15.  “The main reasons for the pressure will be weak growth in
key export markets, subdued domestic  consumer spending , the
Korean won’s appreciation against the dollar and yen, and some
companies’ aggressive investment strategies,” Chris Park, a
Moody’s Vice President and Senior Credit Officer, said in the
statement. The proportion of Korean non-government-owned
companies with negative ratings outlooks rose to 38 percent as
of the end of April from 32 percent at the end of 2012, he said.  Bond Pipeline  The yield on three-year  sovereign notes  rose 1 basis
points, or 0.01 percentage point, this week to 2.56 percent from
an all-time low of 2.44 percent May 2.  Hyundai Steel Co. and Sungwoo Hitech Co. are among issuers
planning bond sales in coming days, preliminary information
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to own Korean company
notes over similar-maturity government debt has narrowed to 37
basis points from 61 basis points a year ago.  International bond sales from Korea totaled $1.75 billion
this month, led by Export-Import  Bank of Korea  and Korea
National Oil Corp., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  