-- Stranded Dad Decries Frankfurt Ban on Night Flights Aiding Dubai
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/stranded-dad-decries-frankfurt-ban-on-night-flights-aiding-dubai.html
Shortly after 10 p.m. in Frankfurt,
Peter Meany settled into his seat on  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  flight
QF6, looking forward to reuniting with his family in Sydney for
his son’s birthday after a two-week business trip across Europe.  Meany, a 38 year-old fund manager with Qantas frequent-flier status, would miss the party. As the plane crawled to the
runway, passengers were surprised to learn that they were five
minutes over the last permitted takeoff time and would need to
turn back. Frustrated and tired, Meany and his fellow travelers
spilled back into the deserted airport building.  “People knew they weren’t going to see their families as
planned, or wouldn’t make their meetings,” Meany said. “Bad
weather is unavoidable, but I haven’t been in a situation like
this in 20 years of flying.”  Meany is among more than 28,000 passengers who have been
left stuck on the outskirts of Germany’s financial capital since
Frankfurt introduced the night-flight ban in October 2011. While
creating a steady stream of involuntary guests for local hotels,
the directive has eaten into  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s earnings
and encourages long-distance passengers to travel via Dubai,
where operations run around the clock.  The traffic ban between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. came into effect
after Frankfurt added a fourth runway and residents complained
about increased noise in one of Germany’s most densely populated
areas. While the airfield is a good 20-minute car ride from the
inner city, it’s surrounded by smaller towns, with aircraft
swooping in at short intervals.  Aborted Flights  Fraport AG, which operates Europe’s third-busiest hub, has
been forced to abort at least two evening flights a week on
average since the ban came into effect. The restriction is
particularly irksome for passengers without a visa, who can’t
leave the premises and have to spend the night on camp beds in
the airport hall. Others are put up in hotels by the airlines.  Lufthansa, which has its main operations in Frankfurt,
estimates the ban chips away at net income by a “mid double-digit million euro amount” every year. The burden comes on top
of an aviation tax levied on Lufthansa in  Germany  and  Austria ,
which cost the company 362 million euros last year.  The airline canceled 77 weekly flights and moved 112 to
earlier take-offs to create a large enough buffer, and now
operates its last scheduled flight at 10:15 p.m. Chief Executive
Officer Christoph Franz said Lufthansa is also taking an image
hit, as the passenger experience is typically associated with
the airline rather than the airport.  Double Standard  “Who would consider completely closing the most important
Autobahn junctions or a train station at night?” Franz asked.
“Only efficient infrastructure guarantees Germany’s connection
to the world, and that requires open hubs and competitive
operating hours as practiced at other global airports.”  Frankfurt  does provide some wiggle room. Authorities can
allow takeoffs past 11 p.m. and before midnight if the delay
suffered is not the airline’s responsibility and goes beyond
technical difficulties.  Western Europe’s once undisputed hubs have witnessed a
steady erosion of their status, squeezed from the one end by a
lack of expansion space and stricter rules, and from the other
by airports in the Middle East that have become the transit
points of choice for global travelers.  Economic Benefits  In the long-haul market, the bases of Emirates, Qatar
Airways and Etihad Airways PJSC grabbed a 15 percent share of
air traffic from Europe to Asia-Pacific in 2012, with Europe-Asia traffic routed via the Middle East growing at about 20
percent per year, according data compiled by Amadeus.  “We must watch out not to lose sight of the strengths and
opportunities this airport offers to the economy,” Florian
Rentsch, the economy minister of the federal state of Hesse,
said of Frankfurt. “It’s important that this industry has a
good general economic framework when competing against fast-growing hubs like Istanbul or Dubai.”  Among the few beneficiaries of the night-flight ban are the
Frankfurt airport hotels, which wouldn’t normally be hot tourist
targets, wedged between runways and the constant buzz of the
Autobahn. Lufthansa had to put up 25 percent more passengers in
hotels in the first half of 2012 compared with a year earlier.
The airline permanently blocks about 500 hotel rooms for
passengers.  Unhappy Guests  “We have always profited from exceptional situations like
technical difficulties or delays,” said Sabine Daechert, a
spokeswoman for the Sheraton hotel at the airport. “Of course
some of those guests are stressed out and annoyed if they miss
appointments or their vacation is off to a bad start.”  None of Germany’s six largest airports, including Munich
and Dusseldorf, allow large passenger planes to operate past
midnight, data collected by airports association ADV show.  London Heathrow, Europe’s busiest, has no blanket ban,
though noise restrictions apply and effectively limit operations
to about 16 landings between 4:30 a.m. and 6 a.m. Concern about
disturbance from aircraft has also stymied expansion plans and
led to calls for an alternative hub in the Thames estuary.  The rules in Europe contrast with the restrictions-free
environment provided by Middle East airports, where Dubai
International has almost doubled traffic since 2007, putting it
on a path to match Heathrow by the end of 2013. CEO Paul
Griffiths said in March his only objective is to ensure nothing
constrains the aviation industry.  “It’s a competitive environment for airlines, and
passengers today have more choices,” said Meany. “You can hub
through Dubai rather than Heathrow or Frankfurt, which is what
I’m doing more often. There is no curfew in Dubai.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  