-- SunPower Says Solar Power to Become Standard on New Homes
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-05-16T20:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/sunpower-says-solar-power-to-become-standard-on-new-homes.html
SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , the second-largest
U.S. solar manufacturer, expects photovoltaic panels to become a
standard feature in new home construction in the U.S., Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Werner  said.  The company supplies seven of the top 10 U.S. home
builders, including  KB Home (KBH) ,  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  and  Standard Pacific
Corp. (SPF) , and almost 10,000 new homes have panels from San Jose,
California-based SunPower, Werner said today in an interview.  SunPower  expects  to double its customer base to 300,000
rooftop systems on homes and businesses by 2015 from 150,000
last year as demand for smaller systems outpaces installations
of large, utility-scale solar farms, Werner said. Including
panels in new homes will accelerate that trend and lower the
cost of solar energy.  “In the U.S., the big driver for solar demand going
forward is going to be residential,” Werner said.  Panels and other hardware components make up less than half
the budget of the average U.S. rooftop solar project, and
incorporating them into new homes from the start, including
design, construction and connecting them to buildings’ wiring,
will reduce costs, he said.  “We have a huge opportunity to get another 25 percent out
of install costs if we do what the Germans did,” he said.  It costs about 62 cents a watt to build residential solar
systems in Germany, according to a September  report  from
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. Longer installation time
and more permitting requirements are part of the reason the U.S.
figure, $3.32 a watt, is more than five times greater.  Germany has about 32 gigawatts of installed solar capacity,
more than any other country.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  is the largest
U.S. solar manufacturer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  