-- Swiss Life Insurers Seen Lobbying Government Over Bonds
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-05-17T14:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/swiss-life-insurers-may-lobby-government-over-shortage-of-bonds.html
Swiss insurers, including  Zurich
Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  and  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , may lobby the
government to sell more long-term bonds as new solvency rules
force them to match life insurance liabilities.  The regulations introduced two years ago require insurers
to cover claims from life policies that can run for as long as
30 years with securities of similar duration. With a
constitutionally enshrined policy of running a balanced budget -
- the so-called debt brake -- keeping supply of Swiss government
bonds tight, the only alternative is to set aside more capital.  To operate as a life insurer under the so-called Swiss
Solvency Test, Swiss Life must set aside capital equivalent to
about 7 percent of its balance sheet unless it can buy more
 government bonds , Chief Investment Officer Patrick Frost said in
an interview in Zurich. That equated to about 11.4 billion Swiss
francs ($11.8 billion) at the end of 2012.  “There are not enough so-called risk-free assets because
of a prudent fiscal policy such as the debt brake,” said Frost.
“It makes insurance and pension products more expensive, which
could lead to less business.”  While only 1.4 percent of the 75.2 billion francs of
outstanding Swiss government bonds have a maturity of 30 years
or longer, compared with 13 percent of U.K. gilts, record low
interest rates suggest the insurers may have other motivations
for petitioning the government, said Daniel Bischof, a Zurich-based analyst with Helvea.  Shares Rise  Swiss Life rose as much as 1 percent, and was up 0.9
percent at 3:56 p.m. in Zurich trading, valuing the company at 5
billion francs. The share has risen 32 percent this year,
compared with a 14 percent rise of the 28-member Bloomberg
Europe 500 Insurance Index.  “It’s more lobbying to relax the solvency rules than
anything else,” said Bischof. “If the  interest rates  remain
where they are, it doesn’t make sense to invest more in
government bonds -- it is more attractive to look at corporate
bonds and real estate.”  Zurich Insurance Group AG said it doesn’t expect the new
rules to be a constraint on its capitalization, adding that the
calculations for the Swiss Solvency Test are largely based on
its own internal model.  ‘Significant Issue’  “We have spoken internally about engaging with the Swiss
confederation to see whether there is a way to lengthen the
maturity profile of the bonds that they issue,” said Cecilia Reyes, CIO of Zurich Insurance. “It is a significant structural
issue.”  While the debt brake has helped  Switzerland  achieve the
lowest borrowing costs in  Europe , the government may be prepared
to listen.  “We are aware that demand has increased, partly because of
regulations, and we are open for a dialog with insurers,” Urs Eggenberger, head of the Swiss Debt Management Office, said in
an interview in the nation’s capital, Bern. “Sometimes it could
be argued that we are the victim of our own success.”  Switzerland sold 2.37 billion francs of 30-year bonds last
year and in March issued 113.6 million francs of 2042 debt.
Yields on the  2042 bond  are 1.114 percent compared with 0.62
percent for benchmark  10-year (GSWISS10)  securities. There are negative
yields on shorter-duration two- and three-year Swiss government
bonds.  Switzerland’s life insurance liabilities were 136.6 billion
francs at the end of 2011, according to the financial markets
regulator.  Capital Reserves  “If you do not match your liabilities, it will cost you a
lot of capital under the Swiss Solvency Test, and for this
matching reason you need to hold quite a substantial portion in
fixed-income papers,” said Ralph-Thomas Honegger, CIO of
 Helvetia Holding AG (HELN) , Switzerland’s fourth-biggest insurer. “It
would be good if we could influence the issuance, especially the
duration structure of the bonds.”  The treasury should extend the kind of discussions it holds
with banks to insurers and pension funds, Honegger said. That’s
too late for some companies.  Nationale Suisse sold its group-life business to Swiss Life
in 2011 to avoid having to hold capital reserves to meet the
solvency rules introduced in January that year.  ‘Quite Limited’  Insurers can use other instruments, such as equities and
real estate, to make up for the shortfall of government bonds,
said Tobias Lux, a spokesman for the Bern-based Swiss Financial
Market Supervisory Authority, or Finma. The companies have to
put up more capital if they buy riskier investments, such as
equities, rather than bonds.  Other Swiss investments, including real estate and bonds
issued by cantons or cities, are also “quite limited,” said
Helvetia’s Honegger, adding that insurers are forced to seek
alternatives in the euro market while hedging the  currency risk .  One consequence of the bond shortage, is a “timely
lowering” of the guarantees insurers can offer customers,
Finma’s Lux said.  “We are trying to sell products with more flexible or
lower guarantees, or no guarantees as all, but much of that is
already available with banks and asset managers,” said Frost of
Swiss Life.  Customers, who are searching for safe investments in the
wake of the financial crisis, will bear the cost of the
regulator imposing “dead-weight  capital requirements ,” said
Damir Filipovic, a Swiss Finance Institute professor who holds
the Swissquote chair in Quantitative Finance at the Ecole
Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne.  “The loser, who bears the cost in the end, is the
customer,” said Filipovic. “Giving all the market risk to the
customers isn’t a great selling point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  