-- U.K. Property Loans Facing 92 Billion-Pound Financing Gap
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-05-17T09:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/u-k-property-loans-seen-facing-92-billion-pound-refinancing-gap.html
U.K. commercial real estate investors
may be unable to refinance about half of their 198 billion
pounds ($303 billion) of bank loans as property values fall, a
survey by  De Montfort University  shows.  About 92 billion pounds of remaining bank loans are
“likely to be unrefinancable on terms available in today’s
lending market,” according to the survey of 78 lenders, which
was published today. The amount of the loans is too high
compared with the real estate backing them, the report by the
Leicester, England-based university said.  Banks and other lenders cut U.K. commercial real-estate
lending by 7.7 percent last year as they mended balance sheets
damaged by losses and sought to meet capital rules, De Montfort
estimates. Almost a quarter of all property loans are in
“severe distress” because the outstanding debt is higher than
the value of the real estate as low-quality buildings in the
U.K. depreciated further last year.  The U.K.’s weakening economy last year “was having a
detrimental impact on borrowers’ cash flows and the capital
value of commercial property,” Bill Maxted, who wrote the
report with Trudi Porter, said in a statement. “The situation
with many existing problem loans was deteriorating.”  Impaired Loans  Lenders may have to further write down the value of their
loan books to reflect real estate prices, researcher Investment
Property Databank Ltd. said in a statement today. About half of
unpaid commercial real estate debt was loaned in 2007 and 2008
as prices peaked, suggesting that the value of the loans “is
still being overstated,” IPD said, citing De Montfort’s data.
“This continues to raise questions over the values at which
banks are holding underlying asset values.”  Margins on senior loans for prime properties fell
significantly in the last six months of 2012, according to the
survey. Competition from German and U.S. lenders such as  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  drove down the rates lenders were
able to charge, IPD said.  Banks can charge as much as 3.75 percentage points over
benchmarks for the safest portions of commercial mortgage debt
in the U.K. and  Europe , about five times the spread in 2007,
Alvarez & Marsal Inc., a consulting firm, said in February.  About 45.5 billion pounds of the loans are due for
repayment this year and more than 70 percent of all outstanding
commercial real estate debt is due for repayment over the next
five years, the survey showed. For the second year in a row, no
lender was willing to provide building finance for developments
without an occupant agreeing to lease the space in advance,
according to Maxted and Porter.  The De Montfort survey is the largest of its kind covering
the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  