-- U.K.’s Southend Airport Sees 40% Passenger Jump on London Travel
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-05-16T14:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/u-k-s-southend-airport-sees-40-passenger-jump-on-london-travel.html
London’s  Southend  airport predicts
passenger numbers will jump 40 percent to 1.15 million in the
next 12 months as  Stobart Group Ltd. (STOB)  seeks a return on its 120
million pounds ($183 million) of spending in the past two years.  About 800,000 people are now passing through Southend
annually and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Britain’s No. 1 discount carrier, will
base a fourth aircraft there starting next month, Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Tinkler said today in an interview.  “The airport is at a break-even point,” Tinkler said.
“We’re really well-placed to capitalize on London’s capacity
limits, so once we reach 2 million passengers a year any extra
passengers go straight to the bottom line.”  Southend, 45 miles from London, is seeking to establish
itself as a new terminal serving the U.K. capital as crowded
hubs such as Heathrow struggle to add more flights. Stobart’s
upgrades at what was once Britain’s third-busiest aerodrome
include a longer landing strip and a terminal extension to be
completed in December which will take annual capacity 5 million.  Though sited on the  North Sea , Southend was reclassified as
London Southend by the  International Air Transport Association 
in August and added EasyJet as a client in April 2012. Its
location outside the capital’s airspace means the amount of time
jets are in the air is cut by up to 20 minutes, Tinkler said.  “All we have to do is prove we’re a fast and efficient
airport,” the executive said. “Over the next two to three
years the group is about realizing the value of these assets.”  Passengers with hand luggage can reach an adjoining train
station 15 minutes after leaving their plane, with the 53-minute
journey direct to London’s financial district matching travel
times from less-distant airports, Tinkler said.  Stobart’s air unit posted a 700,000-pound loss for the year
ended Feb. 28, versus a 400,000-pound shortfall in the previous
12 months, according to a statement  Group profit from continuing operations rose 12 percent to
30.9 million pounds, with the company taking a 13.4 million-pound hit against discontinuation of a chilled pallet network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  