-- U.S. May Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-05-16T14:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/u-s-may-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.  Manufacturing firms responding to the monthly Business
Outlook Survey suggest that regional manufacturing activity
weakened this month. All of the survey’s broadest current
indicators were negative this month, indicating weaker
conditions compared with April. The survey’s indicators of
future activity improved, however, and suggest that firms expect
overall growth over the next six months.  Indicators Suggest Weakening  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions,
the diffusion index of current activity, decreased from 1.3 in
April to -5.2 this month. The current activity index has shown
no pattern of sustained growth over the past seven months,
generally alternating between positive and negative readings
(see Chart). The number of firms reporting decreased activity
this month (29 percent) edged out those reporting increased
activity (24 percent).  Other current indicators showed similar weakness this
month. The demand for manufactured goods remained weak, with the
current new orders index declining from -1.0 to -7.9. The
shipments index also indicated weakness, decreasing more sharply
from 9.1 to -8.5. Firms reported a notable increase in
inventories this month: The current inventories index increased
from -22.2 to 4.1.  Labor market conditions showed continued weakness, with
indexes suggesting lower employment overall. The employment
index decreased 2 points to -8.7, its second consecutive
negative reading. The percentage of firms reporting employment
decreases (22 percent) exceeded the percentage reporting
increases (14 percent). The workweek index declined 10 points to
-12.4, remaining negative for the fifth consecutive month.  Price Pressures Remain Muted  The survey’s price indexes suggest continued moderation in
price pressures. With regard to purchased inputs, 18 percent of
firms reported paying higher prices for inputs, while 11 percent
reported lower input prices. The prices paid index edged 4
points higher than in April, which was its lowest reading since
July 2009. The prices received index increased 4 points, to -
3.3. The percentage of firms reporting lower prices for their
own manufactured goods (10 percent) exceeded the percentage
reporting higher prices (7 percent) for the fifth consecutive
month.  Six-Month Indicators Improve Notably  The survey’s future indicators suggest improved optimism
among the reporting manufacturers. The future activity index
increased from 19.5 to 32.3, returning to near its level in
March (see Chart). The percentage of firms expecting increases
in activity over the next six months (45 percent) exceeded the
percentage expecting decreases (12 percent) by a significant
margin. The indexes for future new orders and shipments also
improved, increasing 10 and 5 points, respectively. The future
employment index also improved, increasing 2 points, a more
modest increase than the other broader future indicators.
Twenty-four percent of firms expect increases in employment over
the next six months; 14 percent expect decreases.  In special questions this month, firms were asked about
their current inventory situation (see Special Questions). About
58 percent of firms indicated that their inventories were about
right for current conditions. On balance, inventories are
expected to fall in the second quarter: Nearly 26 percent of
firms expect inventories to fall; 8 percent expect them to rise.
Firms perceived little change in their customers’ inventory
plans in recent months. The majority (54 percent) indicated no
change in their customers’ inventory plans, and the share
reporting decreases (12 percent) was near the share reporting
increases (8 percent).  Summary  The May Business Outlook Survey indicates some weakening of
activity this month, with all of the broad indicators recording
negative diffusion indexes. The survey’s indicators have failed
to exhibit any sustained pattern of growth in recent months. The
indicators for general activity, new orders, and shipments
suggest weaker conditions this month, and firms reported
employment reductions. Price pressures continue to be modest.
Despite weaker current indicators, firms continue to expect
positive growth over the next six months.  Special Questions (May 2013)  1. Choose the statement that best characterizes your current
inventory situation.  Inventories are:  %
of respondents
About right for current economic conditions
58.1
Too high and are expected to decrease in the second quarter
25.6
Too low and are expected to decrease in the second quarter
0.0
Too low and are expected to increase in the second quarter
4.7
Too high and are expected to increase in the second quarter
3.5  2. Over the past several months, did your customers’ inventory
plans:  %
of respondents
Increase
8.1
Not change
53.5
Decrease
11.6  Note: Percentages may not add to 100% because of no responses
for some questions.  Notes: (1) Items may not add to 100 percent because of omission
by respondents. (2) All data are seasonally adjusted. (3)
Diffusion indexes represent the percentage of respondents
indicating an increase minus the percentage indicating a
decrease. (4) Survey data reflect information received through
May 14, 2013.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 