-- U.S. Midwest Farmland Values Jumped 15% in 1st Quarter, Fed Says
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-05-16T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/u-s-midwest-farmland-values-jumped-15-in-1st-quarter-fed-says.html
Farmland  values  in the U.S. Midwest
jumped 15 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier as
demand for acres increased amid rising rental rates, the Federal
 Reserve Bank  of  Chicago  said.  Farmland cash-rentals in the Seventh Federal Reserve
District that encompasses Iowa, Illinois,  Indiana , Michigan and
 Wisconsin  gained 11 percent, the Chicago Fed said in a report
today. Farmland values rose 4 percent in the first quarter from
the prior three months. About 59 percent of bankers in a survey
conducted by the agency said they’d observed stronger demand for
farmland, the report said.  “Good-farmland values kept rising during the first quarter
of 2013,” wrote economist David B. Oppedahl, the author of the
report. “Demand to purchase agricultural land increased in the
three-to-six-month period ending with March 2013 compared with
the same period a year ago.”  Farmland values in  Michigan  led the gains, surging 24
percent, according to the report. Values in Iowa, the biggest
U.S. producer of corn and soybeans, rose 20 percent, Illinois
land gained 19 percent and Indiana increased 15 percent.
Wisconsin values dropped 3 percent.  Land in southwestern Illinois rose the most, jumping 31
percent, according to the report. Values in southern Iowa gained
27 percent, while land in northern Wisconsin dropped the most,
declining 6 percent this year.  Credit  availability  improved in the region with 61 percent
of survey respondents saying their banks had more funds to lend,
Oppedahl wrote. About 47 percent of bankers surveyed reported
higher repayment, while 4 percent said rates were lower. Land
values could decline as grain and oilseed prices are expected to
fall this year, the Fed said.  Rain that has delayed planting this spring “revitalized”
subsoil moisture, curbing drought conditions in the region,
Oppedahl said. Corn prices in the year that starts on Sept. 1
will average $4.30-$5.10 a bushel. That’s down from a  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  forecast for $6.70-$7.10 in the prior
season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  