-- U.S. Loses Track of Terror Suspects in Protection Program
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-05-16T18:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/u-s-loses-track-of-terrorists-in-protection-program.html
The U.S. Marshals Service was unable
to find two former participants in the federal witness
protection program who were known or suspected terrorists,
according to an inspector general’s report.  The  Justice Department ’s inspector general identified
“significant issues concerning national security” in a review
of the handling of terrorists admitted into the program,
according to the report released today.  “We found significant deficiencies in the handling of
known or suspected terrorists,” according to the report by
Michael E. Horowitz, the department’s inspector general.  Included in the reported deficiencies were lax monitoring
of individuals in the program -- something that included the
inability to find two former participants in the program.  U.S. authorities have placed suspects in the program in
lieu of prosecution as a way to gather intelligence and
information about possible terrorists or plots.  A majority of known or suspected terrorists in the program
were admitted prior to the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks, a Justice
Department official said. Federal investigators have since
accounted for the two individuals, both of whom left the program
and the country, said the official, who asked for anonymity to
discuss details which haven’t been made public.  ‘Necessarily Included’  Armando O. Bonilla, senior counsel to the deputy attorney
general, said in a written response to the report that a “small
number” of known or suspected terrorists were “necessarily
included” in the witness protection program as the government
increased its focus on domestic and international terrorism
cases.  Bonilla, in a memo to Horowitz dated May 6, said the
department’s leadership has implemented 15 of the 16
recommendations made in the report, including an increase in
information sharing, consultations with the department’s
national security division and more stringent monitoring
protocols for known or suspected terrorist in the program.  “The former known or suspected terrorists admitted into
the program have provided invaluable assistance to the  United
States  and foreign governments in identifying and dismantling
terrorist organizations,” Bonilla said.  Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican who is
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said losing track of
the potentially dangerous witnesses echoed a failure to track
one of the brothers who carried out the bombing of the Boston
Marathon last month. Lawmakers are investigating whether law
enforcement agencies properly handled a tip from the Russians
that one of the brothers was becoming radicalized.  “This is gross mismanagement –- pure and simple –- that
jeopardizes American lives and cannot be tolerated,” he said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  