-- Ukraine Rating Affirmed by S&P as Negative Outlook Kept
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-05-16T10:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/ukraine-rating-affirmed-by-s-p-as-negative-outlook-kept.html
Ukraine’s junk credit rating was
affirmed by  Standard & Poor’s , which trimmed its medium-term
economic-growth forecasts and warned it may downgrade the former
Soviet republic in the next year.  S&P maintained the rating at B, five steps below investment
grade and on par with Bosnia & Herzegovina. It kept its outlook
at negative, saying there’s “at least a one-in-three chance”
of the rating being cut in the next 12 months without government
action to secure foreign-currency funding for debt servicing.  “Ukraine’s economic performance has weakened since we last
lowered out ratings,” S&P said today in an e-mailed statement
from Dubai. “The ratings on Ukraine are constrained by our view
of political uncertainty, financial sector stress, and weak
external liquidity.”  Ukraine exited a six-month recession in the first quarter
as gross domestic product rose 0.5 percent from the previous
three months. Still, the  economy  shrank 1.3 percent from a year
earlier as industrial production plunged 5 percent and
government efforts to agree on a $15 billion bailout from the
 International Monetary Fund  have so far failed.  The yield on the government’s dollar bonds due 2023 fell
one basis points from yesterday to 7.74 percent as of 12:50 p.m.
in Kiev, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The hryvnia slid to
8.1375 per dollar from 8.1450.  Bond-market history indicates that the utility of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
 government bonds  fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s
suggests they should climb, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as the 1970s.  Ukraine’s economy is suffering from weak foreign demand for
metals and machinery and further declines in industrial
production, according to S&P, which trimmed its forecast for
average 2013-2015 GDP growth to 2.5 percent from 4.1 percent.  While Ukraine has sold debt to international investors,
“these favorable conditions could prove fleeting,” it said. A
sale of state-owned energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy would
help ease financing pressures, S&P said.  -- Editors: Andrew Langley, Balazs Penz  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  