-- Ukraine Carbon Offset Usage Soars as EU Ban Talk Boosts Demand
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-05-16T15:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/ukraine-carbon-offset-usage-soars-as-eu-ban-talk-boosts-demand.html
Factories, utilities and airlines
snapped up a flood of  carbon offsets  from Ukraine and  Russia  to
comply with European Union emission targets in 2012 amid
speculation the credits would face usage restrictions.  Ukraine supplied 169 million metric tons of United Nations
Emission Reduction Units to EU emitters, a more than fivefold
increase from 31.5 million tons in 2011, according to Bloomberg
 New Energy  Finance, citing EU data published today. That’s the
most of any country supplying credits, the data show.  ERUs are created from carbon-reducing projects in developed
nations and countries in transition to a market economy such as
Russia and Ukraine. The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory
arm, wanted to restrict the use of some ERUs from countries that
fail to adopt new carbon goals as of this year.  The use of Ukrainian and Russian ERUs soared on perceptions
the credits may no longer be eligible for EU compliance, said
Andrea du Rietz, an analyst in  London  for New Energy Finance.  Russia was the second-biggest supplier of ERUs with 98
million tons in 2012, according to New Energy.  China was the biggest provider of UN Certified Emission
Reductions, or CERs, at 155 million tons, New Energy’s analysis
of the EU data show. CERs are created from projects in
 developing countries  under the UN’s Clean Development Mechanism.  Use of CERs representing reductions of gases emitted in the
making of refrigerators and plastics reached a record 178
million tons last year, or about 81 percent of all offset
submissions, the data show. The compares with 85 percent in
2011. The so-called grey CERs are banned from compliance by
emitters in the EU cap-and-trade program starting this month.  Supplies of ERUs and CERs were at 2.1 billion tons as of
today, according to data from the website of the UN Framework
Convention on  Climate Change . That’s more than the 1.7 billion
tons allowed for compliance in the EU carbon market in the 13
years through 2020, according to that market’s rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  