-- LulzSec Hackers Jailed for as Long as 32 Months for Attacks
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-05-16T17:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/lulzsec-members-jailed-for-as-much-as-32-months-in-hack-attacks.html
Four members of the LulzSec
“hacktivist” group were sentenced to a total of seven years in
prison for disrupting websites at  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  News Corp. (NWSA)  and the
Central Intelligence Agency.  Ryan Cleary, 21, was sentenced to 32 months in jail by a
London judge today, the  Crown Prosecution Service  said in an e-mailed statement. He hacked and installed or altered files on
U.S. Air Force computers. Ryan Ackroyd, 26, was sentenced to 30
months for attacks on Sony and News Corp.’s Twentieth Century
Fox.  “The actions of these LulzSec hackers were cowardly and
vindictive,” Andrew Hadik, a CPS lawyer, said in the statement.
“Companies suffered serious financial and reputational
damage.”  Ackroyd, from Mexborough,  England , also carried out attacks
on the websites of the  Arizona  State Police, the U.K.’s  National
Health Service  and technology-security company HBGary Inc.
between February 2011 and September 2011, prosecutors said.  A senior executive of HBGary “lost his job and had to move
his young family because of death threats,” Hadik said.  Aaron Barr, the former Chief Executive Officer of HBGary
Federal, resigned from the company following the cyber-attack, a
CPS spokesman said. At the time of the hacking Barr told the
Financial Times newspaper he planned to reveal the identities of
the hackers, according to an  article  on the Forbes website.  Web Attacks  Cleary constructed a network of computers, known as a
botnet, which could perform distributed denial of service
attacks and direct them to target websites operated by a U.K.
web hosting site.  Another man,  Jake Davis , 20, will spend two years in jail
and Mustafa Al-Bassam, 18, was given a two-year suspended
sentence, prosecutors said.  Davis from the Shetland Islands in Scotland, used the name
Topiary online and acted as LulzSec’s spokesman. He and Al-Bassam pleaded guilty to disrupting websites at the CIA and the
U.K.’s Serious Organised Crime Agency.  Denial-of-service attacks flood computer networks with
requests for information until they shut down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  