-- Unfinished Nazi Resort Draws Investors to Baltic Island
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-05-16T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/unfinished-nazi-resort-draws-investors-to-baltic-island.html
Vacation homes for sale in the German
town of Prora, on the Baltic island of Ruegen, feature private
saunas and sea views at a steep discount to similar properties
nearby. The catch? They’re part of a dilapidated complex of
identical, unadorned blocks built by  Adolf Hitler  to house
20,000 workers on Nazi party-sponsored vacations.  Developers this spring began marketing apartments in the
 Colossus of Prora , as it’s known, for as much as 700,000 euros
($900,000) each. They’ve stripped the grimy plaster off facades,
smashed through walls to create spaces big enough to appeal to
modern tastes, and added balconies, wood floors and glossy
kitchens.  “It’s better than letting the whole thing crumble,” Uwe
Heuer, a banker from Hamburg, said as he toured a model
apartment. “When I’m here I don’t think about the Nazi
history.”  Begun in 1936 and abandoned when  Germany  invaded  Poland  in
1939, Prora was the largest project of the Nazis’ “Strength
Through Joy” organization, created to keep workers busy with
patriotic activities in their leisure time. More than twice as
long as the Avenue des Champs-Elysees in Paris, the complex
consisted of eight buildings with a total of 10,000 rooms.  The design, with its vast swimming pools filled with
sea­water, a column-lined meeting hall reminiscent of ancient
 Rome , and a square for parades, won a Grand Prix award at the
1937 Paris World Exposition.  Protracted Negotiations  Four of the eight blocks are now being renovated. Since the
first was sold almost a decade ago, negotiations with local
officials and resistance from hoteliers fearing a glut of rooms
delayed construction, according to Rolf Hoffmeister, chairman of
Inselbogen Strandimmobilien, an investor group that bought a
block in 2004. A youth hostel with 100 rooms is in a fifth
block, and the three others are in ruins.  Backers of the projects are betting on a continuing
property boom that has lifted German  home prices  by 23 percent
in the past five years as investors seek the relative safety of
real estate amid the  European debt crisis . Prices per square
foot are about two-thirds of those in nearby resorts, and
developers hope to draw young vacationers with spas, tennis
courts and shopping malls.  “It’s a location that can’t be duplicated,” said Gerd
Grochowiak, co-founder of IrisGerd, a Berlin developer that
bought one of the blocks in an auction last year. The fine white
sand and clear water add to the allure of the biggest
undeveloped stretch of land along Germany’s northern coast,
where new construction is limited. IrisGerd plans to turn a
1,250-room block into 250 apartments in the next two years.  Bauhaus Style  Prora’s architectural style is considered Bauhaus, with
straight lines and repetitive structures that reflected the
modernist leanings of its architect, Clemens Klotz. But its size
and location were typical of the Nazis’ use of architecture as
propaganda, according to Juergen Rostock, director of the Prora
Documentation Center in Berlin.  “It’s important to remember that these were not luxurious
buildings,” Rostock said. “They were very modest.”  Although the government considered razing the buildings
shortly after German reunification in 1990, they’ve since been
given landmark protection and the developers have received a tax
break to renovate them. Axel Bering, founder of developer  Bering
Consulting GmbH , said the landmark designation has made it
difficult to adapt the buildings to modern standards and make
them appeal to buyers.  Floating Balcony  “It took us many meetings with local officials to come up
with this design,” Bering said, showing potential buyers a
sparse, floating balcony suspended by steel ropes. Bering began
renovations in February and plans to finish by mid-2015.  During the war, the half-built structures were used as
housing and training grounds for Nazi policemen later involved
in the siege of Leningrad and  war crimes  such as transporting
Jews from the Netherlands to Auschwitz, Rostock said.  In the decades that followed, parts of Prora were used as
barracks by East German soldiers and then turned into vacation
homes for police officers. After the Wall fell, the hostel, a
museum, art galleries and an archive were added.  Thousands of people come to the site each year, riding
bikes along the path that separates the six-story buildings from
the town. Many stop at weed-choked gardens filled with rubble to
look at the colorful banners advertising the developments.  “I’m glad something good is happening here,” said
Wilfried Roessner, a visitor who has been vacationing on Ruegen
for eight years. “Everything has its time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  