-- Hungarian Central Bank Pledges to Help Keep Growth Momentum
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-16T12:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/hungarian-central-bank-pledges-to-help-keep-growth-momentum.html
Hungary ’s central bank will use all
methods at its disposal to help sustain economic growth after an
“encouraging” start of the year, Magyar Nemzeti Bank President
Gyorgy Matolcsy and his deputy Adam Balog said today.  The economy expanded 0.7 percent in the first quarter from
the last three months of 2012, the first quarterly growth in
more than year. The inflation rate fell to 1.7 percent in April,
the slowest since 1974. Price growth will stay slow and the
figures indicate a “healthy” growth structure, Matolcsy said
today at a conference in Miskolc, eastern Hungary.  Policy makers have reduced Hungary’s benchmark rate in nine
consecutive 25 basis-point steps to a record-low 4.75 percent by
last month, including two cuts since Matolcsy’s appointment in
March. Borrowing costs may fall further if the medium-term
outlook for inflation remains “in line with” the central
bank’s 3 percent target, rate setters said, according to the
minutes of their April meeting, published yesterday.  “The central bank will use all tools to support the growth
turnaround,” Matolcsy said. “Based on the inflation path and
other trends, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s Monetary Council may see
an opportunity to cut the benchmark rate further, which would
help boost economic growth.”  The forint gained 0.4 percent to 290.39 per euro by 2:11
p.m. in Budapest, extending its advance in the second quarter to
4.8 percent, the best performance among 31 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Forint Effect  The forint trading in a range near 290 per euro helps
Hungary’s exports without accelerating inflation, Matolcsy said.
The central bank has no exchange-rate target and the forint’s
fluctuations have a mixed impact on different economic
indicators such as inflation and the budget, Balog told
reporters at the same conference.  Matolcsy last month unveiled a 250 billion-forint ($1.1
billion) zero-interest lending program last month, modeled on
the Bank of England’s Funding for Lending Scheme, which seeks to
increase credit to small- and medium-sized companies.  Before his appointment as central bank president, Matolcsy
served as economy minister since 2010, leading Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban ’s efforts to cut public debt by measures including
the introduction of retroactive industry tax increases and the
European Union’s highest bank levy.  While the measures cut the  budget deficit  to below the EU
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product for the first time
since the country joined the trading bloc in 2004, they damaged
credit and investments and contributed to Hungary’s second
recession in four years.  While the first-quarter GDP data is “encouraging,” it’s
too early to assess the impact on monetary policy, Balog said.
The April inflation figures won’t change the “general stance”
of monetary policy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  