-- Turkey’s Central Bank Cuts Three Key Rates: Statement
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2013-05-16T11:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/turkey-s-central-bank-cuts-three-key-rates-statement.html
Turkey ’s central bank published the
following statement on its website today.  “The Monetary Policy Committee (the Committee) has decided
to cut the short term  interest rates  as follows:  a) One-week repo rate (the policy rate) has been cut from 5
percent to 4.5 percent.  b) Overnight Interest Rates: Borrowing rate has been cut
from 4 percent to 3.5 percent while lending rate has been cut
from 7 percent to 6.5 percent. Interest rate on borrowing
facilities provided for primary dealers via repo transactions
has been cut from 6.5 percent to 6 percent.  c) Late Liquidity Window Interest Rates (between 4:00 p.m.
– 5:00 p.m.): Borrowing rate has been kept at 0 percent while
lending rate has been cut from 10 percent to 9.5 percent.  Recent data suggest that domestic and external demand are
evolving in line with expectations. Domestic demand follows a
healthy recovery while exports slow down due to weak global
economic activity. The current policy framework and the decline
in commodity prices limit the impact of the increasing economic
activity on the current account deficit.  Capital inflows remain strong and credit growth hovers
above the  reference rate . The Committee indicated that, in order
to balance the risks on financial stability, the proper policy
would be to keep interest rates low while increasing foreign
currency reserves via macroprudential measures. Accordingly, it
was deemed appropriate to implement a measured tightening via
 reserve requirements  and reserve options coefficients, while
delivering a cut in the short term interest rates.  Ongoing uncertainties regarding the global economy and the
volatility in capital flows necessitate the monetary policy to
remain flexible in both directions. Therefore, the impact of the
measures undertaken on credit, domestic demand, and inflation
expectations will be monitored closely and the funding amount
will be adjusted in either direction, as needed.  The Committee has indicated that the weak global demand and
the commodity price outlook contain the upward pressures on
inflation. In the meantime, the impact of increases in credit
and domestic demand on the pricing behavior will be monitored
closely.  It should be emphasized that any new data or information
may lead the Committee to revise its stance.  The summary of the Monetary Policy Committee Meeting will
be released within five working days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  