-- Turkey Raised to Investment Grade by Moody’s on Debt Cuts
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-05-17T07:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/turkey-raised-to-investment-grade-by-moody-s-on-debt-cuts.html
Turkey ’s first investment-grade
rating from Moody’s Investors Service in two decades sent bond
yields to record lows as stocks rallied.  Moody’s said in a statement yesterday that it lifted
Turkey’s government bond ratings by one step to Baa3, the lowest
investment grade, from Ba1. The move puts Turkey’s credit rating
at the same level as Spain, Colombia and  India . The outlook was
set at stable.  The ratings boost reflects “recent and expected future
improvements in key economic and public finance metrics,”
Moody’s analysts wrote in the statement. Turkey’s “progress on
structural and institutional reforms that Moody’s expects will
reduce existing vulnerabilities to shocks to international
capital flows over time” was also cited.  Yields on  two-year  benchmark bonds fell 12 basis points to
a record low of 4.68 percent at 10:11 a.m. in Istanbul. Ten-year
lira bond yields dropped below 6 percent for the first time and
were last at 6.01 percent.  The main Istanbul stock exchange index jumped as much as
1.3 percent to 93,116.29, its highest since at least 1988,
extending its advance this year to 18 percent. It last traded
0.2 percent higher.  The lira weakened for a seventh day, dropping 0.3 percent
to 1.8287 per dollar in its longest streak of losses since June
2011.  Long Overdue  The move was “long overdue as the market has long traded
Turkey as investment grade,” Tim Ash, chief emerging-markets
economist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note. “This should bring a whole new investor base to
Turkey.”  The ratings change came as Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan
was in  Washington  to meet with U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
to promote trade and investment for Turkey. Erdogan brought a
delegation of business leaders to the U.S. capital, where he
also addressed the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s
largest business lobbying group.  U.S. businesses would find a “friendly atmosphere” and a
stable economy in Turkey, Erdogan told the Chamber, citing
recent investments by American companies such as Ford Motor Co.
the second-largest U.S. automaker, and Amgen Inc., the world’s
largest biotechnology company. “We are inviting you to invest
in Turkey.”  At 4.78 percent, yields on Turkey’s dollar-denominated
bonds due in 2041 are 49 basis points, or 0.49 percentage point,
higher than similar-maturity Colombian securities, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap has narrowed from as high as
205 basis points in January 2012.  Borrowing Costs  The lira wiped out a decline of as much as 0.9 percent to
trade little changed at 1.8241 per dollar as of 5:32 p.m. in  New
York . The currency has lost 2.2 percent in 2013, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Turkey’s  debt level  has fallen by 10 percentage points
since 2009 to 36 percent of gross domestic product, Moody’s
said. Government efforts to reduce energy imports help improve
the country’s current account deficit, the analysts said.  The nation was last rated investment grade by Moody’s in
1994 and Turkey received its first investment-grade rating in 18
years from  Fitch Ratings  Nov. 5.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the
country BB+, one level below investment grade.  Turkey should prepare for appreciation in the lira after
the Moody’s decision, Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said in an
e-mailed statement. The move will cut foreign borrowing costs
for Turkey and boost financing options for the nation’s
companies, Caglayan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  