-- Turkish Bank Cuts Rates More Than Expected to Curb Lira
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-05-16T12:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/turkish-bank-cuts-rates-more-than-expected-to-curb-lira.html
Turkey’s central bank cut its three
main  interest rates  by more than economists expected, as it
seeks to restrain capital inflows that strengthen the currency
and hurt exporters. The lira fell to a 10-month low.  The bank in Ankara cut its benchmark overnight repo rate by
half a percentage point to 4.5 percent today, according to its
website. It cut the overnight lending and borrowing rates, which
mark the bounds of its so-called interest rate corridor, by the
same amount to 6.5 percent and 3.5 percent respectively.
Bloomberg’s survey of economists had forecast quarter-point cuts
in all three rates.  “Capital inflows remain strong” and credit is expanding
faster than targeted, the bank said in a statement accompanying
the decision. It said in that environment, “the proper policy
would be to keep interest rates low” while tightening domestic
credit through  reserve requirements .  The bank has said it’s monitoring the lira’s real effective
exchange rate, an index of its value against Turkey’s trade
partners. By that measure, the currency climbed to its highest
level in more than two years last month, and is above the level
the bank says it would consider overvalued.  “Despite recent weakness in the lira, the size of the cut
highlights the central bank’s concern with the acceleration in
capital inflows, driven by quantitative-easing-led demand,”
said Mohammed Kazmi, an  emerging markets  strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London, in e-mailed comments. “We
anticipate further cuts.”  Lira Slide  The lira fell after the decision, dropping 0.4 percent to
1.83 per dollar at 3 p.m. in Istanbul and heading for the lowest
since June. The currency has declined 1.6 percent this week.
Yields on  benchmark two-year domestic bonds  plunged 16 basis
points to 4.88 percent, headed for a record low.  Turkey ’s $800 billion economy  grew  1.4 percent in the last
quarter of 2012, the slowest pace since a 2009 recession. Last
month’s  inflation rate  of 6.1 percent was the lowest in two
years. Annual growth in industrial output was 1.4 percent in
March, the slowest this year.  Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan, who has frequently
criticized the central bank for keeping borrowing costs too
high, said after today’s decision that economic growth needs to
accelerate to meet this year’s target of 4 percent.  The central bank said Turkish exports are suffering from
“weak global economic activity,” while it sees a “healthy
recovery” in domestic demand.  The bank also increased the amount of money banks must set
aside against foreign-currency liabilities, and the portion of
lira reserve requirements that banks can keep in dollars and
euros.  Those measures, effective from June 7, will shift $1.8
billion from the market to the bank’s reserves, it said. They
amount to “aggressive” tightening of domestic lending
conditions, Cristian Maggio, a strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank in  London , wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  