-- Utilities Targeted by Hackers Raise Dire U.S. Warnings
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-05-16T13:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/utilities-targeted-by-hackers-raise-dire-u-s-warnings.html
Cyber attacks on computers that run
the nation’s energy grid, nuclear reactors and water-treatment
plants are increasing with potentially lethal effects, the
 Department of Homeland Security ’s top investigator said.  Successful infiltrations of  computer networks  have the
potential to create large-scale power outages or cause
“physical damage, loss of life and other cascading effects that
could disrupt services,”  Charles Edwards , the agency’s acting
 inspector general , said in prepared testimony for a
congressional hearing today.  At the same time, the department doesn’t always share
timely information about cyber threats with companies
responsible for ensuring the security of those computers and
some data provided can be confusing, Edwards said in written
testimony for the a House Homeland Security Subcommittee on
Cybersecurity.  “These attacks range from hackers looking for attention
and notoriety to sophisticated nation-states intent on damaging
equipment and facilities,” Edwards said.  Cybersecurity is a top policy priority for President  Barack Obama ’s administration, which is seeking to prevent electronic
attacks that could disrupt the nation’s banks, utilities and
telecommunications networks.  The Pentagon has accused the Chinese military of intruding
into U.S. government and corporate computers, while the network
security firm Mandiant Corp. believes a new hacking group based
in Iran has started attacks inside the U.S.  Information Sharing  The Homeland Security Department “needs to consolidate its
information sharing and communication efforts” with companies
and other agencies, Edwards said.  Company officials interviewed by the inspector general
complained that searching the department’s Web portal for
relevant, useful information about cyber threats can be
difficult and time-consuming.  The concern from these companies is “that a great deal of
time might elapse” before they are made aware of an incident
that could affect their systems, Edwards said.  The House has passed legislation, H.R. 624, that would
encourage governments and businesses to share information about
cyber threats.  The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on April 18
proposed revisions to cybersecurity standards for the nation’s
electric grid, expanding the rules to more than 60 additional
companies. The North American Electric Reliability Corp., an
Atlanta-based organization that develops standards for
utilities, submitted the revisions to the commission in January.  Cyber Alerts  Roberta Stempfley, acting assistant secretary for
Homeland’s Office of Cybersecurity and Communications, defended
the agency’s efforts to share information and respond to cyber
attacks.  “The department has repeatedly demonstrated its ability to
expeditiously support private sector partners with cyber
intrusion mitigation and incident response,” she said in
prepared testimony for today’s hearing.  The U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team, housed within
the agency, reacted to about 190,000 “cyber incidents” on
government and company networks in 2012, a 68 percent increase
from the previous year, she said.  The department has issued more than 26,000 cybersecurity
alerts since 2009, including 7,455 last year that were used by
companies and agencies to protect their computers, Stempfley
said.  “We continue to believe that carefully crafted information
sharing provisions, as part of a comprehensive suite of
cybersecurity legislation, are essential to improve the nation’s
cybersecurity to an acceptable level, and we will continue to
work with Congress to achieve this,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  