-- Luxury Growth Seen Sustained in 2013 Amid Southeast Asia Boom
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-05-16T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/luxury-growth-seen-sustained-in-2013-amid-southeast-asia-boom.html
Growth in luxury-goods spending will
be sustained this year as booming demand in  Southeast Asia 
offsets a slowdown in  China  and Europe, according to  Bain & Co .  Worldwide luxury sales will rise 4 percent to 5 percent to
as much as 222 billion euros ($285 billion), excluding currency
shifts, the consulting company estimated in a report published
today. That compares with 2012’s 5 percent growth.  While the strength of the euro against major currencies
such as the yen, the dollar and sterling led European luxury-goods makers to post “disappointing” first-quarter revenue
growth, overall “the market outlook is positive,” Claudia D’Arpizio, a Milan-based partner at Bain, said by phone.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  last month cited a
decline in Japanese tourism and fewer store visitors in China
for slowing sales growth, while Gucci owner  PPR SA (PP)  reported
weaker consumption in Europe,  Taiwan  and  Korea . Those patterns
will continue through 2013, with bright spots being rising
demand in Southeast Asia and in the U.S., D’Arpizio said.  The industry will expand 20 percent this year in Southeast
Asia on a currency-neutral basis as destinations such as
Singapore benefit from increased tourism, Bain estimates. Demand
for luxury is also rising in Malaysia and Indonesia, leading
companies to open stores there, the consultant said.  “We see Southeast Asia as the next engine for long-term
luxury growth,” D’Arpizio said.  Inaccessible Prices  In Europe, where spending may not increase this year, sales
are stalling as Chinese travelers reduce the amount they spend
because of higher prices, Bain said. And domestic consumption in
the region has yet to recover, according to the report.  Charging more in  Europe  to close a price gap with China and
other markets means luxury brands are becoming inaccessible even
to the region’s wealthy consumers, D’Arpizio said. Europeans are
“trading down” to more affordable brands, she said.  Sales will rise about 7 percent in China, about a third of
last year’s rate, Bain estimates. While the so-called high-end
is booming, premium brands are benefiting as a new middle class
emerges and as “aspirational” shoppers grow weary of heavily
logoed products, according to the report.  In the Americas, demand in Brazil and  Mexico  will help
boost spending as much as 7 percent, Bain estimates. U.S.
consumers are rediscovering luxury and European brands “see
room for growth” in  North America , D’Arpizio said.  In  Japan , the yen’s depreciation will boost domestic luxury
consumption as much as 10 percent in 2013, while leading to a 30
percent to 40 percent drop in spending abroad, Bain estimates.  Questioning Japan  Still, a different attitude to luxury among young Japanese
consumers compared with previous generations means the market is
“a question mark going forward,” D’Arpizio said.  Leather goods will underpin this year’s industrywide sales
growth, with demand for non-logoed products using precious
materials leading the way, Bain said. Watches are decelerating
due to destocking and cosmetics sales are also slowing, it said.  Longer term, the luxury-goods market will grow an average 5
percent and 6 percent a year through 2015 to as much as 250
billion euros, excluding currency moves, Bain estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  