-- Vietnam to Force Banks to Sell Bad Debt to Asset Company
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-17T06:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/vietnam-s-banks-to-sell-bad-debt-to-asset-management-company.html
Vietnam  plans to force the sale of
non-performing loans to a soon-to-be established  asset
management company  and clear up nearly $5 billion of bad debt,
as the government steps up its banking overhaul efforts.  Lenders with bad-debt ratios of 3 percent and above will be
required to comply,  State Bank  of Vietnam Chief Inspector Nguyen Huu Nghia said yesterday, citing a final proposal that is
awaiting the prime minister’s review and approval.  “We will use our figures on the bad debt of each
commercial bank, not the reported numbers from the banks,”
Nghia told  Bloomberg News  in Hanoi.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s administration has missed
an earlier deadline for the asset management firm that will
tackle non-performing loans estimated by credit ratings
companies and market participants at as much as 20 percent,
according to JPMorgan Chase and Co. The  economy  last year
expanded at its slowest pace since 1999, as elevated levels of
bad debt crimped consumption and stifled business expansion.  The asset management company “is not a magic bullet, but
it’s part of an array of weapons the government and SBV can use
to try to address the bad debt problem,” said Tareq Muhmood,
the Vietnam chief executive for  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  The firm “should give the banks breathing space, to
give them time to build up profits over the next few years and
use that to start writing off bad debt.”  Greater Access  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  dropped for
the first time in three days, trimming 0.3 percent as of the
morning break. Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for  Foreign Trade  of
Vietnam, or Vietcombank, slid 2 percent, Saigon-Hanoi
Commercial Bank fell 1.5 percent.  The asset management company will be set up this month,
according to Cao Sy Kiem, member of the National Financial and
Monetary Policy Advisory Council. It will resolve about 100
trillion dong ($4.8 billion) of bad debt, said Vu Viet Ngoan,
chairman of the National Financial Supervisory Commission that
advises the prime minister, citing a government estimate.  The bad-debt ratio at Vietnamese banks dropped to 6 percent
of total outstanding loans as of Feb. 28, from “about 8
percent” last year, according to government estimates. Credit
grew 2.1 percent in the first four months of the year, the
government said yesterday, after a 9 percent pace in 2012, which
the World Bank has said is “anemic.”  The asset management firm will “help businesses have
greater access to bank lending,” Ngoan said. The monetary
authority cut  interest rates  earlier this month, the eighth
reduction since the start of 2012, as it tried to spur lending.  Good Step  Vietnam Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development, or
Agribank, the country’s largest lender by assets, had a bad-debt
ratio of 6.1 percent as of the end of June 2012, State Bank of
Vietnam Governor Nguyen Van Binh said last August.  Saigon-Hanoi Commercial Joint-Stock Bank, the seventh-largest listed lender, had a ratio of 8.8 percent as of the end
of 2012, according to a statement on its website. The monetary
authority has not disclosed bad-debt levels at lenders this year.  The asset company will have an initial registered capital
of 500 billion dong and issue zero-coupon bonds in exchange for
banks’ bad debt, Nghia said. The bonds will have a maturity of
five years and lenders can use them as collateral to get
refinancing funds from the central bank, said Kiem.  The asset company will use the book value of the bad loans,
excluding loss provisions, as a method of valuing the bonds to
be issued to lenders, according to Kiem, a former central bank
governor. The banks will be required to set aside 20 percent of
the value of the bonds every year until the bonds mature.  The asset management company “is a good step in
accelerating the restructuring of banks,” said Deepak Mishra,
the Hanoi-based lead economist for Vietnam at the  World Bank .
“Its effectiveness in solving the banking-sector problem will
depend on the implementation mechanisms including the
participation of banks with large non-performing assets and the
transparency of its operation.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  