-- Virgin Australia Falls After Forecasting Profit Decline
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-05-16T07:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/virgin-australia-falls-after-forecasting-profit-decline.html
Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) ,
Australia’s second-largest carrier, slumped the most in three
years in Sydney trading after forecasting that annual profit
would slip for the third time in five years.  The  stock  declined 17 percent, the most since May 2010, to
close at 38 Australian cents, and suffered the  sharpest fall  on
Australia’s benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  index. Profit before tax and
one-time items in the 12 months ending June will be less than
last year’s A$83 million ($82 million), the Brisbane-based
company said in a statement yesterday.  Virgin is taking on  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s 65 percent share
of Australia’s domestic market, rolling out business class
services while risking lower ticket prices by adding flights in
tandem with the larger carrier. It’s also taking control of
 Tiger Airways Ltd. (TGR) ’s Australian budget airline and rural service
Skywest Airlines Ltd. using cash provided by  Singapore Airlines
Ltd. (SIA)  to build half of its 20 percent stake in Virgin.  There had been a “slower than anticipated improvement in
trading and economic conditions” and no further profit forecast
was possible, Virgin said in its regulatory statement released
after the close of the market yesterday.  The cheapest  discount air fares  slumped to their lowest in
a year and business class tickets dropped to a three-month low
in May, according to government figures released today.  Growth in Virgin’s flight capacity would be about 4 percent
in the six months ending June, compared to a previous forecast
of 5 percent to 7 percent, the carrier said.  Virgin hasn’t previously forecast earnings for this year.
It was expected to earn A$61 million before tax during the
period, based on the mean of  11 analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg, with net income of A$43 million based on the average
of nine estimates.  The airline has declined 9.5 percent this year while the
 S&P/ASX 200 index  has climbed 11 percent in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  