-- Kabel Deutschland Falls After Vodafone’s Network Deal
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-05-16T09:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/vodafone-reaches-german-network-deal-with-deutsche-telekom.html
Kabel Deutschland  Holding AG,
Germany’s largest cable operator, fell the most since February
after  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  struck a deal to gain access to fast
Internet lines, reducing its need to purchase cable assets.  Vodafone expanded its access to  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s
fixed-line network in Germany, allowing it to offer Internet
speeds of as fast as 50 megabits per second and provide on-demand video and Web-based TV broadcasts, the Newbury, England-based company  said today , without giving terms. Speeds will
later increase to as much as 100Mbps with new technology.  Vodafone had considered making a bid for Kabel Deutschland
to expand services in its biggest market by revenue, though
plans for an approach were put on hold after they were reported
in the press, people familiar with the matter said in February.
While Vodafone will want to own its own cable assets eventually,
the deal with Deutsche Telekom buys it time as it adds services
in  Europe , Sanford C. Bernstein’s  Robin Bienenstock  said.  “The knee-jerk response is that Vodafone now has a
solution and doesn’t need” Kabel Deutschland, the London-based
analyst said in an interview. Still, the deal “is a short-term
solution for a company like this.”  Kabel Deutschland’s assets cover only part of Germany, so
Vodafone would have had to strike a deal with another carrier to
fill out its services anyway, Bienenstock said.  Kabel Deutschland  fell  as much as 4.7 percent to 71.92
euros, the biggest intraday drop since Feb. 27, and traded at
73.38 euros at 11:13 a.m. in Frankfurt. It had risen 33 percent
this year before today. Deutsche Telekom added 1.2 percent to
9.89 euros and Vodafone  rose  1 percent to 197.1 pence in London.  Sharing Costs  European carriers are increasingly sharing networks to hold
costs in check as they combat slowing sales amid an economic
slump. Vodafone announced a similar deal with  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s
Orange in Spain this year as it works to roll out bundles of
Internet, voice and TV service to customers across Europe.  German fixed-line Internet operators are trying to fend off
competition from cable carriers Kabel Deutschland and  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , which offer speeds topping 100
Mbps.  “Our agreement with Deutsche Telekom will greatly enhance
our ability to offer our German customers a range of
competitive, high-speed broadband and TV services, in addition
to our industry-leading mobile services, in line with our
broader Europe-wide strategy,”  Philipp Humm , Vodafone’s head of
Northern Europe, said today in a statement.  Deutsche Telekom, based in Bonn, last month received
preliminary approval from the country’s network regulator for
its plan to double the speed of its DSL lines to 100 Mbps in 24
million households. Today’s agreement with Vodafone, together
with a similar deal with Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG this
month, helps the former phone monopoly share the cost of the
rollout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  