-- When Your $450,000 Aston Martin Has to Arrive Overnight
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-05-16T20:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/when-your-450-000-aston-martin-has-to-arrive-overnight.html
A 1963 Aston Martin like the one
James Bond drove in “Goldfinger” began its journey from
 Frankfurt  to New York by being maneuvered into the hold of a
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  jet.  The tires of the $450,000 coupe were lashed to a standard
freight pallet. Its gleaming chrome bumpers extended over the
sides, so workers adjusted by putting slimmer cargo nearby. The
bill for the trans-Atlantic trip: More than $10,000.  Delta flies about 100 cars a year, putting it in the
vanguard of a new front in U.S. airlines’ quest to widen profit
margins with premium services for wealthy fliers. That strategy
drives the lie-flat seats and multi-course meals lavished on
full-fare travelers. The payoff from freight, a $4 billion-a-year industry for North American carriers, is even bigger
because passenger operations largely cover flight costs.  “The higher the value of the goods you’re shipping, the
higher the margin, and a lot of these cars are almost
irreplaceable,” said  Helane Becker , an analyst at Cowen
Securities LLC in New York who recommends buying Delta. “Most
of that is going to flow to the bottom line.”  Profit margins on Delta’s $1 billion-a-year cargo business
can top 50 percent, the airline has said, compared with a
forecast operating margin of 10 percent companywide this
quarter. It’s a reliable profit contributor because costs for
aircraft payments, crew and fuel are largely covered by fares
from passenger ticket sales, the airline’s main business.  Delta Growth  “By definition, if it’s something people are shipping by
belly, they need it fast and they’re willing to pay for it,”
said Savanthi Syth, an analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc.
in St. Petersburg, Florida, who rates Delta market perform.
“Not just anybody off the street can do this. It requires
special training and handling.”  Delta’s current automotive cargo compares with a few dozen
vehicles a year in the past, said Ray Curtis, vice president of
worldwide sales for  Delta Cargo .  The airline recently handled a $250,000 Lamborghini and a
$150,000 Porsche 911 GT3 in addition to the vintage Aston Martin
favored by Bond, the fictional British spy also known as 007.  The carrier’s shipments still lag behind European carriers
such as  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , which leads passenger airlines in
automobile deliveries, and British Airways parent  International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA. (IAG)   Stock Returns  Delta fell 1.7 percent to $18.64 at the close in New York
as most U.S. carriers declined. That pared the shares’  year-to-date  gain to 57 percent, the second-biggest return among 10
carriers in the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index. That outpaced
advances of 48 percent for United and 16 percent for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Lufthansa has climbed 10 percent to 15.74 euros this year,
while IAG increased 50 percent to 276.7 pence in London.  American Airlines, which, like Delta, handles about 100
cars a year, recently flew a restored red 1948 Ferrari from
 London  to  Chicago  for a customer who had purchased it in  Monaco ,
said Tristan Koch, managing director of cargo sales in Europe
for the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier.  The car  sold for 1.1 million euros  ($1.4 million),
according to RM Auctions, which handled the sale.  ‘Newest Bentley’  “Some people want to be the first person in Los Angeles
with the newest Bentley, so $10,000 on a $250,000 product isn’t
important,” Koch said of the typical cost, which can top
$13,000. “If you stick it on a boat, it’s out of your sight in
a 40-foot container for weeks. Or if you have a race in
Argentina this week and need it in Switzerland tomorrow, you
need to put it on an airplane.”  One constraint is that American mostly uses Boeing Co. 777
jets on trans-Atlantic routes and loads cargo pallets
horizontally, which means it can’t handle cars that are longer
than 4 meters (13.1 feet), such as modern Rolls-Royces, he said.  “We can’t physically load them,” Koch said.  Lufthansa, based in Cologne,  Germany , transports about
1,400 vehicles per year and also has a fleet of dedicated
freighter jets.  “For our employees, the transport of exclusive and rare
sports or luxury cars is always a special highlight,” Brigitta
Ebeling, product manager at  Lufthansa Cargo , said in an e-mail.  British Airways parent IAG said it handles “hundreds” of
cars per year, declining to be more specific. Recently the
London-based carrier flew a dark-colored  Pagani  Huayra, which
starts at 850,000 euros.  Achieving Perfection  Even with volume growth at the passenger airlines,
airfreight specialists such as Cargolux Airlines International
SA and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL retain an edge.  In addition to flying Formula 1 cars, DHL also flies
 Bugatti  sports cars, which have an average sale price of $2.5
million, around the world for customer delivery, said John Hill,
director of sales for the Americas for the Molsheim, France-based automaker.  “It’s the best way to ship a car because it is safer,”
Hill said in a telephone interview. “Everything is geared
toward perfection. There’s nothing we do that’s trying to cut
costs, and that continues through the delivery phase.”  Some Bugatti owners fly their cars in the bellies of
passenger jets to high-end collector car shows at Pebble Beach,
 California , and  Amelia Island ,  Florida , or to races and driving
events, he said.  “Some people like golf,” Hill said. “This is a hobby
that these individuals like to do when they get away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  