-- Williams Says Fed May Pare Bond Buying in Next Few Months
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-05-17T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/williams-says-fed-may-taper-bond-purchases-as-early-as-summer.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
President John Williams said quickening economic growth and
gains in the job market may prompt the Fed in the next few
months to start reducing its $85 billion in monthly bond-buying.  “It’s clear that the labor market has improved since
September” when the Fed began its third round of asset
purchases, Williams said yesterday in a speech in  Portland ,
 Oregon . “We could reduce somewhat the pace of our  securities
purchases , perhaps as early as this summer” and end the program
late this year “if all goes as hoped.”  Williams, who doesn’t vote on policy this year, was one of
the first Fed officials to advocate that the central bank buy
bonds without setting a limit on the duration or total for such
purchases. The Federal Open Market Committee said May 1 that
it’s prepared to increase or decrease the size of its monthly
 bond-buying  as officials gauge the health of the economy.  Three other Fed bank presidents called for phasing out
monthly purchases of $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities
as the housing recovery shows signs of gaining momentum.  The Dallas Fed’s Richard Fisher said yesterday buying
mortgage bonds risks disrupting the market, while Philadelphia’s
Charles Plosser said, “it’s not good for the bank to be holding
lots of mortgage paper.” Jeffrey Lacker of Richmond said to
reporters on May 15 the Fed should “get out of the credit
allocation business.”  None of the three presidents holds a policy vote this year,
and all have dissented in recent years against decisions to
increase stimulus.  Stocks Fall  U.S. stocks fell, pulling benchmark indexes down from
records. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.5 percent to
1,650.47 in New York after reaching records in nine of the 10
previous sessions.  “It was a bit of an overreaction,” said Eric Green, the
global head of rates and FX research at TD Securities Inc. in
New York. “He’s a non-voter, he’s a relatively new and marginal
player in the Fed system, and they were his views alone,” he
said, referring to Williams.  Another Fed president,  Boston ’s  Eric Rosengren , said
inflation that has “persistently” stayed below the Fed’s goal
is a concern and may suggest policy hasn’t done enough to
support growth.  “The longer we in the U.S. remain so far below our 2
percent target, the greater the risk that inflation expectations
could fall and real interest rates rise,” Rosengren, who votes
on policy this year, said in Milan yesterday. Low inflation and
high unemployment “could lead one to argue that policy has not
been sufficiently accommodative.”  Back-to-Back Declines  A Labor Department report yesterday showed the cost of
living fell in April for a second month, the first back-to-back
declines in inflation since late 2008, as fuel prices retreated.  The consumer-price index decreased 0.4 percent, the biggest
decline since December 2008, after falling 0.2 percent in March.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a 0.3 percent drop,
according to the median estimate. The so-called core price
measure, which excludes more volatile food and energy costs,
increased 0.1 percent, less than projected.  Other reports yesterday added to signs the economy is
cooling. More Americans than projected filed claims for jobless
benefits last week and manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
unexpectedly shrank in May.  ‘Best Case’  “The expectation of a tapering of QE over the summer is
the ‘best case scenario,’ not the most likely scenario,” Thomas Simons, an economist in New York at Jefferies LLC, said in a
note to clients, referring to quantitative easing. “We continue
to expect the $85 billion per month pace to persist through the
end of 2013 before tapering begins in 2014,” he said after
release of the speech by Williams.  “Even if we slow the pace of our purchases, it does not
mean we would be tightening monetary policy or stepping back
from our commitment to provide strong monetary support as the
economy recovers,” Williams said.  The FOMC affirmed on May 1 that it will press on with bond
buying until achieving substantial improvement in the job
market.  The jobless rate will probably fall below 7.5 percent at
the end of this year and “a shade below” 7 percent at the end
of 2014, Williams said. Real gross domestic product may grow
almost 2.5 percent this year and 3.25 percent next year, he
said.  “It will take further gains to convince me that the
‘substantial improvement’ test for ending our asset purchases
has been met,” the San Francisco Fed chief said. “Assuming my
economic forecast holds true and various labor market indicators
continue to register appreciable improvement in coming months,
we could reduce somewhat the pace of our securities purchases,
perhaps as early as this summer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net  