-- William Lyon Rises After Share Sale Exceeds Price Target
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-05-16T20:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/william-lyon-rises-after-share-sale-exceeds-price-target.html
William Lyon Homes rose 2 percent in
 New York  after selling shares to the public at $25 apiece,
exceeding its price target as the homebuilder raised $217.5
million.  The stock, which had traded over the counter, closed at
$25.50 on the New York Stock Exchange, a day after the  Newport
Beach , California-based company and an existing investor sold
8.7 million shares. The price topped the $22 to $24 a share the
builder initially expected to receive.  “They’re trading up on a day the rest of homebuilders are
down,” Megan McGrath, an analyst with MKM Partners LLC in
Stamford,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “Their
story hits on data points investors have liked,” she said,
citing its focus in areas where there’s a boom, including
California, Arizona and Nevada, and its land holdings.  The 11-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
Index was down 1.9 percent after the Commerce Department
reported housing  starts  unexpectedly fell to a five-month low.  Along with the share sale, existing William Lyon investors
including hedge-fund firm  John Paulson  & Co. got a 1 for 8.25
reverse split, reducing the number of shares they held. Compared
with yesterday’s split-adjusted price of $29.70, the shares were
down 14 percent today, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, which emerged from bankruptcy last year, joins
at least two U.S. homebuilders that conducted public offerings
this year as investors seek to capitalize on the housing-market
recovery. New-home demand has risen as buyers, seeking to take
advantage of low  mortgage  rates, find a tight  supply  of existing
properties for sale.  Paulson, Barrack  William Lyon’s backers include Paulson & Co., the firm run
by John Paulson, who earned $15 billion in 2007 betting against
subprime mortgages; Luxor Capital Group LP, a New York-based
investment manager; and Thomas Barrack Jr.’s  Colony Capital LLC ,
which lent $206 million to William Lyon before its bankruptcy.
Luxor offered about 2.2 million shares in the sale, aiming to
trim its stake to 30 percent from 47 percent. Paulson’s stake
was set to decrease to 11 percent from 14 percent, and Colony’s
stake to 3.9 percent from 5 percent.  William Lyon had a net loss of $11.6 million on revenue of
$372.8 million from Feb. 25, 2012, when it emerged from
bankruptcy, to Dec. 31, according to a regulatory filing. The
company sold 883 homes for an average price of $277,000 at
communities in California, Arizona, Nevada and Colorado.  The stock sale was led by Credit Suisse Group AG and
Citigroup Inc. The shares are listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol WLH.  Tri Pointe  Tri Pointe Homes Inc., an  Irvine , California-based builder
backed by  Barry Sternlicht  and co-founded by former William Lyon
executives Doug Bauer, Thomas Mitchell and Michael Grubbs,
raised $267.6 million in a January IPO, including the
overallotment option.  Taylor Morrison Home Corp., based in Scottsdale, Arizona,
and backed by  Howard Marks ’ Oaktree Capital Group LLC and  David Bonderman ’s TPG Capital, raised $722.9 million in an April IPO,
including the overallotment option.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  