-- Two-Decade-Old Harvard Data Confounds U.S. EPA Nomination
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-05-16T17:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/two-decade-old-harvard-data-confounds-u-s-epa-nomination.html
Buried in the  questions  Senate
Republicans want answered by the nominee to head the
Environmental Protection Agency is a stumper:  data  linking
 microscopic particles  in the air to premature death.  The problem is the EPA doesn’t have the data, which was
compiled by Harvard University researchers more than two decades
ago, and confidentiality agreements with hundreds of thousands
of participants prevent researchers from making it public. The
nominee, Gina McCarthy, had nothing to do with the research.  Critics say the demand -- among 1,100 questions put to
McCarthy -- exemplifies the way confirmation battles are now
waged on Capitol Hill, with queries that appear to range beyond
the nominee’s fitness for the post. Academics who have  studied 
the Senate confirmation process say that Republican critics have
put an unprecedented amount of roadblocks into the way of
President  Barack Obama ’s nominees.  “There is less deference across the board, but
environmental protection is one place where we would expect
conflict,” Michael Gerhardt, a professor of law at the
University of North Carolina and author of a book on federal
appointments, said in an interview. The EPA “is something that
tends to be fought over.”  Carbon Cost  McCarthy has faced the most questions ever put to an EPA
nominee, with Vitter alone posing 400. That’s more than all the
queries put to President George W. Bush’s  nominee  Michael Leavitt, according to Delaware Democrat Tom Carper.  Among questions McCarthy has answered: How many people in
the U.S. had mercury poisoning last year? What is the social
cost of a ton of carbon? Will there be 21 billion gallons of
advanced cellulosic ethanol by 2030? And, how is the EPA taking
site-specific nature of Selenium issues into account when
developing a national standard for it?  McCarthy today won the support of the Senate Environment
and Public Works Committee, which sent her nomination to the
full Senate. Republicans, who boycotted last week’s meeting on
McCarthy citing inadequate responses to their questions, voted
against her in 10-8 party-line vote.  Filibuster Threat  If EPA provides the complete answers sought, McCarthy may
get a vote in the full Senate without a filibuster, said
Louisiana Republican Senator David Vitter.  “I hope we won’t have a fight on the floor,” Vitter said
at the committee hearing today. “We’re not asking the EPA to
change its views.”  Vitter says just  five key requests  have been the keys for
him since the beginning, and all are focused on making the EPA’s
functioning and decisions clear to the public. EPA provided
further responses last night, but those still haven’t been
answered to his satisfaction.  “We want to request additional progress, and their follow
through will determine how this nomination process goes
forwards,” he said.  In addition to the Harvard study data, Vitter wants the
agency to agree to Freedom of Information procedures and
restrict the use of personal e-mails for official business.
Former EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson used an alias, Richard
Windsor, to send e-mail among associates. Vitter has criticized
the use of that address as a way to circumvent open-records
procedures, and wants disclosure of all of McCarthy’s use of a
personal e-mail for government business while serving as an
assistant EPA administrator.  Environmentalist Criticism  Vitter also wants assurances outside groups will have the
chance to weigh in on the settlement of lawsuits and adopt a new
economic model for evaluating the costs and benefits of
pollution rules. Complying with these two demands may be
impossible for the agency, and, if accepted, could undercut the
broad array of air-pollution regulations pursued by the Obama
administration, environmentalists say.  “They want to force EPA into paralysis by analysis,” John
Walke, clean air director at the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , said in an interview. “They want to throw sand and
dust and question the well-established link between soot and
health. Industry has been fighting and losing this battle for
two decades.”  The individual data behind the Harvard studies is
particularly nettlesome, as one original set was compiled and is
owned by Harvard. The second set of 1.2 million  volunteers  was
compiled by the American Cancer Society using its resources, and
was only accessed and analyzed by C. Arden Pope, a professor at
Brigham Young University who was a Harvard fellow in 1993 and
co-author of the original studies.  Deja Vu  For the researchers, the Republicans’ call has the flavor
of  deja vu all over again . Industry groups have been questioning
their results since the EPA first used them to set nationwide
limits on particulates, or soot, in 1997, critiques that
prompted a three-year  re-analysis  of that data by an independent
team of scientists.  “When it is all said and done, the results we published
have hardly changed” after that re-analysis and follow-up
studies, Pope said. “That’s been frustrating to those who want
to make it go away.”  The so-called Harvard Six Cities study, funded in part by
grants from the National Institutes of Health, found
“statistically significant and robust associations between air
pollution and mortality.” The results, which a series of
Harvard researchers have  built on  in studies published as
recently as December, have been used by the EPA to justify
regulations curbing pollution from diesel engines, coal-fired
power plants and industrial boilers, rules industry and some
academic critics say go too far and cost too much.  Harvard School  Douglas Dockery, the lead author of the original study and
a professor at the Harvard School of Public Health, said the
university has handed over as much data as it can, given privacy
restrictions. The American Cancer Society “is not aware” of a
request by the EPA for its data, according to spokesman Steve
Weiss.  Vitter wants to provide the health data to outside
researchers and let them test the results and the claims of
benefits made by the EPA, Bolar, his spokesman, said. “Without
the data there currently exists no way for anyone to verify what
EPA is claiming,” he said in an e-mail.  “If people could get their hands on the Harvard Six Cities
study, they might find there is some error in it,” Stanley
Young, assistant director of the independent National Institute
of Statistical Sciences in Research Triangle Park, North
Carolina, said in an interview. “If it’s science, it ought to
be available.”  Exploited Work  Still, even critics of EPA’s reliance on the Harvard
research, say this focus on getting the underlying data may be
misplaced.  Dockery and his co-authors “are superb scientists, but I
think their work is being exploited by people who have interests
beyond public health” in pushing for further curbs on diesel
emissions or soot after great reductions over the past two
decades, Robert Phalen, a  toxicologist  at the University of
California at  Irvine , said in an interview.  “The scientists are concerned about whether or not their
data will be fairly analyzed,” he said. “The fear is
legitimate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  