-- World’s Biggest Gold Refinery Joins Dillon to Sell Bars in U.S.
-- B y   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-05-16T10:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/world-s-biggest-gold-refinery-joins-dillon-to-sell-bars-in-u-s-.html
Rand Refinery (Pty) Ltd., the world’s
biggest gold processor, said it intends to sell bullion bars in
the U.S. market as part of a plan to expand processing metals
mined outside  South Africa  and boost silver operations.  “The refinery has recently formed an alliance with U.S.
company Dillon Gage Group Inc. to market and sell gold- and
silver-minted bars in the country,” Chief Executive Officer
Howard Craig said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday.  The refinery, which is jointly owned by South African gold
producers  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ,  DRDGOLD Ltd. (DRD) 
and Harmony Gold Mining Co., plans to reduce its reliance on
locally produced gold on concern that there isn’t sufficient
supply and will increase its capacity to process silver,
Business Day newspaper reported yesterday. The plant is located
in Germiston, 15 kilometers (9 miles) east of Johannesburg.  South  Africa , which has the continent’s biggest economy,
has the world’s largest known reserves of platinum and chrome.
The nation used to be the world’s biggest gold producer and is
now the fifth-largest. Rand Refinery, started in 1920, is the
largest integrated single-site for precious-metals refining and
smelting globally, according to its  website .  “Diversifying the metals it processes by adding silver is
a good move but the metal is less precious than gold and given
its limited supply in South Africa, the refinery may have to
import it,” Peter Major, a mining analyst at Cadiz Corporate
Solutions, said by phone from Cape Town. “If transport costs
are high, this may cut into profits.”  Gold Decline  Gold dropped for a sixth day, the longest losing streak
since February, as filings showed that  George Soros  and
Blackrock Inc. cut holdings of bullion-backed exchange-traded
products, adding to signs that investment demand is waning as
U.S. equities rally to records.  Gold for immediate delivery fell 1.3 percent to $1,375.52
by 10:17 a.m. in London.  “The logical source for more gold and silver is Africa,
countries like Tanzania and Zimbabwe,” Major said. “This is
where Rand Refinery should be looking to grow its market.”  The facility currently processes about 75 percent of all
so-called dore, or impure gold, in Africa, according to Craig.  “We are continually seeking opportunities and will
continue to keep pace with increases in African gold-mining
production.”  The company commissioned a sampling and assaying facility
in May 2011 to process secondary gold deposits at its office in
 Singapore , Craig said.  Rand Refinery intends to do the same in the U.S., he told
Johannesburg-based Business Day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net  