-- Yale Faces Fine for Underreporting Sexual Assaults
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-05-16T19:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/yale-faces-fine-for-underreporting-sexual-assaults.html
Yale University is facing a $165,000
fine from the U.S. Education Department for underreporting the
number of sexual assaults on campus.  Yale committed “numerous” violations of U.S. regulations,
including failing to report four forcible sex offenses on its
campus in New Haven,  Connecticut , in 2001 and 2002, according to
a  letter  the agency sent university President Richard Levin on
April 19. Yale has appealed and requested that the fine be
reduced, Jane Glickman, an Education Department spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  The failures are a violation of the Clery Act, which
requires colleges to disclose crime and safety data to the
government. The department began reviewing Yale’s practices in
2004 after an article in the  Yale Alumni Magazine  raised
questions about crime reporting. The fine includes $27,500 for
each of the four unreported sex crimes, according to the letter.  “This is a serious violation because current and
prospective students/employees must be able to rely on accurate
and complete crime information,” Mary Gust, director of the
department’s Administrative Actions and Appeals Service Group,
according to the letter.  Grave Violations  Yale was also fined for failing to report crimes that
occurred in areas that should have been recognized as part of
its campus. The penalties took into account the gravity of the
violations and the size of the institution, the letter said.  The size of the fine imposed by the department isn’t
warranted “based on the particular situations that resulted in
findings of violations,” said Tom Conroy, a university
spokesman. The Education Department has noted that the school
has corrected its reporting processes, he said.  The college is also being monitored through next year for
compliance with  Title IX , federal regulations that bar sexual
discrimination at educational institutions. In a resolution
reached with the Education Department last year, Yale agreed to
take a number of steps to improve how it handles allegations of
sexual misconduct on campus.  In addition to fines, violations of the Clery Act can
result in the loss of eligibility for federal student financial
aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  