-- ThyssenKrupp Submarine Unit Wins Access to Australia Bid
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-16T11:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/thyssenkrupp-submarine-unit-wins-access-to-australia-bid.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  secured the chance to
help develop a submarine for Australia after the country signed
an agreement with  Sweden ’s government clearing the way for the
involvement of the company’s Kockums AB unit.  The accord gives Australia the right to use Swedish
intellectual property for submarine design and technology, the
Canberra-based Department of Defence said in a  statement . The
deal was necessary to begin working with Kockums, it said.  Australian authorities have been exploring replacement of
six Collins Class submarines, which were based on a Kockums
design. The government said on May 3 that it’s proceeding with
the project, dubbed  SEA 1000 , to assemble 12 of the vessels
domestically and narrowed options to a new design or building an
evolved version of the Collins configuration, with an off-the-shelf purchase discarded.  “This agreement will pave the way for Swedish involvement
in  Australia ’s future submarine program,” Defense Minister
Stephen Smith said in today’s statement. “The ability for
Australia to utilize Swedish submarine technology is a critical
element, not only of the work on the Future Submarine Program
but also in addressing the continuing challenges with the
maintenance and sustainment of the Collins Class fleet.”  HMAS Collins, the lead submarine, was commissioned in 1996.
The last of the current six vessels isn’t scheduled to be
retired until about 2031, after entering service in 2003.  ThyssenKrupp doesn’t break out figures for Kockums. A
spokeswoman at the Essen, Germany-based parent company wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  Kockums was part of ThyssenKrupp’s marine-systems business,
which  generated  3 percent of group sales at the steelmaker in
the year through Sept. 30. The newly combined marine-systems and
plant-technology division, dubbed industrial solutions,
accounted for 15 percent of ThyssenKrupp’s  revenue  in the fiscal
first half ended March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  