-- Mystery Jet Flight Costs Costa Rican President Key Minister
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-16T18:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-16/mystery-jet-flight-costs-costa-rican-president-key-minister-1-.html
A key aide to Costa Rican President
Laura Chinchilla resigned after chartering a flight from a
businessman he said was involved in “questionable activities,”
becoming the 15th minister to step down in three years.  Communication Minister and presidential spokesman Francisco Chacon, who often appeared and traveled with Chinchilla,
resigned late yesterday. Chacon said he had booked the president
on a private jet to  Lima  this month through someone named
Gabriel O’Falan, who purported to work for a unit of a Colombian
energy company. Both O’Falan’s name and the association with the
company are now thought to be false, he said.  The resignation comes as Chinchilla, who took office in May
2010, struggles to sustain her agenda in her final year in
office. The leader of the main opposition party called the
latest incident the “the cherry on top” of a disappointing
administration and asked the ethics committee of the public
prosecutor’s office to start an investigation.  “This exposes us in front of the world as a weak country
in terms of security,” said Carmen Munoz, head of the
opposition Citizen Action Party, in a phone interview from San
Jose. “It also demonstrates a weakness in the responses of the
government as they attempted to cover up their mistakes when
facing crisis. This government is failing to learn from its
mistakes.”  Other Resignations  Chinchilla started this year with 12 percent public
support, the lowest of any leader in the Americas, according to
surveys by San Jose-based newspaper  La Nacion  and Mexican
polling company Consulta Mitofsky. The La Nacion poll, taken
Jan. 24 - Feb. 4, had a margin of error of 2.8 percentage
points.  Costa Rican Finance Minister Fernando Herrero resigned last
year after an investigation by newspaper La Nacion said he
underpaid taxes for 12 years, a charge he rejected.
Transportation Minister Francisco Jimenez was removed from
office in May 2012 for alleged corruption regarding funding for
the construction of a road along the border with  Nicaragua . He
denied the accusations.  Earlier in the week, Chacon defended the trip to Peru and
acceptance of the private flight as a “collaboration between
the state and a businessman.” Chinchilla, 54, said on May 15
that the trip to  Peru , to meet President Ollanta Humala and
attend a wedding, had followed the same parameters as other
presidential visits abroad.  Costa Rica’s government does not
have a private presidential plane.  ‘False Representation’  “He presented me with a business card of false
representation with the clear and express purpose of tricking
me,” Chacon said of his May 8 meeting with O’Falan. “I realize
that I did not request sufficient enough verification into the
background of the representatives of the company.”  Attempts to contact O’Falan via an e-mail account that
appeared on a business card with his name weren’t successful.  Chinchilla expressed indignation with the use of a false
identity to trick Chacon and said the situation threatened the
image of the country and her integrity, according to an e-mailed
statement from the presidential offices last night. The
President is currently “focused on analyzing the situation”
and will not give additional comments today, according to a
second statement from the presidential palace.  Under Chinchilla, Costa Rica’s economy expanded 4.3 percent
in March from a year earlier, faster than than 3.5 percent and
3.9 percent growth recorded in January and February,
respectively.  The Costa Rican currency, the colon, fell 0.1 percent to
498.85 per dollar at 2:35 p.m.  New York  time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  