-- A Conservative Cure for Obamacare
-- B y   P a u l   H o w a r d   a n d   Y e v g e n i y   F e y m a n
-- 2013-11-18T09:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/a-conservative-cure-for-obamacare.html
The  Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act  is floundering.  Conservatives who take satisfaction in that should be
careful not to get ahead of themselves. The rollout problems --
however serious and continuing -- shouldn’t be confused with the
law’s outright collapse. Even the administration’s recent
capitulation (however humiliating) allowing plans to be
“uncanceled” is a setback, not a surrender.  The reality is that large constituencies are in place to
work to preserve Obamacare. States that have embraced the law’s
Medicaid expansion -- about half -- will fight tooth and nail to
keep huge new federal subsidies in place. And the conservatives
who are lambasting the disastrous rollout should realize that
the electorate that is uninsured, getting large subsidies and
generally older will also fight to keep their newly minted
policies.  Republicans would have to run the table in 2014 (hold the
House, take the Senate) and win the presidency in 2016 to have
any serious chance of repealing the law over strong Democratic
opposition. In the interim, the administration has two more
years to implement and prop it up.  What strategy, then, would move us closer to the patient-and consumer-focused health-care system that conservatives
desire while also recognizing the facts on the ground?  Trojan Horse  The answer might be simple: Propose changes that will make
plans more affordable and drive enhanced competition among
 insurers  and providers. In other words, make Obamacare a Trojan
horse for conservative health-care reform. The administration of
President  Barack Obama  has quietly introduced regulatory
decisions that have made the exchanges a viable market for high-deductible, health-savings-account-eligible health plans.  Shortly after the law passed, it looked like the
administration would use regulatory rule-making to kill health
savings accounts. But subsequent rules clarified that HSA-qualified plans were actually the default structure for bronze
plans on the exchanges. (Some silver plans qualify, too.)  Far from being driven to extinction, high-deductible, HSA-eligible plans have an opportunity to capture significant new
market share on the exchanges.  Based on data available for about 85 percent of exchange
plans, about 77 percent have deductibles of more than $1,250 and
qualify under Internal Revenue Service rules for a health
savings account. For a 27-year-old purchasing coverage, the
median HSA-eligible plan costs about $238 a month and typically
comes with a deductible of about $3,600. The median plan without
a high deductible, however, costs almost 30 percent more ($310)
for a 27-year-old, though it has a significantly lower
deductible (about $600).  Over the course of a year, the choice of an HSA plan can
lead to significant savings. Here’s why: The typical 20-something with insurance spends a median of $770 annually on
health care (excluding premiums and over-the-counter drugs).
Opting for an HSA-eligible plan costing $238 a month ($2,856 a
year), the median 20-something ends up spending $3,626 in one
year on health care ($770 plus $2,856). However, with a
traditional plan,  total spending  jumps to $4,320 in one year
($600 in out-of-pocket spending plus $3,720 in premiums). In
other words, the HSA plan holder comes out about 20 percent
($694) ahead. That savings can then be funneled into an HSA or
other spending.  Investing Savings  There’s more. HSAs use pretax dollars. Assuming that the
average 20-something who falls roughly into the 15 percent tax
bracket covers her routine out-of-pocket health expenses with
funds from her tax-free HSA account, she saves an additional
$115. That brings the true net savings of a high-deductible
health plan to $809. For a young person starting out with very
low expected health spending, those savings can be invested in a
moderate-yield index fund to build health equity over time
(Vanguard’s S&P exchange-traded fund has a three-year average
return of 16.26 percent).  And there’s much more that can be done to make HSAs even
more effective and attractive for all Americans.  First, encourage more competition between insurance plans
by repealing Obamacare’s community rating provisions (which were
designed to make insurance less expensive for the sick and
elderly) -– or at least expanding the age rating bands (limits
on how much more insurers can charge the elderly than the young
-– this raises costs for the young and reduces them for the
elderly) from 3-1 to 5-1. Then, high-risk pools for the
uninsured with costly medical conditions should be fully funded,
capping premiums at 150 percent to 200 percent of standard
premiums, with means-tested federal subsidies for low-income
Americans. This would ensure coverage for uninsured Americans
with pre-existing conditions, without driving up prices for
younger and healthier applicants.  Next, offer true consumer choice in terms of benefits and
coverage. Obamacare requires coverage of several essential
health benefits that drive up cost. Instead, basic coverage
should focus on core health benefits such as wellness and
prevention, physician care, hospital coverage and  prescription
drugs . Plans should also be allowed to offer higher deductibles
to anyone younger than 35 or even 40.  Last but not least, catastrophic plans should also be
eligible for subsidies. The savings accrued from picking plans
that are cheaper than the silver benchmark should be funneled
into HSAs to offset future health expenses. This would provide a
powerful incentive for Americans to gravitate into catastrophic
plans, slow health-care inflation and encourage providers to
become more transparent in pricing their services.  Conservatives aren’t going to repeal or replace  Obamacare 
anytime soon. But they can propose smart fixes that build on the
HSA-friendly exchange architecture to make the law more
consumer- and patient-friendly. Reform from the inside can set
the stage for even bigger changes in the not-too-distant future.  ( Paul Howard  is a senior fellow and director of the Center
for Medical Progress at the  Manhattan Institute . Yevgeniy Feyman
is a fellow at the Manhattan Institute’s Center for Medical
Progress.)  To contact the writers of this article:
 Paul Howard  at  phoward@Manhattan-Institute.org ;
Yevgeniy Feyman at  yfeyman@Manhattan-Institute.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 