-- Abe Allies Divided on Sending Casino Bill to Diet This Year
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-11-18T10:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/abe-allies-divided-on-submitting-casino-bill-to-diet-this-year.html
Differences among members of
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s coalition partner mean the
party may not back submitting a bill to legalize casinos in the
current session of parliament.  “I don’t necessarily think we will reach consensus on
submitting the bill to the current session and moving forward
with it in the limited time we have,” Natsuo Yamaguchi, leader
of the New Komeito party, said in an interview today in Tokyo.  A cross-party group of lawmakers has said it is preparing
to submit the casino legalization bill to parliament in the
current session, ending on Dec. 6. They hope this will boost
tourism by leading to the development of “integrated resorts,”
with gambling alongside other kinds of entertainment.  While betting on horse, boat and bicycle races is allowed,
casinos remain banned. Union Gaming Group estimates  Japan  could
turn into the world’s second-largest gambling hub with $10
billion in annual revenue. International gaming companies have
been mulling billions of dollars in investment as Tokyo’s
selection to host the 2020 Olympics Games boosts confidence
casinos will be legalized.  Yamaguchi said the public lacked “full understanding” of
the casino issue and said there were potential drawbacks, such
as the effect on young people. If the bill is not submitted now,
it would have to wait for the next parliamentary session
starting in January.  MGM, Wynn  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  Deputy Chairman Francis Lui
said in a Nov. 15 interview the casino operator would consider
investing at least $5 billion in Japan and  Taiwan  if allowed.
 Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  said on Sept. 18 it will consider investing
more than $4 billion in Japan casino resorts, while  MGM Resorts
International (MGM)  President Bill Hornbuckle said the company would
spend “several” billion dollars.  Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  has been in coalition with
the Buddhist-backed New Komeito for more than a decade and
relies on the smaller party for votes in constituencies where
Komeito does not put up a candidate.  Tax Woes  On the  consumption tax , Yamaguchi’s party is seeking lower
rates for daily necessities to lessen the effect on low-income
households of a slated increase to 10 percent in 2015. The tax
will first rise to 8 percent in April 2014 from the current 5
percent.  “It is the government’s duty to provide permanent ways of
helping those on low incomes,” he said in the interview. “I
don’t see any other desirable option at this point.”  Yamaguchi expressed concern about a proposal from an
internal affairs ministry panel that taxes on small-capacity
“minicars” be increased. He said the small vehicles help
lessen environmental pollution and are an inexpensive means of
transport, particularly for those living in rural areas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  