-- Ackman Joins Fray to Pry Once-Worthless Fannie From U.S.
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-11-18T05:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/ackman-joins-fray-to-pry-once-worthless-fannie-from-u-s-.html
Bill Ackman  and Bruce Berkowitz, two
of the most successful investors of the past decade, aren’t
afraid to go against the grain.  Ackman, a hedge-fund manager known for his detailed
research, pushed U.S. mall owner General Growth Properties Inc.
to file for bankruptcy, then helped orchestrate a rare victory
for both bond and equity investors. Berkowitz scored big for his
mutual funds by betting on American International Group Inc. at
a time when the insurer’s future was in doubt.  Now, as they seek to make money on their holdings of Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage giants at the core of the
U.S. housing market, Ackman and Berkowitz are fighting another
uphill battle, this time against the White House and U.S.
Congress. Taking different approaches, each is angling to
salvage securities valued at more than $100 billion combined
before the financial crisis and which many deemed worthless when
the federal government took over the companies as markets
unraveled in 2008. Few on Wall Street or in  Washington  see how
they can win.  “It’s risky as the odds are stacked against these
investors in the short-term,” said Nela Richardson, senior
economist with Bloomberg Government. “This is the biggest hot-button issue after Obamacare and there’s little chance of reform
now. However it may pay off in the long term for the
investors.”  Fairholme’s Proposal  Ackman’s $12 billion hedge-fund firm, Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, said on Nov. 15 that it had bought a 9.98
percent stake in the common shares of Fannie Mae that aren’t
owned by the government, as well as a 9.77 percent stake in the
Freddie Mac shares available to the public. The stakes were
valued at $577 million at the end of last week. The firm said it
may seek talks with shareholders, management and the government,
which owns almost 80 percent of the agencies since bailing them
out.  The announcement was prompted by a proposal two days
earlier from Berkowitz’s $10.5 billion mutual-fund firm,
Fairholme Capital Management LLC, that it and other owners of
the preferred shares buy the mortgage insurance business of the
companies and leave common shareholders like Ackman with stakes
in the legacy business that would be wound down.  The moves highlight how, in the space of two years,  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac went from taxpayer sinkholes to money makers
that investment managers are fighting to privatize. Seized by
the government in 2008 in a $187.5 billion bailout, both
companies returned to profit in 2012, when Fannie Mae had  record 
net income of $17.2 billion. Freddie Mac earned $11 billion last
year.  Shares Spike  The common shares of the two companies  spiked  this year,
gaining about 12-fold, as investors piled in. Fairholme said in
June that it had acquired preferred stock in the two companies
with about $2.4 billion in redemption value. His firm is now
owns $3.5 billion to $4 billion of the preferred shares at par
value.  The housing market is in the second year of a recovery from
the crash as buyers, lured by historically low mortgage rates,
compete for a tight supply of available homes. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property prices in 20 U.S. cities rose 12.8
percent in August from a year earlier, the most since early
2006, and is up 23 percent from its March 2012 low. Foreclosures
have fallen to the lowest level in six years as rising values
make it easier for distressed homeowners to sell.  Great Depression  Hedge funds, private-equity firms and real estate
investment trusts are pouring into the market by acquiring
thousands of foreclosed houses to turn them into rentals,
reducing the inventory of distressed properties.  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , the biggest company in the burgeoning industry, has
spent more than $7 billion to acquire about 40,000 homes.  Fannie Mae was established near the end of the Great
Depression in 1938 to help boost homeownership by making
mortgages more available. Along with the smaller Freddie Mac,
created in 1970, the company bundles loans into mortgage-backed
securities that are sold to investors with the support of the
federal government. While they don’t make loans, the companies
own or guarantee more than half of all U.S. mortgages and have
become crucial to keeping capital flowing to lenders and
borrowers.  Unpopular Giants  The companies are notoriously unpopular in Washington not
only for having required a bailout, but also for decades of
accounting scandals and their role in helping to create the
housing bubble by backing loans to borrowers with small down
payments or weak credit histories. Their implicit government
backing, which makes their mortgage bonds more attractive to
investors, has been criticized as unfair. The Obama
administration believes Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should be
wound down, the Treasury Department said last week in response
to the Fairholme proposal.  That opposition is unlikely to deter Berkowitz, 55, a
contrarian investor who has used phrases like “ignore the
crowd” and “embrace the hated” to describe his strategy.
Berkowitz, who founded Miami-based Fairholme in 1997, isn’t
afraid to make large, concentrated bets and stick to them. Three
holdings -- AIG, Bank of America Corp. and Sears Holding Corp. -
- accounted for about two-thirds of the money in his $8.3
billion  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  as of May 31, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Berkowitz along with other preferred shareholders has sued
the government for taking all of the companies’ quarterly
profits beyond a $3 billion net-worth cap. The money counts as a
return on the U.S. investment and not as a repayment of the aid,
leaving Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac without an avenue for exiting
conservatorship and fueling controversy among holders of their
junior-preferred and common stock.  ‘Without Consequence’  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac said on Nov. 8 they will return
$39 billion to the Treasury out of third-quarter profits,
bringing their total payments to within about $2 billion of the
cash aid they got after the credit crisis.  “Every day, I put myself in the shoes of the shareholder,
invest for the long run, do what I say I’m going to do and stick
to it without consequence of what people may say or what the
optics may look like,” Berkowitz said in an e-mailed statement
last week. “That’s my job. That’s what I get paid for. And
that’s what I’m going to keep doing.”  The risk and payoff of his investing philosophy were on
display in his wager on AIG. He plowed money into the New York-based insurer starting in 2009 as part of a strategy to buy
financial firms that he said were “priced to die” after they
were recapitalized by the government following the 2008
financial crisis.  Worst Year  Fairholme’s investment soured in 2011 after AIG booked
charges to strengthen reserves, and the government laid out
plans to sell its 92 percent stake through a series of share
sales. The prospect of the offerings held down the stock price
because investors wagered that the U.S. would divest its
holdings near its break-even on AIG’s $182.3 billion bailout.
The share slide caused the Fairholme Fund to suffer its worst
year ever in 2011 and prompted investors to pull their money.  Yet those who stuck by Berkowitz, named Morningstar’s
domestic stock manager of the decade in 2010 for returning an
average of 13 percent over that period, reaped gains. AIG last
year rebounded as the government exited its stake and led the
Fairholme Fund to its best performance against the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index in a decade. The fund has surged 36 percent
this year to beat 97 percent of peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. AIG has continued to outperform the
benchmark this year, climbing 40 percent.  Public Style  Ackman, too, is known for making concentrated and
occasionally long-shot wagers. Pershing Square had invested in
seven public companies with stakes valued at a combined $8.4
billion at the end of the third quarter, according to a filing.
His strategy involves intense research and pushing companies to
make changes to boost the share price, a very public style of
investing that backfired this year with wrong-way bets against
Herbalife Ltd., a maker of nutritional supplements, and on
retailer J.C. Penney Co.  “Ackman is willing make large bets that are counter to
conventional thinking,” said Justin Pawl, chief investment
officer of Covenant Multi Family Offices, which manages more
than $1 billion out of San Antonio,  Texas . “Some of these bets
have paid off handsomely and others have not.” Covenant isn’t
an investor Pershing Square.  Ackman, 47, declined to comment for this story.  In his General Growth wager, Ackman paid $9.3 million for
20.1 million shares at an average of 46 cents each, according to
a filing at the time of his November 2008 purchase. General
Growth filed for Chapter 11 protection the following year after
weighing itself down with $27 billion in debt that it was unable
to refinance because of the financial crisis and collapse of the
commercial mortgage-backed securities market.  Teaming Up  Berkowitz in 2010 joined Ackman and other investors
including Brookfield Asset Management Inc. in a proposal to
invest in General Growth to bring it out of bankruptcy. The
investor group prevailed, committing more than $8 billion to
bring the firm out of Chapter 11.  General Growth’s restructuring plan provided a full
recovery for creditors and a recovery for shareholders, which is
rare in a bankruptcy reorganization. Ackman, who started his
first hedge fund at the age of 26, told Bloomberg News in 2011
that he had “turned $60 million into $1.6 billion,” and the
wager helped to generate a 29 percent gain from his main fund in
2010.  Pershing Square’s main fund has returned an annual average
of 20 percent since the firm’s 2004 inception. The fund has
gained 8.1 percent this year through October, according to a
performance update. Hedge funds have returned an average 6.9
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ackman’s Purchases  While General Growth turned out to be a win for both
investors, that’s not clear in the case of Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac. Ackman, who was betting against shares of the two
companies in 2008, hasn’t disclosed his plans. He told CNBC last
year that Fannie Mae should stop selling foreclosed assets and
become a residential real estate investment trust.  Pershing Square started buying the shares Oct. 7 and
accelerated purchases after Oct. 21. Ackman paid a total of $401
million for his combined holdings, meaning he already made a 44
percent return. The firm said it disclosed its stakes “in light
of the proposed Fairholme transaction.”  Under Fairholme’s proposal, the preferred shares would be
exchanged at their full par value of $34.6 billion for shares in
a new mortgage insurer. The preferred shares currently trade at
about 40 cents on the dollar. Holders of common shares would get
no stake in the new business unless they want to purchase the
shares.  ‘Public Interest’  Some significant investors in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
preferred shares weren’t aware of the details of Fairholme’s
proposal and his plan to publicize it, though they would
probably be interested in participating if it’s accepted,
according to people familiar with discussions among
shareholders.  So far, the chances of that happening appear slim, as
policy makers have shown little interest in the Fairholme
proposal. Senator Bob Corker of  Tennessee , a Republican, and
Virginia Democrat Mark Warner, who have co-authored a bill
before the Senate that would overhaul housing finance and wind
down Fannie and Freddie, last week rejected Berkowitz’s
proposal.  “An offer of this nature would not be in the public
interest,” Corker said in an e-mailed statement about the
Berkowitz proposal. “Without meaningful legislative reform we
would still have dominant entities owned by the private sector
but operating with an implied government guarantee, leaving
taxpayers at great risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  