-- Madoff Feeder-Fund Victims Can Now Tap Forfeited Cash
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-18T21:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/madoff-feeder-fund-victims-can-now-tap-forfeited-cash.html
Victims of Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme can start making claims against a $2.35 billion fund of
money forfeited to the government, even if they didn’t invest
directly with him, prosecutors said.  People who lost money that feeder funds put into Madoff’s
fraudulent enterprise can bring claims for the first time,
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said today in a statement.
 Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm, has said
that only victims who invested directly with Madoff are eligible
to claim the funds he administers.  “With today’s announcement, we take a great step forward
in returning the $2.35 billion collected so far to Madoff’s
victims, and we hope to return even more,” Bharara said in the
statement.  The Madoff Victim Fund includes about $2.2 billion
recovered in a 2010 settlement with the estate of Madoff
investor  Jeffry Picower , Bharara said. Most of the rest comes
from civil and criminal forfeiture actions against Madoff
investor Carl Shapiro, Madoff’s brother  Peter Madoff  and  Bernard
Madoff  himself.  The fund is overseen by Richard Breeden, a former chairman
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  ‘Important Development’  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, called today’s
announcement “an important development in the Madoff recovery
effort.”  “Every distribution is critical and we wish Mr. Breeden
and his team much success in the process that is now under
way,” Remus said today in a statement.  The move to open the fund to claims comes as prosecutors
from Bharara’s office are in a trial against five former Madoff
employees charged with aiding his fraud.  Madoff, 75, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating the
biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He’s serving a 150-year
sentence in federal prison in North Carolina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  