-- Thailand Cuts Economic Growth Forecast as Exports Falter
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-11-18T04:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/thailand-s-economy-grew-less-than-estimated-as-exports-weakened.html
Thailand  cut its growth forecast for
the year after the economy expanded less than analysts estimated
last quarter and as weakening exports damp the outlook for
consumption and investment.  Gross domestic product rose 1.3 percent in the three months
through September from the previous quarter, the National
Economic & Social Development Board said in Bangkok today. It
revised a contraction in the second quarter to no growth
from the previous three months. GDP grew 2.7 percent from a year
earlier, compared to a median estimate of 2.9 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of 15 analysts.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s administration has
tried to speed up budget disbursement and boost local demand as
plans to spend 2 trillion baht ($63 billion) on infrastructure
and 350 billion baht on water management projects have stalled.
Consumer  confidence  in October fell to the lowest level in 20
months as protests grew against a bill that would have provided
amnesty for political offenses stretching back to the nation’s
2006 coup, allowing the return of her exiled brother Thaksin.  “Confidence appears to have taken a hit at least partly
from the protests, and personal consumption looks to have
weakened further in the fourth quarter so far,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore .
“We need to see if external demand picks up in 2014 and offsets
some of the drag in the domestic economy. The government’s
infrastructure spending is now more crucial than ever.”  The baht was little changed at 31.58 per dollar as of 11:07
a.m. local time. It is among the worst performers in the last
three months of 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The
benchmark SET Index gained 0.4 percent.  Plans Delayed  The state agency cut its full-year expansion forecast to 3
percent from a range of 3.8 percent to 4.3 percent projected in
August, and said the economy may grow 4 percent to 5 percent in
2014. It said it expected no export growth this year, from an
earlier estimate of 5 percent.  Household consumption fell 1.2 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, the NESDB said. Public investment slumped 16.2
percent from a year ago as both government construction and
investment in machinery and equipment declined, it said.  “The political-risk factor normally hurts tourism,”
Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, secretary-general of the state
planning agency, told a news conference today. “So far we
haven’t seen any impact on the economy.”  Demonstrations that have drawn as many as 30,000 people
have already hurt tourism and investor confidence, central bank
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said Nov. 10. The Bank of
Thailand last month held its benchmark interest rate at 2.5
percent for a third meeting. It is due to meet next on Nov. 27.  Prolonged unrest could shave 0.5 percentage points from the
nation’s GDP in 2014, according to a BNP Paribas SA research
note on Nov. 4. Thai Airways International Pcl, the nation’s
largest airline, has started to see passengers delaying plans to
travel to Thailand, President Sorajak Kasemsuvan said Nov. 12.  “A part of the reason for the disappointing GDP data is
the delay in government investment in projects such as water
management,” said Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong. “A
rebound in global economic growth will help stimulate exports.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  