-- Allianz Says Cyber Risks Boosting Industrial Insurance
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-11-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/allianz-says-cyber-risks-boosting-industrial-insurance.html
Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest
insurer, said markets such as Asia,  Brazil  and eastern Europe as
well as products that protect against cyber risks will increase
revenue at its industrial insurance unit.  “New products such as cyber-risk protection and coverage
for renewable-energy plants will boost premiums in the mid-term,” Axel Theis, chief executive officer of the Munich-based
insurer’s Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty industrial
insurance unit, said in an interview. “We will also continue to
build our presence in growth markets in Asia,  South America ,
 Africa , the  Nordic countries  and Russia.”  Industrial insurers such as Allianz’s AGCS division and
units of  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  and American International
Group Inc. provide coverage for corporations against risks
ranging from property damage to business-interruption and
liability insurance for managers. Reinsurers such as  Swiss Re
Ltd. (SREN)  are also increasingly offering similar protection as they
seek to expand their business.  “We haven’t seen a market-wide increase of prices in our
sector since the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in
2001,” said Theis, 55, who has run the unit since it began in
2006. “Rates have been hit by low  interest rates  and an
abundance of capital, and we rather see them change in some
regional markets, segments or product areas than on a broad
level.”  Cyber Insurance  In the third quarter, “price decreases at AGCS’s aviation
and liability business could only partly compensate for price
rises in our marine lines,” Allianz said in the  report  on its
website.  Cyber-risk insurance, which AGCS began selling in July,
covers corporations against their own and third-party damages
resulting from hacker attacks or information-technology
glitches. The market for such policies in  Europe  is expected to
increase from 150 million euros ($202 million) in premiums in
2012 to as much as 900 million euros in 2018, according to AGCS.  “I could image that cyber risk protection will be an
established product in a few years comparable to what fire and
liability insurance are today,” Theis said.  The unit, which Allianz set up to combine its industrial
insurance activities,  reported  gross written premiums of 4.04
billion euros for the first nine months of the year, down 5
percent from a year earlier on foreign-exchange movements and as
prices in some markets declined. Operating profit rose 5.6
percent to 342 million euros.  AGCS made up 11 percent of Allianz’s nine-month gross
premiums in property and casualty insurance and 9.2 percent of
operating profit.  While Allianz’s appetite for acquisitions has increased in
general, that is less the case at AGCS, Theis said. “Why should
we buy a whole company when we also have the option of hiring
the top personnel without all the legacy issues?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich  at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  