-- Malls Billionaire Targets Overseas Expansion: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-11-18T21:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/malls-billionaire-targets-overseas-expansion-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian billionaire Jose Isaac Peres is considering expanding his mall operations overseas as
the nation’s trade barriers for  consumer goods  and rising
 interest rates  limit options to grow locally.  Peres, who owns 31 percent of  Multiplan Empreendimentos
Imobiliarios SA (MULT3) , the country’s largest mall operator, said he
has met with  Peter Lowy  of Australia’s Westfield Group and
executives from Indianapolis-based Simon Property Group Inc. as
he seeks opportunities abroad.  Chile  and Uruguay are attractive
markets, Peres said.  “We have the size and the muscle to look abroad and easily
compete,” Peres, 73, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s office
in Sao Paulo. “The big obstacle of Brazilian companies is that
the macroeconomic situation doesn’t help local businesses.”  Brazil, the biggest emerging economy after China, is
failing to fulfill its growth potential because the government
maintains high  import duties , steep interest rates and excessive
regulation, Peres said. The economy will expand 2.45 percent in
this year and next, less than the Latin American average for a
fourth straight year, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Brazilian imports represented 14 percent of GDP in 2012,
compared with 34 percent for Chile, 32 percent for  India  and 34
percent for  Mexico , according to  World Bank data . The U.S. Trade
Representative’s office threatened last year to retaliate
against what it called a “protectionist” push by Brazil that
led to tariff increases on more than 100 goods.  Industry Consolidation  Sydney-based Westfield declined to comment in an e-mailed
response to questions from  Bloomberg News . A press
representative for Simon didn’t respond to phone call and e-mail
seeking comment on talks with Multiplan.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s office didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment sent on a national holiday. The  Finance
Ministry  declined to comment.  While Peres foresees consolidation among Brazilian mall
operators, he said he sees no good acquisition or merger
opportunities for Multiplan. For example, Peres said local
developer WTorre SA is seeking about 800 million reais ($346
million) for its 50 percent stake in luxury mall JK Iguatemi, an
asset that probably cost WTorre about 200 million reais.  “If there’s a good mall for sale, we’ll buy it, but we
won’t buy a mall just to increase our gross leasable area,”
said Peres, who founded Multiplan in 1975 and has helped develop
properties in Portugal and Miami.  Share Valuation  Multiplan had  surged  112 percent since its initial public
offering in 2007 through Nov. 14, valuing the company at 10.1
billion reais. That puts Peres’s stake at $1.4 billion. The
Ontario Teachers  Pension Plan  is the second-biggest shareholder
with a 23.1 percent stake, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shares fell 1.1 percent to 52.50 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, extending this year’s drop to 13 percent,
compared with an 11 percent decline in Brazil’s benchmark
Ibovespa equity gauge. The stock trades at 22 times estimated
earnings, compared with 27 times for competitor  Aliansce
Shopping Centers SA (ALSC3)  and 18 times for Rio de Janeiro-based BR
Malls Participacoes.  Annual increases in Brazilian retail sales have averaged
3.8 percent in the first nine months of this year, down from 8.6
percent in 2012, as the central bank increases interest rates to
tame inflation that has exceeded the midpoint of policy makers’
target for the past three years.  Sales Growth  Borrowing costs in dollars for  Brazilian companies  have
surged 1.44 percentage point to 6.6 percent this year, exceeding
 the average  1.11 percentage point increase to 5.82 percent for
emerging-market issuers globally, according to data compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  As Brazil’s consumer spending grows at a slower pace, Rio
de Janeiro-based Multiplan is set to post the first annual drop
in adjusted net income since 2006, according to the average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Multiplan’s sales are outperforming general retail demand,
with third-quarter same-store revenue growing 8.4 percent,
according to a regulatory filing. Its malls tend to attract
higher-income consumers, shielding the company from some of the
effects of a retail slowdown, according to Tales Paes, an
analyst at Fator Corretora SA in  Sao Paulo .  “They are still putting up 8 percent growth, which is all
but unheard of in the rest of the world,” said Sam Lieber, the
chief executive officer of Alpine Woods Capital Investors LLC in
Purchase, New York, which has about 950,000 shares of Multiplan.
“You’re in a 3 percent world at best in  Europe  and in the U.S.
and in  Japan , so I think these are very good numbers.”  New Malls  A record 38 shopping centers will open in Brazil in 2013,
according to the country’s mall association, known as Abrasce.
Total retail space grew 9 percent this year through November,
according to an industry association.  Multiplan is in advanced talks to buy land in Jacarepagua,
near the Barra area in  Rio de Janeiro , to develop a new mall,
Peres said.  Brazil ’s sluggish economic growth this year shouldn’t
discourage investors in the retail sector, according to Rajesh Gupta, the CEO of SeaCrest Investment Management LLC, which
manages about $60 million in emerging-market assets.  “Consumption will definitely be one of the strong engines
powering Brazil in the years ahead,” Gupta said in an interview
in Sao Paulo. “We’re talking about medium and long term.
Because of the country’s young population and the recent
emergence of a new middle-income class, retail should give
attractive returns for those who invest in it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  