-- Halyk Bank Drops Talks on Purchase of State’s BTA Stake
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-11-18T15:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/halyk-bank-drops-talks-on-purchase-of-state-s-bta-stake.html
Halyk Savings Bank (HSBK) ,  Kazakhstan ’s
second-largest bank, halted talks on buying the government’s
shares in twice-defaulted BTA Bank after sovereign wealth fund
Samruk-Kazyna rejected its bid.  Talks were discontinued by mutual consent after the
completion of due diligence on BTA, Halyk said on its website
today. The Almaty-based lender said it “will continue to
implement its long-term development strategy.”  As part of a move to unify Kazakhstan’s almost $23 billion
of retirement savings under a single state-run pension fund, the
Kazakh government had said it planned to swap its stake in BTA
for Halyk’s pension fund. It then wanted to offer its remaining
shares in the defaulted bank to Halyk, which is controlled by
President Nursultan Nazarbayev’s daughter and son-in-law.  “We may assume that Samruk-Kazyna may take Halyk’s pension
assets without any compensation,” Nurlan Ashinov, an analyst at
Almaty-based Visor Capital, said by e-mail. “However, the newly
created Single Pension Fund will probably outsource part of the
pension assets to local asset management companies, and in our
view, Halyk’s Pension Fund may become one of those asset
management companies.  Halyk’s Position  Halyk wanted to separate the planned sale of its pension
fund from the acquisition of BTA shares, Interfax reported in
June, citing Halyk Chairman Alexander Pavlov. Halyk consultants
valued the pension fund at $576 million to $715 million, and the
bank was prepared to sell at ‘‘fair market value,” Interfax
said.  The pension fund had 1.1 trillion tenge ($7.3 billion) of
assets under management last year, contributing about 14 percent
of Halyk’s  net income .  The transfer of assets under management of Halyk’s pension
fund will begin on March 26 and is scheduled to be completed by
June 26, the lender said in a presentation on its website.
Kazakh central bank Chairman Kairat Kelimbetov said last week
that retirement savings may be united in the state-owned fund in
the first quarter.  After credit markets froze and a property bubble burst in
2008, Samruk-Kazyna took over BTA, the biggest lender at the
time, Alliance Bank and Temirbank. The lenders restructured
about $20 billion in debt after defaulting in 2009. BTA
overhauled its debt in December for the second time since 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  