-- ANA to Send Boeing 787 Charger for Testing, Second in Two Months
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-11-18T03:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/ana-to-send-boeing-787-charger-for-testing-second-in-two-months.html
ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , the biggest
operator of  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s, will send its second battery
charger in two months to supplier  Thales SA (HO)  after a message
indicated a problem during a maintenance check.  The airline changed the battery during maintenance on Nov.
16 and no flights were canceled or delayed, Ryosei Nomura, a
spokesman at ANA, said by telephone from Tokyo today.  Boeing 787 Dreamliners were grounded worldwide earlier this
year after batteries made by GS Yuasa Corp. melted on two
planes. The Chicago-based airplane maker made changes to the
battery and charger, built by a unit of  Meggitt Plc (MGGT) , before
flights were cleared to restart.  Japan Airlines Co. (9101)  earlier this month said it would send a
787 battery charger to Thales after it found no problem with a
battery in the plane following a warning light during a
Helsinki-to-Narita flight. ANA sent a battery charger for checks
in September, after replacing the battery and finding no
problems following a low-battery warning.  U.S. investigators said in January that they found no
evidence of flaws in the Securaplane Technologies Inc.-made
battery charger after probing it as a possible cause of a fire
aboard a  Japan Airlines (9201)  787 in Boston earlier that month.  Thales supplies the unit that includes the battery and
charger to Boeing. The chargers are made by Securaplane, while
the batteries are made by Kyoto-based GS Yuasa.  The grounding of the 787 fleet pared ANA’s sales by 8
billion yen ($80 million) in the quarter ended June. Japan
Airlines, the world’s second-largest operator of 787s, said the
grounding of its Dreamliners cut sales by 4.8 billion yen in the
same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{ Chris Cooper } in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  