-- Argentina’s Fernandez Reappears in Video Message After Surgery
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2013-11-18T23:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/argentina-s-fernandez-reappears-in-video-message-after-surgery.html
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner today appeared in a video for the first
time since Oct. 8 head surgery. In her first Twitter  message  in
45 days, she said: “Hi, how are all of you?”  Fernandez, who has worn black since her husband and
predecessor Nestor Kirchner died in October 2010, wore a white
blouse in the pre-recorded video taken by her daughter
Florencia. The 60-year-old leader said that she lived through
difficult moments in her health battle, which involved the
removal of a blood clot near her brain, and thanked well-wishers
who sent everything from dolls to flowers to a giant stuffed
penguin.  “From a routine heart exam to being told they have to open
your head,” Fernandez said in the video, sitting on a white
sofa with red roses next to her.  Fernandez ended the seven-minute video by holding up a
white dog that was given to her by Adan Chavez, the brother of
late Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez . She said the Venezuelan
leader had promised her the pet, which she named “Simon” after
the Venezuelan independence hero  Simon Bolivar , before his
death.  During her convalescence, Fernandez missed Oct. 27
congressional elections in which her ruling alliance garnered
just 33 percent of the votes nationwide and her main candidate
in the province of  Buenos Aires  lost by 12 percentage points.
While her alliance kept their hold on Congress, the results
ended any hopes she may have had of seeking a third consecutive
term when her current period ends in 2015.  Economic Agenda  Fernandez is facing the  fastest drain  of international
reserves in a decade, which have fallen $10.8 billion this year
to $32.5 billion, the lowest since 2007. With annual inflation
estimated at 26 percent, she is also locked in a U.S. legal
conflict with holdout creditors who are claiming about $1.5
billion.  The peso has tumbled 18 percent this year, the most among
 emerging markets , to 6 per dollar, while the currency trades at
9.87 in a black market.  “Simon is going to rest now and I’m going to get to
work,” Fernandez said at the end of the video.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Buenos Aires at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  