-- Argentina Loses Bid for Full Rehearing of Bonds Appeal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/argentina-loses-bid-for-full-court-rehearing-of-bonds-appeal.html
Argentina  lost its bid for a
rehearing of a federal appeals court ruling against it in
litigation over $1.5 billion in the nation’s defaulted bonds.  The U.S Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
 Manhattan  yesterday rejected Argentina’s request that a larger
panel of circuit judges reconsider a decision that a three-judge
panel reached in August.  The three judges upheld a lower-court injunction barring
Argentina from paying holders of its restructured debt if it
fails to pay a group of investors that hold defaulted bonds, led
by Elliott Management Corp.’s NML Capital and Aurelius Capital
Management LP.  The ruling leaves a possible appeal to the U.S. Supreme
Court as Argentina’s last chance at reversing a decision it said
threatens the country with a new default. The appeals court
delayed enforcement of the August ruling, allowing Argentina to
continue paying holders of its restructured debt while it seeks
 Supreme Court  review.  Argentina in 2001 defaulted on a record $95 billion of
foreign debt. Holders of more than 90 percent of the bonds
agreed to take new exchange bonds in 2005 and 2010, at a deep
discount.  The court yesterday also denied requests by groups holding
restructured bonds to reconsider the case.  Won’t Comply  A lawyer for Argentina told the three-judge panel in
February that the country “won’t voluntarily comply” with a
ruling forcing it to pay in full the holders of defaulted bonds.  Yesterday’s decision “further demonstrates that
Argentina’s arguments that it cannot keep its promises to U.S.
investors and obey lawful orders of U.S. courts are based on
nothing more than unfounded speculation and hyperbole,”
 Theodore Olson , a lawyer for NML, said in a statement. The
ruling “only reinforces that Argentina’s self-serving pleas do
not warrant the Supreme Court’s attention.”  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v.
Republic of Argentina, 12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  