-- Armstrong False Claims Case Likely to Proceed, Judge Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-11-19T18:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/armstrong-false-claims-case-likely-to-proceed-judge-says.html
A whistle-blower lawsuit accusing
former champion cyclist Lance Armstrong of defrauding the
government by using banned substances in violation of his team’s
contract with the U.S.  Postal Service  probably will proceed, a
judge said.  U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins said yesterday at a
hearing in  Washington  that he’s inclined to let at least part of
a suit filed by Armstrong’s former teammate,  Floyd Landis ,
continue. His comments followed almost three hours of arguments
for throwing out the case presented by lawyers for Armstrong and
others named in the complaint.  “It may be dismissed as to some defendants,” Wilkins
said.  The suit, filed in June 2010 by Landis, who admitted using
performance enhancing drugs as a cyclist, was joined in part by
the Justice Department in February. The government claims the
U.S. paid about $40 million in false claims through the team’s
contract with the Postal Service from 1998 through 2004.
Armstrong’s former team, Tailwind Sports Corp., used Postal
Service sponsorship fees to pay Armstrong’s salary of
$17.9 million during those years, according to the complaint.
The U.S. is seeking triple damages.  Doping Admission  A record seven-time  Tour de France  winner from 1999 to
2005, Armstrong was stripped of the titles by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency in August 2012. Armstrong acknowledged in a
television interview with  Oprah Winfrey  in January that he used
a mixture of erythropoietin, testosterone and blood transfusions
throughout his career.  The U.S. joined Landis in suing Armstrong, Tailwind and the
team’s former manager,  Johan Bruyneel . Other defendants named by
Landis, including Tailwind’s founder, Thomas Weisel, were left
out of the government’s action.  Wilkins, who said he expects to rule within 30 days, didn’t
indicate which defendants he might drop.  Armstrong’s lawyer,  Elliot Peters  of Keker & Van Nest LLP,
told Wilkins that the Postal Service could have chosen to
investigate Armstrong after French authorities probed doping
allegations against his team in 2000.  Instead, the Postal Service rewrote its contract with the
team to protect itself against adverse publicity, Peters said.  Valuable Publicity  “They wanted the right, if the publicity was bad, to get
out of the contract,” Peters said. “They wanted to have their
cake and eat it, too. They weren’t harmed. They got millions of
dollars in publicity.”  Robert Chandler, a  Justice Department  lawyer, said
Armstrong had “an army of lawyers” and “network of enablers
who helped him perpetuate his denials.”  “It’s clear that the Postal Service did not know and could
not know” that Armstrong was doping,’’ Chandler said.  What the Postal Service knew and when is significant
because false-claims suits normally must be brought within six
years of the alleged fraud. The deadline for suing over the most
recent allegation passed nine days before Landis sued,
Armstrong’s lawyers argued in court papers.  A government filing contended that although most of the
alleged conduct occurred more than six years ago, Armstrong
wasn’t revealed to be a cheater until June 2010, putting the
case within the required time frame.  French Inquiry  Robert Sacks, of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, an attorney for
Weisel, said the French inquiry found no evidence of wrongdoing
by Armstrong or his team, and the cyclist adamantly insisted he
was clean. That left little reason for Weisel to look further,
he said.  “Forceful denials by people doesn’t indicate putting an
ostrich head in the sand,” Sacks said.  Landis’s suit lacks specific information about what Weisel
did to further false claims, Sacks said.  “They don’t even allege that Mr. Weisel saw  Lance
Armstrong ’s contract,” Sacks said.  Landis’s attorney Paul Scott said Weisel’s denial of
knowledge about Armstrong’s drug use is implausible given his
central role at Tailwind.  “He was the single most powerful person behind this
company,” Scott said, describing Weisel as its largest
shareholder and “guiding force.”  Weisel did nothing to keep Michele Ferrari, an Italian
physician linked to doping, from associating with the team,
Scott said.  Ferrari was instrumental in the Tailwind team’s doping
program, according to the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency.  Six Counts  The Justice Department brought six counts of false claims,
fraud and unjust enrichment against Armstrong, Bruyneel and
Tailwind Sports. An additional breach of contract claim was
brought against Tailwind.  Armstrong, 42, made at least $221 million since turning
professional, according to a compilation of his earnings by
 Bloomberg News . He was the team’s lead rider from 1999 to 2004.  Landis, who could receive some of the award if the case is
successful, in August admitted defrauding donors to his legal
defense fund by falsely claiming that he hadn’t used
performance-enhancing drugs during his professional cycling
career. The admission was part of a deferred-prosecution
agreement filed in federal court in  San Diego .  The case is U.S. v. Tailwind Sports Corp., 10-cv-00976,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  