-- Asian Stocks Extend Two-Week High After China Reforms
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-11-18T12:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/asian-stocks-extend-two-week-high-after-china-reforms.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a third day,
with the benchmark index extending a two-week high, after  China 
vowed to carry out the broadest expansion of economic freedoms
since at least the 1990s.  China Mengniu Dairy Co. jumped 4.8 percent after policy
makers said they would relax the nation’s one-child policy,
boosting the outlook for infant-formula producers. Citic
Securities Co. surged 13 percent in Hong Kong, leading gains
among Chinese brokerages as the government flagged policy
changes that portend the end of a ban on mainland initial public
offerings. Dwango Co. soared 17 percent in Tokyo after jumping
by the daily limit on Nov. 15, when the provider of content for
mobile phones said Nintendo Co. bought a stake in the company.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 1.1 percent to 143.05 at
9:44 p.m. in  Tokyo  today, reaching the highest level since Oct.
30. All 10 of the measure’s industry groups gained. China
pledged to allow more private investment in state-controlled
industries, ease its family-planning policy and expand farmers’
land rights, according to a Communist Party policy decision
published by Xinhua News Agency on Nov. 15.  “The investors who were on the sidelines don’t have to
hesitate anymore,” Zeng Xianzhao, an analyst at Everbright
Securities Co. in Chongqing, said by phone today. “In the next
few years, we will see faster implementation of these reforms
and the efficiency of the enterprises will improve as well.
There were noises about possible disappointment at the plenum;
this got rid of all such negative rumors.”  China Shares  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index soared 2.7 percent on volume
192 percent higher than the 30-day average. The HSI Volatility
Index, which measures the cost of options on the Hong Kong
equity gauge, jumped 11 percent today, the biggest advance since
Sept. 30. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies listed in the city surged 5.7 percent, the steepest
daily advance since December 2011. China’s Shanghai Composite
Index added 2.9 percent.  Chinese shares are on the cusp of a historic bull run,
according to a research note from Jefferies Group LLC.
Comprehensive reform decisions from the plenum impressed
“tremendously,” with a significance rivaling that of Deng
Xiaoping declaring the opening of China in 1978, analysts led by
Christie Ju wrote.  Japan ’s  Topix (TPX)  index added 0.2 percent as financial shares
advanced. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was little changed after
jumping 7.7 percent last week, the steepest rally in almost four
years. Japanese stocks are poised to surpass this year’s high
set in May as a stronger U.S. economy weakens the yen and Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s reflation policy leads to wage increases,
according to BNP Paribas Investment Partners SA and SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc.  Regional Gauges  South Korea’s Kospi index climbed 0.3 percent as data
showed the nation’s producer prices fell 1.4 percent last month
from a year earlier. Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 0.2 percent and
 Singapore ’s Straits Times Index gained less than 0.1 percent.
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.3 percent, while New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index lost 0.4 percent.  Following the announcement of China’s policy changes,
infant-formula makers, milk producers and sellers of other baby-related products surged. China Mengniu soared 4.8 percent to
HK$35.10 and Yashili International Holdings Ltd., which makes
dairy products, jumped 9.7 percent to HK$5.20. Milk-powder
company Biostime International Holdings Ltd. climbed 6.5 percent
to HK$68.40.  Brokerages Jump  Brokerages gained as policy makers will seek to “push
forward reform for a registration system” on IPOs, according to
a Nov. 15 statement posted on the Chinese government’s website.  Citic Securities, China’s largest brokerage by market
value, surged 13 percent to HK$18.74 in Hong Kong. Haitong
Securities Co., the nation’s second-biggest brokerage, jumped 11
percent to HK$12.96.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.1
percent. The gauge of U.S. stocks rose 1.6 percent last week to
close at an all-time high after Janet Yellen, nominated to
succeed Ben S. Bernanke as Federal Reserve chairman, said she
would take care not to withdraw stimulus too early from an
economy that is operating well below potential.  “They are not willing to move yet on tapering,” said Evan Lucas, Melbourne-based market strategist at IG Ltd. “That’s a
positive thing for risk and that means equities are going to be
in the green.”  Among other stocks that gained, Dwango soared 17 percent to
2,638 yen after Nintendo bought 612,200 Dwango shares, according
to a statement filed with the Tokyo Stock Exchange on Nov. 15.
Nintendo acquired the stake at the request of Dwango Chairman
Nobuo Kawakami for his personal funding needs, Nintendo
spokesman  Yasuhiro Minagawa  said. Nintendo lost 0.2 percent to
13,040 yen after adding 5.2 percent on Nov. 15.  The Asia-Pacific gauge  traded  at 14 times estimated
earnings, compared with 16.2 for the S&P 500 and 15.2 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  