-- Tata Writing Down Assets After Buying Spree: Corporate India
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-11-18T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/tata-writing-down-assets-after-buying-spree-corporate-india.html
Cyrus Mistry, chairman of Tata Sons
Ltd., is writing down the value of some of the $15.5 billion
assets purchased by his predecessor over two decades to boost
the allure of  India ’s biggest corporate group.  Less than a year after taking over as chief of the
conglomerate, the billionaire scion has pared the value of
overseas assets by at least 95 billion rupees ($1.5 billion)
after  Europe ’s record recession and a global slowdown eroded the
value of U.K. steelmaker Corus Group Plc and  New York ’s Pierre
hotel. The $100 billion group has more than 100 companies,
including  Asia ’s top software  developer  by value, the world’s
second-largest soda ash maker and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ’s India
 partner .  Reducing the market price of the assets may make them
attractive to investors should Mistry choose to sell them, said
Shishir Bajpai, a  fund manager  at IIFL Wealth Management Ltd. in
Mumbai. Mistry’s challenge is to revive some of the unprofitable
companies in the group as he helps realize his predecessor Ratan
Tata’s vision of boosting sales fivefold in a decade.  “It makes you feel more positive as after a spring
cleaning,”  Alan Greene , a Singapore-based analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service, said in telephone interview yesterday on  Tata
Steel Ltd. (TATA) ’s impairment charge. “If there are overvalued assets
on the balance sheet, you may end up hanging onto them. If you
are not sure of some of the assets, it creates uncertainty.”  Writing Down  Under Mistry, three of the biggest Tata companies have
impaired their assets four times.  Tata Steel Ltd., India’s biggest producer of the alloy
which bought Corus for $12.8 billion in 2006, took a 83.56-billion-rupee  writedown  for the quarter ended March 31, the
company had said in a May 24 statement. A few days later,  Tata
Chemicals Ltd. (TTCH)  shaved off 4.84 billion rupees “primarily
relating to the European operations”.  Indian Hotels Company Ltd. (IH) , the unprofitable owner of New
York’s Pierre hotel, on Nov. 8 wrote down 2.87 billion rupees,
citing net worth erosion caused by “global recessionary
conditions.” It had already pruned those assets by 3.73 billion
rupees in May.  “There exists a recognition that in its desire to
internationalize, the group overpaid for some of the assets or
got its timing wrong,” Nick Paulson-Ellis, the Mumbai-based
Indian country head for Espirito Santo Securities, said in an e-mail. “They were caught at the wrong end of the demand cycle,
and there is now a need to write the assets down.”  Auditors Consulted  Debasis Ray, a spokesman for group’s holding company, Tata
Sons Ltd. said in an e-mail that these decisions were taken by
individual companies “in consultation with their respective
auditors depending upon their assessment of their operations”
and the requirements of accounting standards.  “European assets clearly have been bit of a dead weight on
Tata Steel relative to the price they paid for them,” said
Moody’s Greene. “As part of good accounting practices, they
should have done it. And they have done it.”  Mistry, 45, son of billionaire Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry,
the single biggest shareholder of Tata Sons, is the chairman on
the boards of these three companies. On Dec. 28, he will
complete a year as chairman of Tata Group, the position he took
over when  Ratan Tata  turned 75 and stepped down after steering
the salt-to-software group for two decades.  ‘Conservative Group’  Tata Steel  shares  have risen 27 percent in Mumbai to 386.60
rupees since it took the charge, compared with an almost 6
percent gain in the benchmark S&P BSE  Sensex. (SENSEX)  Tata Chemicals  has
fallen  8.5 percent since it announced the impairments on May 27,
while Indian Hotels has declined 9.6 percent.  Acquiring companies and starting new businesses helped
Ratan Tata boost revenue 23-fold from 1993. The group has spent
at least $15.5 billion buying companies in the past two decades,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s
purchase of luxury car brands, Jaguar Land Rover, for $2.3
billion in 2008 has buoyed it with better than estimated profit
as sales at the luxury unit rose at the fastest pace in four
quarters.  “Tata historically has been a very conservative group, not
looking to take very leveraged or risky calls in business,”
said Mumbai-based Bajpai, who helps manage $1.8 billion of
shares as senior vice president at IIFL Wealth Management. “It
went after deals so aggressively only in the last 10 years,
which was so unlike the group. Unfortunately some of these
didn’t work that well.”  Airline  The group, which started India’s first airline in 1932 that
became state-owned  Air India  later, announced a partnership in
February with  AirAsia Bhd (AIRA)  and in September with  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  in its second foray into aviation.  Mistry is seeking to gain a share of air passengers in the
world’s second-most populous nation where traffic is projected
to triple to 452 million by 2020.  The Tata group has been less active in the last two years,
after the global financial crisis brought growth in developed
economies almost to a halt.  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM)  dropped out
of a race in 2012 to acquire Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc
after failing to agree on a price.  Indian Hotels told the exchanges in a Nov. 8 filing that it
was not pursuing its offer to buy the remaining 93.1 percent in
 Orient-Express Hotels Ltd. (OEH)  after studying “current economic
environment and also other opportunities and priorities.” The
owner of New York’s 21 Club restaurant and Hotel Cipriani in
 Venice  had in November last year rejected a takeover offer by
the Indian hotelier saying the bid undervalued the company.  “Mistry is in some ways going back to the old school Tata
thought process. We saw more restructuring announcements,
impairments and realigning of valuations in the past year,”
said Bajpai.  “Ultimately, the benefit will flow to them. It is
a sign of prudence and it will be perceived very well by the
long term investors of the  Tata group .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  