-- Tate Revamps as $142 Million Bacon Puts Spotlight on U.K.
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-11-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/tate-revamps-as-142-million-bacon-puts-spotlight-on-u-k-.html
There were several astonishing
aspects to the sale of “Three Studies of Lucian Freud’’ by
 Francis Bacon  at Christie’s International in  New York .  One of course was the price it fetched on Nov. 12: $142.4
million. Another was the fact that this -- the most expensive
work of art ever sold at auction -- is a modern British
figurative painting.  Lastly, though a fine specimen it is far from being the
artist’s masterpiece, or even particularly well-known.  Such a development would have been unimaginable when the
picture was completed in 1969, or even a couple of decades ago.
Suddenly, the market has placed a work made in London within the
last 45 years in -- at least financially -- No. 1 place.  This adds an additional interest to the opening tomorrow of
an architecturally revamped and enhanced  Tate Britain  in  London .
Most reporters get to see the transformation this morning.  The venerable building first opened in 1897 as the National
Gallery of British Art. It isn’t quite as we used to know it.
The architects,  Caruso St John , have deftly opened up the old
structures -- sometimes taking it back closer to its late
Victorian origin, sometimes making new spaces and connections.  The most striking is a new spiral staircase leading down
from the rotunda near the entrance to the lower floor. There is
also a new cafe, less sepulchral than the old one.  The restaurant is reopening newly brightened, with decades
of dirt removed. Its murals by Rex Whistler make it among the
most visually splendid places to eat in London.  Natural Light  More important to the experience of the actual art is the
improvement to 10 of the galleries, opened earlier in the year,
which allows in more natural light, all the better for viewing
paintings. This is one clear advantage the century-old galleries
at Tate Britain have over the much newer ones at  Tate Modern .  All of this constitutes a job well if unobtrusively done,
and puts more of a focus on the collection. That in turn raises
the question, how good, really is British art? For most of the
century and a bit that Tate Britain -- under one name or another
-- has been in existence many people, especially in
international art centers such as Paris or New York, would have
said that that it was minor and provincial stuff.  Quite often, that was true of late-19th-century and early-20th-century work. There were numerous artistic glories in the
Georgian period, peaking with Turner and Constable, fewer in the
following periods. It was Bacon, more than anyone, who elevated
postwar British art to a world class level, and he did it by
resolutely ignoring fashion.  Bacon’s Reputation  Even at the time of his death in 1992, he was dismissed as
a marginal and eccentric figure by prophets of abstraction such
as the American critic Clement Greenberg.  Still, Bacon has won his point. Figurative painting by
Bacon, Freud,  David Hockney , Frank Auerbach, Leon Kossoff and
Patrick Caulfield has turned out to be one of the great
strengths of British cultural achievements of the last half
century. Another strength has been has non-representational
sculpture by  Anish Kapoor  and Richard Long among others.  The national collection has damaging gaps, such as almost
nothing from Freud’s last two decades, for example. It remains
unquestionably the world’s best array of British art. Tate
Britain has a very interesting story to tell, and now has a
building that can show it to better advantage.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . His books include works on
Freud, Hockney and Constable, and the latest is “Michelangelo:
His Epic Life.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on theater,  Scott
Reyburn  and  Katya Kazakina  on auctions,  Elin McCoy  on wine and
 Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 