-- Baby Product Makers Gain on Child Policy Change: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-11-18T09:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/baby-product-makers-gain-on-child-policy-change-hong-kong-mover.html
Infant formula makers, milk
producers and sellers of other baby-related products surged in
 Hong Kong  and China trading today after China said it will
loosen its one-child policy.  Zhejiang Beingmate Technology Industry & Trade Co. (002570) , the
unit of China’s second-largest baby formula maker, rose 3.6
percent in Shenzhen. China Mengniu Dairy Co. and  China Modern
Dairy Holdings Ltd. (1117)  climbed 4.8 percent and 5.3 percent percent
respectively, while  Yashili International Holdings Ltd. (1230)  surged
9.7 percent in Hong Kong.  China is seeking to boost private investment and loosening
its one-child policy as part of the biggest package of economic
reforms since at least the 1990s. Couples can have two children
if either parent is an only child, the Chinese Communist Party
said in a statement on Nov. 15.  “This is going to boost near-term momentum for baby
formula,  baby food , diapers and medical care products
manufacturers,” Jessie Guo, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Jefferies, said by phone today. “The impact on fundamentals are
likely to be seen only in 2015. This policy will only result in
6 percent additional newborns. The benefit should be moderate.”  Under the current policy, couples are only allowed to have
a second child if both parents are only children.  Milk powder company  Biostime International Holdings Ltd. (1112) 
jumped 6.5 percent in Hong Kong. Goodbaby International Holdings
Ltd., manufacturer of products such as strollers and child car-seats, gained rose 4.3 percent, while baby diaper maker Hengan
International Group Co. rose 6.6 percent. The city’s benchmark
Hang Seng Index rose 2.7 percent.  Market Share  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  is ranked first in China’s milk-formula market with a 14 percent share last year and Hangzhou
Beingmate Group, the parent of Zhejiang Beingmate, was No. 2
with 10 percent, according to researcher Euromonitor
International. Danone was third with a 9.2 percent market share.  Infant formula makers Mead Johnson and  Synutra
International Inc. (SYUT)  climbed 5 percent and 37 percent,
respectively, in the U.S. on Nov. 15 after the Chinese
government’s announcement.  China’s sixth national census in 2010 showed a fertility
rate between 1.5 and 1.6, almost the same as some developed
countries which are now plagued by aging populations.  Statistics from the National Health and Family Planning
Commission show that  China ’s population of about 1.3 billion
would be 400 million higher were it not for the policy, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  