-- BlackRock Set for Final Clash With AIG on BofA Deal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-11-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/blackrock-set-for-final-clash-with-aig-on-bofa-deal.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific
Investment Management Co. are among investors set to make their
final push for court approval of an $8.5 billion settlement with
 Bank of America Corp.  over mortgage bonds that opponents say
resolves only a small portion of their losses.  Lawyers for the investor group, which also includes  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , are scheduled to begin closing arguments today
in New York state court in  Manhattan  about why the settlement
should be approved over opposition from  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  AIG calls the deal a “pennies on the dollar”
settlement while investor losses totaled more than $100 billion.  “This settlement -- which resulted from a process that
reeks of collusion and is infected with countless disabling
conflicts -- could not become the hallmark of conduct for which
future trustees strive, but rather the beacon for what should be
avoided,” opponents of the accord said in court papers.  Final arguments by supporters and opponents will wrap up a
hearing over the agreement that began in June before  New York 
State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick. The hearing began 
two years after Bank of America reached the settlement to 
resolve claims over mortgages packaged into securities. The
accord settles claims the loans backing the bonds didn't
meet their promised quality.  For  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, the
settlement is part of an effort by Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan to resolve liabilities tied to faulty mortgages that 
have cost the company about $50 billion in legal claims,
including those the bank inherited with the purchase of home
lender Countrywide Financial Corp. in 2008.  ‘Really Tough’  Rejection of the settlement could expose the lender to
future lawsuits by investors looking to recover losses, said
Isaac Gradman, an attorney at Perry, Johnson, Anderson, Miller &
Moskowitz LLP who isn’t involved in the case.  “This one is really tough to call because it’s so
unprecedented, it’s so broad in scope and it has such a major
impact,” said Gradman. “Ultimately it comes down to her gut
feeling whether the deal is reasonable and constructed in a
reasonable way.”  Witnesses at the hearing included Bank of America Chief
Risk Officer Terrence P. Laughlin, who testified that
negotiations leading up to the deal were contentious.  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp., the trustee for investors, 
is seeking approval of the settlement under Article 77, a state 
law that allows trustees to seek judicial authorization for 
their actions.  Open Question  The case shows that years after the credit crisis,
litigation related to mortgage-backed securities is continuing,
said  Mark Palmer , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York.  “There is definitely an open question about whether BofA
would have to cut a more expensive deal if the judge finds
against Bank of New York Mellon and the settlement is
scuttled,” Palmer said.  BNY Mellon and the investor group supporting the settlement
argue the trustee’s decision to enter into the accord was
reasonable and should be approved. The settlement benefits
investors by giving them a known recovery instead of years of
uncertain and costly litigation, they say.  “The objectors offer a pretend world: one in which there
is an ostensibly perfect, riskless and larger result to be had
through litigation,” the investors said in a court filing.  Opponents, who are bound by the settlement if it’s
approved, say the process leading to the agreement was “plagued
by conflict and collusion.” BNY Mellon’s law firm, Mayer Brown
LLP, was conflicted because it regularly represents Bank of
America, they said. The bank also didn’t investigate the
strength of investor claims, according to opponents.  The case is In the matter of the application of the Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in  Washington  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  