-- Blue Square Rallies Most Since 1998 on Buyout News Report
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-11-18T17:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/blue-square-rallies-most-since-1998-on-buyout-news-report.html
Alon Blue Square Israel Ltd., the
country’s second-largest supermarket operator, gained the most
in 15 years in  New York  after daily Globes reported that
Catterton Partners is in talks to acquire part of its stores.  American depositary receipts of Blue Square, the owner of
Mega stores, gained 17 percent to $4.66 at 12:09 p.m. after
surging as much as 19 percent earlier today. Shares in Tel Aviv
gained 12 percent to 16.70 shekels, or $4.74. The rally boosted
the company’s market capitalization to $307 million.  Catterton Partners, the private-equity firm that purchased
restaurant chain  Noodles & Co. (NDLS)  in 2010 for an undisclosed
amount, is in talks to buy 55 percent of the supermarket chains
for 1 billion shekels ($284 million), Globes reported, without
saying where it obtained the information. Groupe Auchan SA, a
French supermarket company, is expected to join the deal,
according to the newspaper.  “The price mentioned in the report, of a 1 billion shekels
valuation, leaves significant upside for Blue Square on its Mega
holdings,” Zach Herzog, head of international trade at Psagot
Securities, a unit of Psagot Investment House Ltd., which
manages more than 178 billion shekels said by phone from Tel
Aviv today. “If the deal closes, the market assumes the new
management would extract value from the business.”  A Tel Aviv-based spokeswoman for Blue Square declined to
comment on the acquisition talks when contacted by phone. Eric
Brielmann, a spokesman for Catterton with an outside firm in New
York, also declined to comment. Auchan’s spokesman Francois
Cathalifaud didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  