-- BNY Mellon Says $8.5 Billion BofA Deal ‘Easy Decision’
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-11-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/bny-mellon-says-8-5-billiono-bofa-deal-easy-decision-.html
The $8.5 billion settlement reached
with  Bank of America Corp.  gave mortgage-bond investors more
than twice what they would have recovered through litigation and
was an “easy decision,” an attorney for the trustee who
negotiated the deal said.  Matthew Ingber of Mayer Brown LLP in  New York , who
represented the trustee,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ,
yesterday asked New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick in Manhattan to approve the settlement during closing
arguments of a hearing on the agreement.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and other objectors to
the settlement “rolled the dice and lost,” Ingber told
Kapnick. He said Bank of America’s Countrywide unit had a
maximum of $4.8 billion in assets to pay claims on the bonds.
“The trustee chose finality and certainty and has $8.5 billion
to show for it,” he said.  The settlement is part of an effort by Brian Moynihan,
chief executive of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America, to resolve liabilities tied to faulty mortgages that
have cost the company about $50 billion in legal claims,
including those the bank inherited with the purchase of home
lender Countrywide Financial Corp. in 2008.  The accord, which includes more than $3 billion in
servicing improvements, resolves claims over mortgages packaged
into securities. It settles allegations the loans backing the
bonds didn’t meet their promised quality.  BNY Mellon, as trustee for more than 500 residential
mortgage-securitization trusts, filed a petition in June 2011
seeking approval of the settlement under a state law that allows
trustees to seek judicial consent for their actions.  Investor Group  While the settlement was backed by a group of more than two
dozen investors including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment
Management Co., almost four dozen investors objected, including
AIG. Only 15 objectors opposed to the settlement remained as
closing arguments began, Ingber said.  The closing arguments cap a hearing that started in June,
stretched over eight weeks and included testimony from almost
two dozen witnesses and evidence from more than 200 documents.  Bank of America declined to participate in mediation talks
proposed by AIG and other opponents of the settlement after
Kapnick urged the parties to consider using a mediator to
resolve their objections during a break in the hearing.  Objectors’ Argument  Ingber refuted the objectors’ arguments that investors
weren’t given sufficient notice of the settlement, saying that
the trustee mailed notices of the deal to beneficiaries,
published it in U.S. and international newspapers and placed
banner advertisements on websites.  Bank of America told AIG about the negotiations and offered
it input into the talks, Inger said. The insurer refused and the
objectors “sat on the sideline,” he said.  Arguments that the trustee colluded with Bank of America on
the settlement are “implausible,” he said. The trustee had
discretion to enter the settlement and engaged in “arms-length” negotiations that were “hostile and contentious,”  he
said.  “The conflict theories are just not credible,” Ingber
said. “The trustee acted with good faith and well within the
bounds of its reasonable discretion.”  Conflict, Collusion  Opponents will be bound by the settlement, if approved.
They said in court papers that the process leading to the
agreement was “plagued by conflict and collusion” and settles
claims where investor losses totaled more than $100 billion.  Kathy Patrick , an attorney for BlackRock and other
institutional investors that back the settlement, told Kapnick
that BNY Mellon is the “one trustee that stepped forward to get
something for investors.”  “Bank of New York Mellon got nothing it was not already
entitled to,” said Patrick, who is with Gibbs & Bruns LLP in
Houston. “It did not enrich itself at the expense of
certificate holders.”  Patrick denied objectors’ allegations that her  law firm 
took an $85 million payment from Bank of America in exchange for
supporting the settlement. She said her firm has been “smeared
as colluders.”  The case is In the Matter of the Application of the Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  