-- Bratkowski Sees Polish Rates Stable Barring Zloty Surge
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-11-18T14:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/bratkowski-sees-polish-rates-stable-in-2014-barring-zloty-surge.html
Only “unheard-of” zloty
appreciation would convince  Poland ’s central bank to resume
 interest-rate  cuts, policy maker Andrzej Bratkowski said.  The 10-member Monetary Policy Council pledged this month to
keep borrowing costs unchanged until at least mid-2014 even as
the central bank projects that inflation will continue to
undershoot its 2.5 percent target through 2015. The European
Central Bank unexpectedly cut rates on Nov. 7 and Czech policy
makers began unlimited koruna sales to forestall deflation.  “In the context of recent decisions by the ECB and the
Czech central bank, further interest rate cuts are effectively
out of the question for us,” Bratkowski said in a Nov. 15
interview in Warsaw. “Unless we were dealing with some unheard-of appreciation of the zloty, for example beyond 3.8 per euro.
At that level I’d start to get nervous.”  Policy makers led by Governor Marek Belka reduced rates by
2.25 percentage points between November and July to revive the
European Union’s largest eastern economy. While  growth 
accelerated to 1.9 percent in the third quarter, its fastest
annual pace in more than a year,  inflation  slowed to 0.8 percent
in October, the statistics office said last week.  Poland won’t cut interest rates even with low inflation and
the country is “a long way from deflation,” Belka said in an
interview today, published on  Obserwatorfinansowy.pl , the
website of a central bank news magazine.  The zloty advanced 0.3 percent to 4.1765 per euro at 3:23
p.m. in Warsaw, paring this year’s decline to 2.2 percent, the
sixth-best performance among 24 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Pushed Cuts  Bratkowski had been among the most vocal supporters of
early rate cuts among Polish central bankers in 2012, when the
economy began to slow. He was the first to seek a half-point
reduction in July of that year, two months after the panel voted
to increase borrowing costs, according to voting records on the
National Bank of Poland’s  website .  The central bank’s commitment to stable rates next year
will more probably be “extended rather than shortened,”
according to Bratkowski. While growth is recovering in Poland,
there is “no space for quick improvement of the economic
situation” in the euro area, the country’s biggest trading
partner, he said.  German expansion slowed and  France ’s economy unexpectedly
contracted in the third quarter. In eastern Europe, Czech  GDP (CZGDPSAQ) 
unexpectedly shrank between July and September, while Hungary
and  Romania  accelerated.  Rush Job  Poland’s own rebound will “gradually gain steam” in the
next two years even as the country’s growth rate remains below
its “long-term averages,” the European Commission said this
month in its latest forecast.  Once that recovery gathers momentum, policy makers will
need to react, according to Bratkowski. That means the central
bank’s practice since July of giving forward guidance on
interest rates may be a “temporary” departure, he said.  “I believe that we should start raising interest rates in
late 2014 or early 2015 so we won’t have to rush the job
later,” Bratkowski said. “Preemptive and gradual moves should
ensure” both the economy and financial markets will react
“more calmly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  