-- Brokerages Jump as China Signals New IPO System: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-18T05:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/brokerages-rise-as-china-signals-new-ipo-system-hong-kong-mover.html
Citic Securities (6030)  Co. shares rose the
most this year, leading gains among  Chinese brokerages  as the
government flagged policy changes that portend the end of a 14-month ban on initial public offerings.  Citic Securities, China’s largest brokerage by market
value, surged 12 percent in  Hong Kong , the biggest intraday gain
since Dec. 1, as of 1:52 p.m. local time.  Haitong Securities
Co. (6837) , the nation’s second-biggest brokerage, jumped 10 percent to
an eight-month high. The  Hang Seng Index  advanced 2.7 percent.  Policy makers will seek to “push forward reform for a
registration system” on IPOs, according to a Nov. 15  statement 
posted on the Chinese government’s website detailing decisions
from a Beijing meeting of the Communist Party’s  Central
Committee  last week. The new system may hasten the approval
process for the more than 700 companies still awaiting
regulatory permission to proceed with their share sales.  “The intensity of market reform on the review and approval
end will increase in the future,” Zhao Xianghuai, an analyst at
Guotai Junan Securities Co. in  Shanghai , wrote in a research
note today. “Brokerages’ investment-banking revenue will
rebound if IPOs resume and that will benefit their private-equity and fund-management businesses.”  In the biggest expansion of economic reforms since at least
the 1990s, China’s leaders also vowed to expand farmers’ land
rights, loosen the one-child policy and encourage private
investment in state businesses. Local governments will also be
able to sell bonds to fund construction.  Registration System  The leaders also decided during the four-day conclave to
further increase the share of direct financing, such as stock
and bond sales, in the economy, according to the government
statement. Direct financing accounted for 35 percent of  China ’s
total financing in 2012, compared to about 40 percent to 50
percent in the U.S., according to Guotai Junan’s Zhao.  The government’s statement didn’t provide any specific
details on the registration system.  Under that process, companies will be required to submit
information to regulators, whose sole responsibility will be to
make sure the submissions meet disclosure requirements rather
than making judgments on the applications, Qi Bin, the head of
the China Securities Regulatory Commission’s Beijing Institute
of Securities and Futures research unit, wrote in a footnote of
a July 23  article  discussing the nation’s capital market.  The current procedure for companies seeking to sell their
shares publicly in China relies on the CSRC’s listing committee
vetting each application and determining whether a company is
fit for listing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  