-- Brown’s Gains in California Imperiled by Lingering Ills
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-11-18T13:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/brown-s-gains-in-california-imperiled-by-lingering-ills.html
Napa Valley vintner Michael Marston
voted for  Jerry Brown  in 2010, trusting the Democrat’s pledge
that, with 26 years in  California  government, he could “lead a
broken legislature out of a morass of poisonous partisanship.”  Three years later, Governor Brown has ended chronic
deficits, the state’s credit rating is at the highest level
since 2006 and a Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia index
shows the world’s 10th-largest economy is the strongest in three
decades. Still, Marston says he’s disappointed.  Unlike President  Barack Obama , who has seen Republicans in
Congress attempt to repeal his health-care overhaul and block
his budget proposals, Brown, 75, has benefited from a
Democratic-controlled state house and a constitutional change
making it easier to pass spending plans. Brown is among U.S.
governors including Democrat  Andrew Cuomo  of  New York  and
Republican  Scott Walker  of  Wisconsin  who have won the broad
legislative approval of their agendas that has largely eluded
the president.  Yet even as Brown has succeeded in California, Marston, a
political independent, says the governor has also pursued
“Band-Aid” solutions for fiscal challenges while letting
unfunded  pension liabilities  swell to more than $100 billion and
leaving the most populous state’s tax system vulnerable to
swings in growth.  “He knew how to fix the system,” said Marston, whose 2010
Marston Family Vineyard Cabernet Sauvignon sells for $115 a
bottle. “He said he was willing to take on the kinds of reforms
that needed to be done. He promised to deliver that and instead
he has done the politically expedient thing.”  Someone Else  Brown may need voters like Marston if he’s to win an
unprecedented fourth term next year. Fifty-five percent of
voters approve of the job the governor’s doing, according to a
 USC Dornsife/Los Angeles Times poll  released Nov. 11. Yet only
32 percent said they’d vote to re-elect him, and 37 percent said
they’d choose someone else. The poll had a margin of error of
3.1 percentage points.  Brown is the longest-serving governor in California history
by virtue of two previous terms from 1975 to 1983. He’s also
been California’s attorney general and its secretary of state,
as well as mayor of Oakland.  While Brown hasn’t said whether he’ll seek another term, he
has a  campaign  committee with a $10 million war chest. Two
Republicans have announced they’re running: former Lieutenant
Governor Abel Maldonado, whose committee most recently reported
$45,000 on hand, and Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, with $27,000.  Economic Uncertainty  “We have our budget balanced, but given the uncertainty
with the economy, I don’t think we can say we’re out of the
woods yet,” Brown said Oct. 14 in Los Angeles. “There are
always things to do -- there’s water, schools, the environment,
and there’s pensions and what to do with offenders after they’re
released from prison.”  Brown championed a 2012 ballot measure that helped close
deficits by temporarily raising the statewide sales-tax rate to
the highest in the U.S. and boosting levies on income of
$250,000 or more. He also resisted calls from fellow Democrats
to spend more on social programs. He won plaudits from the the
media such as Rolling Stone magazine, which in August  hailed 
“Jerry Brown’s Tough-Love California Miracle.”  “I’ve done eight budgets,” Brown said in a 2010 campaign
debate with Republican  Meg Whitman , a billionaire and former
chief executive officer of  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  “Most of them were on
time. I know how to do it. I have the will power. I have the
independence.”  Outside Control  Nathan Gardels, a onetime Brown aide who’s now a senior
adviser to the Berggruen Institute on Governance in  Santa
Monica , said the governor deserves credit for easing the
financial crisis he inherited. Yet he cautioned that the
progress rests on economic recovery largely outside Brown’s
control and  tax increases  that phase out starting in 2017.  As a candidate in 2010, Brown  pledged  to review
California’s “complicated” and “ever-changing” tax
structure, while enacting measures to reduce retiree pension
costs and cut the state’s $2 billion tab for health and dental
care for prisoners.  The state’s nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office
 estimates  that the higher taxes yield $6 billion a year, while
saying the actual number is “subject to multibillion-dollar
swings.” Income taxes provide the largest share of state
revenue, followed by sales levies. Rates reach 13.3 percent on
those making $1 million or more, the most of any state. Making
top earners responsible for more revenue increased volatility.  Boom, Bust  “The top 1 percent pays 50 percent of the income taxes,”
Gardels said in an interview. “We’re still subject to the same
boom-and-bust cycles in this state.”  Brown also promised to end budget “gimmicks,” veto new
spending not accompanied by additional revenue and require state
departments to build their budgets from scratch rather than
automatically increase previous spending plans, according to his
2010 campaign website. Some of those changes haven’t happened.  In May 2012, when asked why he turned to one-time fixes to
close a $15.7 billion budget gap, such as using $240 million in
construction funds to operate trial courts, Brown replied,
“It’s perfectly legitimate to solve a one-time deficit with
one-time revenues.”  Brown  pledged  to end the “poisonous partisanship” of the
legislature and indeed faces less division among lawmakers.
That’s because Democrats won two-thirds supermajorities in both
the Assembly and the Senate in November 2012, leaving too few
Republican votes to affect legislation.  Budget Fixes  Improving growth and budget fixes are helping California
achieve its first surplus in almost a decade, while funding for
schools and universities is on the rise. In the past fiscal
year, the state chipped $7.3 billion from what Brown called its
“wall of debt,” or recurring borrowing. His latest budget
calls for paying off about 30 percent of the total by the end of
June.  Fitch Ratings  raised California’s credit score to A, its
sixth-highest level, in August after lawmakers passed a $96.3
billion budget in June that incorporated Brown’s more restrained
revenue forecasts and set aside a $1.1 billion reserve.  Standard
& Poor’s  raised its rating to the same level in January, the
first boost from S&P since 2006. Moody’s Investors Service
grades it A1, four steps below the top.  California’s relative borrowing cost -- the penalty that
investors demand to buy its bonds -- has shrunk to a quarter of
what it was in June 2011.  Voter Approval  An element of Brown’s success is voter approval of a 2010
ballot initiative known as Proposition 25 that made it easier
for the legislature to pass budgets, requiring just a simple
majority vote rather than two-thirds. It also said lawmakers
forfeit pay when they’re late sending a spending plan to the
governor.  The legislature has passed budgets on time every year since
Brown took office. Before he returned, budgets in the state were
routinely late, as much as 100 days in 2010.  Brown also took charge just as the state’s economy began to
rebound from the recession that ended in June 2009. Per-capita
personal income has climbed each year since then, buoying tax
collections to the highest-ever this year,  according  to the
Finance Department.  California’s gross domestic product, at  $2 trillion  in
current value, is the highest in four years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. California’s output ranks 10th in the
world, ahead of  India ,  Canada  and  Australia , according to the
state Finance Department.  Rick Caruso, a  Los Angeles  mall developer and Republican
who voted for Brown in 2010, said he hasn’t at all been
disappointed in that decision.  Not ‘Ideologue’  “He’s just done a very good job of being a little bit bold
and not too stuck in his own party’s belief system that has
prevented things from moving forward,” Caruso said. “He is not
an ideologue, which I like.”  When Brown took office, California’s  unemployment  rate was
12.1 percent, or 3 percentage points above the national  level ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In August, the latest
data available, the state figure was 8.9 percent, or 1.6
percentage points above the U.S. number.  During the same timeframe, a Bloomberg stock index of
California-based companies has climbed 41 percent, compared with
30 percent for the broader Standard & Poor’s.  Political Flashpoint  Brown returned to the governor’s chair when the pay and
benefits of government workers had become a flashpoint in
political battles between Republicans and Democrats in
statehouses across the U.S. and helped give rise to the Tea
Party movement for limited government. Though supported by
unions, Brown said he’d address the pay and pension benefits of
state workers.  “As governor, I’ll cap government salaries and pensions,”
he said in an advertisement during the campaign.  Brown reached a deal this year with the state’s largest
public-employee union that grants workers a 2 percent  pay
increase  effective July 1, 2014, if revenue growth continues,
and 2.5 percent a year later. If revenue fails to meet a minimum
target, the entire 4.5 percent raise begins July 1, 2015.  The increases come on top of an end to  furloughs  -- unpaid
days off three times a month beginning in 2009 -- that had
amounted to a 14 percent pay cut.  Brown and Democratic lawmakers also reached a compromise
over pensions that fell short of the governor’s goal of ending
full pension guarantees for new workers.  Retiree Benefits  Brown in 2011  proposed  12 measures to change retiree
benefits, one of which would place new employees in retirement
accounts that blend a guaranteed pension and a 401(k)-style
defined contribution plan.  Democratic lawmakers eliminated the hybrid provision from
the bill Brown signed a year later, while raising the  retirement
age  for new employees and capping pensionable income at
$110,000.  Steve Smith , a spokesman for the California Labor
Federation, which represents 1.2 million workers in 1,200
locals, said Brown pleased unions by signing a minimum-wage
increase and winning passage of the tax-increase to finance
schools. Unions disagreed with him on pensions, Smith said.  “He’s not beholden to anybody -- not business and not
labor,”  Smith said. “The only thing predictable about Jerry
Brown is that he’s unpredictable.”  The state’s expenses on health and dental care for
prisoners continue to rise, even as Brown and lawmakers shifted
responsibility for some inmates to counties and worked to end
federal oversight of prison hospitals.  Prison Costs  As a candidate, Brown said he’d reduce prison health-care
expenses by cutting hospital and specialist visits by inmates,
expanding telemedicine and standardizing pharmacy practices,
according to his 2010 campaign website.  California  budgeted  $2.1 billion for inmate health, mental
and dental care this year, up about 3 percent from two years
earlier, according to state budget figures.  Brown spokesman Evan Westrup said that under a federal
receiver appointed by the courts, Brown has little power to
dictate changes to prison health care. California’s prison
system is saving about $120 million a year in related costs by
shifting inmates to county jails, and another $40 million by
reducing pharmaceutical costs, Westrup said by e-mail.  Political Donations  Marston, who has made political donations to both Democrats
and Republicans, was the second-largest donor to last year’s
campaign for  Proposition 31  to change the state budget process.
The initiative would have lengthened the budget cycle to two
years from one, shifted about $200 million in sales taxes to
cities and counties, and empowered the governor to unilaterally
cut spending during fiscal emergencies.  Brown didn’t take a position on the measure. It failed with
 39.5 percent  of the vote.  Marston said he doesn’t consider the governor a lost cause.
He said he’s disappointed that Brown settled for compromises on
worker pensions, backed a tax measure that increased revenue
volatility and hasn’t pressed to stop lawmakers from pushing
through legislation at the end of sessions without hearings.  “He has created a facade of improvement that covers a
morass of unresolved, un-dealt-with issues,” Marston said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  