-- Bundesbank Says ECB Expansive Policy Currently Justified
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-11-18T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/bundesbank-says-ecb-expansive-policy-currently-justified.html
The  European Central Bank ’s
accommodative policy stance is appropriate considering the weak
economy and inflation expectations, the Bundesbank said.  “Given expected low inflation rates over the medium term
and weak economic developments, an expansive bias in monetary
policy in the euro area is currently justified,” Germany’s
central bank said in its monthly report today. “At the same
time, it is essential to keep an eye on the medium- and long-term risks of very low  interest rates  with regard to a forward-looking stabilization policy.”  The European Central Bank this month lowered its benchmark
rate to a record low of 0.25 percent and ECB President  Mario Draghi  warned the 17-nation economy may face a prolonged period
of low inflation. The rate cut was opposed by about one quarter
of the 23-member Governing Council, among them Bundesbank head
Jens Weidmann and ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen,
according to two people familiar with the talks.  “The accommodative monetary policy stance will further
support the gradual recovery of economic activity which has been
observed since this spring,” the Bundesbank said today.  Economic growth in the 17-nation currency bloc slowed to
0.1 percent in the third quarter after a 0.3 percent expansion
in the three months through June, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said on Nov. 14. Gross domestic
product in  Germany , the region’s largest economy, expanded 0.3
percent, down from 0.7 percent in the second quarter.  “Germany’s economy is on a solid growth path,” the
Bundesbank said. “The cyclical underlying trend points to the
German economy growing according to its potential after having
overcome a period of weakness three quarters ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  