-- California Says Obama About-Face on Insurers May Hurt Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-11-18T22:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/california-says-obama-about-face-on-insurers-may-hurt-law.html
California and  New York  said the
U.S. president’s one-year reprieve for insurance policies that
don’t meet the stricter requirements of Obamacare undermines the
“risk pool” of patients needed to make the law viable.  California, the most populous U.S. state, will decide this
week whether to comply with President  Barack Obama ’s request,
Peter Lee, the executive director of the state’s health
exchange, told reporters today. New York also is “still
considering the president’s option,” said Danielle Holahan,
deputy director of that state’s insurance marketplace.  Washington state and Massachusetts have already opted out,
citing concerns that healthy people who would otherwise buy
standardized plans in the new insurance marketplaces created by
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 will
instead renew old coverage. That may leave a disproportionately
sick pool of customers for plans operating in the marketplaces.  “Having the risk pool is critical to the ongoing viability
and the out-of-the-gate viability of exchanges,” Lee said.
“ California  is looking very closely to how we respond to the
call of the president.”  Amid political outrage over cancellations of hundreds of
thousands of individual policies that didn’t meet new standards,
Obama said Nov. 14 that insurers can extend policies in force in
2013 for as long as a year, if the states they operate in
approve. The health law mandated an end to discrimination
against people with pre-existing health conditions and required
that all policies next year meet minimum coverage rules in
return for an obligation that Americans obtain insurance or pay
a fine.  ‘Bad Coverage’  Lee said state exchange leaders are concerned that insurers
would extend plans before the end of the year, keeping healthy
people in “bad coverage” and out of “the common risk pool”
in the exchange.  Dave Jones , California’s insurance
commissioner, said last week that he would ask Lee to let
insurers continue with existing policies. Lee said he’ll make
a decision by the end of the week.  Hundreds of thousands of Americans have received letters
from their insurers informing them that their health plans would
lapse on Dec. 31 because the coverage doesn’t comply with new
federal requirements. In some cases, people were told that new
policies would cost more than they were paying.  Extending Policies  Under the policy announced by Obama, plans with renewal
dates as late as Oct. 1, 2014, can be extended for as long as a
year. That means some people may be able to stay on existing
plans well into 2015. The move would free them from paying the
health law’s penalty for those who don’t obtain coverage, equal
to as much as 1 percent of taxable income.  Obama’s policy “carries risk,”  Sara Collins , a vice
president at the nonprofit Commonwealth Fund in New York, wrote
today in a blog post. “People signing up for marketplace plans
could be disproportionately older and sicker. Some carriers
could consequently suffer unexpected losses in the marketplace
plans and either leave the marketplaces in 2015 or raise their
premiums.”  The commissioner of insurance in  Massachusetts , where a
2006 health-care overhaul became a model for the 2010 federal
health law, said today it’s too late to change course.  It “could cause confusion and significant market
disruption,”  Joseph G. Murphy  said in a letter to one of the
Obama administration officials overseeing the health law.  Washington state’s insurance commissioner, Mike Kreidler,
said Nov. 14 that he wouldn’t follow Obama’s change of policy.  Consumer Protection  “In the interest of keeping the consumer protections we
have enacted and ensuring that we keep health insurance costs
down for all consumers, we are staying the course,” he said in
a statement.  Collins said the risk generated by Obama’s decision that
may undermine exchanges is mitigated in part by a program in the
law that compensates insurers who lose money on their exchange
business. Under the program, called a “risk corridor,” the
government will cover as much as 80 percent of a health plan’s
losses by taking money from plans that get healthier customers
than expected.  The program was envisioned as budget-neutral for the
government, with the number of successful insurers balancing or
outweighing those that lose money. If many insurers in the
exchanges lose money, “the federal government may absorb some
of the cost,” Collins wrote.  The government said last week in a letter to insurance
commissioners that it would “explore ways to modify the risk
corridor program final rules to provide additional assistance”
to insurers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  