-- Canada Dollar Touches Highest in Week on China Economic Reforms
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-11-18T22:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/canada-dollar-rises-with-stocks-as-china-adds-economic-freedoms.html
The Canadian dollar rose to the
strongest level in more than a week as the outlook for the
nation’s commodity exports improved with  China ’s pledge to
expand economic freedoms.  The currency reached its high of the day against the  U.S.
dollar  after a report showed total foreign investment in
Canadian securities increased to the highest level in five
months. Risk appetite gained after China’s leaders vowed to
allow more private investment in state-controlled industries and
expand farmers’ land rights as part of the biggest package of
economic reforms since the 1990s.  “The decision that came out of China was generally viewed
as positive for riskier assets, and that of course applies to
the loonie as well,” David Doyle, a strategist at Macquarie
Capital Markets, said by phone from Toronto.  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated as much as 0.2
percent to C$1.0415 per U.S. dollar, the strongest since Nov. 7,
before trading at C$1.0429 at 5 p.m. in Toronto, up 0.1 percent.
One Canadian dollar buys 95.89 U.S. cents.  Gains were limited before data this week forecast to show
 inflation  slowed. Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz’s
testimony Nov. 20 to a Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce may reiterate his concern that consumer prices are
stagnating, which prompted him to undo his predecessor’s stance
toward higher interest rates on Oct. 23.  ‘Negative Factors’  “The outlook for this week in Canada is one where we’re
reminded of the negative factors weighing on the Canadian
dollar, namely CPI and Poloz,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency
strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia , said by phone from Toronto.
“Those two events could take away strength.”  The nation’s consumer-price index rose 0.9 percent last
month from a year earlier, trailing September’s 1.1 percent,
economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast before the data are
released on Nov. 22. The Bank of Canada’s target range for
inflation is 1 percent to 3 percent.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the U.S. dollar
against its Canadian counterpart fell to 5.15 percent, the
lowest intraday level since Oct. 23. The average this year is
6.48 percent. The measure is used to set option prices and gauge
the expected pace of currency swings. The average for 2013 is
6.48 percent.  Risk Reversal  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
against its U.S. peer also dropped to the lowest since Oct. 23.
The three-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate reached
1.06 percent. Risk reversals measure the premium on options
contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts
that do the opposite. The 2103 average is 1.26 percent.  Canada ’s government bonds rose, pushing yields on benchmark
10-year  securities  down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 2.52 percent, the lowest since Nov. 8. The 1.5 percent
security maturing in June 2023 gained 29 cents to C$91.39.  Economists reduced their Canadian bond-yield forecasts by
the most in seven months after the nation’s central bank joined
global counterparts Oct. 23 in renewing efforts to spur growth
amid sluggish inflation. Benchmark 10-year bonds will yield 3.06
percent by October 2014, according to the median of 19 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey taken between Nov. 8 and Nov. 13.  In the Oct. 23 policy statement after he left leave the
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 1 percent, Poloz dropped
language in place for more than a year about the need to raise
interest rates, citing low inflation.  ‘Forward Guidance’  Doyle of Macquarie Capital said he expects Poloz’s
testimony to highlight the need for accommodative monetary
policy to bring the economy back to full output by the end of
2015. Slack will persist until that time on lagging exports,
according to central bank forecasts, which put third-quarter
growth at a 1.8 percent pace.  “They’re working hard to make sure stimulus is in place,
but also they’re working to make sure that financial imbalances
don’t build up to the extremes, so they’re wary of providing too
much stimulus by cutting rates,” Doyle said. “There are
arguments against them moving either way, and the solution is to
use a forward-guidance tool to message that rates are going to
remain low for some time.”  Foreign investors offloaded C$2.8 billion ($2.7 billion) of
Canadian bonds in September, led by a C$3.73 billion drop in
holdings of federal-government securities,  Statistics Canada 
reported today. The decline was led by retirements, data showed.  The decrease in bond-buying was offset by purchases of
Canadian equities by foreigners. Non-resident investors acquired
C$10.79 billion of Canadian stocks after selling C$2.19 billion
a month earlier, the statistics agency reported.  Total foreign
investment  in Canadian securities increased to C$8.4 billion,
the most since April.  U.S. Stimulus  The U.S. dollar fell against most major peers as Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said
economic growth isn’t strong enough for monetary stimulus to be
reduced. Dudley said in a speech in Flushing, New York, he’s
“getting more hopeful” the economy is gaining strength.  Fed Chairman-nominee  Janet Yellen  underscored to U.S.
lawmakers Nov. 14 at a confirmation hearing her commitment to
strengthening the economy before slowing the central bank’s $85
billion in monthly bond-buying. The purchases, which have
spurred investor risk appetite worldwide, tend to debase the
U.S. currency.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index of U.S. equities rose above
1,800 for the first time before falling 0.4 percent amid concern
equities gained too much, too fast. The MSCI World Index of
developed-nation stocks reached the highest since December 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  