-- Canada Heavy Crude Gains Strength on Last Day of Index Trading
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-11-18T21:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/canada-heavy-crude-gains-strength-on-last-day-of-index-trading.html
Canadian heavy crude gained strength
on the last day of December spot market index trading.  The average price for exports arriving in the U.S. next
month is set during the index period, which runs from Nov. 1
through today. Western Canadian Select, a blend of heavy oil-sands bitumen, gained $1.50 a barrel to a $35.50 discount to
U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate oil, as of 2:14 p.m.  New
York  time, according to Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc.  WCS prices dropped to a discount of $42 this month on Nov.
5, the widest spread in 11 months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Prices were driven down after fires at Citgo
Petroleum Corp.’s Lemont,  Illinois ,  refinery  and Federated Co-operatives Ltd.’s  refinery  in Regina, Saskatchewan, shut down
units that process heavy crude.  The grade also slipped as pipeline space was overbooked
this month on  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Mainline, the largest crude oil
export system in  Canada . Canada will produce 1.48 million
barrels a day of heavy crude this year and send most of it to
the U.S., according to a  forecast  by the country’s National
Energy Board.  WCS pared losses after repairs started at the two damaged
units and a report Nov. 14 that BP Plc started a new coking unit
at its Whiting, Indiana, refinery that will allow it to process
more heavy crude.  The price of Canadian Syncrude, a light oil produced by
oil-sands upgraders, weakened by 10 cents to a $13.35 discount
to WTI, Net Energy said.  Canadian crude shippers will nominate barrels for shipment
on Enbridge’s Mainline after the close of spot trading today.
Apportionment levels, or overbooked conditions, on the Mainline
for December will be released later this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  