-- CFTC Closes Loophole, Treasuries Rule, Tech REITs: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-11-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/cftc-closes-loophole-treasuries-rule-tech-reits-compliance.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulator
moved to close off large banks’ ability to avoid new regulation
by arranging trades in America and then booking the deals in
overseas affiliates.  The guidance, released Nov. 14 by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, undermines a legal interpretation  Wall
Street  had found buried in a footnote, No. 513, in an agency
policy document. Banks relied on the footnote to keep swap deals
off electronic platforms and away from the agency’s rules that
were put in place in the wake of the financial meltdown.  The Nov. 14, two-page guidance, while not mentioning the
footnote, effectively closes the loophole. It tells traders that
if they are based in the U.S. and arrange, negotiate or execute
a deal -- even on behalf of an overseas affiliate -- they must
comply with the CFTC regulations.  Lawyers said the new policy gives the CFTC a greater reach
to police the swaps market and makes it harder for banks to keep
trades away from tough U.S. regulations, passed in the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act. CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  has fought for more
than four years to extend his agency’s reach.  The issue of footnote 513 arose in October after  Bloomberg
News  reported that several Wall Street banks, the biggest
dealers of derivatives, asked their swaps brokers to set up
trades in the U.S. while booking them in affiliates overseas.  The trades at issue will be conducted on electronic
platforms, known as Swap Execution Facilities, or Sefs, created
by Dodd-Frank in an effort to make prices more public and reduce
risk in the system. They started trading on Oct. 2.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Passes Collateral Rule to Backstop Treasuries in Swap Trade  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved a
rule aimed at ensuring that Treasuries pledged as collateral for
swaps and futures trades can be instantly converted to cash.  With vote on Nov. 15, the nation’s main derivatives
regulator toughened safeguards in a market blamed for worsening
the 2008 global financial crisis. The four commissioners didn’t
change language mandating that Treasuries be subject to a
“prearranged and highly reliable funding arrangement,”
according to a copy of the rule on its website.  The derivatives industry argued that the backstop to
Treasury collateral was unnecessary because U.S. government
securities can be converted into cash fast enough. While  U.S.
debt  is considered to be among the safest investments, policy
makers are concerned liquidating them will require too much time
-- up to a day -- during a crisis, a government official
familiar with the stance at the  Federal Reserve , which shares
oversight of clearinghouses, said earlier last week.  The 2008 crisis developed so rapidly that the Fed had to
give out more than $2 trillion in emergency aid. Fed officials
have told banks and exchanges that the CFTC’s new collateral
rule means U.S. debt must be covered by credit lines, according
to three industry executives briefed on the matter.  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the owner of the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, estimated that liquidity facility costs “would
approximately double,” according to a Sept. 16 letter it sent
to the CFTC.  Gary Gensler, chairman of the CFTC, said in an interview in
 New York  Nov. 14 that while he doesn’t envision the rule putting
a dent in the Treasuries market, “there is some cost to the
clearinghouses.”  The goal is to align U.S. clearinghouses with international
rules, Gensler said. The change affects collateral posted in the
swaps and futures markets, where outstanding contracts have a
notional value of about $430 trillion, he said Nov. 14.  Credit-Card Rewards Programs Examined by U.S. Consumer Bureau  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is examining
whether customers are being misled when they sign up for complex
credit-card reward programs and will mull new rules in this
area.  Restrictions on card rewards programs could crimp the
ability of banks to use the enticements to sign up customers.
Top issuers such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. 
and  American Express Co. (AXP)  rely on rewards to attract and keep
cardholders.  The consumer bureau’s inquiry involves the marketing of
rewards programs, particularly the marquee promise of a given
card, such as cash back, or redeemable airline miles, and what a
customer needs to do to get it, said a person involved in the
work who asked not to be identified because the effort is in an
early stage.  Oliver Ireland, an attorney for card issuers at  Morrison &
Foerster LLP , said that rewards could prove a “tempting issue”
for regulators. In contrast to  interest rates  and fees, there’s
no existing federal regulation on the disclosure of rewards.  Regulating rewards isn’t justified, Nessa Feddis, a senior
vice president at the  American Bankers Association , said in an
interview.  Pamela Banks, senior policy counsel at  Consumers Union , the
nonprofit publisher of  Consumer Reports , lauded the CFPB for
examining rewards programs even in the absence of evidence of
widespread abuse.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Iron Mountain, Equinix Advance as IRS Resumes REIT Rulings  Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM)  and  Equinix Inc. (EQIX) , two technology
companies seeking to convert to real estate investment trusts,
rose Nov. 15 after saying the U.S.  Internal Revenue Service  is
proceeding with evaluating their eligibility.  The IRS said Nov. 14 that it will resume issuing rulings on
the definition of real estate for purposes of REIT conversions,
Iron Mountain said in a regulatory filing. The agency is
“actively resuming work” on Equinix’s request and will respond
in due course, that company said separately.  The IRS has been evaluating whether nontraditional real
estate businesses should qualify as REITs, which are subject to
lower taxes and pay higher dividends than other companies.
Equinix, which runs data centers and Iron Mountain, which rents
storage space and maintains paper and electronic records, have
tumbled since disclosing the review.  The agency is “ready to resume ruling on these requests
consistent with existing law,” regulations and previously
published guidance, according to the statement. Federal law
prohibits the IRS from commenting publicly on individual
companies and taxpayers.  “Equinix continues to implement its plan to convert to a
REIT,” the  Redwood City , California-based company said in a
filing Nov. 15. The company doesn’t expect the delay to date to
push back its plan to elect REIT status for the taxable year
beginning in 2015.  Iron Mountain said it is moving forward with other aspects
of its conversion plan to ensure readiness for REIT status for
the 2014 tax year.  Courts  Ex-Porsche CFO’s Fine Won’t Rise as Prosecutors Miss Deadline  German prosecutors’ bid to increase former Porsche SE Chief
Financial Officer Holger Haerter’s sentence in a loan-fraud case
was rejected by a Stuttgart court after a deadline expired.  Prosecutors failed to file arguments within a month of the
release of the written judgment, Florian Bollacher, spokesman
for the Stuttgart Regional Court, said in an e-mail.  Haerter was fined 630,000 euros ($847,539) for credit fraud
in a criminal case over the refinancing of a 10 billion-euro
loan during a failed bid to buy Volkswagen AG in 2009. The court
found he downplayed Porsche’s liquidity needs and failed to
disclose the correct number of put options on VW shares Porsche
held during negotiations with BNP Paribas SA about the lender’s
500 million-euro share of the syndicated loan.  “We deliberately let the deadline elapse, because that has
the same effect as retracting an appeal,” Claudia Krauth, a
spokeswoman for the Stuttgart prosecutors, said in an interview.
“We came to the conclusion that our appeal wouldn’t have had a
sufficient chance to succeed, so we dropped it.”  Prosecutors filed their appeal immediately after the
conviction, saying they are seeking a stiffer sentence for the
former executive. At trial, they requested a fine of as much as
1 million euros and a one-year suspended prison sentence.  Haerter has denied the allegations and is challenging the
conviction. Prosecutors oppose his appeal and have filed briefs
in those proceedings, Krauth said.  Anne Wehnert, Haerter’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Comings and Goings  Ex-Glencore Oil Trader Can’t Sue for Shares Worth $1 Million  A Glencore International Plc trader fired over an alleged
alcohol problem can’t sue the company to recover about $1
million in shares that were awarded when he was hired, a U.K.
court ruled.  Judge Richard Seymour dismissed the claim Nov. 15, saying
it was not valid.  Andrew Kearns, an oil trader who earned about $500,000 a
year, sued Glencore seeking the shares, worth at least $1.2
million, after he was fired for missing important meetings
because of what the company said were alcohol problems. Kearns
is still suing for wrongful dismissal, which would result in a
smaller amount in damages.  “He is a married man with three children and his
reputation is on the line,” Ahmed Miah, Kearns’s lawyer, said
in court. “What is said about him by Glencore is entirely
wrong, unreasonable and untrue.”  Kearns said in court documents he didn’t have an alcohol
problem and was singled out because he disagreed with managers.  “An employer cannot be expected to allow an employee who
allows himself to become inappropriately inebriated to remain in
the workplace,”  Jonathan Cohen , Glencore’s lawyer, said in
written arguments, citing the precise nature of financial work.  Kearns missed meetings after an evening out with clients on
a Singapore business trip, Glencore said in court documents.  The trader said that Glencore owed him 25 share options,
allocated when he joined the company, that were due to vest
before his October 2010 dismissal. The commodities company
revoked his shares when he was fired.  Wrongful dismissal occurs when an employer breaks the terms
of a contract during the dismissal process, according to a U.K.
government website.  The case is Kearns v. Glencore UK Ltd.,  High Court  of
Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, HQ12X03294  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey 
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 