-- Chevron Adversary Says ‘Juicy Check’ for Fees Was Joke
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-11-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/chevron-adversary-to-deny-ecuador-fraud-in-testimony.html
A  Manhattan  lawyer who’s spent his
career battling Chevron Corp. over pollution in  Ecuador  said he
may collect as much $600 million in fees if his court victory in
the South American nation is enforced.  The attorney, Steven Donziger, testified yesterday in a
Manhattan trial over Chevron’s allegations that Ecuadorean
plaintiffs secured their 2011 victory through bribery, fraud and
coercion. The misdeeds amounted to a racketeering and extortion
plot, the  San Ramon , California-based company said in its
lawsuit against Donziger, who joined the Ecuador case in the
1990s and became its lead adviser.  While questioned by a lawyer for Chevron, Donziger
acknowledged that his contingency fees would be about
$600 million if the $9.5 billion judgment against the company is
collected in full.  “You expect to get paid,” Randy Mastro, the lawyer for
the  oil company , said while asking Donziger what he meant in
previous comments about trying to get a “juicy check” from
Chevron.  “It was a joke,” Donziger said.  Harvard Law  The Harvard Law School-educated sole practitioner has
inspired comparisons from some writers to the Bible’s  David and
Goliath  tale and  Moby Dick ’s  Captain Ahab  for his pursuit of
claims against the second-largest U.S. energy company on behalf
of Ecuadorean villagers. His efforts attracted attention from
filmmaker Joe Berlinger, who made the 2009 documentary “Crude”
about the case, and from celebrities including  Trudie Styler ,
wife of musician Sting. Styler and her husband were present in
the courtroom yesterday during Donziger’s testimony.  The plaintiffs won a $19 billion judgment in Ecuador in
2011 on behalf of rain-forest dwellers living in the country’s
 Lago Agrio  region. The award was cut in half by the Ecuadorean
National Court of Justice on Nov. 12. Chevron has refused to pay
any of it and seeking a court order barring it from being
enforced.  Donziger is giving testimony in a nonjury trial that began
last month before U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in an attempt
to refute claims he and Ecuadorean associates exploited
corruption in the country’s judiciary, bribed a judge, and
ghostwrote an expert report and the court ruling against
Chevron. His testimony will continue today.  Donziger said in the written testimony that he was
“hired” by the Ecuadoreans for his skills in “advocacy for
the disadvantaged,” and believed it was important to wage the
case through the media, through protests and by speaking
directly to influential people.  ‘Corrupt Activities’  The goal in the case “was never to politically influence
the legal process, but to safeguard that process from corrupt
activities on behalf of Chevron,” Donziger said in the prepared
testimony.  Mastro attacked Donziger’s allegation that he was was an
employee of the villagers, asking why the lead litigator in
Ecuador, Pablo Fajardo, referred to him as the “comandante,”
or commander in Spanish.  “He used the term comandante as a term of affection, more
as a buddy or something,” Donziger said yesterday.  In one year during the case, Fajardo was also paid just
$24,000 while Donziger received $150,000, Mastro said.  Spokesmen for Donziger and Ecuadoreans who were also sued
called Chevron’s racketeering proceeding a “show trial”
intended to discourage activists in other  developing countries 
from challenging corporations over alleged human rights
violations.  In the underlying litigation, the plaintiffs accused Texaco
of dumping billions of gallons of toxic oil-drilling waste in
the Amazon from the 1960s through the early 1990s, causing
cancer,  birth defects  and other ills among the indigenous
people.  State Company  Chevron, made part of the litigation through its purchase
of Texaco, contended its predecessor cleaned up its share of the
damage under agreements with Ecuador, and that Petroecuador,
Texaco’s state-owned partner, was responsible for most of the
pollution.  Donziger’s team says Petroecuador’s contribution to the
damage wasn’t at issue in the judgment.  The racketeering trial has included testimony from two
former Ecuadorean judges who handled the pollution case: Nicolas Zambrano, who issued the ruling, and his former colleague
Alberto Guerra. Guerra, who now lives in the U.S., receiving a
$12,000 monthly stipend from Chevron, told the court he
regularly ghostwrote rulings for Zambrano because the former
prosecutor wasn’t as experienced handling civil judgments.  Promised Proceeds  Guerra testified he also helped write the 188-page judgment
based on materials from the plaintiffs, and that he and Zambrano
were promised proceeds from the ruling to throw the case in the
Ecuadoreans’ favor.  Zambrano denied he was bribed and told the court that while
Guerra regularly helped him draft some rulings, he worked on the
Chevron judgment with help only from an 18-year-old assistant.  Donziger said he didn’t bribe Zambrano and didn’t know of
anyone on the plaintiffs’ team who had.  Chevron built its racketeering case against Donziger after
pre-trial information exchanges produced hundreds of hours of
outtakes from “Crude,” and a sporadic journal Donziger kept.  The journal, which Donziger described as “personal
notes,” was intended to help remind him of details if he wrote
a book, he said in his draft testimony.  Chevron contended the material showed Donziger discussing
ways to take advantage of Ecuador’s weak judiciary and pressure
judges. Donziger said the outtakes were edited by Chevron and
that some of his statements were taken out of context.  The personal notes “reflect that I always believed in the
bona fides of this underlying evidence,” Donziger said in the
draft testimony.  The racketeering case is  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  v. Donziger, 11-cv-00691, U.S. District Court,  Southern District of New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  