-- Chile Peso Gains on Growth Surprises Ahead of Meeting
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-11-19T13:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/chile-peso-gains-as-economy-beats-forecasts-before-rate-decision.html
(Corrects story published yesterday to show growth was
stronger than forecast in first paragraph.)  Chile’s peso rallied the most in a
month as faster-than-forecast economic growth damped speculation
the central bank will cut  interest rates  tomorrow.  The currency climbed 0.7 percent to 517.57 per  U.S. dollar 
at the close in Santiago, the best performance among major Latin
American currencies after the Brazilian real, which gained 2.2
percent.  Chile’s economic growth accelerated to 4.7 percent in the
third quarter, faster than the 4.4 percent median forecast of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The expansion, driven by rising
copper output and what the central bank expected to be the last
stages of a retail sales boom, bolsters speculation the central
bank will opt to hold off on cutting rates.  “The bank may remain positive after the data surprise,”
 Alejandro Cuadrado , a currency strategist at Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA, said in a telephone interview from  New
York . “That has given some relief to the peso.”  The peso has declined 4.6 percent since the central bank
unexpectedly lowered the benchmark  interest rate  to 4.75 percent
on Oct. 17, reaching the weakest level since December 2011 last
week .  Policy makers will reduce the target lending rate by
another quarter-percentage point tomorrow to 4.5 percent,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Eleven predict a cut while eight anticipate no change
in rates.  The two-year break-even rate, a projection in the swaps
market for annual inflation, was unchanged at 2.48 percent today
after falling to a five-month low of 2.42 percent on Nov. 11.  Chile’s ruling alliance failed to capitalize on its
economic record in yesterday’s presidential elections, with
Evelyn Matthei winning 25 percent of votes against 46.7 percent
for the opposition hopeful, former President  Michelle Bachelet .
The two will face each other in a runoff vote Dec. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  