-- Chile GDP Growth Accelerates on Last Stages of Retail Sales Boom
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-11-18T12:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/chile-gdp-growth-accelerates-on-last-stages-of-retail-sales-boom.html
Chile’s  economic growth  accelerated
to 4.7 percent in the third quarter, more than analysts
expected, driven by rising copper output and what the central
bank expects to be the last stages of a retail sales boom.  Year-on-year growth picked up from a revised 4 percent in
the previous three months, the central bank reported on its
website today, and compared with the 4.4 percent median estimate
of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Gross domestic product
 expanded 1.3 percent  from the previous three months.  The copper industry expanded 9.1 percent from a year
earlier in the world’s largest producer of the metal, while the
retailing industry grew 7.3 percent, according to the central
bank. With  consumer spending  and investment starting to ease,
the central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter
point to 4.75 percent on Oct. 17.  “We probably won’t see growth of this magnitude again
until 2015, when the affects of monetary easing will be felt,”
Fernando Soto, senior economist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA in Santiago, said before today’s announcement.  Retail sales growth slowed to 7 percent in September from a
year earlier, the slowest pace this year, while manufacturing
unexpectedly contracted 1 percent over the same period, the
National Statistics Institute reported on Oct. 29.  Domestic Demand  The ruling alliance failed to capitalize on its economic
record in yesterday’s presidential elections, with its candidate
Evelyn Matthei winning 25 percent of votes against 46.7 percent
for the opposition’s  Michelle Bachelet . The two candidates will
face each other in a runoff vote on Dec. 15.  Domestic demand rose 1.3 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, compared with 4.1 percent in the previous three
months. The increase was led by consumer spending, which gained
5.3 percent, principally on durable goods, which gained 11.6
percent.  Investment growth slowed to 3.2 percent in the third
quarter from 8.6 percent in the previous three months. It was
the smallest increase since the fourth quarter of 2009.  Rising domestic demand pushed the  current account deficit 
to $3.44 billion in the third quarter from $1.63 billion in the
previous three months, the central bank said. The shortfall was
down from $4.9 billion in the same period last year.  The decline in the deficit “reflects a slowdown in
domestic demand, rather than a recuperation in exports,” Soto
said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  Central bankers cited weakening domestic demand and a
slowing economy for last month’s rate cut. The bank had
previously reduced its growth forecast for this year to between
4 percent and 4.5 percent from 4 percent to 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  