-- China’s Broadest Reforms Since ’90s on Web Before Release
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-18T06:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/china-s-broadest-reforms-since-90s-on-web-before-release.html
China ’s broadest plans for economic
reform since at least the 1990s circulated on Internet bulletin
boards hours before their official release, in a reprise of
challenges authorities have had with early data publication.  Photographs of most of the Communist Party leadership’s
blueprint for the next decade appeared on the web and in instant
messages on Nov. 15, sparking the biggest rally in Chinese
stocks in a month. At least some of the papers on the Internet
proved accurate, according to a comparison by Bloomberg.  The incident underscores the rising power of electronic
media in China, despite government efforts to control the
Internet. While it took seven days for China to release detailed
results of Communist Party plenums in 2003 and 2008, this time
they were officially disseminated three days after the end of
the gathering presided over by President Xi Jinping --
suggesting the photos might have triggered an early publication.  “An investigation is likely,” said Willy Lam, an adjunct
professor of history at the  Chinese University  of  Hong Kong . The
government is “super-serious about sticking to their own
routine, so they must have been very angry for somebody jumping
the gun.”  The State Council Information Office, the news office of
China’s cabinet, didn’t immediately respond to a faxed request
for comment.  Classified Data  China has jailed several people for leaking economic data
in recent years. A former Guosen Securities Co. analyst was
sentenced last year to six months in prison with one year of
probation, the Beijing News reported at the time. China
announced in 2011 that it was jailing two officials from the
People’s Bank of China and statistics bureau for leaking
classified economic data.  The Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.7 percent on Nov. 15
and extended gains today, advancing 1.4 percent as of 1:07 p.m.
local time.  The reforms are the biggest since the late 1990s, when
Premier Zhu Rongji’s shake-up of state industries cost millions
of jobs, according to Shen Jianguang, an economist at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. UBS AG called the document
“a sweeping reform plan,” while noting that the impact from
the population-control change would probably be limited.  “The authorities have good reasons to suspect that the
people who have released it prematurely might have profit in
mind,” Lam said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  