-- Chinese Stocks Jump as H Shares Gain Most Since 2011 on Reforms
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-11-18T08:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-after-china-outlines-reforms.html
China’s stocks  rose, with the
benchmark index for mainland companies in  Hong Kong  surging the
most since December 2011, after the government pledged to ease
the one-child policy and boost private investment as part of the
biggest package of economic reforms since the 1990s.  Citic Securities Co. (6837)  and China Life Insurance Co. rallied
more than 8 percent in Hong Kong and  Shanghai  to lead gains for
financial shares. Baby formula maker Zhejiang Beingmate
Technology Industry & Trade Co. jumped 3.6 percent. The yuan
traded within 0.2 percent of a 20-year high, while the 10-year
bond yield rose to the highest level since 2007 as China said it
would accelerate steps toward currency convertibility and a
freeing-up of  interest rates .  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 5.7 percent
to 11,307.33 at the close in Hong Kong, while the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 2.9 percent to 2,197.22. China pledged to
allow more private investment in state-controlled industries
while couples can have two children if either parent is an only
child, according to a Communist Party decision published by the
official Xinhua News Agency on Nov. 15.  “The detailed document is positive because it addresses
structural reforms, which is what China needs,”  Erwin Sanft ,
head of China and Hong Kong equity research at Standard
Chartered Plc, said in a telephone interview. “The lifting of a
big overhang like this is very good for market valuations.”  The Shanghai index trades at 8.6 times projected earnings,
compared with the five-year average of 12.5, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Trading volumes in the index were 37
percent above the 30-day average. The Hang Seng China AH Premium
index, a gauge of prices for mainland-traded shares versus those
in Hong Kong, slid as much as 3.2 percent to the lowest level
since October 2010.  Economic Support  China is liberalizing its policies in an effort to bolster
an economy that’s heading for its weakest annual expansion since
1999. The Shanghai benchmark index has slumped 3.2 percent this
year as slowing growth curbed corporate earnings.  “The announced reforms beat market expectations and are
likely to boost market confidence and sentiment in the near
term,”  Wang Tao , an economist at UBS AG, wrote in a report
today. “We see the main impact of the reforms to be a reduction
of tail risks facing the economy.”  The Communist Party document, covering 60 measures, follows
a communique issued Nov. 12 after a four-day party conclave in
Beijing that pledged to elevate the role of markets in the
nation while keeping the state in a “dominant” position.  Yields Rise  China will develop a “mixed ownership economy” that helps
state-owned assets maintain or increase their value and boost
their competitiveness, according to Xinhua. The nation will
accelerate convertibility of the yuan and freeing-up of interest
rates, improve treasury yield curves and let qualified private
investors set up small-to-medium sized banks, it said.  The yield on  government bonds  due August 2023 increased
five basis points to 4.65 percent, according to prices from the
National Interbank Funding Center. China’s 10-year yield reached
a record 4.66 percent in November 2007, the highest in ChinaBond
data going back to September 2007. The one-year swap, the fixed
payment needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase
rate, increased as much as eight basis points to a five-month
high of 4.59 percent.  “China announced last week that it will accelerate
interest-rate liberalisation so, in the medium term, that may
result in higher rates,” said Kumar Rachapudi, a Singapore-based strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  IPO Reform  The  yuan  was little changed at 6.0921 per dollar. It has
strengthened 2.3 percent this year and touched 6.0802 on Oct.
25, the strongest level since the government unified the
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Jefferies Group LLC listed brokerages and insurers as among
its top picks. Citic Securities, the nation’s biggest-listed
brokerage, jumped 13 percent in Hong Kong and 10 percent in
Shanghai. China Life, the largest insurer, surged 8.7 percent in
Hong Kong and 10 percent in Shanghai. A gauge of  financial
shares  in the CSI 300 rose 5.2 percent, the most among 10
industry groups.  Policy makers will seek to “push forward reform for a
registration system” on initial public offerings, according to
the Nov. 15 statement. The new system may hasten the approval
process for the more than 700 companies still awaiting
regulatory permission to proceed with their share sales.  ‘Bull Run’  “We believe  China  is on the cusp of a massive multiyear
bull run,” Christie Ju, managing director at Jefferies in Hong
Kong, wrote in a note to clients. She also favored auto,
consumer, health-care and alternative-energy companies.  A measure of consumer-discretionary companies in the CSI
300  climbed  2.7 percent. SAIC Motor Corp., the biggest Chinese
automaker, advanced 1.9 percent. Appliance maker Qingdao Haier
Co. surged 5.1 percent.  Fidelity Investment Management Ltd. is adding more Chinese
consumer-related stocks including Internet and health-care
companies after details on the plenum were released, Catherine Yeung, an investment director for equities, said in a phone
interview today from Hong Kong.  Under China’s current family-planning policy, couples are
allowed to have a second child if both parents are only
children. Last week’s document said the party plans to implement
the reforms by 2020.  Zhejiang Beingmate, the unit of China’s second-largest baby
formula maker, rose 3.6 percent in Shenzhen. China Mengniu Dairy
Co. advanced 4.8 percent in Hong Kong.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index added 3.4 percent in
 New York  on Nov. 15, while the db X-trackers Harvest CSI 300
surged 4.4 percent. The CSI 300 rose 3.3 percent to 2,428.90.  “With the new details out on reforms, there are more
concrete directions,” Zeng Xianzhao, an analyst at Everbright
Securities Co. in Chongqing, said by phone today. “Investors
who were on the sidelines don’t have to hesitate anymore and are
starting to place their positions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  