-- China Swaps Jump to Five-Month High on Rate Freedom Indications
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-11-18T09:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/china-swaps-jump-to-five-month-high-on-rate-freedom-indications.html
China’s  interest-rate swaps  touched
a five-month high on speculation policy makers will allow the
market a greater role in determining borrowing rates.  China will accelerate convertibility of the  yuan  along with
the freeing-up of  interest rates , according to a Nov. 15
Communist Party statement. The nation may allow 10 banks to sell
negotiable certificates of deposit in a trial program starting
this month, the Financial News reported on Nov. 5, citing
unidentified people from a commercial bank.  “There are expectations on interest-rate liberalization,”
said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB
in  Hong Kong . The “expected launch of negotiable certificates
of deposit benchmarked against a money-market rate” is
triggering interest in the swaps, she said.  The one-year  interest-rate swap , the fixed payment needed
to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose two basis
points to 4.53 percent in  Shanghai , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The contracts reached 4.59 percent, the highest
level since June 21 and increased 16 basis points last week.  China will give market forces a bigger part in the economy
and a more “decisive role” in allocating resources, according
to a Party statement issued last week after its 18th Central
Committee meeting in Beijing. In July, the PBOC removed a floor
on borrowing costs set at 30 percent below the benchmark.  Money Market  “ China  announced last week that it will accelerate
interest-rate liberalization, so in the medium term, that may
result in higher rates,” said Kumar Rachapudi, a Singapore-based strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  The People’s Bank of China asked lenders to submit orders
for 91-day bills planned for this week and also gauged demand
for 28-day repurchase contracts and seven- and 14-day reverse
repos, according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid
at the auctions.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, was little changed at 5.44
percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by
the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate jumped 150 basis
points last week.  The yield on 10-year  government bonds  added seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.67 percent, climbing for
an 11th straight day, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  