-- China Home Prices Jump as Guangzhou, Shenzhen Lead Advances
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-18T15:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/china-homes-prices-jumped-in-october-led-by-guangzhou-shenzhen.html
New home prices in  China ’s four
major cities rose the most since January 2011, raising concerns
of a bubble as home buyers were emboldened by a lack of new
nationwide property curbs.  New home prices in October jumped 21 percent from a year
earlier in the southern city of Guangzhou and 20 percent in
nearby Shenzhen, 18 percent in  Shanghai  and 16 percent in
Beijing, the National Bureau of Statistics said in a statement
today. Prices rose in 69 of the 70 cities tracked by the
government.  Shenzhen and Shanghai this month raised minimum down
payments for second homes to 70 percent, following a similar
move by Beijing in March, as local authorities struggle to
contain price gains. Housing sales jumped 33 percent in the
first 10 months of this year as Premier  Li Keqiang  refrained
from adding new nationwide restrictions that would hurt  economic
growth .  “On the one hand I can’t see the possibility of policy
being tightened further to curb prices while on the other hand
demand continues to increase as homebuyers expect more price
gains,” said Dai Fang, a Shanghai-based analyst at Zheshang
Securities Co.  A  gauge  tracking Shanghai-traded developers advanced 2.7
percent, the most since Sept. 23.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest
real estate company traded on mainland exchanges, jumped 3.3
percent, the most in more than a month, to 9.20  yuan  in
Shenzhen.  Bigger Deposits  Former Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March stepped up a three-year
campaign to contain price gains, ordering cities with excessive
increases to raise down payments. Shenzhen upped the deposit
level from 60 percent on Nov. 1, one week before Shanghai
announced the same move.  Guangzhou, the only one of the four so-called first-tier
cities that hadn’t done so, today said it will raise the
required down-payment for second-home purchasers from the
current 60 percent of property value, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported, citing a government statement.  Shanghai also tightened the qualifications required for
non-local homebuyers and will increase residential land
supplies, according to a Nov. 8 statement on the local housing
bureau’s website.  ‘Decisive’ Market  Chinese leaders’ decision to let the market play a
“decisive” role, passed at a plenary meeting by the Party’s
 Central Committee  ended Nov. 12, implies that regulation in the
 property market  will gradually shift from demand-side
administrative curbs to supply-side market measures, Barclays
Plc analysts wrote in a report today.  “We see little chance for any brand new demand-side
administrative curbs, whereas some short-term policy headwinds,
such as property tax trials and stricter idle-land regulations,
seem just around the corner,” the analysts, led by Hong Kong-based Alvin Wong, wrote in a report today.  Supply increases helped trim month-on-month price gains
from September, and prices on this basis may start to fall as
early as the end of second quarter next year as stock remains
abundant and sales slow, according to Luo Yu, a Shanghai-based
analyst at advisory firm CEBM Group.  New  home prices  excluding government-subsidized social
housing rose an average 0.7 percent in October from 0.9 percent
the previous month because of tighter curbs in some cities and
as developers boosted supply in a traditionally strong season
for property sales, the bureau’s senior statistician, Liu
Jianwei, said in a statement on the agency’s website.  Wenzhou Declines  For the sixth month in a row, the eastern city of Wenzhou
was the only one to post a decline, with new home prices
dropping 1.4 percent from last year, the bureau said.  Listed developers’ contracted sales jumped 42 percent from
a year earlier, Haitong International Securities Co. analysts
led by Hugo Hou wrote in a Nov. 13 report.  China’s average new home price surged 10.7 percent in
October from a year earlier, the most this year, on demand for
higher-priced apartments, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., the
nation’s biggest real estate website owner. The price rose to
10,685 yuan ($1,754) a square meter (10.76 square feet), SouFun
said.  Shanghai’s new measures are “credit negative” for
developers as they put pressure on sales and prices, Moody’s
Investors Service analysts led by Franco Leung wrote in an e-mailed report Nov. 14. Companies that may be affected include
 Shanghai Industrial Urban Development Group Ltd. (563)  and  Glorious
Property Holdings Ltd. (845) , according to the report.  Existing home prices rose 19 percent in Beijing last month
from a year earlier, followed by a 14 percent increase in
Shenzhen and 13 percent in Shanghai, according to the data.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  