-- Chinese Demand Pushes Wine Auction to Record $8.5 Million
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-11-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/chinese-demand-pushes-wine-auction-to-record-8-5-million.html
The world’s oldest charity wine
auction, held on behalf of a medieval hospital in the Burgundy
region of  France , raised a record 6.3 million euros ($8.5
million), boosted by bidding from  China .  Yan Hong Cao, a China-based businesswoman, paid 131,000
euros for the “President’s barrel,” containing 456 liters of
Meursault-Genevrieres Premier Cru, Cuvee Philippe le Bon, at the
153rd edition of the  Hospices de Beaune  auction. The annual
event, held in collaboration with Christie’s International,
sells barrels of Burgundy’s latest vintage from vineyards owned
by the hospital, founded in 1443.  The 2013 vintage is problematic. For the second straight
year, vineyards in Burgundy were pounded by hailstorms in the
summer, dramatically reducing yields for some winemakers. The
total production of the region was forecast to be 1.26 million
hectoliters, about 20 percent down on a typical year, according
to data released this month by the  Burgundy Wine Board  (BIVB).  “It is a tricky vintage,” Paul Hammond, a partdirector at
the London-based merchants  IG Wines , said in an interview.
“Because of the low yields, pricing will be high and the market
will take it, even though the quality isn’t as good as 2012. The
risk is that people will become disenchanted with Burgundy, as
they have with First-Growth Bordeaux.”  This year’s difficult growing season produced a smaller-than-usual auction of 443 barrels, divided between 333 red and
110 white. All of them sold. The total, which includes fees,
beat the record of 5.9 million euros, achieved last year from a
sale of 516 barrels.  Asia Tastings  This was the first time a Chinese bidder had bought the
president’s barrel since Christie’s had become involved in the
sale in 2005. Christie’s had courted Asian bidders with tastings
in  Singapore ,  Hong Kong  and Beijing. Bidders from  Asia  bought
9.5 percent of the auction, said the London-based auction house.
Last year their purchases represented 12 percent of its value.  During the last three years, wine buyers, particularly from
Asia, have concentrated more on Burgundy.  Investors have balked at ever-higher auction prices for
Chateau Lafite-Rothschild and other trophy clarets, and they’ve
also been put off by Bordeaux’s ambitiously priced “en primeur”
campaigns, wine dealers said. As a result, Burgundy’s share of
the total fine wine trade in July 2013 was five times bigger
than it was in July 2010, IG Wines said.  Barrels of the Grand Cru red wine Clos de la Roche and the
white Batard-Montrachet dominated the Hospices sale, taking
respectively five and four of the auction’s top 10 prices.  A European private buyer paid a top price of 70,620 euros
for a barrel of Clos de la Roche, Cuvee Kritter, valued at
22,000 euros to 35,000 euros, while the Maison Lucien Lemoine
was prepared to give an upper-estimate 65,270 euros for Batard’s
Cuvee dames de Flandres.  “The charitable element slightly distorts things,” said
Hammond. “The Hospices auction marks the beginning of the
campaign. The market will ultimately decide the price of this
vintage.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 