-- Cholesterol Guidelines Move Forward as Risk Tool Debated
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-11-18T19:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/cholesterol-guidelines-move-forward-as-risk-tool-debated.html
Concerns raised by two Harvard
researchers over new treatment guidelines for heart risk
shouldn’t change the method used for determining what patients
should get cholesterol-lowering drugs, top U.S. heart doctors
said today at the  American Heart Association  meeting in Dallas.  In a commentary set to run this week in the Lancet medical
journal, Harvard University researchers Paul Ridker and  Nancy
Cook  said a risk calculator designed to help doctors determine
treatment needs might over-estimate by as much as 150 percent
causing patients to be unnecessarily placed on drug treatment.  The calculator is only one determiner of treatment, said
Sidney Smith, a professor of medicine at the University of North
Carolina Chapel Hill who led development of the guidelines.
Members of the heart group said they will update risk
assessments as new data become available and will stick by the
guidelines issued last week.  “We intend to move forward with the implementation of
these guidelines,” Smith said. “It’s really important not to
raise unnecessary alarm.”  The guidelines released by the  American Heart Association 
and the  American College of Cardiology  last week will expand the
use of statin drugs to almost 1 in 3 Americans from 16 percent
currently. Everyone older than 40 with diabetes and those
diagnosed with heart disease should be on a statin, regardless
of their cholesterol count, the recommendations say.  New Patients  That means as many as 15 million Americans will be told to
start taking the drugs, a class of medicines including
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Crestor and generic drugs that can cost as
little as 10 cents a day. Others may be weaned off treatments
that work differently, such as Merck & Co.’s Zetia, that were
prescribed to get them to the now abandoned targets for lower
cholesterol. The guidelines also will ask more from patients,
including an extra effort to improve their lifestyles through
exercise, changes to diet and quitting smoking.  The new calculator could over-estimate the risk rates for
some patients, though it would largely be for those who would be
on a statin anyway, said  Donald Lloyd-Jones , a member of the
guidelines panel and a professor of medicine at Northwestern
University’s Feinberg School of Medicine. Others that could be
be affected are younger women with exceedingly low risk, he
said. After a conversation with their doctors, which the
guidelines recommend, those patients would typically not be put
on a statin.  “We were aware during our validation processes that there
could be some effective over-estimation of risk in some
populations,” Lloyd-Jones said today at a news conference at
the heart meeting in Dallas. “The truth is going to be
somewhere in the middle. Over time we’re going to modify these
risk scores so they get better and better, and we get closer to
that goal of personalized medicine.”  One Tool  The risk calculator is just one tool, the authors of the
guidelines said. “You don’t simply mail out a prescription when
you get a score,” Lloyd-Jones said. “That has to be put in
context.”  The Harvard researchers argued that the inclusion of more
recent studies would have lowered the calculations for what
patients should be considered at greatest risk and needed to be
on a statin. Using a different set of data than used by the AHA,
Ridker and Cook found that the calculator over-estimated heart
risk by 75 percent to 150 percent.  Ridker shared his concerns about the risk scores at the
heart association’s annual meeting in  Dallas  on Nov. 16.  Blog Post  In a  blog post  today, Ridker said the changes he was
calling for were relatively easy to make. He also said he
supports the expanded use of statins recommended in the
guidelines.  The “guidelines for statin therapy have taken several
major steps forward that will greatly improve patient care,”
Ridker said in a blog post. “Our patients need to go to the
gym, throw out the cigarettes, and eat a healthier diet, but in
addition to lifestyle, middle-age men and women need to talk to
their physicians to see if they should also be on statin
therapy.”  Smith and other panel members said the guidelines and risk
tool would be updated as more long-term data on patients’  heart
disease  risk are generated.  “This is not computer medicine,” he said. “We’re using
every tool possible to try and get the best care to our
patients. As data do become available, you can expect to see us
coming up with the best product.”  Heart disease and stroke are responsible for 1 in 3 deaths
in the U.S., and 60 percent of Americans are expected to have a
cardiovascular event in their lifetimes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  