-- Clegg Presses Case for Higher U.K. Property Tax on Foreigners
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-11-18T13:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/clegg-presses-case-for-higher-u-k-property-tax-on-foreigners.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick
Clegg  pushed the case for raising the tax on top-end properties
owned by foreign investors in  London , as the government examines
the idea in the run-up to its end-of-year financial statement.  “We certainly need to make sure that people who invest
very large amounts of money into property in central London
locations, which more often than not then stands empty, that
they pay their fair share of tax,” Clegg said at his monthly
news conference in the capital today. “That’s why we are
looking at options like the differential application of capital-gains tax to those kinds of transaction. Decisions haven’t yet
been made.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is considering
levying CGT on foreigners selling property in the U.K. to curb
 rising house prices  in the capital, Sky News television first
reported earlier this month. Overseas demand is adding to
pressure on a market experiencing a shortage of supply.  “There are parts of the London  property market  now which
are entirely divorced from and dislocated from the rest of the
economy,” Clegg said. “That’s partly because they’re driven by
market forces which are global and by very, very large amounts
of money flowing into the residential property market as
investment.”  Clegg’s Liberal Democrats, the minority party in the ruling
coalition, have made higher taxes on the most expensive
properties a key policy with demands for a so-called mansion tax
on homes valued at more than 2 million pounds ($3.2 million.)
Their Conservative partners have rejected the idea.  Autumn Statement  Asked about the possibility of extending the capital-gains
tax to foreign-owned properties, Conservative Treasury minister
Sajid Javid indicated in an interview this month that an
announcement would be made in Osborne’s Autumn Statement to
lawmakers on Dec. 5.  Prices for luxury homes have soared in recent years as the
debt crisis in the euro region and uprisings across North Africa
made London property a haven. Values of prime London residences
have risen more than 60 percent from their low in 2009, with
non-U.K. residents accounting for 25 percent of all purchases in
central London in the 12 months through September, according to
broker Knight Frank LLP.  Asking prices  for London homes fell this month after a 10
percent jump in October as government measures to boost demand
failed to offset the seasonal pre-Christmas decline,  Rightmove
Plc (RMV)  said. From a year earlier, values in the city were up 6.9
percent, while the national increase was 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  