-- CME Hack Reawakens Electronic Threat to Financial Services Firms
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/cme-hack-reawakens-electronic-threat-to-financial-services-firms.html
The cyberattack on  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
last week, routed through  Hong Kong , is reminding the financial
services world of one of its most constant threats to business.  The owner of the world’s largest futures markets last week
joined companies from Citigroup Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to
the New York Stock Exchange in revealing that it’s been targeted
by hackers. Financial services firms need to boost spending the
most to fend off at least 95 percent of attacks, according to a
2012 Bloomberg Government study.  “We shouldn’t view this as a futures market story alone,
all financial services and markets are a target,” said Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at the  University of Houston .
“Investors do need to be concerned.”  CME Group, based in  Chicago , said Nov. 15 that its
ClearPort clearing system was breached in July and some customer
information was compromised. The company said there’s no
evidence that transactions on its electronic-trading system or
its clearinghouse were affected. The  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  said it’s investigating, while a person familiar
with the matter said the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is looking into the incident.  Financial services firms are constantly being assessed by
potential hackers for weaknesses, a phenomenon known as
“opportunistic probing,” said Pete Lindstrom, an analyst at
Spire Security in Philadelphia.  “It’s very common for folks to think they’re too small or
too obscure to be a target,” even though that’s not the case,
he said.  Dozen Attacked  In June, eight people were charged with hacking customer
accounts at more than a dozen financial institutions, including
Citigroup and JPMorgan, in a plot to steal at least $15 million.
The scheme involved breaking into customer accounts and moving
money into the control of crews called “cashers.” Withdrawals
were then made from automated teller machines and fraudulent
purchases were racked up in New York,  Massachusetts ,  Illinois ,
 Georgia  and elsewhere, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said earlier
this year.  A hacker group’s threat last year to erase the New York
Stock Exchange from the Internet for a day failed as its website
functioned without interruption. Users saw occasional delays
logging on to NYSE.com around the time the Anonymous collective
said its attack was to begin. The NYSE and its parent company
NYSE Euronext were acquired last week by
IntercontinentalExchange Group Inc., a CME Group rival.  Appreciating Risk  The danger to  capital markets  from hacking is
underappreciated, said John Edge, a managing director at New
York-based Nice Actimize who specializes in global trading and
market structure issues. It’s likely there will be a large-scale
attack that causes a major disruption, he said.  “From a statistical point of view, it’s completely
improbable that it won’t happen,” he said. “The hacking
community belongs to usually one of three groups: state-sponsored, organized financial crime or agenda-based activists.
You’ve got some very well-funded, very talented, competent
people whose job it is to breach security.”  Cybersecurity has been flagged as one of the biggest
threats to markets and governments by industry groups and
regulators. A study in July found that computers at about 53
percent of exchanges around the world were attacked during the
previous year. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. discovered suspicious files
on its website in 2011, prompting a federal investigation.  CME ClearPort  ClearPort, the system that CME Group said was targeted,
provides clearing services for block trades that are negotiated
privately in over-the-counter energy and metals markets. “To
protect participants, CME Group forced a change to customer
credentials impacted by the incident, and is corresponding
directly with the impacted customers,” the company said in a
statement last week.  “Assuming no customer assets were affected, this is useful
as an eye-opener,” Lindstrom said. “We continue to see various
types of folks who are hacked,” he said. “It starts to
generate concern over our financial infrastructure.”  Michael Shore , a CME Group spokesman, declined to elaborate
on the statement, which said the incident was the subject of a
U.S. criminal investigation.  “We did receive the referral” from CME Group, said Joan
Hyde, a spokeswoman for the Chicago office of the  Federal Bureau 
of Investigation. “We are looking into the matter.”  The CFTC, the main U.S. derivatives regulator, is helping
with the investigation, according to a person familiar with the
matter, who asked to not be named because the inquiry is
private. The attack on CME Group came from a hub in Hong Kong,
although the perpetrators could have been based elsewhere, the
person said.  Biggest Exchange  CME Group offers futures based on  interest rates , equity
indexes, currencies, metals, energy products and agricultural
commodities. It also guarantees  interest-rate swaps  and credit-default swaps with its clearinghouse.  From January to August of this year, CME Group handled 2.17
billion futures contracts, according to an analysis by the
Futures Industry Association, making it the world’s largest
exchange by volume.  While computer attacks are global, American exchanges have
reported the most instances of attempted sabotage via the
Internet, according to a July study co-authored by  the World
Federation of Exchanges  and  the International Organization of
Securities Commissions . About 67 percent of U.S.-based trading
venues said they had to fight them off, the study showed. About
89 percent said it represents a systemic risk.  ‘Suspicious’ Files  Nasdaq OMX in 2011 disclosed an intrusion involving
“suspicious” files on its Directors Desk system, which lets
corporate board members communicate and share information. The
National Security Agency, the top U.S. electronic intelligence
service, joined a probe of the 2010 attack, people familiar with
the investigation said in March 2011.  Companies including utilities, banks and phone carriers
would have to spend almost nine times more on cybersecurity to
prevent a digital  Pearl Harbor  from plunging millions into
darkness, paralyzing the financial system or cutting
communications, according to the Bloomberg Government study
released in January 2012.  Of all the industries surveyed for the Bloomberg study,
financial services would face the steepest increase in spending
to reach an ideal state of protection. Financial companies’
annual security costs would jump almost 13-fold on average to
$292 million per company to fend off 95 percent of attacks, from
about $23 million, according to the Bloomberg Government report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  