-- Coal Industry Needs Dramatic Change, Says UN Climate Boss
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-11-18T14:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/coal-industry-needs-dramatic-change-says-un-climate-boss.html
The coal industry needs to change
rapidly to help prevent global warming by leaving most of the
fuel in the ground and closing the least efficient  power plants ,
the top climate official at the  United Nations  said.  Christiana Figueres , executive secretary of the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change, said fumes from burning
the fossil fuel are loading the atmosphere with  greenhouse
gases , competing for water resources and harming public health.  “Coal must change rapidly and dramatically for everyone’s
sake,” Figueres said at a coal industry conference today in the
Polish capital, which is also hosting UN global warming talks.
“If we continue to meet energy needs as we have in the past, we
will overshoot the internationally agreed goal to limit warming
to less than 2 degrees Celsius.”  Coal’s role in fueling the world economy has moved into the
focus at the UN talks after a study by UN scientists indicated
that humans have already burned half the fossil fuels they can
before risking dangerous changes to the climate.  At best, emissions pledges for 2020 would lead to
greenhouse gas output about 18 percent above the level needed to
keep global temperature increases to 2 degrees Celsius since the
industrial revolution, according to the UN Environment Program.  “This insight becomes dramatic if you compare this carbon
budget with the carbon still underground in the form of coal,
oil and gas,” Ottmar Edenhofer, chief economist at the Potsdam
Institute for Climate Impact Research in  Germany , said in an
interview. “There is much more carbon underground than the
amount which can still be released if dangerous climate change
should be avoided.”  Poland , which is hosting the talks involving 190 nations,
has  Europe ’s largest coal reserves and is the European Union’s
most-dependent country on the fuel. It organized a conference on
coal to coincide with the UN conference.  Figueres, whose role is to help guide the discussions about
reining in  fossil fuel  emissions, urged coal executives to
outfit new plants with technology to capture and store CO2.  The coal industry seeks to increase power plant efficiency
to 40 percent from the current 33 percent to help reduce
emissions, Milton Catelin, head of the World Coal Association, a
lobby group, said today at the same event.  Achieving that target may cut global CO2 emissions by 2
billion metric tons, equivalent to the emissions of  India ,
Catelin said. “We can’t turn a blind eye on climate impact of
our industry,” he said.  Germany, Europe’s biggest energy market, is in its largest
new-build program for hard coal stations since 1998. Ten new
plants with a combined capacity of 7,985 megawatts are scheduled
to start producing in the next two years, according to
information from German grid regulator Bundesnetzagentur and
operators.  “Unabated coal represents the single biggest threat to
climate stability,” U.K.  Climate Change  Minister Gregory Barker
said today in an interview. While “it’s imperative” to scale
up renewables and energy efficiency, “in the next two decades
it is gas that offers the most immediate and economic
replacement to coal,” he said, describing the fuel as a
“stepping stone” to a lower-carbon future.  The global energy mix “has to tilt much more to non-fossil
sources” if climate change is to be curbed, U.S. Special Envoy
for Climate Change Todd Stern told reporters today in Warsaw.
Carbon capture and storage can help reduce emissions from coal-fired power generation, he said.  “The world runs significantly on fossil fuels right now,
and that’s not going to change overnight,” Stern said.  Either way, coal companies should expect tighter  government
regulation , growing difficulties to secure financing and falling
public acceptance for new projects, Figueres said.  “The coal industry faces a business continuation risk that
you cannot afford to ignore,” she said. Companies should
instead diversify into renewable-energy projects to reduce risk,
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  