-- Colorado Fracking Agreement Joins Drillers and Activists
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-11-18T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/colorado-fracking-agreement-joins-drillers-and-activists.html
Colorado  will become the first U.S.
state to limit methane emissions from the production of natural
gas and oil, addressing an issue that climate watchdogs say is a
downside of the boom in hydraulic fracturing.  Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper announced an agreement
between oil-and-gas producers  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,  Noble
Energy Inc. (NBL)  and  Encana Corp. (ECA)  and the Environmental Defense Fund,
a watchdog group, to have the industry track and eliminate
methane gas leaks from tanks, pipelines and other production
equipment.  “The rules will help Colorado prepare for anticipated
growth in energy development, while protecting public health and
the environment,” Hickenlooper said in a statement. The joint
proposal will be subject to outside comment and a hearing in
February 2014 before becoming a formal rule, according to the
statement from Hickenlooper’s office.  In hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, water, sand and
chemicals are shot underground to break apart rocks and free up
trapped natural gas or oil. Use of the technique has led to a
boom in production in states such as  Pennsylvania , Texas,  North
Dakota  and Colorado.  Leaks in the production and transport processes undermine
the climate benefits of using natural gas for electricity. While
natural gas emits half the carbon dioxide as coal when burned at
a power plant, methane leaks can undercut those climate
benefits, critics say.  Green Completions  Methane, the main component of natural gas, is 21 times
more potent at trapping heat in the atmosphere than carbon
dioxide, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
A boom in U.S. natural-gas supplies brought on by hydraulic
fracturing has opened a debate over whether expanding the use of
gas sets back efforts to fight climate change.  The EPA in 2012 issued the first rules to fight air
pollution from gas drilling. The regulations require operators
to use a technology known as green completions in which escaping
gas is captured. Those national rules don’t apply to  oil wells ,
which would be covered in Colorado.  By specifically targeting methane emissions, the Colorado
rules will force the capture of more of that gas, said Dan
Grossman, regional director for Environmental Defense in
Colorado. He said the three companies in the agreement are the
state’s largest oil and gas producers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  