-- Copper Futures Fall on Sluggish U.S. Housing Sentiment
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-11-18T18:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/copper-falls-after-funds-turn-bearish-and-investors-favor-stocks.html
Copper futures fell for the first
time in three sessions on signs that the U.S. housing recovery
may be slowing, fueling speculation that demand will ebb for the
metal used in pipes and wiring.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders in November stayed at a
four-month low. In the week ended Nov. 12,  hedge funds  and other
large speculators turned bearish on copper for the first time in
two months, government data showed on Nov. 15.  “The market is worried about demand for many industrial
commodities,”  Bill O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in
 Upper Saddle River ,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview.
“There’s no imminent fundamental development coming along
that’s going to be supportive, and you don’t see funds rushing
in to support this thing, either.”  Copper futures for March delivery fell 0.7 percent to
settle at $3.1605 a pound at 1:05 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
Last week, the metal dropped 2.2 percent, the most since late
August.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
builder sentiment gauge was unchanged at 54, below the 55 median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Readings above 50
mean more respondents reported good market conditions.
Bearish bets on copper outnumbered bullish wagers by 8,117
futures and option contacts last week. That marked the biggest
net-short position since early August.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 0.5 percent to $6,975 a metric ton ($3.16 a pound).
The price has dropped 12 percent this year.  Aluminum, lead, nickel, tin and zinc declined on the LME.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Millie Munshi at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net  