-- Daimler to Sign Deal for 12% Stake in BAIC Tomorrow, Xu Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-18T09:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/daimler-to-sign-deal-for-12-stake-in-baic-tomorrow-xu-says.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  will sign a final
agreement to buy a 12 percent stake in Beijing Automotive Group
Co.’s passenger-car unit tomorrow, securing a stake in the
Chinese automaker ahead of a planned initial public offering.  The Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker will sign the deal
at the Beijing local government, Beijing Automotive Chairman Xu Heyi said today in the Chinese capital. Hendrik Sackmann, a
Daimler spokesman, said “we’re progressing well” and that the
automaker will communicate more when the contracts are signed.  Daimler previously said that as part of the transaction,
the automaker will receive two seats on the board of BAIC Motor
Co. BAIC will also increase ownership in a production joint
venture to 51 percent from the current 50 percent. The venture
began production at the  first  Mercedes-Benz passenger car-engine
plant outside of  Germany  in Beijing today.  Beijing Automotive may “soon” invest in Daimler,
depending on the market situation and how much funds it has at
its disposal, Xu said, without being more specific.  The agreement paves the way for BAIC to pursue an IPO. BAIC
has hired investment banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and UBS AG for the share sale, probably in  Hong Kong , Xu said.  Mercedes’s growth in  China , the world’s largest automotive
market, had been hampered by a distribution structure that split
deliveries of locally made and imported vehicles. The carmaker
combined the sales units last December. In August, Daimler said
it will invest 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) to double local
production to more than 200,000 vehicles.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  