-- Data Miners Ride Boom-Bust Cycle in Races to Mold Senate
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-11-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/data-miners-ride-boom-bust-cycle-in-races-to-mold-senate.html
Sarah Benzing is opening a small
business that needs to raise more than $10 million in a year and
spend almost all of it in less time than that.  She’s one of a rising class of professional campaign
managers who, like polling experts and ad makers, are vital to
winning statewide contests driven by data rather than the
hunches of political veterans.  “It is about managing a complex organization that is the
equivalent of a multimillion startup that is going to exist over
a limited amount of time and you are going to be judged on a
single day,” said Guy Cecil, executive director of the
Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.  Benzing and her fellow managers on both sides of the
political aisle are on the front lines of state races that will
determine which party wins a U.S. Senate majority in 2014.  Republicans are seeking to capture a net of six seats to
regain control, while Democrats are defending seven seats in
states won by Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  in
last year’s presidential election: Alaska, Arkansas, Louisiana,
Montana,  North Carolina , South Dakota and West Virginia.  Steve Blank , a founder or participant in eight Silicon
Valley startups who teaches at  Stanford University  in
 California , said that campaigns require more sophisticated
managers as they become more data-driven operations.  “Data is the new television for politics,” he said.  Obama Campaign  In the 2012 presidential campaign, Blank said President
 Barack Obama ’s effort showed more startup qualities than
Romney’s, even though Obama’s was the incumbent campaign. He
bases that conclusion on the president’s online efforts that
continually tested messaging and made refinements.  Blank said that was somewhat of a surprise given Romney’s
experience at Bain Capital LLC.  “They supposedly had built businesses,” he said.  Money management is at the heart of a job that can
sometimes come down to this: Buy the clipboards or the
chipboards?  That was one of the questions Benzing had to answer when
she ran a special-election campaign earlier this year for  Edward Markey , now a Democratic senator from  Massachusetts .  About 1,000 clipboards were needed for door-to-door
volunteers and she balked at their price of $2 each. When an
aide suggested paper chipboards that along with binders could
act like clipboards at a cost of 50 cents apiece, she was sold.  “You want people to think about the money,” said Benzing,
36, now the campaign manager for U.S. Representative Bruce Braley, an  Iowa  Democrat running for the Senate.  Iowa Spending  Cecil estimated that Democrats will spend between $12
million and $15 million on the Senate race in Iowa, a figure
that will depend in part on outside group spending.  Later this year and next, there will be more significant
decisions for Benzing about an advertising budget, hiring
employees and parsing the candidate’s time as Braley seeks to
keep in Democratic hands the seat held by retiring Senator  Tom Harkin .  Those in the business call that aspect of the job
“candidate management” and say it’s just as important as
watching the  money flow .  “There are never enough yard signs near their house,”
joked Cam Savage, a Republican strategist who managed the
winning 2010 campaign of Senator  Dan Coats  of  Indiana . The signs
aren’t always persuasive to voters, yet Savage said candidates
tend to like to see a lot of them, especially in their own
neighborhoods.  Winning Record  Braley is the fourth Senate race managed by Benzing since
2010. So far, she’s 3-0, after running the campaigns of Senator
Kirsten Gillibrand of New York in 2010, Senator  Sherrod Brown  of
Ohio in 2012 and Markey in 2013.  “The good ones, the ones who get elected, understand that
it’s a partnership,” Benzing said. “I’ve been really lucky.
I’ve worked for really good people.”  Benzing examines every expense that moves through the
campaign, from mileage reimbursements to advertising buys. She
also gets a daily e-mail from her fundraising team so she knows
exactly how much money is coming into the campaign.  “These campaigns are larger than a lot of small companies
and it’s more difficult in some respects because you are raising
every dollar of capital you have, and you have to perfectly
spend it without going over,” Savage said. “Juggling the
financial piece mostly comes down to the manager.”  The mail’s arrival at the campaign office can be the “most
consequential occurrence of any given day” because it contains
the latest inflow of checks, Savage said.  Ice-Cream Truck  The strangest expense Benzing ever had to approve was for
the rental of an ice cream truck for a final get-out-the-vote
rally for Markey.  The candidate had worked his way through college selling
ice, so the campaign rented a truck from his previous employer
to give out free cold treats on a hot day -- and remind voters
of the 18-term House member’s humbler beginnings.  Braley, in his fourth term, is unopposed for the Democratic
nomination and has focused on organization and fundraising.
During the quarter that ended Sept. 30, he raised almost $1
million,  more  than the entire Republican field combined. Braley
ended the quarter with $2.3 million in his campaign account.  So far, Republicans who have declared their candidacies
include state Senator Joni Ernst, former U.S. Attorney Matt Whitaker, Iowa radio talk show host Sam Clovis, former car
dealership sales manager Scott Schaben, attorney Paul Lunde,
businessman Mark Jacobs, and  David Young , a former aide to U.S.
Senator Chuck Grassley.  Republican Debate  Six of the Republicans faced off Oct. 23 for their first
time at Drake University in Des Moines in a candidate forum
sponsored by  Americans for Prosperity  Iowa, an offshoot of the
national small-government group funded by billionaire
industrialists David and  Charles Koch .  Benzing said she was watching remotely, huddled with team
members from her campaign inside a downtown conference room,
surrounded by  laptop computers , beer and pizza. As the forum
played out, the Iowa Democratic Party peppered reporter e-mail
accounts with rapid-response statements and their partisan view
of the facts.  There’re the makings of a campaign manager club where
advice is shared on dealing with employees, reference checks,
technology and how to deal with other issues that arise.  Trading Gossip  Benzing said they trade intelligence on outside spending
and ad watch information, which can sometimes give her a heads
up on what might be coming her way from another state. She says
they also discuss informal references and salary ranges for
employees.  “Mostly we call each other to check in and see what’s
happening and trade gossip,” she said. “It’s comforting to
communicate with others who know exactly what kind of stressors
you’re dealing with.”  Her first lessons in workplace politics were learned at
truck stop near Neola, the small western Iowa town where she
grew up. At the age of 16, her cooking and waitress jobs at the
Kopper Kettle along Interstate Highway 80 gave her a sense for
what it takes to manage.  “You had to learn how to get along with a lot of people,”
she said. “You definitely don’t want to upset the cook.”  After graduating in 2000 from the University of Northern
Iowa, Benzing worked for former Vice President  Al Gore ’s
campaign for the White House. She became field director for the
state party in Iowa in 2002 and in 2004 she joined the short-lived presidential campaign of former Senator  Bob Graham , a
Florida Democrat.  First Campaign  Benzing ran Braley’s first campaign for Congress in 2006
and after his election went on to become his chief of staff in
Washington. In 2008, she went back to politics to work as a
national field director for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee.  Democrats are fortunate to have veteran campaign managers
in many of the competitive races they face next year, including
in North Carolina and Louisiana, Cecil said.  “It’s probably one of the most important things that we
help our candidates with and Sarah is one of the best,” Cecil
said.  Much of the job, Benzing said, simply comes down to being a
hands-on leader.  “It’s doing what needs to get done,” she said. “It’s
really exciting 20 percent of the time and the other 80 percent
it’s just managing. If it helps our team to take the garbage
out, I take the garbage out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Des Moines, Iowa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  