-- HDBank in Sale Talks With Three Japan Financial Companies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-18T07:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/hdbank-in-sale-talks-with-three-japan-financial-companies.html
Ho Chi Minh City Housing Development
Commercial Joint-Stock Bank  is in talks with three Japanese
finance firms to sell as much as a 30 percent stake, amid a wave
of investments in  Vietnam  from  Asia ’s second-largest economy.  The sale of existing shares would involve more than one
buyer next year, Chairwoman Le Thi Bang Tam said in an interview
in Hanoi on Nov. 14. She declined to name the Japanese
companies, saying the talks are confidential, or to estimate the
value of the deal. Vietnamese law limits foreign ownership of a
bank to 30 percent, with no more than 20 percent held by a
single investor.  The talks follow Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.’s
December purchase of a 15.5 trillion-dong ($734 million) stake
in Vietnam Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade,
or VietinBank. Vietnam is trying to accelerate restructuring of
the banking system, which  Fitch Ratings  says is saddled with the
highest rate of bad debt in  Southeast Asia , as Prime Minister
Nguyen Tan Dung seeks to allow more foreign ownership.  “Partnerships with Japanese banks can help us expand
business with Japanese companies, and give us assistance in
improving our corporate governance,” Tam said. “ Japan  is the
biggest foreign investor in Vietnam, with investment and
official development assistance inflows rising steadily.”  A 30 percent stake of an estimated total outstanding 810
million shares could be valued at about 1.7 trillion dong after
a planned acquisition of a local bank, according to Bloomberg
calculations. The bank is trading at about 7,000 dong a share on
the country’s over-the-counter market, Hoang Thach Lan, Ho Chi
Minh City-based brokerage unit head at MHB Securities Co. said
today. The bank currently has 500 million shares outstanding,
according to the company.  HDBank also plans to list its shares on the Ho Chi Minh
City stock exchange after selecting a foreign partner, Tam said.  DaiABank Acquisition  HDBank is buying  DaiA Commercial Joint Stock Bank  and a
local unit of Societe Generale SA, bringing total assets to 93
trillion dong at the end of the first quarter next year from 61
trillion dong at the end of October, Tam said.  HDBank will issue new shares, offering one for each
outstanding share in DaiABank, she said. That values the deal at
2.2 trillion dong, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
the current share price of 7,000 dong per share on the over-the-counter market and DaiABank’s 310 million outstanding shares.
HDBank expects to receive central bank approval for the
purchases this month, Tam said. DaiABank expects to finish the
deal within weeks, Chairman Chu Viet Cuong said by phone Nov.
15.  DaiABank’s bad-debt ratio stood at 4.4 percent at the end
of September, while HDBank’s was about 3 percent, Tam said.
DaiABank isn’t on a list of banks required by the central bank
to undergo restructuring, she said.  The benchmark VN Index rose 1.1 percent as of 2:05 p.m.
local time today and has gained about 22 percent so far this
year. The dong has weakened about 1.2 percent this year.  Deal Value  The  State Bank of Vietnam  is seeking to attract foreign
investment as it strives to speed up restructuring of the
industry, the central bank said Nov. 14. It is classifying more
banks as “weak” and in need of overhaul, after identifying
nine such lenders last year, according to the statement.  In addition to Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s other two so-called
megabanks have invested in Vietnam in recent years.  Sumitomo
Mitsui  Financial Group Inc. bought 15 percent of Vietnam Export-Import Commercial Joint Stock Bank, known as Eximbank, for $225
million in 2007. Mizuho Financial Group Inc. announced the
purchase of 15 percent of state-owned Joint-Stock Commercial
Bank for  Foreign Trade  of Vietnam, or Vietcombank, for about
$560 million in 2011.  Spokesmen for Mitsubishi UFJ, Mizuho and Sumitomo Mitsui
declined to comment on whether they’re in talks with HDBank.  “The Japanese are coming in everywhere in Southeast Asia,
as we see an exodus of manufacturing from  China ,” said John
Sheehan, regional managing director for Capital Services Group,
a loan servicing and collection company. “The Japanese banks
that have invested in Vietnam so far have paid over market
value,” he said, adding that starting their own operations may
be better than buying shares in existing banks.  Bad Debt  HDBank plans to sell some of its nonperforming loans to the
Vietnam Asset Management Company, set up by the central bank
this year to help clean up bad debt, Tam said, adding that the
amount has yet to be determined. Banks with bad-debt ratios of 3
percent or more will be required to sell nonperforming loans to
the company, the government said in May.  Vietnamese banks have the highest bad-debt ratio of six
Southeast Asian countries covered by Fitch Ratings. Soured
credit stood at 7.8 percent of outstanding loans at the end of
last year, according to the central bank.  The government is targeting economic growth of 5.8 percent
next year, the first time since 1988 that expansion would be
less than 6 percent for three straight years, according to
 International Monetary Fund  data. The government forecasts
economic growth at 5.4 percent this year. Delayed reforms at
banks and state-owned companies could undermine investor
confidence and worsen the nation’s growth prospects, the  World
Bank  said in July.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  