-- Discover Offering Card Holders Free FICO Scores on Monthly Bills
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-11-18T14:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/discover-offering-card-holders-free-fico-scores-0n-monthly-bills.html
Discover Financial Services (DFS) , the
credit-card lender with the second-lowest default rate among the
biggest U.S. issuers, will provide credit scores to customers at
no cost.  Card holders will have access to their FICO scores, the
most widely used credit-grading formula by U.S. lenders, on
their monthly bill, the Riverwoods, Illinois-based firm said
today in a statement. The offering begins today for customers of
the “Discover it” card and will be provided to all other
clients in the next few months, the company said.  Discover said it is the first major credit-card issuer to
provide free FICO scores directly to card holders. Barclaycard
US, a unit of London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC) , and First Bankcard of
Omaha, Nebraska-based First National Bank of Omaha also are
offering free credit scores, FICO, formerly known as Fair Issac
Corp., said in a Nov. 4 statement.  “Consumers know that credit card, financial services, the
industry, has a lot of information,” Julie Loeger, senior vice
president of brand and acquisition at Discover, said today in a
telephone interview. “We are just helping to pass that useful
information on to our consumers in order to create long-term
loyalty.”  FICO scores are used in lending decisions such as
applications for credit cards and interest rates on home loans.
Previously, consumers who wanted to see their scores typically
had to buy them through FICO’s website or sign up for a free
trial subscription to its monthly score-monitoring service,
unless they were denied credit or received less money than they
sought in a loan application.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  