-- Dubai Will Need to Invest 6 Billion Euros If It Wins Expo 2020
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-11-18T06:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/dubai-will-need-to-invest-6-billion-euros-if-it-wins-expo-2020.html
Dubai, which is bidding to host the
World Expo 2020, will need to invest close to 6 billion euros
($8.1 billion) into infrastructure should it win, the emirate’s
top finance official said.  “We need to extend maybe the metro, the road
infrastructure to the site and doing a lot on the site itself,”
Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, head of Dubai’s Supreme
Fiscal Committee and chairman of Emirates airlines, said in an
interview at the Dubai Air Show yesterday. Financing the
expenditure wouldn’t be an issue because it “makes sense” and
has a “business case,” he said, without elaborating on how the
money would be raised.  Dubai is one of four cities competing for the World Expo
bids and results will be announced in 10 days. Selection would
be a milestone in Dubai’s recovery from a property crash in 2009
that wiped as much as 65 percent off home prices. It would boost
economic growth by 0.5 of a percentage point per year and by
about 2 percentage points in 2020, Bank of America Corp. said in
a Sept. 26 report.  Bets that the city will win the decision on Nov. 27 have
already helped push up the benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  more than
70 percent this year. Dubai’s economy, the second-biggest among
the seven that make up the United Arab Emirates, is set to
expand an average 4.6 percent a year between 2012 and 2015, more
than twice the rate of the previous four years, according to
government forecasts.  Benefiting Emirates  The recovery is also benefiting Dubai’s main airline.
Emirates signed record deals at the Dubai Air Show yesterday
with orders for 150  Boeing Co. (BA)  777X aircraft worth $76 billion
at list prices with additional rights and another 50 Airbus SAS
A380s valued at $23 billion.  The carrier will fund the massive order through a
combination of leaseback, company resources and bond or sukuk
issuance when the time is right, Sheikh Ahmed said.  Emirates continues to work on obtaining traffic rights to
more destinations. “The aviation policy has got to change, we
have to see a more liberal way of thinking about aviation
policy,” he said. “That would be a very good thing for the
passengers flying around the world because the world has become
too small.”  Asked whether the emirate will operate from both Dubai
International Airport and the newly opened Al Maktoum
International Airport, he said: “Most likely we will see one
airline is here and one is there,” without specifying which
carrier will shift its home.  Capacity at the Al Maktoum International Airport will have
to be increased first and this could be a matter of six to seven
years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  