-- Eastern Loan Growth Needs to Be Monitored, Nowotny Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-11-18T11:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/eastern-loan-growth-needs-to-be-monitored-nowotny-says.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said strong loan growth in some
eastern European countries needs close monitoring by regulators
to avoid another bubble like the one that burst in 2009.  It was difficult to tell whether some former communist
states’ economies had been overheating or converging with
western neighbors before the recession that started in most of
eastern  Europe  in 2009, Nowotny, the Austrian central bank’s
governor, told journalists on the sidelines of a conference in
Vienna. That process may still blur the picture, he said.  “It was rather difficult to distinguish what was the
catching-up process and what was a bubble,” Nowotny said. “The
medium-term perspective is still a catching-up process. We do
have room for financial deepening. But we do have also some
countries where we see that we have very high growth of demand,
where we have to be very careful.”  Western European lenders led by Austria’s  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  UniCredit Bank Austria
AG (UCG)  bankrolled eastern Europe’s boom with cheap loans before the
2008 credit crunch. In many countries, banks lent to households
in euros or Swiss francs to bypass higher local  interest rates ,
exacerbating the economic downturn when the region’s currencies
weakened. Bad loans have shot up since 2009 and are weighing on
bank balance sheets.  The European Union’s eastern members that aren’t using the
euro -- including Poland, Hungary, the  Czech Republic ,  Bulgaria ,
Romania and  Croatia  -- should consider joining the ECB-led joint
bank supervision, Nowotny said. That could limit fragmentation
that diverts capital and liquidity from where they are needed
most, a criticism that has been made by banks including
UniCredit and Raiffeisen.  “It’s my conviction that ring-fencing will not help us
move forward,” Nowotny said. “Regulatory and supervisory
measures with regard to capital and liquidity in individual
countries should be taken in a European spirit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  