-- Lebanon Planning Transit Sites for Syrian Refugees: Minister
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-11-18T14:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/lebanon-planning-transit-sites-for-syrian-refugees-minister.html
Lebanese officials are planning two
more transit sites for Syrian refugees in Lebanon, Caretaker
Social Affairs Minister Wael Abou Faour said today.  Each site can temporarily house as many as 350 families as
they’re being processed, Abou Faour said in a telephone
interview. Lebanon has already set up one site just inside its
border, he said.  More than 800,000 Syrian refugees have fled their country’s
war into Lebanon, Abou Faour said. That number is expected to
rise as fighting rages in Qalamoun, a mountainous region
adjacent to the border with Lebanon, where the government is
trying to cut rebel supply lines.  Lebanon has taken in at least 1,700 families in the Bekaa
Valley town of Ersal over the last few days, Abou Faour said.  The influx into the country of 4.3 million has strained
Lebanon’s budget with increased spending on the refugees’
educational and medical needs, Finance Minister Mohammad Safadi
said last month.  The  World Bank  said in a a Sept. 24  statement  that the
number of Syrian refugees in Lebanon is expected to reach 1.3
million by the end of 2013.  Lebanon faces billions of dollars in lost economic activity
as a result of the conflict, while the massive influx of
refugees is overwhelming public services and risks driving up
unemployment and poverty rates, according to the statement.  Unlike Turkey and Jordan, Lebanon has not set up camps for
Syrian refugees, afraid that would heighten sectarian tensions
already inflamed by the war between Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, whose Alawite sect is an offshoot of Shiite Islam, and
mostly Sunni rebels. Shiites, Sunnis and Christians each make up
roughly a third of the Lebanese population, and the country
fought its own sectarian civil war from 1975 to 1990.  Lebanon already houses 455,000 mostly Sunni Palestinians in
12 refugee camps, and the majority of Syrian refugees are Sunni.
The Palestinians, like  Syria , were a major player in Lebanon’s
civil war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  