-- Telkom Loaned CFO $592,000 Amid Probe Into Misconduct
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-11-18T09:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/telkom-first-half-profit-rose-41-on-lower-rate-payments.html
Telkom SA SOC Ltd. (TKG) ,  Africa ’s largest
fixed-line operator, gave its Chief Financial Officer Jacques Schindehutte a 6 million-rand ($592,000) loan to buy shares in
the company while he was being probed for misconduct.  “The loan was given to him at the end of September,”
Chief Executive Officer Sipho Maseko said in a phone interview
today. “If we had denied Jacques the loan on 30th Sept. based
on an investigation that was not concluded we would have
unfairly prejudiced him.”  Schindehutte was suspended on Oct. 24 following allegations
of “gross misconduct,” Maseko said, declining to give further
detail. The probe into the executive, who is still a Telkom
employee, began in August, according to spokesman Pynee Chetty.  Telkom, which is 40 percent owned by  South Africa ’s
government, may have breached compliance regulations after it
gave Schindehutte the interest-free loan, the phone operator
said in a statement.  South Africa’s Companies Act may have been contravened
because the loan could be considered as a positive signal to the
market, according to BPI Capital Africa analyst, Kate Turner-Smith.  “If the company provided the capital with which the
director purchased the shares, especially with zero interest, it
could be construed that the positive signal was orchestrated by
the company.” Turner-Smith said by e-mail today.  “Challenging Environment”  Telkom said first-half profit excluding one-time gains rose
41 percent to 773 million rand after the South African currency
weakened and payments to wireless operators fell. The  shares
gained  as much as 1.4 percent and were little changed at 26.69
rand as of 11:50 a.m. in Johannesburg, giving the company a
market value of 14 billion rand.  Profit including one-time items such as a gain from medical
aid liability was 2.95 billion rand in the six months through
September, the company said. Revenue was little changed at 16.2
billion rand. Payments to other phone companies fell 18 percent
after the cost of ending calls on other networks, known as
mobile termination rates, decreased, the company said.  “The group’s financial performance indicates a challenging
industry environment,” Maseko said in the statement. “Despite
a considerable increase in the group’s earnings, owing to
several once-off items, underlying operational earnings remain
under pressure.”  Telkom is the best performing telecommunications company on
the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange  in 2013, gaining 60 percent
compared with 12 percent for  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  and 3.6 percent for
 Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD)  The rand is the worst 2013 performer of 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, falling 17 percent
against the dollar.  Telkom sees “stable to slightly improving revenues,”
Maseko said in the interview. The company would try to lower its
cost base but it would be “very very tough” for the next three
years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  