-- Hemaraj to Raise Funds Backed by Property Assets: Southeast Asia
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-19T04:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/hemaraj-to-raise-funds-backed-by-property-assets-southeast-asia.html
Hemaraj Land & Development Pcl (HEMRAJ) ,
Thailand’s biggest industrial land developer, plans to raise
about 4.5 billion baht ($142 million) by selling its first
property fund to help finance new projects.  The fund will be backed by rental revenue from factories
and warehouses, and the proceeds will be used to develop a new
industrial park in Rayong province and pay debt, Chief Executive
Officer David Nardone said in an interview in Bangkok yesterday.  Hemaraj joins Thai billionaires Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi
and Dhanin Chearavanont in selling funds backed by real estate
to tap local demand for investments offering higher yields than
bank deposits or bonds. The company, which helped  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
and  General Motors Co. (GM)  build factories in  Thailand , plans to
spend about 40 billion baht over five years to boost its
property, utilities and power businesses.  “They can receive a substantial amount of funds at one
time from the sale of assets into the funds, allowing them to
avoid increasing leverage from bank loans,” Korawut
Leenabanchong, chief investment officer at UOB Asset Management,
which oversees about $6 billion of assets, said by phone.  Charoen, Thailand’s richest person, plans to raise about 32
billion baht from a fund backed by revenue from 12 Thai hotels,
Somchai Boonnamsiri, chief executive officer of Krung Thai Asset
Management Co., the fund’s manager, said on Nov. 15. Dhanin’s CP
Land Co. plans to raise about 10 billion baht with a fund backed
by 30-year rental rights of three office buildings, said
Somchai, who will also manage that fund.  Investor Interest  “A property fund would give us a new financing source,”
Nardone said, adding that MFC Asset Management Pcl will oversee
the fund. “The offering should have no problem as investors are
very interested.”  The sales may test investor appetite for Thai assets after
a resurgence of political unrest in the country. Overseas
investors have pulled a net $4.1 billion out of Thai equities so
far this year, the most among Southeast Asian markets, and the
benchmark SET Index has retreated 4.5 percent in the past month,
making it  Asia ’s worst performer, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Property funds give investors a way to diversify away
from risky equity investments,” UOB Asset’s Korawut said,
declining to say whether he would invest in Hemaraj’s fund.
“Still, investors will be more cautious and selective with more
property funds expected to come to the market.”  Thai real estate funds have provided an annual yield of
about 7 percent, according to Krung Thai Asset’s Somchai. The
country’s five largest banks offer an average annual interest
rate of 1.63 percent on three-month fixed deposits, according to
central bank data compiled by Bloomberg.  Property Index  The country’s 44  property funds  have a combined market
value of 243.7 billion baht, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Thailand Property Fund Index has fallen 6.8 percent
this year after gaining 32 percent in 2012. The SET Index has
risen 1.9 percent this year, and rallied 36 percent in 2012.
Hemaraj shares, which have  climbed  8.6 percent this year,
dropped 0.6 percent to 3.28 baht as of 11:33 a.m. in Bangkok.  The company’s profit may rise at least 10 percent next year
on rising demand for industrial land and higher earnings from
its power units, Nardone said.  Net income  doubled to 826.8
million baht in the first nine months of 2013, from 408 million
baht in the same period a year earlier.  Rayong, Saraburi  Hemaraj operates six industrial estates on Thailand’s east
coast in Rayong, 91 miles (146 kilometers) southeast of Bangkok,
and one in Saraburi province, covering a total land area of
15,600 acres (6,313 hectares), according to its website.  Thai property funds mobilize capital by issuing unit trusts
and then investing the fund in real estate, according to the
Stock Exchange of Thailand’s website. They’re required to invest
at least 75 percent of their net asset value in real estate or
leasehold rights in Thai property.  The Securities and Exchange Commission has established a
 regulatory framework  to transform Thai property funds into real
estate investment trusts, and is seeking public comment on draft
revisions to the rules. The shift would allow Thai REITs to
invest in assets outside Thailand for the first time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  