-- Tenet CEO Sees ‘Abundant’ Market for Hospital Acquisition
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-11-18T21:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/tenet-ceo-sees-abundant-market-for-hospital-acquisition.html
Hospital operators face a buyer’s
market for acquisitions as weaker companies struggle with higher
costs and a decades-long drop in admissions, the chief executive
officer of  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  said.  CEO Trevor Fetter, head of the nation’s third-biggest
hospital company, predicted a wave of smaller health systems
closing operations or curtailing services in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . Tenet itself is looking at
targets in Texas, California and  Florida  where the Dallas-based
company already has a strong presence, he said.  “This business has gotten tougher and tougher,” Fetter
said, as companies deal with rising expenses for new technology
and cuts to government payments. “We can do that across this
vast portfolio. I can’t imagine if you’re trying to run a mid-sized, independent hospital how you figure this out.”  Consolidation has become a dominant theme for U.S.
hospitals as they struggle with declining volumes. Tenet agreed
in June to buy Vanguard Health Systems Inc. and its 28 hospitals
for $1.8 billion.  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) , the second-biggest chain, is spending $3.9 billion for  Health Management
Associates Inc. (HMA)  More purchases are likely, Fetter said.  “Those opportunities will be abundant,” Fetter, 53, said
in the interview. “The question is how to be selective and do
it intelligently.”  Tenet, which already runs 77 hospitals and 176 outpatient
centers, is seeking acquisitions in areas adjacent to its
current markets or where a potential target is among the top two
hospitals in its region, Fetter said.  ’Full Pipeline’  Tenet fell 1 percent to $41.97 at the close of New York
trading. The shares have increased 29 percent this year.  Community Health  declined 3.6 percent to $41.17, leaving it
with a gain of 34 percent this year. The Franklin, Tennessee-based company has “a full pipeline of acquisition prospects,”
CEO Wayne Smith said on a call with analysts Oct. 31.  Fetter also said the rocky debut of President  Barack
Obama ’s  health-care law  has hospitals worried they won’t get the
relief they were seeking from bad debts tied to uninsured
patients. The federal government’s online insurance market has
been hobbled by technical problems, leading to enrollments far
short of projections since the site debuted last month.  “Our industry began taking cuts in Medicare payments three
years ago” to help fund the insurance expansion, he said.
“This is a much rougher process than we had anticipated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  