-- Merck Drug Boosts Survival of Advanced Melanoma Patients
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-11-18T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/merck-drug-boosts-survival-of-advanced-melanoma-patients.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s cancer drug being
evaluated in nine different malignancies kept more than four of
five melanoma patients alive for a year in a study, including
some who had exhausted all other treatment options.  The research presented at the  International Congress of the
Society for Melanoma Research  in Philadelphia found 41 percent
responded to treatment and 9 percent showed evidence of the
tumor disappearing. While the improvement emerged within three
months for most patients, several responded more than six months
later. One had a  remission  after 70 weeks of therapy.  The drug is from a new class of medicines known as PD-1
inhibitors that harness the body’s immune system to attack
cancer. Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , is
studying the medicine, called MK-3475, in more than 3,000
patients in cancer types including lung, bladder, breast and
colorectal tumors.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) 
have similar treatments in development.  “It looks quite promising,” said Eric Rubin, Merck’s vice
president of oncology, in a telephone interview. “At one year,
81 percent of patients are alive, which in an advanced melanoma
population is quite striking. Forty percent or less are
typically alive at one year.”  The results provide the first look at overall survival
among 135 patients taking the medication and add five more
months of data to the company-funded study published in the  New
England Journal of Medicine  and presented at a cancer meeting in
June. The study found similar response rates in patients
previously treated with Bristol-Myers’ Yervoy, a different type
of drug that was the first medicine to extend life for melanoma
patients when it was approved in 2011.  Rival Trials  New York-based Bristol-Myers is already testing combination
therapy, a path Merck will follow this year. The development
program for Bristol-Myers’s PD-1 inhibitor drug, nivolumab,
consists of more than 25 studies. The drug is being tested as
monotherapy and in combination with Yervoy and other therapies
in multiple tumor types such as lung, melanoma, kidney, liver,
blood, breast, gastric and pancreatic cancers.  MK-3475’s benefits appear to last. Of the 49 patients who
responded to treatment, 88 percent haven’t progressed. One
patient is still benefiting from treatment after 65 weeks, Rubin
said. Side effects include fatigue, itching, rash, diarrhea,
joint pain, headache and nausea. Signs of liver damage and
 kidney failure  occurred in two patients.  Just 15 percent to 20 percent of patients with advanced
melanoma are expected to survive five years. Doctors used to
predict an average  life expectancy  for final-stage patients at
about 9 months, said Lynn Schuchter, an oncologist at Abramson
Cancer Center of the  University of Pennsylvania  in June. Now the
statistics are in flux thanks to new drugs from GlaxoSmithKline
Plc and the medicines in development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  