-- Merkel Says Ukraine Must Free Tymoshenko to Hasten EU Access
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-11-18T15:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/merkel-says-ukraine-must-free-tymoshenko-to-hasten-eu-access.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
urged Ukraine to take “credible” reform steps to move closer
to the European Union, saying jailed former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  is a victim of “selective justice.”  Merkel told lawmakers in  Germany ’s lower house of
parliament that Ukraine must meet requirements set by the EU
“not at some point, but now” as a  Nov. 28-29 summit meeting  in
Vilnius approaches to sign an association treaty with the EU.
The EU should offer export and energy incentives to counter
“huge pressure” by Russia on the Ukrainian government not to
sign the accord this month, she said.  “Nations decide for themselves about their future
orientation,” Merkel said in the speech to legislators in
Berlin today. “There can be no veto rights for third parties.”  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  has countered Ukraine’s
westward shift with an offer to join Russia’s customs union with
Belarus and  Kazakhstan . Ukrainian lawmakers last week failed to
vote on a bill to allow Tymoshenko to get medical care abroad,
stalling a central condition for the EU pact. The parliament
plans to take up the bill again this week.  Merkel said it was still uncertain whether Ukraine was
willing to fulfill the conditions as EU foreign ministers met in
Brussels to discuss the matter. Releasing Tymoshenko must be
part of Ukraine’s efforts to overhaul its justice system, as
well as undertaking electoral and economic reforms, she said.  Merkel’s Offer  The EU-Ukraine accord has been delayed since 2011, when
Tymoshenko was convicted in an abuse-of-office trial that she
and the 28-member EU deem selective justice. While President
 Viktor Yanukovych  wants to sign a treaty with the EU, lawmakers
have squabbled over the legislation to get Tymoshenko treatment
in Germany for back pain.  Merkel said the EU could offer Ukraine additional export
opportunities for products that can’t be freely traded with
Russia, or a “broader arrangement of energy supplies.”  Russia in August disrupted the passage of Ukrainian goods
across its border and has banned imports from its neighbor’s
biggest confectioner. Yanukovych suggested Oct. 25 that the
customs union and the EU set up a body to work out further
cooperation between Ukraine and former Soviet states.  Merkel said expanded cooperation between the EU and eastern
 Europe  isn’t directed against  Russia .  “Russia would also benefit” from such treaties, Merkel
said in the lower house, or Bundestag. “We have to continue to
work so that there is no either-or.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  