-- Mersch Expects ECB Stress Tests to Have 3-Year Horizon
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-11-18T15:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/mersch-says-ecb-stress-tests-to-have-three-year-horizon.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Yves Mersch said stress tests on euro-area banks
will probably simulate three years of negative economic
conditions as part of a check on the financial system’s health.  “Our deliberations are tending toward these tests having a
three-year horizon, to the end of 2016,” Mersch, who is helping
to oversee the ECB’s preparations to become the currency bloc’s
bank supervisor, said at a conference in  Frankfurt  today. “We
would therefore end up with a base scenario and a so-called
stress- or worst-case scenario. So, two scenarios.”  Setting a time horizon should help banks gauge which
definition of capital under international rules will be used in
the stress tests. At the same time, lenders still don’t know how
tough the exercise will be. After two rounds of tests run by the
European Banking Authority, most recently in 2011, ECB officials
have said this is the last chance to restore trust in the
region’s financial system.  The ECB’s three-stage review of balance sheets, known as
the Comprehensive Assessment, starts with an operation to
identify which portfolios require deeper scrutiny. That’s
followed by an examination known as the Asset Quality Review and
ends with the stress tests, with combined results from the whole
process to be published before the ECB starts supervision in
November 2014.  Basel III  “There’s still no guide as to what kinds of events banks
will have to hold capital against” said Richard Barwell, senior
European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  London .
“That they’ll have to use the 2016 definition at least gives an
indication of what kinds of capital they can hold.”  Under the global banking rules known as Basel III that are
being implemented gradually up to 2019, lenders have to hold
 progressively more and higher-quality capital  against potential
losses.  By the end of 2016 banks need to hold 5.125 percent common
equity core tier 1 capital, which includes a buffer against
losses. That rises to 5.75 percent on Jan. 1, 2017, when they
must also have phased in 80 percent of the tougher Basel rules
on the definition of what they can count toward meeting this
target.  The ECB announced on Oct. 23 that the definition of common
equity tier 1 capital -- the highest-quality capital -- under
the  stress test  will be the same as the definition under Basel
III rules at the end-point of the stress scenario. For the Asset
Quality Review, the ECB said that it will use the capital
definition valid as of Jan. 1, 2014. It will also require banks
to have capital equivalent to 8 percent of risk-weighted assets.  Government Debt  Mersch said it hasn’t yet been decided how banks’ holdings
of government debt will be treated in the stress tests, which
will be run in cooperation with the EBA. Sovereign bonds have
been at the root of turbulence in the region’s debt crisis, as
doubt over government finances erodes confidence in lenders’
balance sheets.  In the previous stress tests, the EBA didn’t stress
 government bonds  held to maturity by banks, in effect ignoring
the possibility that a sovereign default could deplete capital.
Under current rules, banks don’t have to hold any extra capital
against their holdings of sovereign debt, which is considered
risk-free.  Germany ’s Bundesbank has called for that to be
changed.  “In any case, government bonds in a stress test will be
under pressure, because we won’t be able to get around the
market risk,” Mersch said. “Adding a further stress factor for
the maturities of the bonds will also be unavoidable.”  Portfolio Selection  ECB staff are working to select portfolios held by banks
that may represent the riskiest assets, such as shipping loans
or commercial real-estate lending, a process Mersch said will be
carried out by national supervisors and checked by the ECB.  In the first half of 2014, the ECB will use that
information to assess if banks have adequate risk provisions and
haven’t misallocated assets in a way that underestimates the
likelihood of losses.  “In this way, we’ll get an overview of whether or not the
banks have a sustainable business model, and where the biggest
risks lie,” Mersch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  