-- EU Considers Loans in Return for Economy Overhauls
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-11-18T17:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/eu-considers-plan-to-offer-loans-in-return-for-economy-overhauls.html
The European Union is considering
whether it could encourage countries to make long-term economic
changes by offering them loans at below-market rates, an EU
official told reporters in Brussels today.  The idea is to spur reform in areas like labor policy,
vocational training or the judicial system, the official said on
condition of anonymity because the proposal is still in early
planning stages. The loans could be most attractive to smaller
countries that don’t have reliable  market access , while bigger
nations might benefit from looser budget targets in exchange for
reform commitments.  National diplomats will get their first look at the plan
next week during a preparatory meeting for an EU leaders’ summit
in December. At the summit, heads of government aim to settle on
a framework for designing so-called contractual agreements that
would supplement existing EU budget rules.  The sovereign debt crisis in the  euro zone  that began in
 Greece  in late 2009 prompted EU leaders to back unprecedented
levels of economic and regulatory coordination. The 17-nation
currency bloc has agreed to new budget rules, put the  European
Central Bank  in charge of bank supervision and pledged to create
a common system for managing struggling banks.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  floated the prospect of
European financing for countries that promised reforms under a
 road map  last year to strengthen the region’s long-term future.
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who leads  Europe ’s biggest
economy, said that only a “limited” pool of as much as 20
billion euros ($27 billion) could be made available for
countries that sign economic-reform contracts.  ESM Proposal  If the contractual agreements proceed, they would be aimed
at countries that aren’t already bound by a fully fledged rescue
program or sanctions tied to macroeconomic imbalances, the EU
official said.  There aren’t yet any fixed proposals about where the money
for loans might come from. Preliminary ideas include the
European Stability Mechanism or a similar new vehicle that could
raise money in the markets and lend to individual nations on
behalf of the currency bloc. The overall proposal could be
extended to nations that plan to join the euro as well as those
already using the common currency, the official said.  The euro area’s recovery came close to a halt in the third
quarter as German growth slowed,  France ’s economy unexpectedly
shrank and Italy extended its record-long recession.  Gross
domestic product  in the euro area rose 0.1 percent in the three
months through September, cooling from a 0.3 percent expansion
in the second quarter, the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  