-- Ex-SAC Manager Martoma Loses Bid to Delay Insider Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-18T17:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/ex-sac-manager-martoma-loses-bid-to-delay-insider-trial.html
Ex-SAC Capital Advisors LP fund
manager Mathew Martoma lost a request to have his insider-trading trial postponed after his lawyers said they received
“newly discovered” e-mails and other documents from the U.S.  Martoma’s attorney,  Richard Strassberg , last week asked for
a two-week delay in Martoma’s Jan. 6 trial, in a letter to U.S.
District Judge Paul Gardephe in  Manhattan . Defense lawyers said
they needed the time to analyze 114,757 pages of new documents
and prepare witnesses.  “Certain of these materials appear directly relevant to
specific allegations made against Mr. Martoma,” Strassberg said
in his letter.  Gardephe denied the request with a two-sentence endorsement
on Strassberg’s letter: “The application is denied. The clerk
will remove the motion.”  Martoma will be the second SAC employee to face insider-trading charges in Manhattan federal court in the next three
months. Michael Steinberg, another SAC money manager, is to go
on trial tomorrow in Manhattan. Steinberg, who worked at SAC’s
Sigma Capital Management unit, is charged with trading on
insider tips he got from Jon Horvath, an SAC technology analyst
convicted of aiding an  insider-trading  scheme.  “The documents -- which were restored from newly
discovered SAC backup tapes created in 2007 and 2008 -- consist
primarily of e-mails sent to or received from Mr. Martoma’s
analyst, Mr. Martoma’s trader and SAC health-care portfolio
managers,” Strassberg said in his letter to the court.  Earlier Delay  Strassberg earlier obtained a two-month postponement of the
Martoma trial so he could work on a trial in another case, a
mortgage-fraud suit in which the lawyer represents Bank of
America Corp.’s Countrywide unit.  Lou Colasuonno, a spokesman for Martoma, didn’t immediately
reply to a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment
on the ruling.  SAC pleaded guilty Nov. 8 to  securities fraud  as part of a
record $1.8 billion settlement of the government’s investigation
into insider trading at the firm.  The  Stamford , Connecticut-based hedge fund company agreed
to close its investment advisory business as part of the accord.
The settlement, if accepted by the judge, will end both its
prosecution and a money-laundering lawsuit filed by the  Justice
Department .  Martoma, who has pleaded not guilty, is charged with using
inside information on clinical trials of an Alzheimer’s disease
drug to trade in shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth. Prosecutors
claim the illegal trading gave SAC a benefit of $276 million in
profit and avoided losses.  Possible Sentences  If convicted, Martoma faces as long as 20 years in prison
on each of two securities-fraud charges and five years for a
single conspiracy charge.  Prosecutors claim Martoma got improper information on
trials of bapineuzumab from two doctors involved in drug trials
in 2008.  After Martoma learned that Elan and Wyeth would report
negative data from the trials, he had a 20-minute telephone call
with SAC founder  Steven Cohen , according to the government. The
hedge fund owner sold almost all of the fund’s $700 million
position in the stocks and then sold them short.  Cohen hasn’t been charged. SAC’s settlement with the
government doesn’t bar prosecutors from bringing charges against
him or other individuals at SAC.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, and the Steinberg
case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-cr-00121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Federal Court in Manhattan at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  