-- New U.S. Trustee Will Oversee Bankruptcy Court in N.Y.
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-11-18T22:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/mf-global-lawyers-fee-requests-criticized-by-u-s-.html
William K. Harrington will serve as
the new  U.S. Trustee  overseeing Manhattan’s bankruptcy court, in
an appointment that includes New York,  Connecticut  and  Vermont .  Harrington will replace former trustee Tracy Hope Davis,
according to a statement today from the U.S. Justice Department.
Trustees are watchdogs for malfeasance in bankruptcy, often
objecting to lawyers’ fees and expenses in cases or weighing in
when a company may have violated the bankruptcy code.  “Bill has many years of experience in the oversight of
complex Chapter 11 reorganizations, including as head of our
office in Wilmington,  Delaware , and he was a leader in the
development of the updated Chapter 11 attorneys’ fee guidelines
that we issued in June,” Clifford J. White III, director of the
Executive Office for U.S. Trustees, said today in a statement.  The motions of trustees are decided by presiding judges. In
the bankruptcy of Patriot Coal Corp., Davis and her staff said
in 2012 that the company’s case should be moved from  Manhattan 
because the company couldn’t show that it didn’t create two new
units with the sole purpose of avoiding a filing in other
courts.  The judge approved the company’s transfer to St. Louis
after hearing arguments by the trustee and a union, which
requested the transfer.  The U.S. Trustee’s office also objected this year to some
of the expenses and fees sought in the bankruptcy of MF Global
Holdings Ltd.  Davis served in the New York region beginning in August
2010 and has been appointed as trustee for northern and eastern
California and Nevada. Both her and Harrington’s new
appointments are effective Nov. 27, according to the statement.  Harrington has been serving as the trustee for
 Massachusetts , New Hampshire,  Maine  and Rhode Island and will
continue in that role.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  