-- Fed’s Rosengren Says Banks With Broker-Dealer Units Pose Risks
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-11-18T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/fed-s-rosengren-says-banks-with-broker-dealer-units-pose-risks.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said big international banks with
broker-dealer operations pose risks to financial stability, and
regulators need to ensure the firms hold sufficient capital.  “Global banks with significant  investment banking  and
broker-dealer activities pose significant potential risk to the
financial system and should be among the best capitalized large
banking organizations,” Rosengren said today in remarks
prepared for a speech in  Abu Dhabi .  Since the 2007-2009 financial crisis, regulators around the
world have tightened banks’ capital standards, focusing
especially on the biggest institutions deemed essential to
stability. U.S. agencies including  the Fed  are still
implementing tougher regulatory standards under the Dodd-Frank
Act more than three years after it became law.  Broker-dealers often rely on short-term financing that is
particularly risky during a financial crisis, Rosengren said.  “These concerns are far from theoretical, in that many
difficulties in the fall of 2008 stemmed from runs on
institutions that were reliant on wholesale funding -- and many
of those firms failed or were acquired,” he said in the speech
to the Financial Stability Institute of the Bank for
International Settlements.  In 2008, Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. faced a sudden scarcity of short-term financing. The Fed
helped arrange the emergency sale of Bear Stearns to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  in March of that year. Lehman Brothers wasn’t
rescued, and its collapse intensified the financial crisis amid
the worst recession since the Great Depression.  Biggest Firms  Rosengren said he sees a need for higher  capital
requirements  for the biggest firms, and limits to the amount of
leverage they can take on.  “Large global banking organizations with large broker-dealers are organizations where leverage ratios and capital
charges on wholesale funding are particularly appropriate,”
Rosengren said.  One way to ensure adequate capital “would be to impose
capital charges for bank holding companies highly reliant on
wholesale funding,” Rosengren said.  Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said last month risks persist
from non-deposit funding of assets in wholesale bank markets,
and are among the “highest remaining priorities” of
regulators.  Rosengren, 56, became president of the Boston Fed in 2007,
after serving as a supervisor and economist at the district
bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  