-- Food Stamp Costs Swelled by States Spending $1 for Heat
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-11-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/food-stamp-costs-swelled-by-states-spending-1-for-heat.html
Congressional critics looking to cut
the nation’s food stamp bill -- which has doubled in the past
five years -- are pointing to what some say is a loophole in the
law:  If a state gives a resident as little as $1 a year in
heating assistance, it allows that person’s household to
automatically qualify for an average of $1,080 in additional
 food stamps  annually from the federal government.  That’s what  14 states , including  New York  and  California ,
and the  District of Columbia  have done.  “If there are programs available for people, we should use
them,” Mary Cheh, a Democratic member of the District of
Columbia city council, said. At her urging, the council
 unanimously approved  the “heat and eat” arrangement in 2009,
agreeing to make token heating-aid payments so citizens can get
more for food.  Members of a House-Senate conference committee are
scrutinizing food stamp eligibility rules as they seek to
reconcile different versions of a bill that would set
agricultural policy for the next five years. Either would cut
food-stamp spending, mostly by altering who can get benefits.
The Senate would cut roughly $4 billion over 10 years, largely
by toughening the heat-and-eat requirement. The House trims
another $35 billion by further tightening eligibility and adding
drug testing and work requirements.  Spending Doubled  Federal spending on food stamps -- formally called the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program -- has more than
doubled in the past five years, with the bulk of the money spent
at retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Kroger Co. (KR)   Reductions are necessary to keep the program focused on its
purpose of providing temporary assistance to truly needy people
in difficult times, said Rachel Sheffield, policy analyst for
food stamps at the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington-based
research group that favors major reductions.  The heating program “is basically a loophole,” she said.
“Food-stamp spending is federal, so states have no incentive
not to seek increased benefits.”  The farm bill “is an opportunity to reform. It’s the
logical time to take steps to promote self-sufficiency” through
work requirements, smaller subsidies and tighter eligibility,
she said. “Let’s look at our welfare system, how it’s working
and what it can be.”  $75 Billion  Food stamps spent at retailers such as  Target Corp. (TGT)  and
 Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  cost a record $75.2 billion in 2012, almost one-eighth of the roughly $650 billion a year Americans spend on
groceries. About  47.7 million  Americans used the program in
August, the most recent month available, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said last week. Almost half of all food-stamp
redemptions are in big-box supercenters such as Wal-Mart, while
most of the rest are in chains such as  Safeway Inc., (SFY)  according
to data collected by Bloomberg.  Payments to recipients fell about 5 percent already this
month, as a temporary boost passed as part of the 2009 economic
stimulus expired. Both the House and Senate versions of a farm
bill include further reductions. The Senate plan saves money
mainly by raising to $10 a year the amount of heating assistance
states must contribute in order to qualify residents for the
heat-and-eat food stamp benefits, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  The House, as part of a  plan  to shave $39 billion from food
stamps, raises the required state contribution under the heat-and-eat provision to $20 a year. That would save $8.7 billion
over a decade as states drop the program because of the
increased cost. The House would also cut $11.6 billion by ending
“categorical eligibility,” in which enrollment in other social
services automatically qualifies a recipient for food stamps
even when eligibility under those programs are less strenuous
than for the food aid.  Waiver Issue  Together, those two proposals would knock 1.8 million
households off food stamps and cut benefits by about $90 a month
for 850,000 others. The biggest savings, $19 billion, would come
from reducing waivers states can give childless adults who would
otherwise face work requirements or time limits under food
stamps. That would immediately cut off 1.7 million recipients,
according to the Congressional Budget Office.  The reductions make little sense at a time when, according
to U.S. Department of Agriculture data, about 49 million in the
U.S. struggle to put food on their plates, said Ellen Vollinger,
food-stamp lobbyist with the  Food Research and Action Center , a
Washington-based anti-hunger advocacy group that has urged
states to adopt heat-and-eat programs.  “These programs provide economic stability to
communities,” she said. “That doesn’t change just because of
discussion in  Washington .”  Navy Veteran  Debra Frigon, a 53-year-old District of Columbia resident,
uses food stamps to supplement disability checks she receives
from the Veterans Administration and  Social Security , related in
part to her Navy service in the 1980s. She’s already seen her
benefits cut this month by the expiration of the stimulus and
worries that additional reductions will threaten a healthy diet
for her one daughter who is still at home.  “We eat sandwiches during the week and try to eat more
balanced meals on weekends,” she said. “We buy marked-down
products and small portions, but what we have already doesn’t go
very far. We’ve already lost some benefits. More would really
hurt us.”  Improving Economy  Other changes in the House bill would cut nutrition
education funds, impose drug-testing requirements and ban aid to
felons. In total, tighter rules and an improving economy would
drop food-stamp rolls to 34 million people by 2023, according to
the budget office.  The federal government should be pushing states to get
food-stamp recipients to work and Congress should be less
focused on finding ways to throw people out of the program,
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said. The House plan “is not
the right way to approach the policy. If folks are focusing on
the right policy,” spending should go down on its own without
new restrictions, he said in an interview.  Representative Tim Huelskamp, a Kansas Republican, said
what matters most is crafting policies that better target the
program to the neediest. Benefit-boosts tied to heating benefits
are “indefensible to the folks back home,” he said. “Spending
is out of control,” he said. “This is the one entitlement that
we’ll have an actual vote on this year, and this is the one
chance for  House Republicans ” to follow through on promises to
limit social spending, he said.  Cheh, the Washington city council member, said the farm-bill debate is frustrating to her city, where food-stamp
enrollment in the 2012 fiscal year was 141,147, roughly 22
percent of the city’s population.  “Poorer families don’t have political power, that’s why
this is occurring,” she said. “Just because they don’t have
political power, that doesn’t mean you can be cruel to people at
the bottom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  