-- Foreign Buying of U.S. Portfolio Assets Gains on Asia Demand
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-11-18T15:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/foreign-net-buying-of-u-s-portfolio-assets-gains-on-asia-demand.html
International investors were net
buyers of U.S. long-term portfolio assets in September as demand
strengthened from China and  Japan , the two largest foreign
holders of Treasuries.  The net long-term portfolio investment  inflow  was $25.5
billion after a revised $9.8 billion outflow in August, the
Treasury Department said in a statement today in Washington.
China raised its holdings of  U.S. government debt  by 2 percent
and Japan boosted its by 2.5 percent, the department said.  The data cover the month in which the  Federal Reserve 
decided against cutting back its bond purchases at a Sept. 17-18
meeting. The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities each month to keep downward pressure on
borrowing costs. Officials will decide to pare  purchases  to $70
billion a month at their March 18-19 meeting, according to the
median of economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey on Nov. 8.  “The market was expecting a taper so it was caught
offsides,” said Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD
Securities USA LLC in  New York . “So the second half of the
month would’ve seen strong buying in both equities and
Treasuries. There was a pretty significant change in positioning
at that point.”  Today’s report showed  China ’s holdings swelled $25.7
billion to $1.29 trillion in September. Japan increased its
share by $29 billion to $1.18 trillion, the figures showed.  The Treasury’s monthly report on the cross-border flow of
portfolio assets captures foreign buying and selling of U.S.
securities as well as American investors’ transactions abroad.
It also tracks holdings of Treasuries by countries.  September Outflow  The total cross-border outflow in September, including
short-term securities such as Treasury bills and stock swaps,
was $106.8 billion in September, the highest since February
2009, compared with a revised net outflow of $13.8 billion the
previous month, the report showed today.  Investors probably were cutting risk by reducing holdings
of short-dated  U.S. debt  before the 16-day government shutdown
that started Oct. 1, Goldberg said. “Yields on short-dated U.S.
securities rose sharply ahead of the shutdown as liquidity dried
up, making the strong September outflow consistent with market
trends,” Goldberg said in an e-mailed note after the report.  Foreign investors, both official and private, were net
buyers of $27.8 billion of Treasury notes and bonds in September
after net sales of $10.8 billion the previous month, the report
showed.  Stock Purchases  Investors were net buyers of $12.5 billion of equities in
September after net selling of $16.9 billion in August, the
report showed.  Investors were net buyers of $7.2 billion of corporate debt
in September after net buying of $2.4 billion the previous
month, the report showed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  gained 3 percent in
September. Investors in Treasuries  gained  0.9 percent that
month, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. The Bloomberg
U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge of the greenback’s value against 10
major currencies weighted by liquidity and trade flows, lost 2.2
percent in September.  A 26 percent rally in the  S&P 500  this year puts it on pace
for the best annual gain in a decade and made shares more
expensive, with the equity benchmark trading at 16.9 times
reported earnings, compared with about 14.2 in January.  Shrinking Deficit  The  U.S. budget deficit  has narrowed, to $91.6 billion in
October, compared with a shortfall of $120 billion a year
earlier. The Treasury said last month the shortfall in the 12
months ended Sept. 30 was 4.1 percent of gross domestic product,
and the  Congressional Budget Office  has projected that the
deficit as a share of GDP will decline to 3.3 percent this
fiscal year and 2.1 percent in 2015.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew visited five Asian
nations last week, including China and Japan, the two largest
foreign holders of Treasuries. Lew pushed for completion of the
Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact by year end.  The future of the Chinese economy will depend on the
“character and the pace” of changes discussed by the Communist
Party last week, Lew said Nov. 15 in Beijing. Earlier in the
week he told broadcaster NHK that Japan had “more work to do”
on changes to its economy and reiterated his view that growth
there must be fueled by “consumer-led demand, not just
exports.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  