-- Tepco Successfully Removes First Nuclear Fuel Rods at Fukushima
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-11-18T09:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/fukushima-plant-fuel-rod-removals-to-begin-today-tepco-says.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) 
successfully removed the first nuclear fuel rods today from a
cooling pool at the wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant, an early
milestone in decommissioning the facility amid doubts about
whether the rods had been damaged and posed a radiation risk.  The first of the fuel-rod assemblies at the plant’s No. 4
reactor building was transferred from an underwater rack on the
fifth floor to a portable cask just before 4 p.m., the utility
known as Tepco said in an e-mailed statement.  Tepco planned to remove 22 assemblies from the pool, which
contains 1,331 spent fuel assemblies and 202 unused assemblies,
by the end of tomorrow, the company said. Crews are beginning
with the unused assemblies because they are less fragile,
spokesman Yusuke Kunikage said by phone.  The operation is the most significant test to date of
Tepco’s ability to contain the threat stemming from the worst
nuclear disaster since Chernobyl. Were the rods to break or
overheat, it could prompt a self-sustained nuclear  chain
reaction  similar to the meltdowns at three Fukushima reactors
following the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.  “Although moving spent fuel into long-term storage is a
routine task that Tepco has taken more than 1,200 times over the
years, the circumstances at Fukushima Dai-Ichi require special
care,” Tepco president Naomi Hirose said in a video message on
the company’s website. “The success of the extraction process
therefore represents the beginning of a new and important
chapter in our work.”  Workers’ Experience  Japan ’s  Nuclear Regulation Authority  assigned an inspector
to oversee the removals, in addition to its existing staff at
the plant, and is using video monitoring of the removal, the
agency said in a statement Friday.  An uncontrolled nuclear reaction due to structural failures
or mishandled fuel is highly unlikely because of safeguards and
workers’ experience with the procedure, Akira Ono, the Dai-Ichi
plant’s chief supervisor, said at a Nov. 7 news conference at
the power station.  Removing the rods, bunched in assemblies, will take place
from a large shoebox-shaped structure cantilevered atop the
reactor building, which was damaged in an explosion after the
earthquake and tsunami. The assemblies, each holding about 80
rods, will be moved to a more secure pool on the ground.  Tepco said that it plans to complete the removal of all the
fuel in the pool by the end of 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  