-- Gensler Says Three Swap Market Operators Must Tweak Access Rules
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-11-18T20:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/gensler-says-three-swap-market-operators-must-tweak-access-rules.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, charged with promoting fairness on the new public
markets for swaps mandated by the Dodd Frank Act, is telling
three operators they must change their access rules.  Swap execution facilities run by Tradeweb Markets LLC,
 MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX)  and Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP
are giving banks too much control over who their customers buy
and sell with, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said today. The
platforms began in October and have been incorporating CFTC
regulatory guidance for the past two months.  “What they are doing right now is a violation of Dodd-Frank and our rules,” he said at an event in New York. “They
need to come into compliance,” he said. The limits at Tradeweb,
MarketAxess and Bloomberg LP give an advantage to the dealers
who created the swaps market in the 1980s, Gensler said.
“They’re trying to keep exclusive to the dealers.”  Spurring competition in a market that worsened the 2008
credit crisis was a tenet of the 2010 law, which required that
swaps move to transparent venues such as SEFs from largely
unregulated trading that occurred off exchanges. The CFTC
completed rules governing the transactions in May. Previously,
only dealers could trade swaps, meaning a more than $400
trillion market is being opened to transparency.  Tradeweb, MarketAxess and Bloomberg LP have traditionally
offered trading between dealer banks and their customers such as
asset managers and  hedge funds . Allowing customers to trade only
with pre-approved counterparts is how the dealer-to-client
market developed, said Richard McVey, chief executive officer of
New York-based MarketAxess.  Open Access  “We will comply with rules to provide impartial access
this week,” he said during an interview.  In September, the CFTC told SEF owners that they must
ensure all types of buyers and sellers can participate to avoid
violating the spirit of open access at the heart of the Dodd-Frank Act. The regulator didn’t identify any companies with
potentially objectionable arrangements by name.  Last week, the commission issued guidance to market users
detailing the prohibition against blocking trading partners,
known as enablement mechanisms. Gensler said today in a speech
that blocking all-to-all access to swaps trading is
“inconsistent” with CFTC rules.  The ongoing issuance of guidance and temporary
postponements of rules by the CFTC is being assessed by
Tradeweb, Clayton McGratty, a Tradeweb spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. Tradeweb is majority owned by  Thomson Reuters
Corp. (TRI) , which competes with Bloomberg LP in financial news and
data.  Talks Continue  “As always, we will continue to dialogue with the CFTC
about any need for further clarification, and will inform our
market participants of any necessary changes to our SEFs, if
any,” he said.  “In light of the clarification provided by the CFTC in
Friday evening’s no-action letter, we are reviewing our systems
to ensure we remain in full compliance,” Ben Macdonald, the
president of Bloomberg SEF LLC, said in an e-mailed statement.  The CFTC continues to update its interpretation of what its
rules mean, and SEFs are having to react quickly, MarketAxess’s
McVey said. One example is the practice of allowing bank
customers to trade only with pre-approved partners, known as
permissioning, he said. The platforms started opening on Oct. 2.  Until last week, “most dealers were strongly of the view
they could continue with permissioning of their customers,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  