-- Italy’s Yields Approach Five-Month Low as Belgian Bonds Advance
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-11-18T16:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/germany-s-bonds-little-changed-before-euro-area-output-report.html
Italy ’s 10-year yield approached a
five-month low as Prime Minister Enrico Letta said turmoil in
former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s PDL party will boost
government stability and the nation sold five-year notes in an
exchange auction.  Belgium’s securities rallied as the country canceled its
last bond auction of the year. German bunds advanced before a
report this week that economists said will show euro-area
output, based on a survey of  purchasing managers , expanded for a
fifth month in November. Yields fell last week as a report
confirmed that  inflation  in the 17-nation euro region slowed to
the least in four years.  France ’s bonds were little changed
after it sold 6.6 billion euros ($8.9 billion) of bills.  “We saw a decent performance from the five-year bond out
of Italy, which is a small positive,” said  Michael Leister , a
senior interest-rate strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London .
“The Italian Treasury have shown they have quite a large
toolkit at their disposal. Berlusconi is not really a topic for
the market now.”  Italy’s 10-year yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 4.07 percent at 4:38 p.m. London time,
after dropping on Nov. 7 to 4.04 percent, the least since May
28. The 4.5 percent bond due in March 2024 rose 0.165, or 1.65
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 103.895.  Italy’s government bonds returned 7.2 percent this year
through Nov. 15, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes, on
rising investor confidence in the nation’s ability to control
its budget while withstanding political tension.  Spain ’s
securities earned 11 percent and Germany’s lost 1.1 percent.  Forza Italia  “We are not anymore in a position to push down the
government,” Berlusconi said Nov. 16 at a meeting of his People
of Liberty party in  Rome  after Deputy Prime Minister  Angelino
Alfano  decided not to follow him into a new group called Forza
Italia. Berlusconi’s attempt to topple the government in October
failed when a portion of the PDL party, led by Alfano, defied
him.  Letta said today that fiscal consolidation is a duty and
that his actions have set conditions for growth next year. The
rupture in the PDL party will “create a more clear situation,”
he said.  Italy sold 3.3 billion euros of 3.5 percent bonds due in
2018 via the exchange auction. The Treasury said last week it
wouldn’t offer five-year debt at a regular sale on Nov. 28 due
to reduced cash needs. The rate on the securities dropped two
basis points to 2.64 percent today.  Limited Power  “The former power of Berlusconi to scare markets and
investors has diminished significantly,” said Christian Lenk, a
fixed-income analyst at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “As far as
investors perceive it the fear that Berlusconi can really put on
the market is rather limited.”  The yield on  Belgium’s 10-year bonds  decreased five basis
points to 2.39 percent, adding to a drop of three basis points
last week. The country’s debt securities returned 1.7 percent in
the past month, cutting the 2013 loss to 0.3 percent.  Belgium  canceled the Nov. 25 bond auction after raising
3.25 billion euros from the sale of its remaining 25 percent
stake in BNP Paribas Fortis SA, the country’s largest bank, to
BNP Paribas SA last week. The nation is bidding to keep gross
public debt from surpassing one year’s worth of economic output,
as agreed with the European Commission.  Target Exceeded  Belgium had sold 42.3 billion euros of bonds by the end of
October, just short of last year’s record 42.9 billion euros and
exceeding its original target of 40 billion euros for the year,
according to debt-agency data. So far, Belgium’s debt agency has
bought back more than 5.7 billion euros of debt maturing next
year.  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield dropped two basis points to
1.68 percent, having touched 1.65 percent on Oct. 31, the lowest
since Aug. 8.  A  composite gauge  of euro-region manufacturing and services
activity rose to 52 this month from 51.9 in October, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts before the data is
released on Nov. 21. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. The
European Commission in Brussels will say the same day that euro-area  consumer confidence  improved in November, according to a
separate survey.  The output report “will give a better indication on the
outlook for the euro-zone economy,” said Alessandro Giansanti,
a senior rates strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “The
latest data for the euro zone have not been so strong, and we
need a confirmation of the upward trend. All in all, I expect
some volatility on bund yields near term.”  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of the Belgium and  Greece ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  French 10-year bonds yielded 2.17 percent, while the rate
on similar-maturity Irish debt was little changed at 3.53
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  