-- Ghana Seeks Spending Curbs as Wage Bill Boosts Budget
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-11-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/ghana-seeks-spending-curbs-as-wage-bill-boosts-budget.html
Ghana ’s Finance Minister Seth Terkper will seek to narrow the fiscal deficit in his budget
tomorrow to help restore investor confidence amid falling gold
revenue and surging wage costs.  Terkper is struggling to rein in a budget gap that reached
12 percent of gross domestic product last year, more than double
the government’s target, as pre-election spending soared. The
minister will probably project a shortfall for 2014 of about 6
percent to 7 percent, said Angus Downie, head of economic research
at Ecobank Transnational Inc. in  London , who estimates a deficit
of 10 percent for this year.  Ghana’s cedi has slumped 15 percent against the dollar this
year as gold prices fell and the government’s wage bill
ballooned, putting pressure on the budget deficit. Terkper, who
is scheduled to give his budget speech at about 10 a.m. local
time, began reducing fuel subsidies and raising some taxes to
help boost tax revenue in  Africa ’s second-largest gold producer.
Lawmakers on Nov. 15 increased the value-added tax rate to 15
percent from 12.5 percent to raise funding for infrastructure.    “Revenue mobilization and widening the tax base is crucial
if pressure on spending is to be alleviated,” Downie said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “The removal of fuel prices
subsidies shows that the government is able to take fiscally
responsible decisions that have long-term benefits for the
economy.”  Spending on wages has climbed to 72 percent of tax revenue
following an 18 percent salary increase for state workers last
year. The state plans to lower the wage bill to between 30
percent and 35 percent of tax income by 2015.  Gold Slump  Fitch Ratings last month lowered Ghana’s credit rating to B
from B+ as the government failed to achieve its fiscal deficit
goal of 9 percent for this year and overran spending on interest
payments and arrears.  The cedi, the third-worst performing actively traded African 
currency thats actively traded this year after South Africa’s rand 
and Malawi’s kwacha, gained 1.4 percent against the dollar to 2.2340
as of 3:42 p.m. in Accra on Nov. 15. The gold price has slumped 23 
percent this year.  Ghana will make tax collection more efficient and see an
acceleration of economic growth fueled by the expansion of the
private sector, Vice President Kwesi Amissah-Arthur said in an
interview last month. Inflation quickened to 13.1 percent in
October, the fastest pace in more than three and a half years,
according to the country’s statistics agency.  The increase in VAT will raise an additional 745 million
cedis ($334 million) in revenue, Deputy Finance Minister Cassiel
Ato Forson said in an interview on Citi FM radio on Nov. 15.   “The cost of borrowing is high on the international
market,” he said. “We must strike a balance between external
borrowing and internal resources.”       To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  