-- Ghana Dollar Drought Crushes Traders as Bank Hoards Cash
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-11-18T14:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/ghana-dollar-drought-crushes-traders-as-bank-hoards-cash.html
Sadiq Abubakar is seeing his hopes
of an annual bonus fade as Ghana’s central bank hoards dollars,
cutting foreign-exchange trading to the least in almost three
years and sending the cedi to an all-time low.  The 32-year-old dealer at International Commercial Bank
Ltd. in the capital, Accra, says he has met just 40 percent of
his revenue target this year and hasn’t traded U.S. currency on
the  interbank market  since June 1. Purchases of foreign exchange
among lenders fell an annual 17 percent in the second quarter to
$1.86 billion, the lowest since the third quarter of 2010,
according to Bank of Ghana data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I don’t see the interbank market coming back until the
end of the first quarter next year,” Abubakar said in a
telephone interview on Oct. 23. “There’s going to be no bonus
for me this year.”  The drought in trading underscores the havoc being wrought
on developing nations by speculation the U.S. plans to scale
back its monetary stimulus program as soon as the first quarter.
Ghana central bank Governor Kofi Wampah is following countries
from  India  to  Mexico  in bolstering reserves to brace for the
capital outflows that may follow the  Federal Reserve ’s pullback.  As Wampah stockpiled dollars, the cedi plunged 16 percent
this year against the U.S. currency. The selloff is the
continent’s fourth worst, trailing only declines in Malawi’s
kwacha, the rand and Namibian dollar, which is pegged to the
South African currency. The cedi, which gets its name from the
Akan word for the cowrie shells used as currency as recently as
the 19th century, weakened 2 percent to 2.2650 per dollar by
9:21 a.m. in  New York  after touching 2.2750, a record low.  Retain Dollars  For traders, the central bank’s move to boost reserves
couldn’t have come at a worse time as foreign investment falls,
remittances from overseas wane and commodities slump.  Ghana ’s
$41 billion economy gets 72 percent of export revenue from
cocoa, gold and oil.  The average daily foreign-currency turnover in Ghana’s
interbank market has dropped to about $7 million this year from
$20 million a year earlier, according to Standard Bank Group
Ltd.,  Africa ’s largest lender. In  Nigeria , trading is about $400
million. In Mauritius, where the economy is a quarter of the
size of Ghana’s, turnover is $30 million.  To bolster reserves, the central bank retained dollars from
the sale of $1 billion in Eurobonds in July and a $1.2 billion
syndicated loan the Ghana Cocoa Board received in September.
Traders had been anticipating those dollars would trickle into
the market, Abubakar said.  ‘High Demand’  “We were hoping that the inflows of the Eurobond money and
Cocobod’s loan would change the situation, but it hasn’t,” he
said.  Keeping the dollars helped boost Ghana’s reserves 38
percent in August from a year earlier to $5.8 billion, according
to the central bank. Reserves in 12 of the biggest  developing
countries  have risen $38 billion since the start of September to
$2.93 trillion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Developing
nations have quadrupled reserves from $722 billion in 2002.  “The purpose of keeping foreign reserves is to step into
the market to supply when there is a shortage,” Collins Appiah,
head of asset management at Accra-based NDK Financial Services
Ltd., which manages the equivalent of $30 million, said by phone
on Nov. 1. “It’s not the best strategy by the central bank to
be building reserves when there’s a high demand for dollars.”  Budget Deficit  Currency trading  has slowed because earnings from gold and
other exports have declined, according to First Deputy Governor
Millison Narh. Revenue from bullion fell 13 percent in the year
through August, the  Bank of Ghana  said Sept. 18.  “We don’t want to sell everything to the market,” Narh
said in an Oct. 23 interview in Accra. “Investors also look at
our reserves” to gauge the economy’s strength, he said.  Ghana, which is Africa’s second-biggest gold miner, needs
to have enough reserves to pay for five months of imports to
“comfortably defend the economy” against external shocks, Vice
President Kwesi Amissah-Arthur said Oct. 29 at a conference in
Accra. Reserves equaled 3.2 months of imports in August, the
central bank said.  Falling exports are hampering efforts by President John Dramani Mahama’s administration to reduce the country’s trade
and budget deficits. The current-account shortfall, the broadest
measure of trade in goods and services, will widen to 12.9
percent of gross domestic product in 2013 from 12.2 percent last
year, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The fiscal
gap will narrow to 10 percent of GDP from 12.1 percent, Finance
Minister Seth Terkper said in an Oct. 19 phone interview.  ‘Fundamental Reforms’  “The country is running large external deficits, which
amplify structural shortages of dollars,”  Samir Gadio , an
emerging-markets strategist with Standard Bank’s London-based
unit, said in e-mailed comments on Nov. 5. “Even if the Bank of
Ghana were to sell more dollars, it’s questionable whether they
would be able to fill demand and stabilize the  exchange rate  on
a sustainable basis as long as more fundamental reforms are not
implemented.”  A challenge to Mahama’s December election victory has
damped investment in Ghana this year. His win was upheld by the
 Supreme Court  in August, which set aside opposition allegations
that vote counting was marred by irregularities. The controversy
contributed to a 78 percent decline in foreign direct investment
in the first half of the year, according to the state-owned
Ghana Investment Promotion Centre. Remittances from Ghanaians
living abroad fell by an annual 12 percent in July, according to
the central bank.  Oil-Fueled Growth  Ghana’s economy is still on course to  grow  7.9 percent in
2013, beating the sub-Saharan African average for a sixth
straight year, as oil production increases, according to the
IMF. Earnings from crude rose 47 percent this year through
August, central bank data showed.  Abubakar is feeling none of that growth in his business.  He said he keeps busy at International Commercial Bank by
exchanging currencies with lenders outside Ghana and supporting
colleagues with money-market transactions. When the central bank
does release dollars, they’re earmarked for ICB’s clients, who
need the cash to pay for imports, he said.  While Abubakar wouldn’t discuss details of his salary, the
average compensation cost per employee at FBN Holdings Plc,
which acquired ICB in September, was $34,138 in 2012, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and the Lagos-based company’s
annual report. That compares with a global average of $319,755
for the first nine months of 2013 at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and $165,774 at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Without a bonus, Abubakar, who started at ICB as an intern
in 2008, said he may need to borrow money to take the next step
in his career.  “That’s the money I use to pay for my accounting exams and
course material,” he said. “I may have to take a loan to pay
for my exams next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  