-- GM Wooing Tree Huggers Vies With Toyota Mid-Sized Pickups
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-11-18T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/gm-wooing-tree-huggers-vies-with-toyota-mid-sized-pickups.html
For Rick Alpern, who runs the  Keyes
Chevrolet  auto dealership in  Los Angeles , few tasks are tougher
than selling big trucks to eco-conscious Californians looking
for just enough pickup to fit a bike, beer keg or surfboard.  Consider his recent effort to persuade the owner of a mid-size Toyota Tacoma to switch to a full-sized Chevy Silverado.  “We talked about going into a Silverado,” Alpern recalled
last week. “He goes, ‘The problem is that Silverado is just too
big for me for what I do.’”  General Motors Co. (GM)  is out to change that. While the Detroit
Three dominate big pickups,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  has become the
top mid-size truck seller in the U.S. with its Tacoma. GM, which
stopped building a mid-size pickup for the U.S. last year, is
returning to the segment with a redesigned version of the
Chevrolet Colorado, betting it can appeal to Toyota buyers.  “The styling on the Colorado is unique enough that it’s
going to raise some eyebrows and create some attention -- and
all of the attention that we can create bringing prospective
buyers back to the Chevy showrooms is vital,” Alpern said.  The Colorado, which GM plans to reveal at the Los Angeles
Auto Show Nov. 20, extends an effort to offer a wider variety of
pickups to U.S. shoppers than any other company. Along with the
Colorado, GM will also offer a GMC version called the Canyon.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , whose F-Series has been the best-selling
truck for 36 years, only sells full-size and heavy-duty
versions, as does Chrysler Group LLC’s Ram brand. Toyota doesn’t
offer a heavy-duty pickup while offering full-size and compact
trucks.  GM’s Strategy  “We have a three-truck strategy,” Maria Rohrer, marketing
director of Chevy trucks, said in September during a
presentation in Austin,  Texas . “We believe that we ought to
have a myriad of mid-size, full-size and heavy-duty. We’re the
only ones that have all three.”  GM didn’t totally abandon its mid-size truck effort after
stopping production for the U.S. A redesigned Colorado, which
was revealed at the Bangkok Motor Show in 2011, is sold in 16
global markets, including  Brazil ,  Thailand  and  Argentina .  While the new U.S. Colorado is built on the same platform
as the one sold globally, it “has been pretty much re-engineered for  North America  because the customer needs are
very, very different than they are in Thailand or Brazil,”  Tom Wilkinson , a GM spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  California Buyers  To take hold in the U.S., wooing Californians is key. The
state is the largest market for mid-sized trucks, with 16
percent of registrations this year through September, according
to Edmunds.com. The next biggest markets were Texas, with 9.7
percent and  Florida , with 6.7 percent.  Alpern, the Los Angeles car dealer, said he was given an
early peek at the new Colorado by GM last year. He said its
styling isn’t as “radical” as the international version,
though it’s aggressive enough to appeal to  California  buyers,
especially those who will use it for lifestyle purposes such as
biking and surfing.  “Lifestyle truck owners are more apt to change to
something that has newer features, more styling,” Alpern said.  Ford got out of the mid-size segment in 2011, saying
customers prefer larger pickups. GM, embracing one of the few
areas where it won’t fight head-to-head with Ford, is taking a
risk.  ‘More Value’  The market for these smaller pickups, which weigh less and
are more fuel efficient than large pickups, makes up only 1.6
percent of the total vehicle market, down from 3.2 percent in
2008. It may increase only to 2 percent in 2015, according to
IHS Automotive’s Polk.  “The customer can get a heck of a lot more value in terms
of towing capacity, bed size, engine size” by getting a larger
pickup, said Tom Libby, a Polk analyst. “The competition in
that segment is hurting the one underneath it.”  The  Colorado  is part of the 18 new or refreshed vehicles
being brought out this year and 14 next year by GM as its works
to transform its lineup from among the oldest into the newest.
The Chevrolet Impala was the first U.S. car chosen as the best
sedan on the market by  Consumer Reports , and the Cadillac CTS
was picked as Motor Trend’s Car of the Year.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson is counting on the new
models to help boost North America operating profit as he seeks
to stem losses in  Europe  and expand business in  China . GM shares
rose 0.7 percent on Nov. 15 to $38.77, the highest closing price
in 34 months.  ‘Beautiful Truck’  The mid-size trucks are also part of GM’s strategy to meet
federal CO2 restrictions,  Mark Reuss , president of GM North
America, told reporters in September in  Dallas . GM sees the
Colorado competing against the Toyota Tacoma in markets such as
California where mid-size trucks sell better, according to
Edmunds data.  While GM sees the Colorado competing against the Tacoma in
markets such as California, the GMC Canyon will target GM’s
full-sized competitors, Reuss said.  “It’s a beautiful truck that gives you almost everything
that a full-size competitor might give you but at a lower
price,” he said.  Consumers paid an average price of $27,903 for a mid-size
truck in September compared with an average $40,860 for full-size and heavy-duty pickups, according to Edmunds data.  Detroit Unveiling  The Canyon will be unveiled in January around the North
American International Auto Show in  Detroit , said a person
familiar with the plans who asked not to be identified because
the plans haven’t been released publicly. The trucks for North
America will be assembled at GM’s factory near  St. Louis .
The U.S. market for mid-size trucks has declined because of
improvements among big pickups.  “You’ve got these full-sized trucks that have just become
tremendously capable vehicles and considerably more efficient
than they used to be,” Jeremy Acevedo, an analyst with Edmunds,
said. “It’s just kind of taken away from the market share of
compacts.”  Tacoma led the mid-size segment last year with 141,365
deliveries, a 28 percent gain from 2011, according to researcher
Autodata Corp. Combined U.S. sales of the Colorado and Canyon
peaked in 2005 with 163,668 deliveries, Autodata said. That
compares with combined U.S. sales of GM’s full-size pickups of
575,497 last year.  ‘Diminished Segment’  Mid-size trucks comprise “a segment that used to be a very
big portion of the overall truck market,” Dan Ammann, GM’s
chief financial officer, told reporters in August. “It’s
diminished over the years, partly because in our view, there
hasn’t been the kind of offering in the segment that customers
were really looking for.” The Colorado is “really going to be
aimed at the sport truck segment.”  Few Silverado buyers shop for smaller pickups, Edmunds’s
Acevedo said. About 11 percent of Tacoma shoppers, for example,
looked at a Silverado 1500, according to Edmunds data.  “It seems like the potential for incremental sales,” he
said.  Since exiting bankruptcy in 2009, GM has rushed to develop
new products in areas that it had let slide, such as compact
pickups, as it dealt with the collapse of its business.  “During 08’, ’09, ’10, they had to pick and choose what
programs made the most sense financially knowing they couldn’t
do everything they wanted,” Polk’s Libby said. “This segment
probably didn’t make the list.”  For Alpern, the new Colorado is “going to be a welcome
addition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  