-- GMO’s Inker Sees Losses for Stocks in Coming Seven Years
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-11-19T17:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/gmo-s-inker-predicts-losses-for-stocks-over-seven-years.html
U.S. stocks  will decline over the
next seven years after almost tripling from their 2009 lows
because they are overvalued, said Ben Inker, head of global
 asset allocation  at investment firm Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo &
Co.  The decline will happen either through a “quick  bear
market  or a longer period of more of less flat returns,” Inker
said in a letter released yesterday. Stock prices may still rise
20 percent to 30 percent over the next year or two before
collapsing,  Jeremy Grantham , the Boston-based money manager’s
chief investment strategist, wrote in the same letter.  “We will have the third in the series of serious market
busts since 1999,” wrote Grantham, who correctly predicted in
2000 that stocks would lose ground in the next decade. “And we
the people, of course, will get what we deserve.”  Stocks have been pushed to  record highs  in three rounds of
asset purchases by the  Federal Reserve , which have forced
investors into riskier assets such as equities. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  exceeded 16,000 for the first time yesterday
and gained 22 percent this year, and the S&P 500 Index climbed
26 percent.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Chief Executive Laurence D. Fink said this
month that stocks may decline as much as 15 percent because of
political risks in  China , Japan, France and the U.S. New York-based BlackRock is the world’s largest money manager with $4.1
trillion in assets.  Grantham’s Prediction  Grantham, 75, is best known for his prediction in 2000 that
stocks would decline in the next decade. The  benchmark  index
lost 1 percent a year in the 10 years ended Dec. 31, 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Grantham yesterday said that prudent investors should
already be reducing their equity bets and their risk level in
general. “Be risky and you’ll probably make some more money,
but you may be bushwhacked and, if you are, your excuses will
look thin,” he said.  Inker said the fair value of the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  is 1,100.
The index closed yesterday at 1,791.53. He said the expected
return on the index over the next seven years was a loss of 1.3
percent annually after adjusting for inflation. For the broader
Wilshire 5000, he predicted an adjusted annualized loss of 2
percent.  “The U.S. stock market is trading at levels that do not
seem capable of supporting the type of returns that investors
have gotten used to receiving from equities,” Inker wrote.  Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo managed $112 billion as of Sept.
30, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@blsoomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  