-- Goldman Said to Draw Interest in Metro Warehousing Unit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-18T20:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/goldman-said-to-draw-interest-in-metro-warehousing-unit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which
bought aluminum warehouse firm Metro International Trade
Services LLC in 2010, has received inquiries from potential
buyers after the London Metal Exchange imposed new rules on how
storage facilities operate, a person briefed on the matter said.  Goldman Sachs hasn’t engaged in a formal sale process, said
the person, who requested anonymity because the talks are
private and didn’t identify the prospective purchasers.  Gary Cohn , president of the New York-based company, told CNBC in July
that it was allowed to own Metro for 10 years and that it would
sell the business at “an appropriate time.”  The LME, the world’s biggest industrial-metals marketplace,
changed its rules earlier this month to speed up withdrawals
from warehoused stockpiles amid consumer complaints that
prompted scrutiny from U.S. regulators. The changes will affect
depots where waiting times exceed 50 calendar days, a broader
group than the original proposal that pertained to sites where
waits were longer than 100 days.  Goldman Sachs received interest from private-equity firms
and international commodity companies in potentially buying
Metro after the rule change eliminated some uncertainty in the
warehouse industry, the person said. The bank, the fifth-biggest
in the U.S. by assets, may not pursue a sale in the near future,
the person said.  Under the rule changes, warehouses with waiting times of
more than 50 days will be required to ship out metal every day
exceeding the amount they take in by at least 1,500 metric tons.
The LME also said this month it will review its warehouse system
every six months and is studying its powers to regulate
warehousing companies’ charges.  U.S. Subpoenas  Consumers of metals including brewer MillerCoors LLC
complained that lengthy waits for stockpiled supplies inflated
costs. That spurred U.S. regulators to subpoena documents from
warehouse operators including Metro, according to people with
knowledge of the probe.  The LME’s changes are scheduled to take effect April 1. The
LME, a unit of Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. where
investors bought and sold contracts worth $14.5 trillion last
year, oversees more than 700 warehouses worldwide.  The Financial Times reported on the increased interest in
Metro earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  