-- Google Joins Microsoft in U.K. Efforts to Block Child Porn
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-11-18T16:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/google-joins-microsoft-in-u-k-effort-to-block-child-porn-online.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
will introduce laws to force search engines’ to cooperate if new
efforts to curb child pornography online fail, he said today
while lauding efforts by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Cameron credited the two with making “significant
progress” in helping prevent such content from proliferating,
in a statement ahead of today’s meeting of Internet companies,
the National Crime Agency and charities on curbing child porn.  Child abuse “highlights the depths to which humanity can
sink,” Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  wrote in Britain’s Daily
Mail newspaper today. “While society will never wholly
eliminate such depravity, we should do everything in our power
to protect children from harm.”  In July, Cameron detailed his effort to stop child
pornography and better protect children from pedophiles by
enlisting help from companies and the law-enforcement agency.
Since then, U.K. Internet providers have been installing home
filters so parents can help prevent their children from being
targeted and the largest Wi-Fi networks have activated so-called
family-friendly filters in public areas where children may
access the Internet.  Cameron cited a 20 percent drop in  Internet users  searching
for illegal content thanks to efforts by Cupertino, California-based Google. Cameron also unveiled a U.K.-U.S. taskforce to
identify trans-Atlantic criminals and said the  Internet Watch
Foundation  -- an industry group that identifies and removes
illegal content -- will expand operations and recruit new
analysts.  Distinguish Images  Individuals will still need to monitor images to help sort
“innocent pictures of kids at bathtime and genuine abuse,”
Google’s Schmidt said. “Once that is done -- and we know the
pictures are illegal -- each image is given a unique digital
fingerprint” so computers can track and delete them.  Though the moves by Google and Microsoft are positive
steps, they don’t solve the problem, Martyn Thomas, head of the
Institution of Engineering and Technology IT Policy Panel, said
in a statement today.  “The measures will help to protect young children from
accessing such material, but they will do little for the people
sharing these images, which is being done through private peer-to-peer networks,” Thomas said.  ‘Ineffective’  Thomas said that blocking websites and search terms is
“ineffective” and it is easy to get around such measures.
Instead, more resources are needed to enforce existing laws, and
more responsible parenting and education are required, he said.  New controls from Google and Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft include algorithms that block images, videos and paths
to illegal content and a halting of auto-complete features on
child abuse search terms, according to the statement. They’ll
work with the crime agency and Internet Watch Foundation to take
down peer-to-peer networks featuring images of child abuse.  “Today we can make some real progress against the absolute
evil of child abuse and what happens on the Internet,” Cameron
told BBC Radio 2’s Jeremy Vine show in a call from his Downing
Street office. The next step is to combat abuse on the
“darknet,” where images are shared peer-to-peer, Cameron said.
“Let’s go after these people and get them behind bars where
they belong,” he said.  Google’s new controls are worldwide, according to a
statement on the outcome of today’s summit. Microsoft said in a
separate statement that its restrictions apply to the U.K. and
U.S, and the company is looking to roll out the policy globally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  