-- Google, MGM, Papst Camera, Avatar: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-18T12:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/google-mgm-papst-camera-avatar-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s victory in a copyright
suit challenging its project to digitally copy millions of books
may help cement its dominance of online searches.  A federal judge in New York ruled Nov. 14 that the Google
Books project doesn’t violate copyright law, dismissing an
eight-year-old lawsuit against the biggest search-engine
company.  The decision, if upheld on appeal, may help Google retain
its Internet dominance, which has allowed it to become the
world’s largest online advertiser. Google has more than 70
percent of the ad revenue tied to online searches in the U.S.,
according to researcher EMarketer Inc.  “This is a huge victory for Google, which had previously
tried to resolve legal issues regarding Google Books by class-action settlement,” Mark P. McKenna, a law professor
specializing in intellectual property at the  University of Notre
Dame , said in an e-mail. “This decision vindicates Google’s
project entirely on fair use grounds, making unnecessary the
elaborate structure the parties had proposed for compensation.”  Google Books provides a public benefit and is a fair use of
copyrighted material, U.S. District Judge Denny Chin in
 Manhattan  ruled.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , in October 2012
reached an agreement with five publishers to end their
objections to the digital scanning. The accord allows U.S.
publishers to choose whether to make their books and articles
available for scanning or have them removed.  The publishers are McGraw-Hill Cos., Pearson Education
Inc., Penguin Group USA Inc.,  John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A)  and Simon &
Schuster Inc., which is owned by CBS Inc.  “This has been a long road, and we are absolutely
delighted” with the Nov. 14 judgment,’’ Google said in an e-mailed statement. Google Books complies with copyright law and
acts as a card catalog for the digital age, the company said.  The case is The Authors Guild v. Google Inc., 1:05-cv-08136, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  MGM Joins James Bond Producer to Acquire Rights From Estate  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. (MGMB)  and the producer of the James Bond
films said they acquired all rights to the fictional British
secret agent held by the estate and family of the late
screenwriter Kevin McClory.  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, the distributor of the films, and
Danjaq LLC, the longtime James Bond producer, said in a Nov. 15
statement the accord ends legal and business disputes that have
arisen over 50 years.  McClory is credited with co-writing and producing 1965’s
“Thunderball” and 1983’s “Never Say Never Again,” according
to  Imdb.com , an industry website. He died in 2006, according to
his biography page on the site.  The James Bond franchise is among Hollywood’s most
enduring. Twenty-four films dating back to 1963’s “Dr. No”
have grossed $1.91 billion in U.S. theaters, according to
BoxOfficeMojo.com, an industry researcher. The most recent, last
year’s “Skyfall,” took in $304.4 million domestically.  MGM,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Danjaq plan to release the next Bond
film in October 2015 in the U.K and in the U.S. the following
month, according to a July statement.  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  Papst Camera Patent Case Judgment Entered, Certified for Appeal  A federal court in  Washington  entered a final judgment in
Papst Licensing Gmbh’s patent suits against  Nikon Corp. (7731) ,
 Fujifilm Corp. (4901)  and several other camera manufacturers.  The cases were consolidated in Washington in 2007.
 Germany ’s Papst Licensing had accused the camera makers of
infringing parents 6,470,399 and 6,895,449, which are related to
digital photography. Earlier the court found none of the
manufacturers’ products infringed the patents.  The camera makers and the patent owner then asked that a
final judgment be entered and the case be certified for appeal.
According to the court’s Nov. 14 ruling, although the
manufacturers wanted certification to be delayed until their
requests for attorney fees and sanctions were decided, the court
said this wasn’t necessary.  “Moreover, the delay that would be caused by such
litigation is contrary to the efficient resolution of the
merits,” U.S. District Judge Rosemary M. Collyer said in her
ruling. She ordered entry of the final judgment of non-infringement, and dismissed all other claims and counterclaims
in the case with respect to the first group of manufacturers
Papst sued.  There is a second group of manufacturers who are waiting to
have their cases heard, and the court said they agreed to have
their cases on hold until the appeal is completed by the
Washington-based court that hears appeals of patent cases.  Federal Circuit review of the first wave of camera cases
“is likely to narrow the issues” in the later cases also,
Collyer said.  The case is In re Papst Licensing Digital Camera Patent
Litigation -MDL 1889, 1:07-mc-00493, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington).  Hanes Seeks Non-Infringement Declaration for Tank Top Design  Hanesbrands Inc., the North Carolina maker of underwear,
hosiery and athletic wear, asked a federal court to declare it
doesn’t infringe a design patent for tank tops.  An Oct. 30 cease-and-desist letter that  Lululemon Athletica
Canada Inc. (LULU)  of  Vancouver , sent to Hanesbrands is appended to the
complaint in the case filed in federal court in North Carolina
Nov. 15.  A tank top made by Hanesbrands’ Champion unit infringed
patent D654,665S, according to the letter. Lululemon said the
item is made in  Vietnam , labeled with the Champion brand and
sold at  Target Corp. (TGT)  stores.  The Canadian company demanded that all manufacturing,
importation and sales of the allegedly infringing garment be
halted, all advertising for it cease, and the remaining unsold
garments be surrendered. Lululemon also sought an agreement that
Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based Hanesbrands agree to
liquidated damages of $50 per infringing garment for any future
infringement.  In its court filings, Hanesbrands said its products don’t
infringe the patent, and asked the court to order Lululemon to
stop making infringement claims. It also asked for awards of
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Although the cease-and-desist letter also accuses Target of
infringement, only Hanesbrands is seeking the non-infringement
declaration.  The case is  Hanesbrands Inc. (HBI) , v. Lululemon Athletica Canada
Inc., 1:13-cv-01024, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
North Carolina.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Maker of ‘Avatar’ Film Denied Registration for ‘Pandorapedia’  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) ’s bid to register
“Pandorapedia” as a trademark for clothing was rejected by an
appeal board at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  The studio applied to register the mark -- related to James
Cameron’s “Avatar” film -- in 2009. A trademark examiner
rejected the application, finding it to be too much like an
existing mark -- “Pandora” -- also used with clothing.  An appeal was filed, and in an opinion released Nov. 9, the
Trademark Trial and Appeal Board affirmed the examiner’s
determination. The board said that even though the studio
specified the mark would be used for clothing “related to
motion picture films,” it is the identification of the goods
that controls how the mark is used, rather than whatever
extrinsic evidence may show about their specific nature.  The possibility of confusion would be too great, the board
said, and consumers would be confused. The board also noted that
the only difference between the two marks is the suffix
“pedia.” Under U.S. trademark law the second user may not
appropriate another’s mark and try to avoid the likelihood of
confusion by adding descriptive or subordinate matter, the board
said.  Two other “Pandorapedia” applications submitted at the
same time are still pending. They are for use of the mark with
Christmas decorations and CDs. There is also a “Pandorapedia”
trademark that was successfully registered in 2010 for use with
motion pictures, according to the database of the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office.  The ruling is  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Trial and
Appeal Board, In re Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp., 77824292.  ‘Charbucks’ Didn’t Tarnish Starbucks’ Marks, Appeals Court Said  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ’s claims that a family-owned New Hampshire
coffee roaster’s sale of a blend called “Charbucks” infringed
the Seattle-based company’s trademarks were rejected by a
federal appeals court.  Black Bear Micro Roastery  in  Tuftonboro, New Hampshire ,
didn’t dilute the fame of the Starbucks trademarks nor confuse
the public, the court said in a Nov. 15 opinion.  A consumer telephone survey presented by Starbucks aiming
at showing confusion was flawed, according to the court, which
also found that the “distinctiveness, recognition and exclusive
use” of the Starbucks trademarks failed to overcome “the weak
evidence of association” between the marks.  Starbucks, based in  Seattle , sued in 2001 in federal court
in Manhattan accusing Black Bear’s owner, Wolfe’s Borough Coffee
Inc., of confusing consumers and diluting the value of the
Starbucks brand by selling Charbucks in New England and online.  After U.S. District Judge Taylor Swain dismissed the claims
in June 2008, Starbucks then appealed. In December 2009, the
Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals vacated part of the trial
court’s ruling, and sent it back for a determination of whether
“Charbucks” diluted the fame of the Starbucks marks.  The lower court then found no determination, and the
Seattle coffee company appealed that ruling.  The case is Starbucks Corp. v. Wolfe’s Borough Coffee Inc.,
12-3674, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (New
York).  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  