-- Google Reaches $17 Million Privacy Settlement With States
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-11-18T18:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/google-reaches-17-million-privacy-settlement-with-states.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  reached a $17 million
settlement with 37 U.S. states over its circumvention of privacy
settings for some  Internet users .  The company, based in  Mountain View , California, overrode
default settings for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Safari browser that blocked
cookies, small pieces of code that can allow companies to
monitor consumer web surfing, according to the office of the New
York attorney general.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
allowed cookies to be set on consumers’ browsers through its
DoubleClick advertising platform, according to the attorney
general’s office.  The company halted that coding method in February 2012
after the practice was reported in the media. Google agreed to
changes including no longer deploying that type of code unless
necessary to address fraud, security or technical issues and
improving the information it provides to consumers about its use
of cookies, according to the attorney general’s office.  “Consumers should be able to know whether there are other
eyes surfing the web with them,”  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said today in a statement. “By tracking millions
of people without their knowledge, Google violated not only
their privacy, but also their trust.”  The settlement comprises 37 states and Washington, D.C.  Internet Privacy  “People rely more and more on the Internet to communicate,
find information and do business, so it’s critical that
companies be straight with consumers when it comes to online
privacy,” Roy Cooper, attorney general of North Carolina, which
was also part of the settlement, said in a statement.  Statements on Google’s website misled users of Apple’s
Safari browser by suggesting that they did not need to install a
special plugin to block cookies, the  North Carolina  attorney
general’s office said.  “We work hard to get privacy right at Google and have
taken steps to remove the ad cookies, which collected no
personal information, from Apple’s browsers,” a Google
spokeswoman, Nadja Blagojevic, said in a statement. “We’re
pleased to have worked with the state attorneys general to reach
this agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 