-- Gree Plans Acquisitions to Expand Beyond Social-Gaming Apps
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-11-18T09:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/gree-planning-acquisitions-to-expand-beyond-social-gaming-apps.html
Gree Inc. (3632)  is planning acquisitions
outside its social-gaming core as it heads for a fourth straight
quarter of declining revenue.  “We’ve narrowed down targets,” said Jin Akiyama, a Gree
director and former investment banker at Merrill Lynch & Co. in
 Tokyo . “We want to aggressively expand new businesses,” he
said without giving details of potential deals.  Gree is seeking new sources of growth as rising use of
smartphones, which offer free or inexpensive game apps,  saps  its
sales of social games designed to run on feature phones. The
company combined game development divisions in San Francisco and
Tokyo last month to make new apps more quickly and cheaply and
has aimed to cut its workforce about 9 percent through early
retirement, said Akiyama.  The Japan-U.S. combination was aimed at “narrowing down
potential best-hit apps for sale and strengthening new-product
pipeline management,” Akiyama said. “We are excited about the
release of new apps as early as February.”  Gree joins rival Tokyo-based gamemaker  DeNA (2432)  Co. in seeking
acquisition opportunities outside gaming. DeNA Chief Executive
Officer Isao Moriyasu last month said his firm seeks to expand
its e-commerce and mobile entertainment businesses.  Gree gained 7.9 percent, the most since Aug. 15, to 932 yen
at the close of trading in Tokyo. The shares pared this year’s
decline to 30 percent. DeNa rose 3.8 percent, while the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average was little changed.  DeNA, operator of the Mobage network, has dropped 33
percent this year in Tokyo trading as mobile subscribers shift
to smartphones from an earlier generation of handsets that
relied on the gamemaker’s platform to download titles.  Sales of Gree will probably  drop  13 percent from a year
earlier to 34.3 billion yen in the three months ending December,
according to the average of six analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company posted a third straight quarter-on-quarter sales drop in the three months ended September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  