-- Ibovespa Rises on Prospects for Exports After China Reform Plan
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-11-18T12:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/ibovespa-rises-on-prospects-for-exports-after-china-reform-plan.html
The Ibovespa climbed for a third
straight day on wagers demand for exports will increase after
leaders in  China , Brazil’s biggest trading partner, pledged to
undertake reforms aimed at shoring up economic growth.  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s biggest iron-ore producer, contributed
the most to the gauge’s advance. Cia. de Saneamento Basico do
Estado de  Sao Paulo , the water utility known as Sabesp, rallied
after revenue beat analysts’ estimates in the third quarter.
Retailer  Marisa Lojas SA (AMAR3)  fell as profit slumped.  The Ibovespa  rose  1 percent to 53,986.23 at 10:39 a.m. in
Sao Paulo, extending a three-day gain to 4.2 percent. Sixty-two
of its 72 member stocks climbed. The Brazilian real strengthened
1.3 percent to 2.2850 per dollar.  China pledged to allow more private investment in state-controlled industries and announced that couples may have two
children if either parent is an only child, according to a
Communist Party decision published by the official Xinhua News
Agency on Nov. 15. President  Xi Jinping ’s reforms are aimed at
giving more influence to market forces and loosening government
controls.  “It’s good news for the Brazilian market to know that
China is working to sustain a high rate of growth in the coming
years,” Eduardo Velho, the chief economist at INVX Global
Partners in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “That means
good prospects for Brazilian exports.”  Vale  gained  1.4 percent to 32.85 reais. Sabesp  added  1.8
percent to 25.42 reais, the highest price on a closing basis
since June 7. Marisa  declined  3.1 percent to 18.17 reais in the
worst performance on the BM&FBovespa Small Cap Index.  Trading Volume  Brazil’s main equity index entered a  bull market  Sept. 9
after rising 20 percent from this year’s low on July 3 through
that day. The gauge is still down 21 percent this year in dollar
terms, compared with a decline of 3 percent for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.98 billion
reais on Nov. 14, compared with a daily average of 7.55 billion
reais this year through the same date, according to data
compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  