-- Millennium Alumnus Iwami Sees $150 Million for Macro Hedge Fund
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2013-11-18T01:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/millennium-alumni-iwami-sees-150-million-for-macro-hedge-fund.html
Naoki Iwami, a former managing
director at Millennium Capital Management in Tokyo, expects to
raise about $150 million by the end of March for his hedge fund
that invests in bonds and currencies.  The Whiz Rock Global Macro Investment Fund, with about $50
million, has returned about 1 percent since inception in August,
said Iwami, executive vice president at Tokyo-based Whiz
Partners Inc. Insurers, pensions and regional banks in  Japan 
have invested in the fund and fund-of-hedge funds at home and
abroad are now showing interest, he said. His performance
outpaces a 0.58 percent gain by the Eurekahedge Pte  index  that
tracks similar funds.  The number of Japanese startup hedge funds has declined
even as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies led to renewed
interest in the capital markets of the world’s third-largest
economy. Eighteen Japan-focused hedge funds have started so far
in 2013, the fewest starts in any one year since 2001, according
to Singapore-based data provider Eurekahedge.  “We didn’t expect that money would come easy given how
we’re a boutique firm,” Iwami, 56,  said in a telephone
interview from  Tokyo  on Nov. 15. “We’ve been asked to continue
delivering performance to win their allocation.”  Macro funds typically trade stocks, bonds, currencies and
commodities based on managers’ analysis of fundamental, economic
and political factors. They are still rare in Asia, making up
only 5.6 percent of hedge funds in the third quarter, compared
with 23 percent globally, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund
Research Inc.  Average Size  The average size of Japan-focused hedge funds this year is
$51 million, compared with $115 million for all funds focused on
the country including those with long-only strategies, according
to Eurekahedge.  Iwami’s fund has struggled to achieve higher returns amid a
lack of clear direction in the market, he said, adding that he
would look for catalysts including when the U.S. Federal Reserve
will start considering tapering stimulus.  The Federal Open Market Committee will probably dial down
its bond buying to $70 billion at a March 18-19 meeting,
according to the median of 32 economist estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey Nov. 8. Their forecast followed a U.S. government
report that employers last month increased payrolls by 204,000
workers, more than expected.  “Now is the time to persevere given the lack of big trends
in the market,” said Iwami, who forecasts the tapering to be in
the first three months of 2014.  Before Millennium, Israel Englander’s $19 billion U.S.
hedge-fund firm, Iwami was the head of investment business at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo and chief investment officer of
bond investments at Nomura Asset Management Co., he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  