-- Imelda Marcos’s Secretary Convicted in Missing-Art Sale
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-11-18T21:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/imelda-marcos-s-secretary-convicted-in-missing-art-sale.html
The former secretary of  Imelda Marcos  was found guilty of attempting to sell four missing
paintings and failing to report taxes on the one that she did
sell, a Claude Monet water lilies painting for $32 million,
according to Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.  Vilma Bautista, 75, was convicted after a trial that
revealed what happened to four artworks that disappeared from
Philippine government property, including the consulate in
Manhattan, after the fall of the Marcos regime in 1986.  “Vilma Bautista was found guilty of attempting to sell art
she had possessed secretly for decades and knew to be stolen,
and for selling a looted museum-quality painting for her
personal enrichment,” Vance said today in a statement. It took
the jury 2 1/2 hours to reach a verdict in Manhattan Criminal
Court, he said.  After February 1986, Bautista came into possession of
paintings that Imelda and her husband,  Ferdinand Marcos , had
acquired during Marcos’ two decades as president from 1965 to
1986.  She possessed two Monets -- “Le Bassin aux Nymphease,”
also known as “Japanese Footbridge Over the Water-Lily Pond at
Giverny,” and “L’Eglise et La Seine a Vetheuil”; Alfred
Sisley’s “Langland Bay,”; and Albert Marquet’s “Le Cypres de
Djenan Sidi Said,” Vance said.  Using false ownership documents, Bautista tried to sell the
paintings and succeeded in selling the Water-Lily painting in
September 2010 to a London gallery, prosecutors said.  Several months later she filed a  tax return  and didn’t
disclose the sale.  Bautista was convicted of  tax fraud  and offering a false
instrument for filing, according to the statement.  The case is People v. Bautista, 04930/2012.  New York 
Criminal Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  