-- Tin Seen by Morgan Stanley as Best Base Metal Pick for 2014
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-11-18T08:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/tin-seen-by-morgan-stanley-as-best-base-metal-choice-for-2014.html
Tin is the top base metal pick for
2014 as increasing global demand outstrips supply, according to
Morgan Stanley, which highlighted a decline in inventories and
 China ’s role as a net importer.  “You’ve got recovering electronic demand for lead-free
solder, you’ve got substantial reduction in inventory that’s
taken place over the course of this year,” said Peter Richardson, Melbourne-based chief metals economist. “China is
no longer self-sufficient in refined- or mined-tin production.”  Tin outperformed the five other main base metals traded on
the  London  Metal Exchange this year as Indonesia imposed export
curbs, exacerbating a global deficit. The rule changes in the
world’s largest exporter have been highly disruptive for local
producers, according to Richardson, who’s studied the tin market
since 1987. Higher prices will increase costs for makers of
electronics and packaging.  “It’s one of the few commodities where China’s gone from
having a surplus that it exports to the world, to one where it
imports,” Richardson said in an interview in  Singapore  on Nov.
15. “That import dependence is getting bigger as the Chinese
tin-mine reserves run down.”  Tin for immediate delivery will average $22,845 a ton next
year, Morgan Stanley said in a report on Oct. 7 in an outlook
affirmed by Richardson. That compares with $22,203 on the LME so
far this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Three-month tin, which was at $22,900 at 3:59 p.m. in Singapore,
declined 2.1 percent this year, less than losses in nickel,
aluminum, copper, lead and zinc.  Favorite Long  A Macquarie Group Ltd. survey of more than 325 people at
this year’s LME Week, held in London last month, listed tin as
the respondents’ favorite so-called long position, along with
lead. A long position is a bet on price gains.  Global demand will exceed supply through 2016, according to
Morgan Stanley, which predicts a deficit of 100 metric tons next
year after a 1,600-ton shortfall this year. China, the largest
user and producer, has turned to importing metal as domestic
mine reserves deplete, according to Richardson.  Indonesia  limited exports of refined metal to tin traded
through local exchanges on Aug. 30 in a bid to displace the LME
as the venue for setting benchmark prices. Stockpiles tracked by
the LME dropped to 11,555 tons on Nov. 15, the lowest level
since December, according to bourse data. Canceled warrants, or
orders to remove metal from warehouses, now account for 46
percent of reserves, the highest proportion since October 2012.  “Unlike all of the other base metals, when the price goes
down, production goes down,” Richardson said. “That’s what
makes tin highly unusual is its price elasticity of supply as
well as demand, and that’s quite an attractive feature.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  