-- India to See Hung Parliament as Modi Deters Allies, Kumar Says
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-11-18T08:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/india-to-see-hung-parliament-as-modi-deters-allies-kumar-says.html
India’s election next year will
probably result in a hung parliament as the main opposition
 Bharatiya Janata Party ’s pick for prime minister deters
potential governing partners, a former ally said.  The BJP’s choice of Hindu nationalist Narendra Modi to lead
the country if it wins elections due by May has split opponents
to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government, Nitish Kumar,
chief minister of eastern Bihar state, said in a Nov. 13
interview. In June, his Janata Dal (United) party ended a 17-year alliance with the BJP over Modi’s appointment.  “There was a wave against corruption, scams and high
inflation in the current government, and this could have been a
source for unifying all opposition parties,” Kumar said in the
interview at his official residence in Patna, the state capital.
“But BJP spoiled this chance by putting a controversial figure
as a PM candidate. Now the country is headed toward a hung
parliament, and only BJP will be responsible for this.”  Kumar is among regional leaders that could tip the balance
in elections in the nation of 1.2 billion people that come as
the economy grows at the slowest pace in a decade. His party
holds 20 seats in the 545-member parliament now controlled by
Singh’s Congress party and its allies.  The BJP-led six-party alliance will win 186 of 543 seats up
for grabs, while Singh’s coalition will take 117, according to a
poll published last month by C-voter polling agency,  India  TV
and Times Now television. That would leave non-aligned parties
with 240 seats.  ‘Alone Today’  “This is an era of alliances, and BJP will have to seek
partners, if not before the election then after,” Kumar said.
“We wanted to be with the BJP, but because of the issues I
mentioned, we are alone today.”  Modi, chief minister of western Gujarat state since 2001,
has been refused a visa to the U.S. over his alleged role in the
2002 riots that killed about 1,000 Muslims. He denies any
wrongdoing and a Supreme Court-appointed panel investigating one
documented incident found no evidence that he took decisions to
prevent assistance from reaching those being attacked.  India last week began voting in five state elections that
are considered a test of Modi’s support before next year’s
national vote. The BJP is set to win power in four of the states
covered in an opinion poll conducted by India Today magazine and
ORG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  