-- India’s Rupee Strengthens as Yellen Spurs Inflow Optimism
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-11-18T12:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/india-rupee-rises-to-1-week-high-as-yellen-spurs-inflow-optimism.html
India ’s rupee rose the most in more
than a month on optimism global funds will boost purchases of
local stocks as the U.S. maintains its record monetary stimulus.  Janet Yellen, the main contender to replace Ben S. Bernanke
as Federal Reserve chief when his term expires, signaled on Nov.
14 that she will press on with bond purchases until the world’s
largest economy improves. That helped boost confidence in the
rupee, according to BNP Paribas SA. The currency gained for a
third day after Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan
said Nov. 15 that he will seek a balance between policies aimed
at reviving growth and curbing inflation.  “The Yellen speech has helped sentiment,” said Vikas Babu, a trader at Andhra Bank in Mumbai. “Bunched-up inflows
due to the Nov. 15 holiday in India” countered dollar demand
from importers, he said.  The rupee advanced 1.1 percent from Nov. 14 to 62.4150 per
dollar in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest gain since Oct. 3. It touched
62.3750 earlier, the strongest level since Nov. 7. Indian
financial markets were shut Nov. 15 for a local holiday.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the exchange rate used to price options, fell 88 basis points,
or 0.88 percentage point, from Nov. 14 to 11.74 percent.
Overseas funds bought a net $354.4 million of Indian shares this
month through Nov. 12, exchange data show.  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB recommends investors buy
the rupee, saying economic indicators point to a delay in Fed
tapering and Rajan will probably add to the two interest-rate
increases since he took charge of the RBI on Sept. 4, Sean Yokota, Singapore-based head of Asia strategy at the Swedish
lender, wrote in a note to clients.  ‘Balancing Act’  “We need to reduce demand somewhat without having serious
adverse effects on investment and supply,” Rajan said in a
speech in Mumbai on Nov. 15. “This is a balancing act, which
requires the Reserve Bank to act firmly so that the economy is
disinflating, even while allowing the weak economy more time
than one would normally allow for it to reach a comfortable
level of  inflation .”  The governor boosted the benchmark  repurchase  rate by 25
basis points each in September and October to 7.75 percent to
counter price pressure. The wholesale-price index rose 7 percent
last month from a year earlier, the fastest pace since February,
the latest official data show. In October, the RBI cut its
forecast for India’s economic growth in the year through March
2014 to 5 percent from an earlier prediction of 5.5 percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 1.3 percent from
Nov. 14 to 63.90 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts advanced 0.5 percent from
Nov. 15 to 64.22. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets
at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled
in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  