-- Tinkoff Pummeled as Card Business Model at Risk: Russia Credit
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-11-18T11:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/tinkoff-pummeled-as-card-business-model-at-risk-russia-credit.html
Investors punished Tinkoff Credit
Systems, driving borrowing costs to a four-month high, as
Russian lawmakers’ plans to restrict charge cards fueled concern
the lender’s business model is at risk.  The yield on Tinkoff’s 2018 dollar debt jumped 135 basis
points to 11.89 percent on Nov. 15, the highest since June. The
rate on a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index of emerging-market
 financial industry debt  stood at 5.68 percent.  TCS Group Holding
Plc (TCS) , which owns Tinkoff and sold shares in an initial public
offering in London last month, sank as much as 47 percent.  The bonds and shares of the branchless lender collapsed
after Kommersant newspaper reported lawmakers sought to end
distribution of credit cards by mail and courier. An author of
the planned legislation said it contained a “technical error”
and the deliveries could continue. The bill is part of a drive
to further curb the pace of unsecured consumer lending, which
 slowed  from 60 percent last year to 36 percent as of Oct. 1.  “If amendments are passed in the proposed version, this
could destroy Tinkoff’s business,” Yulia Bushueva, who helps
manage about $500 million in assets at Arbat Investment Services
Ltd. in Moscow, said by e-mail on Nov. 15. “Investors were
aware of the fact that the sector’s regulation is tightening,
but didn’t expect such a development.”  Amending Legislation  State Duma Deputy Anatoly Aksakov, who helped write the
bill, said there was an error in the draft and that the bill
only applies to the unsolicited distribution of cards. The
committee will review the draft this week, he said by phone.  The clause requiring customers pick up cards at fixed
locations will probably “be amended,” Tinkoff,  Russia ’s third-biggest credit card lender, said in a statement Nov. 15.  While analysts at VTB Capital said they expect the bill to
be tweaked before its second reading, in a “worst-case”
scenario, Tinkoff may need to resort to distribution through
agent banks for a fee, according to an e-mailed note Nov. 15.  The bank is modeled on  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , a U.S.
pioneer of card distribution by direct mail, which the Russian
lender’s founder Oleg Tinkov said he learned about while living
in San Francisco. UralSib Financial Corp. called TCS a
“monoline retail bank,” with 97 percent of its loan portfolio
in credit cards, according to a report Oct. 8.  ‘Bold Bid’  The government is making a “bold bid” to control lending
growth, Ian McCall, who helps manage $107 million in emerging-market assets at Quesnell Capital SA in Geneva, said in an e-mailed comment on Nov. 15. McCall said he’s using the selloff of
Tinkoff’s debt as an opportunity to buy. “I don’t think they
want to kill the business off. Just reign it in.”  The IPO raised $1.1 billion with the stock priced at
$17.50, the top of the range, according to a statement on Oct.
22. The shares closed 26 percent lower on Nov. 15 at $11.50.  Banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Morgan Stanley
and Sberbank CIB managed the IPO, according to its prospectus.
Goldman raised $226 million in the sale, cutting its stake in
TCS from 12 percent to 4.5 percent. Spokesmen for the three
organizers declined to comment when reached by phone on Nov 15.  The yield on Tinkoff’s peer ZAO Russian Standard Bank’s
January 2024 dollar bond rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 11.87 percent on Nov. 15. Russian Standard
is  rated  B2 at Moody’s Investors Service at B2, the same as TCS
and five levels below investment grade.  Bubble ‘Fear’  Tinkoff’s 2018 bond yield was little changed at 11.88
percent by 3:18 p.m. in Moscow. The stock jumped 12 percent to
$12.90 in  London .  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due March 2030 fell
three basis points to 3.94 percent. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Russia’s debt rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped
two basis points to 216, compared with 245 for  Brazil , according
to JPMorgan indexes.  Russia’s consumer-finance banks face an increase in bad
loans in the unsecured retail-lending market, Moody’s said in
September, citing Tinkoff among those with “heightened risks.”
Bank  lending to households  rose 31 percent as of Oct. 1 from a
year earlier, central bank data show.  “General sentiment toward risks in retail lending in
Russia is worsening heavily,” Sergey Dergachev, who helps
oversee about $9 billion as a money manager at Union Investment
Privatfonds GmbH in  Frankfurt , said by e-mail on Nov. 15.
“There’s some fear of something like a retail credit bubble.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  