-- Investment Banker McDaniel Says He’s Candidate for NBA Union Job
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-11-19T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/investment-banker-mcdaniel-says-he-s-candidate-for-nba-union-job.html
Reuben R. McDaniel III, an
investment banker and chairman of the Atlanta Public Schools
board, is among those being considered to succeed  Billy Hunter 
as executive director of the NBA players union.  The 52-year-old McDaniel said yesterday he has been
screened by an executive at Reilly Partners, the Chicago-based
executive search firm hired by the National Basketball Players
Association to find Hunter’s successor.  “I’m certainly interested in the opportunity, but it’s
very early in the process,” McDaniel said in a telephone
interview.  He joins former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Executive Director Riche T. McKnight as known candidates to fill the vacancy left when
player representatives from 24 of the 30 National Basketball
Association teams voted unanimously in February to fire Hunter
from the $3 million-a-year job amid allegations of nepotism and
abuse of union resources.  Ron Klempner, the union’s acting executive director, said
in an e-mail that the selection process is under way and
declined further comment.  McDaniel is the chief executive officer of RM Capital
Management. He previously was CEO of Jackson Securities, the
minority-owned investment bank founded in 1987 by the late
Maynard Jackson, a former mayor of Atlanta.  The company was bought last year by M.R. Beal & Co. from
Atlanta Life Financial Group, a 108-year-old black-owned
insurance and asset-management firm.  Revenue Growth  Under McDaniel’s leadership, Jackson Securities has
produced double-digit revenue growth and diversified revenue
streams by establishing a corporate finance group, wealth
management group and institutional sales and trading group,
according to his Atlanta Public Schools bio page.  McDaniel got his undergraduate degree in mathematics and
economics from the  University of North Carolina at Charlotte  and
a master’s degree in business administration from the  University
of Texas , according to the bio.  Hunter’s dismissal after a 16-year tenure ended almost a
year of speculation about his future with the players
association, punctuated by the results of an audit of the union
conducted by New York-based law firm Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton
& Garrison. The review concluded that, while Hunter did nothing
illegal, he failed to manage conflicts of interest, lacked
proper corporate governance and didn’t disclose that his
contract wasn’t properly ratified.  The union hasn’t given a timetable to choose Hunter’s
replacement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  