-- Iran’s Gas Co. Declares Bankruptcy, State Agency Says
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-11-19T08:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/iran-s-gas-co-declares-bankruptcy-state-agency-says.html
(Corrects Rouhani title in fourth paragraph of story
originally published Nov. 18.)  Iran ’s state-owned National Iranian
Gas Co. has declared bankruptcy with more than 100 trillion
rials ($4 billion) in debt,  Mehr news agency reported , citing
Chief Executive Officer Hamidreza Araghi.  Oil Minister Bijan Zanganeh told Mehr that the financial
woes are “due to erroneous decisions made by the previous
administration in implementing the restructuring of government
subsidies.” That failure sparked problems in the production and
distribution of energy across the country, he said.  The U.S. and European Union restrict Iran’s energy sales
and the financial industry that enables payments for them
because of concerns that the country is secretly trying to build
a nuclear bomb, an allegation that Iran denies.  The constraints have cut Iranian crude sales by half since
2011, the  International Energy Agency  said, and are stifling
projects to export some of Iran’s 1,187 trillion cubic feet of
gas reserves, about 18 percent of the global total, as LNG. On
June 17, when he was Iran’s president-elect, Hassan Rouhani said
that he would seek a gradual removal of sanctions.  Company officials are working with the oil ministry and
lawmakers to restructure the debt and to find new sources of
revenue, Araghi told Mehr.  U.S. sanctions targeting energy investments in Iran since
1996 have narrowed the Gulf nation’s options for converting its
gas resources into cash. Partners such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
Repsol SA and Total SA abandoned plans for LNG ventures there,
depriving Iran of the buyers as well as the money and expertise
needed to make and sell the fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in London at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  