-- Tisch Sees Rare Opportunity for Munis as Funds Dump Bonds
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-11-18T17:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/tisch-sees-rare-opportunity-for-munis-as-funds-dump-bonds.html
Loews Corp. (L)  Chief Executive Officer
James Tisch said now is the time to buy municipal bonds after
mutual fund investors dumped the securities for 25 straight
weeks.  “The returns are truly, truly extraordinary in the
municipal bond market,” Tisch said in an interview today with
 Stephanie Ruhle  and  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” program. “This is one of those rare
opportunities where munis are so attractive.”  Tax-exempt revenue bonds rated AA and maturing in 30 years
yield about  4.6 percent , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The interest rate is up from as little as 3.04
percent in January. The $3.7 trillion municipal market has lost
about 2.4 percent this year, according to Standard & Poor’s
data.  Loews’s insurance subsidiary  CNA Financial Corp. (CNA)  said in
July that it was buying state and local-government debt for its
$46 billion investment portfolio. The strategy was a reversal
for Tisch, who said earlier this year that interest rates were
so low that bonds were competing in an “ugly contest.”  Outflows from mutual funds helped change that, he said
today. Investors turned to stocks on speculation that the
Federal Reserve will curb its bond-buying program, leading to
higher interest rates. Withdrawals increased after  Detroit  in
July filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy.  ‘Forced Sellers’  Individuals have pulled almost $52 billion from muni mutual
funds this year, Lipper US Fund Flows data show. Over the same
period in 2012, investors poured about $47 billion into the
asset class, Lipper data show, helping push municipal yields to
the lowest since the 1960s in December.  “Mutual funds had withdrawals, so they became forced
sellers,” Tisch said. “Munis had to get to truly extraordinary
yields in order to attract that capital.”  Loews has subsidiaries in the commercial-insurance, hotel
and energy industries. The New York-based company has advanced
18 percent this year, compared with the S&P 500 Index’s 26
percent rally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  