-- Israel Says It’s Influencing Debate on Iran Nuclear Deal
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-11-18T13:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/israel-says-it-s-influencing-debate-on-iran-nuclear-deal.html
An Israeli cabinet minister said
world powers will take heed of his government’s concerns about a
deal with  Iran  even as a former security adviser warned that
Israel could still take matters into its own hands with a
military strike.  Israeli officials, led by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, have railed against the proposal world powers offered
to Iran in Geneva earlier this month, saying it wouldn’t prevent
Iran from pursuing nuclear weapons that would threaten the
Jewish state’s survival. At a news conference with French
President Francois Hollande yesterday, Netanyahu said it was
“my duty to prevent anyone from credibly threatening or
executing another Holocaust against the Jewish people.”  Israel’s warnings about the proposed nuclear deal “will
have a positive impact,” Economy Minister Naftali Bennett said
today on Army Radio. “ Israel  aspires to a good deal. Israel’s
goal is that the deal will dismantle Iran’s nuclear machine and
won’t just put it on hold for a few months.”  Netanyahu has said the Jewish state may consider a
preemptive strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities if diplomacy
fails. His former National Security Adviser Yaakov Amidror told
the  Financial Times  in an interview published yesterday that
Israel’s air force has been preparing for a possible military
confrontation with Iran and could halt its nuclear weapons
capability for “a very long time.”  Military Strike  “Amidror’s remarks are clearly a pointed reminder that
Israel still sees the military option as viable if diplomacy
fails,” said Gerald Steinberg, a political scientist at Bar-Ilan University outside Tel Aviv.  Bennett, he said, appeared to refer to amendments to the
proposal offered in Geneva, including a “tougher stance” on an
unfinished heavy-water plant that can produce plutonium and
uranium Iran has enriched. Both substances can be used to make
bombs.  The Haaretz daily, citing unidentified U.S. sources,
reported today that Iran will now be asked to halt construction
on the Arak heavy-water plant and cap all uranium enrichment at
19.75 percent. Nuclear experts say uranium enriched to 20
percent can be converted into weapons-grade uranium within
months.  Daily Inspections  Iran would also have to submit to inspections of its
nuclear facilities, some daily, to ensure it honors its
commitments, the newspaper said. The Iranians deny their nuclear
work is a cover to build bombs and say they aim to produce
energy and isotopes for medical research.  The offer to Iran didn’t produce an accord, and negotiators
are to meet again in Geneva on Nov. 20. The deal that was on the
table earlier this month would have relaxed some of the
international sanctions on Iran in return for restrictions on
its nuclear work.  Netanyahu has criticized the proposal for not requiring
Iran to halt its uranium enrichment and plutonium operations. He
said yesterday that he was “gravely concerned that this deal
will go through.”  Netanyahu says relaxing sanctions is a bad idea because it
would lessen Iran’s incentive to curtail its nuclear program
further.  “You’re going to get investors, companies and countries
scrambling one after the other to try to get deals with Iran,
because economies and prices work on future expectations,” he
said in an interview on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” broadcast
yesterday.  Strained Ties  Israel’s vocal criticism of the proposal has strained
relations with the Obama administration. U.S. Secretary of State
John Kerry has called Israel’s protests premature, saying that
given time, the U.S. will “be able to present the good deal
that will be able to protect Israel, protect our interests,
protect the region.”  Kerry, who met with Netanyahu in  Jerusalem  earlier this
month, is due to return for another round of talks on Nov. 22.  Ties with  France , by contrast, have warmed over Foreign
Minister Laurent Fabius’ insistence that any deal halt
construction on the Arak heavy-water reactor. Netanyahu
applauded visiting French President Francois Hollande for his
country’s “firm stance.”  Hollande is paying a first presidential visit to the area,
and today met with Palestinian leaders in the West Bank city of
 Ramallah , where he urged Israel to stop building on lands the
Palestinians claim for a state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  