-- J&J’s Janssen Loses $11 Million Jury Verdict Over Topamax
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-11-18T23:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/j-j-s-janssen-loses-11-million-jury-verdict-over-topamax.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Janssen
Pharmeceuticals unit was ordered by a Philadelphia jury to pay
$11 million in a case claiming its anti-seizure drug Topamax
caused birth defects, the second such loss in less than a month.  Janssen failed to adequately warn doctors for Haley Powell,
a stay-at-home mother, of the risks of Topamax before she gave
birth to a son with a cleft lip, jurors in state court in
Philadelphia found today.  “Janssen has long known that this drug causes debilitating
birth defects and yet intentionally kept this information from
physicians and patients,” Shelley Hutson, an attorney for
Powell, said after the verdict was read. “Ironically, this case
was hand-selected by the defendants to go to trial.”  Powell’s case was the second of about 134 that are pending
in Philadelphia over the epilepsy drug. Janssen lost a $4.02
million verdict on Oct. 30 in a lawsuit brought by Virginia
resident April Czimmer for injuries to her six-year-old son.
Users are blaming the company for failing to inform expectant
mothers of the drug’s risks for causing  birth defects  including
cleft palate and lip.  Janssen said it will appeal the verdicts in both cases.  “While we empathize with the plaintiff, the evidence
demonstrated that Ms. Powell, and her healthcare provider, were
aware of the side effect profile before beginning her
treatment,” Janssen said in a statement.  Top Seller  Topamax, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
in 1996, was one of  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J’s top
sellers before it lost patent protection in 2009.  Powell became pregnant in October 2007, more than a year
after she began taking Topamax and another anti-epileptic drug.
Her five-year-old son, Brayden, faces at least five surgeries
before age 21 to repair the defect which also caused nasal
deformities, according to Powell’s lawyers.  The birth defects, known as oral clefts, range from a small
notch in the lip to a groove that runs into the roof of the
mouth and nose.  Janssen knew as early as 1997 that animal studies showed an
increased risk for birth defects, especially oral clefts, Hutson
said during closing arguments on Nov. 15.  Secrecy Culture  Hutson accused Janssen of operating in a culture of secrecy
and of intentionally concealing safety reports in 2003 and 2005.
She rejected arguments by the company that it presented the
information on poster boards, in abstracts and at medical
conferences. Those actions “do not keep patients safe,” Hutson
said.  “As early as 1997 in admission after admission, this
company knew and they didn’t tell the doctors,” Hutson said.  Lawyers for the company argued during the trial that oral
clefts are a common congenital malformation with about 4,500
babies born each year in the U.S. with cleft lip.  “The label as it appeared in 2006 was adequate and
appropriate for any prescribing doctor,” Kenneth Murphy, an
attorney for Janssen, said in closing arguments. “In 2006, the
label reflected what the company knew.”  Murphy argued that the company petitioned the FDA in 2005
to make the label “more robust” by reporting that birth
defects had been reported in women taking Topamax. The regulator
rejected that wording.  ‘Background Rates’  “Reports of cleft lip and/or cleft palate never exceeded
background rates after 10 years of experience with the
medicine,” Murphy said. “Janssen turned square corners with
regulators and it shared what it knew with doctors.”  The FDA didn’t ask the company to change the label until
March 4, 2011, when it said preliminary studies suggested
Topamax might contribute to cleft lips and cleft palates in
infants born to women who used the medication during pregnancy.
The government asked that the label be updated to reflect a
stronger classification and warning for the drug.  Additional trials are scheduled for February and March,
Hutson said.  The case is Gurley v. Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceutical,
110502251, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County,
 Pennsylvania . The master case is In re Topamax Litigation,
110602131, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County,
Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia at  spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  