-- Japan Won’t Set Dates for Restarting 50 Idled Nuclear Reactors
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-11-18T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/japan-won-t-set-dates-for-restarting-50-idled-nuclear-reactors.html
Japan ’s nuclear regulator said 
it has no fixed schedule to complete safety checks at idled 
atomic plants, possibly delaying reactor restarts and the supply 
of cheaper energy the government wants to drive economic growth.  Speculation on when some of Japan’s 50 reactors would
restart increased this year as the Nuclear Regulation Authority
introduced stricter safety tests in July in response to the 2011
nuclear disaster in Fukushima. NRA Chairman Shunichi Tanaka said
at the time the inspections would take about six months,
suggesting some atomic plants may restart in January.  The NRA now says Tanaka was speaking generally and not
citing a set schedule. “We are not sure when inspections will
complete because the period of inspections depends largely on
operators’ response,” NRA spokesman Tadashi Yamada said in an
e-mailed response on Nov. 14. “We do not have a time frame.”  Any delays will be a setback for the government of Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe, which wants to restart some of the reactors
to help drive Japan out of decades of economic stagnation.
Delays also may foster growing public disapproval of nuclear
power and dissent within his own party on the issue.  Shutting Japan’s reactors after Fukushima has caused the
nation’s trade deficit to balloon because of the cost of
importing fuels such as liquefied natural gas, oil and coal for
running replacement power plants.  Wealth Loss  The combined fuel costs for the country’s nine regional
power companies will almost double to 7.5 trillion yen ($75
billion) this fiscal year ending March 31, 2014, from three
years earlier, the Ministry of Trade, Economy, and Industry
estimated in an Oct. 9 report. The estimate assumes no reactors
will restart by March.  Additional fossil-fuel imports would push Japan into its
third consecutive annual trade deficit in the year ending in
March, the government-affiliated Institute of Energy Economics,
Japan, said in an August report.  “The industry’s fuel costs for thermal plants have almost
doubled from the level prior to the earthquake, causing an
outflow of Japan’s national wealth,” Makoto Yagi, chairman of
the Federation of  Electric Power (9501)  Companies of Japan, said at a
Nov. 15 press conference.  Nuclear power has a role to play in Japan’s energy master
plan because the country’s energy self-sufficiency rate is only
about 4 percent, said Yagi, who is also president of  Kansai
Electric Power Co. (9503) , the country’s second-biggest utility and the
one most dependent on nuclear power. He declined to comment on
the progress of safety checks at reactors.  Inspection Teams  Surging fuel costs are translating into higher electricity
bills for households and companies, leading to warnings
businesses may take investments and jobs to other countries.  All of Japan’s reactors are idled for safety assessments
after the 2011 earthquake and tsunami caused meltdowns and
radiation leaks at  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant. The NRA was set up after the disaster to independently
review Japan’s nuclear power plants, the source of more than a
quarter of the country’s electricity before the accident.  The assessments include plant visits, computer simulations
and safety-documentation checks. The agency has three teams to
inspect reactors, with as many as 20 people in each group, while
an additional team concentrates on earthquake and tsunami
hazards.  Inspectors Wanted  The NRA has an advertisement for job openings for more
inspectors on its website. The agency hasn’t decided how many
inspectors it will hire, according to spokesman Yamada. The
electricity utilities submitted restart applications for 10
reactors when the NRA began accepting inspection requests on
July 8. Applications for another four units have since been
filed.  Tokyo Electric, Japan’s biggest utility, has applied for
checks on two reactors at its Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant, while
 Kansai Electric  filed applications for four reactors at its Ohi
and Takahama plants.  Hokkaido Electric Power Co. (9509)  applied for three reactors at
its Tomari plant, while  Kyushu Electric Power Co. (9508)  asked for four
units to be checked at its Sendai and Genkai plants.  Shikoku
Electric Power Co. (9507)  filed an application for one reactor at its
Ikata plant.  The inspections are taking place against a backdrop of
repeated accidents and radioactive water leaks at Tokyo
Electric’s Fukushima plant, further eroding support in the
country for nuclear power.  Koizumi Speech  Former Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi  became the latest
public figure to speak out against atomic power, telling a
packed crowd at the Japan National Press Club on Nov. 12 that
the country should abandon nuclear power.  Surveys published in the Asahi and Mainichi newspapers on
Nov. 12 found 60 percent and 54 percent of respondents
respectively agreed with Koizumi.  As the Prime Minister faces nuclear critics among citizens
and within his own party, he doesn’t get much relief at home.
Akie Abe, his wife, has gone public with her doubts about her
husband promoting the sale of Japanese nuclear technology
overseas while dealing with a nuclear disaster at home.  “While we’re unable to contain a nuclear plant accident at
home, I question whether it’s appropriate to sell them abroad,”
Akie Abe said at a Nov. 12 event sponsored by the Hokkaido
Shimbun, according to the newspaper’s website. “I’ve been
telling my husband it’s not the right time to sell, but he won’t
listen to me.”  The following table includes data on reactor types,
original reactor start dates, current state of operations and
status of safety-check applications to the NRA. Capacities are
given in megawatts.  Boiling water reactors (BWR), including advanced boiling
water reactors (ABWR), must install filtration vents before
restarting. Pressurized water reactors (PWR) are required to
install the vents within five years after resuming operations.  
Sources: Federation of Electric Power Cos. of Japan; Company
Statements; Nuclear Regulation Authority  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  