-- Jefferson County’s Rise to Investment Grade Doubted: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/jefferson-county-s-rise-to-investment-grade-doubted-muni-credit.html
Jefferson County, which filed the
biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy until  Detroit , is selling $1.8
billion of sewer debt to help exit court protection.  Standard &
Poor’s  rates the bonds above junk. Investors disagree.  The Alabama county’s borrowing marks the first time that a
municipality is offering long-term debt using its own credit 
while still in bankruptcy, said Matt Fabian, managing director 
at research firm Municipal Market Advisors. While S&P ranks the 
underlying credit of the senior bonds two levels above junk, 
 Fitch Ratings  gives them a speculative grade.  Portfolio managers and analysts from Wells Capital
Management Inc., Western Asset Management Co. and MMA say the
S&P ratings don’t reflect the sewer system’s history of failing
to raise rates enough to pay its obligations. Even with
insurance giving the senior debt an S&P rank three levels below
the top, the bonds are being offered at yields closer to
speculative grade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s definitely not an investment-grade credit in our
mind,” said Lyle Fitterer, who helps manage $31 billion of
munis at  Wells Capital  in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , and may
buy securities maturing within 10 years. “The water and sewer
rates are already high, and the question is, at some point will
they come back and say that they’re effectively being over-burdened? That in our minds continues to be a concern.”  Anniversary Sale  This week’s sale comes two years after the locality of
660,000 residents said it couldn’t pay what it owed on more than
$3 billion of bonds sold for sewer work. Until Detroit’s July
filing, it was the nation’s largest municipal bankruptcy.  The financing may pave the way for other insolvent
municipalities, said Fabian at MMA.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the lead
underwriter, is marketing the debt to buyers such as  hedge
funds , which typically don’t invest in munis.  “It’s very innovative and it could provide issuers who are
in bankruptcy with a better form of refinancing,” said Fabian,
whose firm is based in Concord,  Massachusetts .  S&P said sewer-rate increases have been pre-approved for 40
years and that Jefferson County has improved oversight by
installing a county manager for the first time. In the first 10
years, the county will have as much as two times the cash to pay
debt service. If the county refuses to raise rates as specified
under the bond deal, investors can ask the court to intervene.
Residents are challenging the structure in  bankruptcy court .  In Line  “The rate increases are high at almost 8 percent in the
next four years,” James Breeding, an S&P analyst in  Dallas ,
said in an interview. “Beyond that, 3.5 percent a year is by no
means out of line with other major systems.”  The county’s sewer rates are among the nation’s highest,
according to the bond prospectus. Rates rose 329 percent from
1997 to 2008, drawing residents’ ire. Under Alabama law, sewer
rates must be reasonable and nondiscriminatory, and are subject
to review by the courts.  In contrast to S&P, Fitch is less confident in the system’s
ability to generate sufficient revenue.  The company is concerned it may be unable to boost fees
enough to cover a projected $1.1 billion shortfall in years 2024
through 2040 for capital needs, Doug Scott, an analyst, said in
a report.  While Moody’s Investors Service doesn’t rate the deal, it
views the borrowing as having “non-investment grade
characteristics,” Christopher Coviello, an analyst, said in a
report.  ‘Looking Forward’  “We felt that S&P is looking forward, while the others are
looking at the past,” Jefferson County Commission President
 David Carrington  said Nov. 15 in Birmingham, the county seat,
after a hearing on the financing plan.  Jefferson County is borrowing to pay creditors. The latest
accord replaced one reached in June that became unworkable when
 interest rates  rose in the $3.7 trillion municipal market,
partly because of Detroit’s filing on July 18.  The deal is scheduled to price tomorrow with sales to
institutional investors such as mutual funds, after two days of
marketing to individuals. Scott Helfman, a spokesman for New
York-based Citigroup, declined to comment.  An insured segment of the senior debt that matures in
October 2044 was being offered with a tax-free 5.5 percent
yield, according to three people familiar with the sale who
asked not to be named before prices are final.  Extra Yield  That’s about the same as benchmark 30-year revenue bonds
that are rated two steps above junk and are uninsured, according
to a Bloomberg  index . Top-rated debt of that maturity yields
about 4.15 percent, Bloomberg data show.  That extra yield may attract buyers even with the system’s
history, said Daniel Solender, who manages $16.5 billion as
director of munis at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey .  “If you can get comfortable with it, it’s an essential-service credit,” he said. “It has a lot of yield.”  Even with the higher yields, the risk rises on longer
maturities because the bulk of the loan is set to be repaid in
years 2039 through 2053, preliminary pricing data show.  Subordinate debt without insurance and maturing in October
2053 was being marketed with a preliminary yield of 6.5 percent,
about one percentage point above the Bloomberg 30-year BBB
revenue index. S&P rates the debt BBB-, one step above junk.  The bonds that mature in more than three years are too
risky, said Matt Dalton, who oversees $1.8 billion of munis as
chief executive officer of Belle Haven Investments Inc. in  White
Plains ,  New York . Debt service balloons 67 percent in 2024,
reducing available revenue to pay bondholders.  Wide Net  “There’s just too many what-ifs, and too much optimism,”
Dalton said.  Citigroup will market the bonds to investors domestically
and internationally and paint a picture of debt that’s poised to
improve over the next five years along with the sewer system’s
finances, according to a July underwriting proposal.  “They’ll cast the net as wide as possible,” said Robert Amodeo, who helps manage about $30 billion of debt at  Western
Asset  in New York.  If the sale prices at speculative-grade levels, it will
join  Puerto Rico  as a locality that trades at yields equivalent
to junk even though credit companies rank it higher.  All three major rating companies score the commonwealth one
step above junk with a negative outlook.  Market Week  Elsewhere in the municipal market this week, issuers from
 California  to Maryland plan to sell about $7.6 billion of long-term debt with yields close to a one-month high.  Top-rated 10-year munis yield  2.82 percent , compared with
 2.7 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the interest rates, a measure of relative
value, is about  104 percent , and compares with a five-year
average of 102.5 percent. The higher the figure, the cheaper
munis are against federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  The Illinois Finance Authority is set to offer about $135
million in revenue bonds this week for loans to localities for
water and sewer projects and to refinance debt, according to a
preliminary offering document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  