-- Jefferson Mays Is Sliced, Diced in ‘Gent’s Guide’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-11-18T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/jefferson-mays-is-sliced-diced-in-gent-s-guide-review.html
A stylish music-hall mystery in
which we know whodunit from beginning to end, “ A Gentleman’s
Guide to Love and Murder ” has lively songs, a congenial villain
and a physically and morally flexible mistress.  Most important, it has the fine actor Jefferson Mays
playing all eight heirs to Highhurst Castle as they’re
dispatched one after another in comically gruesome ways. What he
lacks in finesse as a quick-change artist, he more than makes up
for in force of personality.  The villain is one Monty Navarro, raised in poverty by a
single mother and lover of Sibella Hayward, who is about to
marry into wealth.  When Monty discovers that his father was a distant heir to
Highhurst, Monty connives to knock off the intermediary scions.
There’s Asquith D’Ysquith Jr., a gay collegian dreamily skating
on thin ice. And Lady Hyacinth D’Ysquith, who -- well, there
need to be some shocks.  Monty is played by the dangerously cherubic Bryce Pinkham,
Sibella by curvy newcomer Lisa O’Hare. Mays (“I Am My Own Wife”)
brings too few surprises and not much variety to his roles,
though he is droll enough.  The director is Darko Tresnjak, whose work is usually
scarier. With forgettable songs in the operetta style by Steven
Lutvak and an economically paced book by Robert L. Freedman, the
harmless show unfolds on Alexander Dodge’s toy-theater set like
a machine designed to draw a few laughs and send the audience
home relieved of care for a couple of hours. Mission
accomplished.  At the Walter Kerr Theatre, 219 W. 48th St. Information:
+1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  and  Katya Kazakina  on
auctions,  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Martin Gayford  on art,  Warwick
Thompson  on U.K. theater and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 