-- Jiangxi Copper Agrees on 31% Increase in Fees With Freeport
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-18T07:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/jiangxi-copper-agrees-on-31-increase-in-fees-with-freeport.html
Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362) ,  China ’s largest
smelter of the metal, said it agreed with  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  to a 31 percent increase in fees to process
the metal next year.  The companies settled on $92 a metric ton to treat
concentrate and 9.2 cents a pound to refine the metal, Huang
Dongfeng, the board secretary of the Jiangxi-based company, said
by telephone today. Huang said the agreement was reached on Nov.
15, without disclosing more information. The rates this year
were $70 a ton and 7 cents a pound, according to Jiangxi.  Higher treatment fees shore up earnings at smelters and add
support to copper futures that tumbled into a  bear market  in
April and have fallen 12 percent this year in  London . Tongling
Nonferrous Metals Group Co., China’s second largest copper
producer, will probably use Jiangxi’s agreement as a benchmark
in its own talks with miners, said board secretary Wu Heping.  The agreement may also weigh on spot treatment fees in
China, which rose above $100 a ton in late September and have
remained above that level since then, said Zhu Wenjun, an
analyst at SMM Information & Technology Co. in Shanghai.  “The increase will help Jiangxi’s profit next year,” Zhu
said. “The agreement is in line with expectations in the
market, which were for about $90 to $95 per ton.”  The fees are deducted from the price paid by smelters to
mining companies for the raw material.  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange was little changed at $7,003.50 a metric ton at 3:14
p.m. Shanghai time.  Global Miners  Mining companies including Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and Phoenix, Arizona-based Freeport, are negotiating with
smelters around the world to set fees for 2014.  Atsushige Higashimori, a spokesman at Tokyo-based Pan
Pacific Copper Co., Masashi Takahashi, a spokesman at Sumitomo
Metal Mining Co. and Takuya Kitamura, a spokesman at Mitsubishi
Materials Corp., declined to comment on their negotiations for
annual processing fees with mining companies. Lee Joon, a
spokesman at  South Korea ’s LS-Nikko Copper Inc., also declined
to comment.  World supply of mined copper will expand no less than 4
percent annually in the 2012-16 period, Standard Bank Plc said
in a report in October, compared with less than 1 percent in
four of the six years before 2012.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in  Shanghai  at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  