-- JPMorgan Said to Agree to Cover WaMu Costs on Mortgage Deal
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-11-18T23:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/jpmorgan-said-to-agree-to-cover-some-wamu-costs-on-mortgage-deal.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to drop
litigation against the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. over some
mortgage bonds sold by Washington Mutual Inc., clearing the way
for a $9 billion accord with state and federal officials, two
people briefed on the matter said.  The settlement will be announced tomorrow, said one of the
people, requesting anonymity because the negotiations aren’t
public. JPMorgan, the largest U.S. lender by  assets , agreed
today to the terms of $4 billion in consumer relief payments,
the person said. The remaining $5 billion will go toward
penalties and resolving claims.  The bank battled with the FDIC over who should pay some
liabilities from WaMu, the failed Seattle thrift that the agency
placed into receivership in 2008 while selling assets to New
York-based JPMorgan.  The agreement, which is being brokered by the Justice
Department, won’t interfere with JPMorgan’s ability to sue the
FDIC to cover part of a $4 billion settlement last month with
the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , two people familiar with the
matter said.  It also won’t prohibit the bank from seeking reimbursement
from the FDIC for claims against WaMu from private investors,
they said. JPMorgan announced a tentative $4.5 billion deal last
week with 21 institutional investors, including Pacific
Investment Management Co., to settle claims that the lender and
its subsidiaries sold faulty mortgage bonds.  Attorneys General  The $9 billion settlement, which includes a $2 billion
fine, will end civil investigations by the Justice Department
and the California and New York state attorneys general, as well
as lawsuits by the FDIC and National Credit Union
Administration, people briefed on the talks said.  Andrew Gray, a spokesman for the FDIC, JPMorgan’s  Brian Marchiony  and Brian Fallon at the Justice Department said they
couldn’t comment because the negotiations are confidential.  The consumer-relief portion of the accord, negotiated over
the weekend by Associate Attorney General Tony West and U.S.
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan, requires
JPMorgan to hire an independent monitor and provide the entire
$4 billion by the end of 2016, one of the people said.  JPMorgan’s costs include at least $1.5 billion in principal
writedowns for struggling homeowners with federally backed
loans, the person said. Of that, $1.2 billion would be for first
lien principal writedowns. At least $300 million must go toward
forbearance, in which banks shift loan terms to account for a
change in a debtor’s income, the person said.  Vacant Homes  An additional $2 billion would fund interest-rate
reductions of existing loans, new loans or loan originations
that JPMorgan would be required to keep in its portfolio, the
person said. The bank also would receive credit for so-called
anti-blight efforts, such as the costs of demolishing vacant
homes and absorbing the mortgages of such properties the bank
has yet to foreclose on, the person said.  If JPMorgan doesn’t provide the entire $4 billion by the
end of 2016 then the bank would be required to pay any leftover
portion to the government or a nonprofit, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  