-- KBC Holders Cera, KBC Ancora Trim Stake to Cut Shareholder Loans
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-11-18T19:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/kbc-holders-cera-kbc-ancora-trim-stake-to-cut-shareholder-loans.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC)  investors Cera CVBA and
 KBC Ancora (KBCA)  CVA are selling a combined 18.8 million shares of
Belgium’s biggest bank by market value to reduce shareholder
loans that have to be deducted from KBC’s regulatory capital.  Cera is selling 14.1 million KBC shares, or about 56
percent of its holding, according to an e-mailed statement
today. Leuven, Belgium-based KBC Ancora is offering 4.7 million
shares, or about 5.7 percent of its holding, according to a
separate statement. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is managing the
sale of the shares, which are being offered at 39.15 euros to 40
euros apiece, according to terms obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Cera and KBC Ancora said they will use proceeds from the
placement to buy back 425 million euros of term loans due in
2017 and repay additional short-term debt provided by KBC Bank
NV as upcoming Basel III capital rules require KBC to deduct
loans provided to shareholders from its regulatory capital. Both
investors are paring their stake after KBC  rallied  to a five-year high in Brussels trading last week.  “KBC Ancora remains the largest shareholder of KBC Groep
after the transaction and will continue, together with Cera and
the other stable shareholders, its role in ensuring the
shareholder stability of the group,” KBC said in a statement.  The elimination of the shareholder loans will add 0.7
percentage points to KBC’s common equity ratio of 12.5 percent
currently, assuming full application of the Basel III capital
rules. KBC Bank already transferred 325 million euros of KBC
Ancora loans to a third party in July following calls from
 Belgium ’s bank regulator to reduce the shareholder loans before
approving a reimbursement of state aid.  KBC will retain a 18.6 percent stake and Cera’s holding
will shrink to about 2.7 percent following the placement. That
will reduce the combined stake of the shareholder syndicate
consisting of KBC Ancora, Cera, the Belgian farmers’ union and a
dozen Flemish families to about 43.8 percent, according to KBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  