-- Kidney Artery Stents Fail to Provide Greater Heart Help
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-11-18T21:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/kidney-artery-stents-fail-to-provide-greater-heart-help.html
A  procedure  to clear and prop open
clogged kidney arteries didn’t offer a cardiovascular benefit to
patients more than drug therapy, researchers said, underscoring
the need to use medicines first to reduce  heart disease .  The study released today builds on two previous trials that
also found the procedure known as renal stenting was no better
than aggressive drug therapy. Doctors cited flaws in the
original research and continued to perform the procedures since
clogged renal arteries have been linked to high  blood pressure ,
kidney damage and long-term complications.  Deaths and heart and kidney complications were similar
regardless of whether patients got  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Palmaz
Genesis stent or blood pressure and cholesterol-lowering therapy
with drugs from AstraZeneca Plc and Pfizer Inc., according to
the U.S. government-funded study presented at the  American Heart
Association ’s  annual meeting  in Dallas. Stenting lowered blood
pressure, though that didn’t translate into a heart benefit.  “People are doing renal artery stenting with the belief
that it will help difficult to treat hypertension, multidrug
resistant hypertension, all those categories,” said Robert Harrington, chairman of the department of medicine at  Stanford
University  and chairman of the AHA’s scientific sessions. “This
suggests that it doesn’t work.”  The 10-year trial involved 947 patients who had moderately
clogged kidney arteries and high blood pressure that wasn’t
adequately controlled by two or more medications. After
3.5 years, 35.1 percent of patients given a stent plus more
intense drug therapy died or suffered a complication from heart
or  kidney disease , compared with 35.8 percent given the drugs
alone. Complications included heart attacks, strokes,
hospitalization, worsening kidney disease and dialysis.  Stenting Futile  The study “establishes beyond a reasonable doubt that
renal-artery stenting is futile for the target population
enrolled in the study,” said John Bittl, from Munroe Regional
Medical Center in Ocala, Florida, in an editorial accompanying
the study in the  New England Journal of Medicine . “The
challenge remains for future trials of renal-artery stenting to
identify a suitable target population for enrollment.”  The trial was funded by the National Heart, Lung and Blood
Institute,  Pfizer (PFE)  and New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J. The
medicines used in the study were provided by New York-based
Pfizer and London-based AstraZeneca. Renal artery stents are
made by J&J,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ,  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX)   Not First  The findings don’t mean that no one should get a renal
artery stent, said  Michael Jaff , chairman of the  Massachusetts
General Hospital ’s institute for Heart, Vascular and Stroke Care
in Boston. Instead, it proves beyond a doubt that it’s not the
right first treatment for people with clogged renal arteries.  “The medical regimen that was offered is inexpensive, most
of it is generic, the compliance is good because it’s mainly
once daily dosing, and it works,” he said in an interview.  Medicare, the U.S. government’s health insurance program
for the elderly, is likely to review their coverage of the
treatment based on the study’s results, Jaff said. A previous
review several years ago found there wasn’t enough evidence to
change coverage levels, he said.  About 100 million Americans have  hypertension , and clogged
kidney arteries known as renal artery stenosis is responsible
for about 1 percent to 5 percent of those cases, Jaff said. Not
everyone undergoes stenting, however, and many may not even be
aware of the condition, he said.  A 2007 study showed stenting the cardiac arteries failed to
ward off heart problems better than drugs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  