-- Kimbell’s $135 Million Expansion Has Light, Needs Soul
-- B y   J a m e s   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-11-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/kimbell-s-135-million-expansion-has-light-needs-soul.html
A shadow creeps across the barrel-shaped ceiling of an entrance porch at the Kimbell Art Museum in
Fort Worth,  Texas .  It’s a sublime, ephemeral phenomenon that evokes an ancient
sun-dazzled world.  Designed by Louis Kahn in 1972, the Kimbell is considered
the greatest American museum building of the 20th century.
Understandably, the new $135-million addition by  Renzo Piano ,
which at 101,000 square feet (9,383 square meters) just about
doubles the Kimbell’s space, has been anticipated with
trepidation.  Kahn died just two years after the opening, leaving a
building that is regarded as uniquely congenial to a collection
of only 350 exquisite objects.  Most works have been acquired after long consideration and
at lavish cost. Choice Old Master paintings dominate.  Kahn echoed the porch’s barrel roof in long galleries in
travertine marble framed in concrete. Slots in the ceiling and
narrow clerestories just below the vaulted ceiling admit a
silken wash of daylight and the occasional shaft of sun which
never strikes the art.  The galleries are almost domestic in scale, and invite the
close inspection of the parade of masterpieces that range from
Caravaggio and Picasso to delicate pre-Columbian sculptures.  Kahn, a native of Philadelphia, was a wild-card choice, a
cerebral yet charismatic professor, who had completed few
significant buildings in 1965, when he was selected, at age 64.  Restrained Elegance  In Genoa-based Piano, 76, the Kimbell got what it signed on
for: a predictable, restrained elegance. The Italian once worked
for Kahn and has designed 13 major museum projects in the U.S.
alone, known for their obsessively refined handling of light.  Piano did not add to the original building but designed a
separate structure looking toward it across a tree-studded sweep
of lawn. There’s no Oedipal face-off between Piano and
paterfamilias Kahn because Piano defers with a wide glass-walled
entrance flanked by two bunker-like concrete-walled wings that
echo Kahn’s proportions.  While Kahn’s wing inside feels earthbound, almost
subterranean, you enter a realm of shimmering light within the
building that’s now called the Piano Pavilion. (Piano did not
approve the naming. “I’m not dead,” I’m told he said.)  The huge lobby is roofed by bands of glass that run between
massive paired wooden roof beams. High walls of glass form a
series of shimmering scrims from the entry through a courtyard
to a rear wing.  Endless Refractions  The lobby almost vibrates from the endless refractions as
the sun arcs through the sky.  The two large galleries flanking the lobby bring to mind an
aircraft hangar designed by  Steve Jobs . The glass roof seems to
float atop the massive exterior walls, which are concrete honed
to a sheen (aided by the addition of titanium) so delicate it
evokes fog.  Atop the roof glass, louvers covered with photovoltaic
cells swivel with the sun angle to precisely guide daylight
through an atomizing fabric scrim.  Piano tops the exterior walls with a line of clerestories
(an idea lifted from the Kahn). Along with tall end windows, the
side lights add dimension and warmth that dispels the chill I
have felt in other Piano projects.  While Kahn’s blond travertine marble walls cosset art,
Piano’s silvery concrete brings a new glow to warm-toned
paintings and delicate sculptures from  Latin America  and  Asia .  Severe Magnificence  The large galleries trade the intimacy of the Kahn for a
severe magnificence and much more flexibility in arrangement --
especially of temporary exhibitions, which in the Kahn required
removal of most of the collection.  Kahn was the first architect to break open the tyrannical
gallery box by taming the art-damaging quality of daylight while
using it to reveal subtleties of tone and texture. The
changeability of daylight evokes the real world museums shut
out.  Instead of diluting the Kahn’s intimacy, the Piano wing
calls attention to Kahn’s sensuality.  Standing in front of the Piano, my eye was drawn to a long
line of water that spills luxuriantly in front of Kahn’s
inviting open porches.  Strolling across to the Kahn, I ascended a low stone
plinth, as one would a classical temple. The travertine walls
and the trunks of tightly planted rows of yaupon holly trees
that veil the entrance invited me to touch.  Turing back to gaze back at the Piano, I appreciated the
way every surface, bolt, and tie rod has been refined and
proportioned with supreme -- if soulless -- confidence.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  and  Katya Kazakina  on
auctions,  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Martin Gayford  on art,  Warwick
Thompson  on U.K. theater and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Russell  in  Fort Worth , Texas, at  jrussell20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  