-- Netcare Sees U.K. Hospital Growth as Earnings Double
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-11-18T15:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/netcare-sees-u-k-hospital-growth-as-earnings-double.html
Netcare Ltd. (NTC) , an owner and operator
of private hospitals in South Africa and Britain, more than
doubled full-year profit after it reduced exposure to U.K.
properties and as business in that health-care market improved.  Net income rose to 5.1 billion rand ($502 million) in the
12 months through September from 2.1 billion rand a year
earlier, Johannesburg-based Netcare said in a statement today.
Revenue advanced 10 percent to 27.8 billion rand, with currency
fluctuations accounting for 6 percent of the increase. Netcare
raised its final dividend 19 percent to 40.5 cents a share.  The earnings “reflect a strong trading performance from
the  South African (SAPO)  operations and further improvement from our
operations in the  United Kingdom ,” Chief Executive Officer
Richard Friedland said in Johannesburg today. Netcare’s British
unit, which runs 35 hospitals, is showing “early tentative
signs of stabilization,” the company said.  Revenue from the U.K gained 2.1 percent during the year,
compared with 6.2 percent in South Africa. Netcare plans to add
100 hospital beds in the current fiscal year, 30 more than it
added in the prior period. The company has an increased focus on
adding psychiatric facilities, Friedland said. These will be
from both new and converted beds, he said.  The  shares  rose as much as 2.7 percent and closed 0.8
percent higher at 24.30 rand at 5 p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing
the gain this year to 24 percent.  Mediclinic International Ltd. (MDC) ,
South Africa’s largest private-hospital owner, has climbed 33
percent this year.  Life Healthcare Group Holdings Ltd. (LHC) , the
country’s second-largest private-hospital owner by market value,
has advanced 18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  