-- New Mortgage Form Said Required of Large and Small Banks
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/new-mortgage-form-said-required-of-large-and-small-banks-in-2015.html
New U.S. rules requiring simplified
mortgage paperwork will take effect in August 2015 without an
exemption for small lenders, according to people briefed on
plans by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The new regulation, the result of a two-and-a-half year
effort to help borrowers shop around for home loans, would kick
in on Aug. 1, 2015, according to one of the people, who asked to
remain anonymous because it hasn’t been released. CFPB Director
 Richard Cordray  plans to unveil the rule tomorrow at a field
hearing in  Boston .  Camden Fine, president of the  Independent Community Bankers
of America  said bureau officials told him they “are not
inclined” to exempt small lenders from the rule, which he
called a regulatory burden.  “This rule will affect every lender, every title company,
and every single borrower and property seller,” Fine said in an
e-mail. “There won’t be any small creditor carve-outs on this
rule at all.”  Form  prototypes  include information such as  interest rates ,
monthly payments and closing costs in bold type and a less
cluttered format.  The simplified form will be “a game changer” for
consumers, CFPB Director Richard Cordray said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television on Jan. 10. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
required the agency to propose the new form by July 21, 2012
without setting a deadline for completion.  Understanding Loan  The initiative to create the form, dubbed “Know Before You
Owe,” started in early 2011 when  Elizabeth Warren , then running
the agency, released draft prototypes of the forms. Warren, now
a Democratic senator from  Massachusetts , said the forms would
help consumers understand if they can afford a mortgage and if
they can get a better deal elsewhere.  Jen Howard, a CFPB spokeswoman, declined to comment on the
regulation.  Small bankers have been rebuffed as they pressed Cordray to
delay the implementation deadline for two other rules, on
mortgage underwriting and servicing, that are scheduled to take
effect in January. Lawmakers in the U.S. House of
Representatives have also sought a delay.  The new regulation combines disclosures required under the
Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures
Act. Before Dodd-Frank created the bureau the two laws were
administered by separate federal agencies, which had hampered
efforts to streamline the paperwork.  In its drafts of the form, the CFPB sought to determine
what best helped borrowers understand the costs of their loans.
For example, one draft featured the annual percentage rate,
which includes fees, but a revised version focused on the
interest rate.  Customer Relationships  Smaller lenders, which had no exemption from the
regulations under the other agencies, pressed Cordray for an
exemption on the grounds that the regulatory burden is
unjustified since they have a close relationship with their
customers.  Fine said his group of small lenders has “been all over
CFPB” about the new disclosures, but failed to win an exemption
for smaller companies.  They criticized the initial proposal, which topped 1,000
pages when it was released in July 2012. The consumer bureau
responded that only about 200 pages of the proposal was actually
a regulation, the rest being supporting documentation, some that
Congress required.  This regulation could be as far-reaching as the two
mortgage rules taking effect in January, Fine added. “It will
take that much time or more for banks to digest and prepare for
these new rules,” he said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  