-- New Era of Higher Costs Spurs Record 50-Year Yield: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-18T03:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/new-era-of-higher-costs-spurs-record-50-year-yield-china-credit.html
China sold 50-year bonds at a record
high yield as banks prepare for what they describe as a new era
of higher borrowing costs after a government policy overhaul.  The  finance ministry  auctioned 20 billion  yuan  ($3.3
billion) of debt due November 2063 on Nov. 15 at a yield of 5.31
percent, the highest since sales of the tenor began in 2009.
That compares with a 4.24 percent rate offered in the previous
sale and the 5.05 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. The sale drew bids for 1.51 times the amount offered,
less than the 2.13 times in May.  The People’s Bank of China in July scrapped a floor on
lending rates and Deutsche Bank AG in September forecast the cap
on saving rates will end by 2015, a move that would spur
competition for deposits among the nation’s more than 3,700
banks. Market forces will be “decisive” in allocating
resources, according to a communique released after a four-day
economic planning meeting attended by Chinese leaders.  “We should probably adapt to a new era as the old times of
cheap money are behind us,” said Cheng Qingsheng, a Shanghai-based analyst at Evergrowing Bank Co. In recent weeks, “a lot
of sovereign and financial bonds were issued, and the PBOC
drained money.”  President Xi Jinping is accelerating an unwinding of
Communist Party economic policies that originated during or
shortly after the reign of Chairman  Mao Zedong .  Easing Controls  The leadership meeting decided to expand farmers’ land
rights, loosen the one-child policy and encourage private
investment in state businesses. Farmers will get more rights
over collectively owned rural land, while the household
registration system that impedes internal migration will be
scrapped in towns and small cities, the Communist Party said in
a statement on Nov. 15.  The nation will accelerate convertibility of the yuan and
the freeing-up of interest rates, improve treasury yield curves
and let qualified private investors set up small-to-medium sized
banks, according to the decision.  China started publishing a new prime loan rate based on
quotes from banks in October and signaled it may eventually
replace the current benchmark set by the PBOC. Trading of
certificates of deposit between lenders will be permitted in the
“near term” to create conditions for steady and orderly
promotion of deposit-rate liberalization,  Hu Xiaolian , a PBOC
deputy governor, said on Sept. 24.  More Choices  Commercial banks held 69 percent of outstanding  government
bonds  at the end of 2012, according to China Financial Futures
Exchange data. In January 2012, the finance ministry published a
list of 59 underwriters that were mandated to bid at its debt
sales, including Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd. and China
Construction Bank Co.  Demand for longer-term bonds is driven by investors such as
insurance companies, and the low bid-to-cover ratio at the
finance ministry’s sale last week could be because these funds
now have wider choices, according to Guotai Junan Securities Co.
 China  allowed insurers to invest in hybrid bonds and convertible
debt and raised the investment ceiling for unsecured notes last
year, according to a statement on the China Insurance Regulatory
Commission’s website.  “The wider investment scope allows insurers to seek
alternatives to long-term debt,” said Min Shuai, a Shanghai-based analyst at Guotai Junan. “There is a lack of demand from
insurers.”  Aging Population  The number of people in China aged 60 or above will rise to
more than 300 million by 2025 from 194 million in 2012,
according to a State Council  report  in September. An increasing
fiscal burden caused by the aging population is forcing the
government to reduce some implicit sovereign guarantees,
Standard Chartered Plc analyst Dorris Chen wrote in an Aug. 8
note to clients.  “We have predicted for several years that China will need
a well-developed  bond market  by 2017,” said David Munro, chief
executive officer of Volatility Research & Trading Ltd., a
Singapore-based company that advises  hedge funds  and companies
on risk management, derivatives and demographics. “This is to
meet the demand of aging or retiring Chinese from a baby boom in
the 1960s for risk-free investments with a yield. China
recognizes this and is providing what the population needs.”  Economic Transformation  The nation is pushing a shift of the economy to one that is
driven by sustainable, domestic consumption rather than exports.
Growth is entering a phase of transformation involving a slowing
down from “high speed to medium-to-high speed,” Premier  Li
Keqiang  said in September. He has also signaled that the
government’s bottom line for expansion is 7 percent, the level
needed to meet the Communist Party’s target of doubling per
capita income in the decade through 2020.  Benchmark money-market rates jumped the most in almost five
months on Nov. 15 as the PBOC drained cash from the financial
system for the second straight week. The central bank’s money-market operations withdrew a net 15 billion yuan last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while a Founder
Securities Co. report said the Ministry of Finance and policy
banks issued about 100 billion yuan of bonds.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system. rose 25 basis points this
month to 5.3 percent on Nov. 15 in  Shanghai . The yield on the
government’s 10-year sovereign  bonds  advanced 42 basis points to
4.6 percent in the same period, according to Chinabond data.
That was the highest since 2008. The yuan, which has gained 2.3
percent this year, rose 0.01 percent to 6.0917 per dollar as of
11:01 a.m. in Shanghai today.  “People may buy if they see trading opportunities, but no
one really wants to add long-duration bonds to their portfolio
under the current circumstances,” said Sun Binbin, a bond
analyst at China Merchants Securities Co. in Shanghai. “China’s
 interest rates  have been artificially kept low in the past, and
now we’re witnessing the process of normalization.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  