-- New Zealand Stops a Housing Bubble
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-11-18T18:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/new-zealand-stops-a-housing-bubble.html
(Corrects description of earthquake damage in 10th
paragraph.)  Perhaps the Federal Reserve has
something to learn from the central bank of New Zealand about
how to manage a mortgage market. Unlike the Fed, which has been
sharply criticized for having failed to keep the U.S. housing
bubble from expanding, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand is
sounding the alarm over rising housing prices and imposing
limits on mortgages.  Risks associated with excessive increases in house prices,
and the potential that the bubble might burst, have become a
major threat to the country’s financial system, the Reserve Bank
 warns .  The New Zealand housing market is indeed heating up. Over
the past year, house prices in Auckland have risen 17 percent,
and in Christchurch, they’re up 8 percent. Those two markets
account for half of home sales across the country.  Relative to income, New Zealand housing prices are now more
than 20 percent above their historical average. International
organizations such as the International Monetary Fund and the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development share the
Reserve Bank’s concerns that real estate may be overvalued.  So what is the central bank in New Zealand doing about it?
In October, it put a limit on high loan-to-value mortgages. Each
bank must see that no more than 10 percent of its new mortgages
finance more than 80 percent of a house’s value. Before the
limit took effect, such mortgages had reached 30 percent of new
originations.  Such limits on high loan-to-value mortgages are becoming
more common internationally; Canada, Israel, Singapore and
Sweden are among the countries using them. And they have been
found effective “in containing exuberant mortgage loan growth,
speculative real estate transactions, and house price
accelerations,” according a June 2013  IMF review  of studies.
During downswings, the review found, such measures can reduce
“fire-sale dynamics” and loan losses.  The New Zealand restriction is a bit uncommon in that it is
not absolute. (Most countries simply prohibit high loan-to-value
mortgages.) Each bank can still issue some of them. Other
exemptions raise the effective limit on the riskiest mortgages
to 15 percent.  The restriction  is expected  to reduce home sales by 5
percent, according to a technical analysis from the Reserve
Bank. That, in turn, will keep house prices 1 percent to 4
percent lower than they would otherwise be after two years.  This is a rather small constraint on housing prices, given
how rapidly they have been rising. Nonetheless, the limit may
help reduce the risks of a potential housing bubble. And the
 central bank itself says  it is helping to avoid the alternative
of raising interest rates.  The fundamental reason housing is getting so much more
expensive in New Zealand is on the supply side. Earthquakes in
2010 and 2011 damaged much of the housing stock in Christchurch.
In Auckland, land-use regulations -- including a zoning
restriction called the Metropolitan Urban Limit -- constrain new
construction. Bill English, New Zealand’s finance minister,
rightly  believes  that these supply problems must be addressed
for the housing market to stabilize.  Even so, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand deserves credit.
As I learned from conversations in Wellington last week, the
mortgage limits are controversial. But they seem likely to help
head off a crisis or contain the damage should one occur. Think
of how much better off the U.S. economy might have been if the
Fed had tried that.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 