-- News Corp. Lawyer Says He Never Gave Legal Opinion on Hacking
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-18T12:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/news-corp-lawyer-says-he-never-gave-legal-opinion-on-hacking.html
A top lawyer at  News Corp . tabloids
told jurors today that he was never asked to give an opinion on
the legality of phone hacking and was assured that it only took
place at the News of the World.  Justin Walford, who has worked at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit
since 2005, said that he was told that phone hacking didn’t take
place at the company’s daily Sun tabloid. He also praised two of
the tabloid editors on trial in the case, Rebekah Brooks and
 Andy Coulson .  Brooks “was a demanding editor,” said Walford, who worked
with the 45-year-old Brooks while she was editor of the Sun.
“She was passionate about the paper. We had many an argument
about what went into the paper.”  Brooks, who later became chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, and the 45-year-old Coulson are among eight
people on trial over phone hacking and bribes to public
officials. News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the News of
the World in 2011 to defuse a scandal over revelations that
journalists had hacked the phone of a missing teenager, who was
later found murdered.  While the News of the World was the center of phone-hacking
allegations in the case, journalists at the Sun are accused by
prosecutors of paying bribes for stories.  Walford said that as a lawyer, he didn’t try to find out
the name of the source for stories.  “Editors will push the lawyer to agree the copy they have
let into the paper,” he said. “But I have never felt undue
financial pressure or anything like that.”  Other defendants include Stuart Kuttner, the 73-year-old
former managing editor of the News of the World, and Ian
Edmondson, a 44-year-old former news editor, who are both
accused of phone hacking.  Clive Goodman , 56, is charged with
conspiring to commit misconduct in a public office while he was
the royal reporter at the News of the World.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  