-- Nigeria Plan Sale of Four State-Owned Oil Refineries Next Year
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-11-18T11:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/nigeria-plan-sale-of-four-state-owned-oil-refineries-next-year.html
Nigeria ,  Africa ’s largest oil
producer, plans to begin privatizing its four state-owned oil
refineries before the end of the first quarter, Petroleum
Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said.  “We would like to see major infrastructural entities such
as refineries moving out of government hands into the private
sector,” Alison-Madueke said in an  interview  with Bloomberg TV
Africa in  London . “Government do not want to be in the business
of running major infrastructure entities and we haven’t done a
very good job at it over all these years.”  A presidential audit of the facilities last year
recommended their sale due to inadequate government funding and
“sub-optimal performance.” The refineries, which have a
combined 445,000 barrel-a-day capacity, should be privatized
within 18 months, according to the report submitted to President
Goodluck Jonathan in November 2012. Nigeria, a member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,  produced  1.99
million barrels a day of crude in October, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  While Nigeria is also Africa’s top crude exporter and the
most populous with more than 160 million people, it relies on
fuel imports to meet more than 70 percent of its needs. Its
state-owned plants operate at a fraction of their capacity
because of poor maintenance and aging equipment. The West
African nation exchanges 60,000 barrels a day of crude for
products with Trafigura Beheer BV and a similar amount with
Societe Ivoirienne de Raffinage’s refinery in  Ivory Coast ,
according to Nigeria National Petroleum Corp.  “We are right now undergoing a major turnaround
maintenance program” of the refineries, Alison-Madueke said.  Improvements to the two-unit 210,000 barrel-a-day Port
Harcourt refinery, the country’s biggest, will be completed by
the end of the year, to be followed by enhancements at the Warri
and Kaduna sites in 2014, according to the NNPC. Warri has a
daily processing capacity of 125,000 and Kaduna 110,000 barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  