-- Norway Oil-Service Strike May Hurt Production, Union Says
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-11-18T13:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/norway-oil-service-strike-may-hurt-production-union-says.html
A strike by Norwegian oil-platform
workers that began three days ago may hurt crude and gas output
in the country, western  Europe ’s largest producer of the fuels.  “The service level for day-to-day operations has now been
halved,” meaning production at some facilities may be affected
within days, Hilde-Marit Rysst, leader of the Safe union, said
today by phone. “Platforms that have a lot of projects and
modifications ongoing will notice it first.”  About 1,400 workers conducting insulation and maintenance
work for  Bilfinger SE (GBF) , Beerenberg Corp. AS and Kaefer GmbH both
off- and onshore are working at 45 percent capacity in a protest
over pay. The dispute arose less than 1 1/2 years after  Norway ’s
longest oil-worker strike disrupted production, prompting the
government to intervene to avert a complete shutdown.  The effect on output from the current strike would vary
from site to site, according to Rysst, who said Safe couldn’t
comment on the potential impact to each facility.  “We are seeking to reduce the effect of the conflict on
our customers but can’t avoid that the total production capacity
is temporarily reduced,” Ole Klemsdal, a Beerenberg spokesman,
said by e-mail, referring to his own company’s services. No one
at Kaefer and Bilfinger was immediately available to comment.  Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest energy company, also couldn’t
comment immediately on the possible consequences to its
operations, Oerjan Heradstveit, a spokesman, said by phone.  There’s no end date for the strike and no talks are
currently planned between Safe and the employers, Rysst said.
Safe is the only union involved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  