-- Oaktree Is Said to Sell Tekni-Plex in $700 Million Deal
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-11-18T23:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/oaktree-is-said-to-sell-tekni-plex-in-700-million-deal.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  agreed to
sell packaging company Tekni-Plex Inc. to private-equity firm
American Securities LLC in a transaction valued at more than
$700 million, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.  The value of the deal, which hasn’t been completed, may be
as much as $775 million including debt, said the person, who
requested anonymity because financial terms weren’t disclosed.
The acquisition is expected to close by year-end, according to a
statement today from the companies.  Oaktree, based in  Los Angeles , and buyout firm Avenue
Capital Group LLC acquired 80 percent of  King of Prussia ,
Pennsylvania-based Tekni-Plex in a 2008 restructuring. The sale
to American Securities follows Oaktree’s agreement in July to
sell Chesapeake Ltd., a U.K. packaging company, to  Carlyle Group
LP. (CG)   “We have had a very strong partnership with the management
of Tekni-Plex and are grateful for the commitment the team has
made in transforming and positioning the company for growth,”
Aaron Bendikson, an Oaktree managing director, said in an e-mailed statement today.  American Securities, based in New York, oversees $10
billion in assets under management. The firm, which is using
money from its sixth fund, previously invested in companies
including El Pollo Loco Inc. and Oreck Corp., and its current
holdings include Metaldyne Inc. and Potbelly Sandwich Works,
according to its  website .  Tekni-Plex, which has 25 manufacturing sites in nine
countries, was advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Paul
Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP, according to the
statement. American Securities received advice from Houlihan
Lokey, BMO Capital Markets Corp. and Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  