-- Oaktree’s Marks Says Bargains Hard to Find After Rally
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-11-18T17:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/oaktree-s-marks-says-bargains-hard-to-find-after-rally.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  Chairman
Howard Marks said it’s difficult to find bargains because prices
of private assets have risen as investors search for yield.  “The bargain hunter is having a tough time because the low
level of Treasury rates has pushed everyone to riskier assets,
which has driven up prices,” Marks said today in an interview
on Bloomberg Television with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle .
“I’m not aware of any broad sweet spots today, and I don’t
think there should be any.”  Private assets, which aren’t traded on exchanges, remain
cheaper than public securities because investors demand to be
compensated for the inherent illiquidity, said Marks, who co-founded Los Angeles-based Oaktree in 1995. Markets have become
more efficient and price discrepancies, which investors seek to
profit from, are more difficult to exploit, Marks said.  Executives at  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) ,  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  have said the environment is ripe
for selling while finding new opportunities in credit and
leveraged buyouts at attractive prices remains difficult. Marks
said this year that Oaktree, the biggest distressed-debt
investor with $80 billion in assets as of Sept. 30, is targeting
annualized returns of 15 percent in its distressed holdings,
down from 20 percent in previous years.  ‘Not Great’  “It’s tough out there,” Bill Conway, Carlyle’s co-chief
executive officer, said this month. “Finding the right assets
at the right prices is tough, but this business is always
tough.”  The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose to 16,000 for the
first time today, and European shares advanced after the longest
weekly rally in 15 months, making it harder to find bargains.  The environment is “not great” for distressed investing,
which has forced Oaktree to ask investors for more time to
invest its Principal Fund V, John Frank, the firm’s managing
principal, said earlier this month. The fund seeks to take
control positions in companies that are burdened by debt or
experiencing other forms of financial distress.  Oaktree is set to raise more than $10 billion this year, a
third of it for new strategies such as real estate debt and
strategic credit, which seeks returns of about 10 percent by
investing in pressured companies that aren’t considered
distressed, a lower-risk approach than distressed investing. The
firm’s profit in the third quarter rose 70 percent to $43
million from a year earlier as its asset base grew.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  