-- Oil Trader Faces Jail for Failure to Make Divorce Payments
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-11-18T16:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/oil-trader-faces-u-k-jail-for-missing-690-000-divorce-payments.html
An oil trader may face jail after
his ex-wife said he failed to make alimony and child-support
payments of about 428,000 pounds ($690,000) in a two-year-old
divorce case that had already reached the U.K.  Supreme Court .  A lawyer for Yasmin Prest told a London court today that
her ex-husband, Michael Prest, should be found in contempt of
court for failing to make the payments.  Yasmin Prest won a landmark U.K. Supreme Court ruling in
June giving her the right to force offshore companies owned by
her former husband to turn over assets as part of a 17.5
million-pound divorce award. She argues that Michael Prest, who
another court said was worth an estimated 38 million pounds, has
failed to make annual payments against the full amount.  Michael Prest, who has British and Nigerian citizenship,
had the case postponed until next year because he has surgery
scheduled later today to remove tumors in the arches of his
feet.  “This is just the latest in a long list of attempts by Mr.
Prest to delay this,” said Jeremy Posnansky, a lawyer for
Yasmin Prest. “He is in breach of at least 11 cost orders made
against him. He’s brought it on his own head.”  Michael Prest’s Petrodel Resources Ltd. held several U.K.
properties in trust for him, and the Supreme Court gave Yasmin
Prest access to them to satisfy the full award in the case. The
judgment was prominent in the U.K. as British law provides that
companies are legally separate entities from their shareholders
-- raising a corporate veil -- in order to protect investors
from debts or liabilities the company may accumulate.  Divorce Capital  Past divorce rulings in the British capital have tended to
favor the spouse with fewer assets, leading a U.K. appeals court
to call the country the “divorce capital” of the world. The
Supreme Court in the Prest case sought to issue a measured
opinion that addressed the facts of the case while limiting the
right to pierce the corporate veil, lawyers said.  Judges have been more willing to consider actions for
failing to comply with court orders in divorce cases, said
Suzanne Kingston, a family lawyer at London-based Withers LLP.  “There are often these sorts of contempt of court cases
but after a seemingly long time of judges not being so robust
there’s an increasing willingness for the court to take the bull
by the horns in family cases,” Kingston said. “There has been
a rash of cases where the person in contempt has been
imprisoned.”  A review of U.K. divorce law was triggered last year, in
part by the case of German heiress Katrin Radmacher and ex- JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  investment banker Nicolas Granatino. In
2010, the U.K.’s top court ruled for the first time that a U.S.-
style pre-nuptial agreement on dividing assets, reached before
marriage, should be enforced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  