-- Homebuilder Sentiment in U.S. Held in November at Four-Month Low
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-11-18T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/homebuilder-sentiment-in-u-s-held-in-november-at-four-month-low.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
held in November at a four-month low as buyer traffic and sales
outlooks retreated.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
builder sentiment gauge was unchanged at 54 from a revised
October reading that was weaker than initially estimated, the
Washington-based group reported today. The  median  forecast in a
Bloomberg survey projected it would come in at 55. Readings
above 50 mean more respondents reported good market conditions.  The 16-day partial government shutdown and political
wrangling over the nation’s budget have taken a toll on consumer
sentiment, causing some would-be buyers to delay spending
decisions. Higher  mortgage rates  also are holding back gains in
real estate, which has been a source of strength for the
economic expansion.  “Policy and economic uncertainty is undermining  consumer
confidence ,”  David Crowe , chief economist at the builders
association, said in a statement. “The fact that builder
confidence remains above 50 is an encouraging sign, considering
the unresolved debt and  federal budget  issues cause builders and
consumers to remain on the sideline.”  Estimates in a Bloomberg  survey  of 51 economists ranged
from 52 to 58 after a previously reported October reading of 55.  Two of three components of the builder survey deteriorated
this month. The group’s measure of the sales outlook for the
next  six months  declined to 60 from 61 in October, and
prospective  buyer traffic  fell to 42 from 43. That put both
measures at five-month lows. The gauge of  current  single-family
home sales was unchanged at 58.  Regional Breakdown  Builder confidence weakened in Midwest, was little changed
in the South and West and improved in the Northeast.  Borrowing costs for homebuyers have climbed since May, with
the average rate for a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage at 4.35
percent for the week ended Nov. 14, up from 3.34 percent a year
ago, according to  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , in McLean, Virginia.  Nonetheless, affordability remains good and housing starts,
which reached an annual rate of 891,000 in August compared with
a record-low 478,000 pace in April 2009, still aren’t keeping up
with  population growth  and household formation, said David Valiaveedan, vice president of finance at  Red Bank , New Jersey-based  Hovnanian (HOV)  Enterprises Inc.  “Not only are we severely under-producing the kind of 1.4
million average of the last cycle, but we’re way under-producing
the long-term demand,” Valiaveedan said at a Nov. 14
conference. “We firmly believe we have a lot of runway ahead of
us and a lot of opportunity.”  Hovnanian sells residential properties in 16 states
including  New York , California and Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  