-- London House Prices Fall 5% as Seasonal Factors Curb Demand
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-11-18T10:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/london-home-prices-fall-as-seasonal-factors-curb-property-demand.html
London   asking prices  for homes fell
in November after a 10 percent jump last month as government
measures to boost demand failed to offset the seasonal pre-Christmas decline,  Rightmove Plc (RMV)  said.  Values in the U.K. capital dropped 5 percent, or 26,956
pounds ($43,500), from the previous month to an average 517,276
pounds, the property-website operator said today. Across England
and Wales, average prices declined by 2.4 percent.  As the economy strengthens and the government ramps up
property stimulus measures, Rightmove said the  underlying
recovery  remains in place. The  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors said this month its  house-price index  rose to the
highest in more than a decade in October.  “The excitement about Help to Buy’s early launch failed to
buck the seasonal trend,” said  Miles Shipside , Rightmove
director. “At this time of year it’s mainly those with a more
pressing need to sell that come to market, driving average
asking prices down.”  Over the past quarter prices in London have risen 3.2
percent, Rightmove said. From a year earlier, values in the city
are up 6.9 percent, while the national increase is 4 percent.  “Estate agents expect a more buoyant 2014 as they pick up
early signs of an increase in buyer interest and demand,”
Shipside said. “This side of Christmas could be the time for
eager buyers to hunt out keen sellers and do a deal.”  Government Stimulus  The Rightmove report showed that the average asking price
for a house in England and  Wales  this month was 246,237 pounds.
All 10 ten regions it tracks recorded declines, with the
steepest drop in London.  Rightmove said its survey shows that almost a quarter of
potential buyers are unaware of Help to Buy’s second phase,
which expands the offer of government-guaranteed mortgages.  With the plan facing some criticism that it may
overstimulate the market, Prime Minster  David Cameron  defended
it last week. It is allowing “hardworking people” to get onto
the property ladder, he said, announcing that more than 2,000
people had been accepted for a government-backed mortgage.  The  Bank of England  said in a survey today that the
perceived threat to the U.K. financial system from property has
risen. Thirty six percent of risk managers cited property as a
risk, up from 25 percent six months earlier. That’s the highest
reading since the second half of 2010. Concerns were mostly
concentrated on the residential market, where responses focused
on the risk of a house-price correction, the BOE said.  The central bank questioned executives at 76 institutions
including  hedge funds , banks and asset managers between Sept. 23
and Oct. 24 for the bi-annual  Systemic Risk Survey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  