-- Hong Kong Seeks to Build REIT Business Amid Regional Competition
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-11-18T10:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/hong-kong-seeks-to-build-reit-business-amid-regional-competition.html
Hong Kong  needs to attract more real
estate investment trusts and allow new types of investment funds
as it seeks to compete with other Asian financial centers, the
city’s  Financial Services Development Council  said.  Hong Kong should amend its rules on REITs, including giving
them an exemption from profit tax on rental incomes, according
to one of six reports published by the council today. The city
should also allow the establishment of open-ended investment
companies, encouraging fund management firms to choose the city
as their domicile, the reports said.  The recommendations bolster efforts by the former British
colony to strengthen its role as an international financial
center, as rivals emerge around the region. Singapore has an
edge in areas including foreign exchange and commodities, while
 Shanghai  is establishing a free-trade zone in its bid to become
a global financial center.  “Hong Kong’s leading position as international financial
center is not entirely secure,” council Chairman Laura Cha said
today at the presentation of the reports. “Hong Kong is facing
challenges arising from evolving global macroeconomic forces and
emerging local threats.”  The city’s asset management industry, now dominated by unit
trusts, need to add variety by introducing alternative
investment vehicles, according to the recommendations. Of the
1,845 authorized funds in Hong Kong as of June 30, only 318 were
locally domiciled. Open-ended investment companies differ from
unit trusts by having a separate legal personality and not
requiring a trustee, according to the reports.  The city also needs to grow its REIT market, as only 10 of
the trusts started trading in Hong Kong in the past decade,
lagging behind other regional centers, according to the report.  Offshore Yuan  The opening of  China’s economy  is bringing both
opportunities and competition for Hong Kong, with Singapore and
 Taiwan  emerging to challenge the city’s dominance in offshore
trade in the  yuan , the reports said.  Hong Kong is the largest offshore yuan center, with  savings
in the currency  rising 34 percent from a year earlier to a
record 730 billion yuan ($120 billion) in September, data from
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority showed. Yuan deposits began
accumulating in the city in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  