-- Hong Kong Advisory Body Proposes Qianhai Yuan Investment Program
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-11-18T09:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/hong-kong-advisory-body-proposes-qianhai-yuan-investment-program.html
China  should allow financial
institutions in a Shenzhen special zone to invest yuan overseas,
boosting Hong Kong’s holdings of the Chinese currency, an
advisory body in the city has proposed.  Hong Kong’s Financial Services Development Council
suggested China sanction a quota of 50 billion yuan ($8.2
billion) and $5 billion for Shenzhen’s Qianhai zone under the
Qualified Domestic Institutional Investor program.  “Most financial institutions which engage in the  renminbi 
business in Hong Kong consider the lack and instability of
renminbi liquidity the biggest bottleneck of the offshore
renminbi market,” the council said in a research paper
published today.  The extended program, or QDII3, must abolish and simplify
approval procedures for individual investment products, and
quotas should be allocated transparently, the council said.  The People’s Bank of China listed QDII2, which will allow
individuals to invest in overseas capital markets, as among its
major goals for 2013. The central bank has approved a plan for
trials in the cities of Guangzhou and Shenzhen, Shanghai
Securities News reported in June, citing Wang Jingwu, head of
the central bank’s Guangzhou branch. There haven’t been any
public statements on QDII3.  China chose the Qianhai district of Shenzhen, a city that
borders Hong Kong, as the testing ground for freer use of the
 yuan . Deposits in the Chinese currency in Hong Kong rose 21
percent this year to a record 730 billion yuan in September,
after climbing 2.5 percent in 2012, Hong Kong Monetary Authority
data showed.  Key Reforms  A Communist Party meeting that ended last week decided to
accelerate convertibility of the yuan and the freeing-up of
interest rates. It decided also to improve treasury yield curves
and let qualified private investors set up small- to medium-sized banks.  The Hong Kong council proposed allowing offshore banks to
participate in China’s domestic repurchase market and to be
permitted to remit the yuan borrowed offshore. Hong Kong lenders
must be able to sell “sizable” certificates of deposit and
yuan bonds in the onshore interbank market, it said.  Companies from  emerging markets  such as Brazil, India and
 Russia  can be encouraged to sell yuan securities, known as Dim
Sum bonds, in Hong Kong, the council said.  Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun Ying welcomed the FSDC
report, and said it provides concrete proposals for facilitating
diversification of the financial services industry and enhancing
the city’s position and functions as an international financial
center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  