-- Ontario Confidence Surge Leads Rebound in Canadian Index
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-11-18T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/ontario-confidence-surge-leads-rebound-in-canadian-index.html
Increasing confidence in Ontario and
 Quebec  paced a revival of Canadian consumer sentiment, according
to a weekly measure of the national economic mood.  The Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Confidence Index rose to 59.0
in the week ended Nov. 15 from 58.2 the previous week. Sentiment
among those surveyed in Ontario rose to the most buoyant since
2010, while confidence in western provinces has dropped from a
peak in late September.  Signs that the budget debate in  Washington  is having little
lasting effect on the U.S. economy may be supporting confidence
in Ontario, where output is closely tied to American demand for
manufactured goods, while weakness in commodity prices is
weighing on the mood of consumers in the prairies.  “A regional variation in confidence may be emerging,”
said  Nik Nanos , head of Ottawa-based Nanos Research Group.
“Positive views in Ontario are growing more rapidly than in
other regions.”  Confidence in Ontario rose to 60.7 last week from 58.5, the
gauge showed, while the measure for Quebec increased to 57.2,
the highest since March 2011, from 56.4. Sentiment in the
prairie provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba fell to
63.7 from 64.7, below a 20-week average of 64.2.  British Columbia’s reading rose to 55.0 from 54.3.
Confidence in the Pacific-coast province is still almost five
points below its 59.8 reading in the week ended Aug. 2.  Commodity Prices  The Bank of Canada Commodity Price index is down about 10
percent since June 19. Western Canada Select Oil has declined 36
percent since touching its 2013 high on July 18.  Increased confidence may also reflect a housing market that
has remained  buoyant  for much of the year, dissipating concern
that prices were reaching unsustainable levels. Home prices in
Ontario were up 8.1 percent in October from a year earlier,
leading all provinces, the Canadian Real Estate Association said
in a Nov. 15 report.  The share of Canadians who predicted an increase in home
values in their neighborhoods rose to 39.4 percent last week,
the highest level in more than a year, according to Nanos
polling.  The Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Confidence Index has two sub-indexes: the Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Pocketbook Index on
personal finances, and the Bloomberg Nanos Expectations Index on
future views. The data in the indexes date to 2008 and are based
on phone interviews with 1,000 people, using a four-week rolling
average of 250 respondents. The results are accurate to within
3.1 percentage points.  Job Security  The Expectations Index, based on surveys about the outlook
for the economy and real estate prices, rose to 58.2, the
highest since 2011, from 57.3, according to the Nanos report.
The share of Canadians who expect the economy to grow stronger
over the next six months rose to 23.3 percent from 21.1 percent.  The Pocketbook Index, based on survey responses to
questions about personal finances and job security, rose to 59.8
from 59.1.  While falling slightly over the past month, the Bloomberg
Nanos aggregate index is still holding above the 2013 average of
57.0 and has climbed from the March low of 50.2.  Canadian monthly home sales have  increased  an average 1
percent this year even after declining 3.2 percent in October,
according to the Ottawa-based national real estate association.
The rise in sales and prices reflected a flurry of purchases as
buyers rushed to beat expected mortgage-rate increases, it said.  That pressure diminished last month when Bank of Canada
Governor Stephen Poloz dropped language about the need to raise
rates, citing prolonged downward pressure on inflation.  Slow Inflation  Annual inflation has been below the central bank’s 2
percent target for the past 17 months. Statistics Canada will
release consumer price data for October on Nov. 22, with
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecasting an annual 0.9
percent pace for the month.  Some indicators have shown Ontario’s economy outperforming
the rest of the country in recent months. Manufacturing sales in
the province in September are up 4.1 percent since December,
compared with a 2.7 percent gain nationally, according to
Statistics Canada data released Nov. 15.  Growth in sales by Ontario retailers and wholesalers have
also outpaced the national average this year, with the latest
data for both those indicators being released this week.  Wholesale sales, scheduled for release Oct. 20, probably
rose 0.3 percent nationally in September, according to the
median response to a Bloomberg survey. September retail sales,
which economists also forecast increased 0.5 percent, will be
released Nov. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  