-- Los Angeles Sells $380 Million in Water Bonds: Muni Deals
-- B y   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/los-angeles-sells-380-million-in-water-bonds-muni-deals.html
The Los Angeles Water and Power
Department plans a $380 million bond sale as part of a project
that includes replacing aging pipes and hardening the nation’s
largest municipal utility against earthquake damage.  The $4 billion improvement plan backed by system revenue
includes conservation initiatives such as building new treatment
facilities in the drought-prone city of 3.9 million residents,
according to a preliminary sale document. It shows that the
utility has $3.28 billion in water revenue bonds outstanding.  Pricing is set to occur Nov. 21 for the tax-exempt
securities that mature through 2035, according to Phil Leiber,
the department’s chief financial officer. The bonds are rated
Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, its third-highest grade, based
on the system’s size, debt-coverage ratio and the strength of
the region’s economy, according to an October report.  “They’ve been a frequent issuer and they’ve typically had
good reception,” said Dan Solender, who oversees about $16
billion of local debt at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey . “There’s definitely a lot of bonds with more yield out
there, but there’s definitely a demand right now for high
quality.”  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings also give the
securities their third-highest credit scores, and along with
Moody’s they have a stable outlook on the debt.  ‘Strong Demand’  “There is strong demand among muni investors for revenue
bonds of high quality and essential-service utility systems,”
Leiber said by e-mail.  U.S. water and sewer debt has  performed  worse this year,
losing 3.1 percent, than the broader municipal market’s 2.4
percent  loss . The sale comes as the extra yield investors demand
to hold California debt compared with top-rated securities has
declined to about 0.37 percentage point on Nov. 15 from 0.63
percentage point in January, Bloomberg valuation indexes show.
The  yield spread  reached a 2013 low of 0.3 percentage point last
month, the data show.  The Los Angeles water system joins issuers from  Guam  to
Maryland offering about $6 billion in long-term debt this week,
with benchmark yields near a one-month high.  Individuals pulled about $903 million from municipal-bond
focused mutual funds in the week through Nov. 13, the most in
almost a month, according to Lipper US Fund Flows data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Priya Anand in  New York  at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 