-- Total Buys Forties Crude; Vitol Offers Russian Urals at Discount
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-11-18T18:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/total-buys-forties-crude-vitol-offers-russian-urals-at-discount.html
Total SA bought  North Sea  Forties
traded at a higher level than the previous trade. Vitol Group
offered Russian Urals blend in the Mediterranean at a discount
to Dated Brent, compared with the previous bid of a premium.  The first of three supertankers heading for  South Korea 
from the U.K. this month, the most since July 2012, departed
over the weekend, according to shiptracking data on Bloomberg.  North Sea  Royal Dutch Shell Plc sold Forties cargo F1202 for Dec. 3
to Dec. 5 loading to Total at a premium of 15 cents a barrel to
Dated Brent, according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and
brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window. That’s 10 cents
more than a trade between the two companies on Nov. 15.  Trafigura Beheer BV failed to buy Forties for Dec. 9 to Dec
14 loading at plus 15 cents, the survey showed.  Total didn’t manage to buy Oseberg for Dec. 11 to Dec. 13
loading at $1 a barrel more than Dated Brent. The grade was last
offered in the window at plus 80 cents on Nov. 14.  The French producer was also bidding for Ekofisk at Dated
Brent plus $1.05 a barrel for Dec. 5 to Dec. 11, while Shell
offered the grade at plus $1.15 for Dec. 5 to Dec. 7 loading,
according to the survey.  Shell withdrew an offer for Brent blend at 15 cents less
than the benchmark for Dec. 3 to Dec. 5. The grade last traded
at parity to Dated Brent on Nov. 6.  Brent for January settlement traded at $108.58 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $108.17 in the previous session. The February
contract was at $108.16, a discount of 42 cents to January.  The very large crude carrier Pluto Glory set sail from
Forties-loading terminal Hound Point in  Scotland  on Nov. 16 and
is signaling Las Palmas in  Spain  as its next stop in the long
voyage to  Asia , according to the data. The tanker will be
followed by the VLCCs Front Endurance and the Manah, according
to five fixture lists in late October, including JGO Shipbrokers
AS and RS Platou Markets AS.  A strike by Norwegian oil-platform workers that began three
days ago may cut oil and gas output in the country, western
Europe’s largest producer of the fuels.  “The service level for day-to-day operations has now been
halved,” meaning production at some facilities may be affected
within days, Hilde-Marit Rysst, leader of the Safe union, said
today by phone. “Platforms that have a lot of projects and
modifications ongoing will notice it first.  The action has so far had no effect on output at Statoil
ASA,  Norway ’s largest energy producer, a spokesman said today.
‘‘It’s too early to say when it could have an impact or whether
it will at all,” Oerjan Heradstveit said by phone.  Urals/Mediterranean  Vitol offered 80,000 metric tons of Urals crude for Dec. 8
to Dec. 12 at a 30 cents a barrel discount to Dated Brent on a
delivered basis to Augusta,  Italy , the survey showed. That
compares with bid by OAO Lukoil on Nov. 13 at plus 15 cents.  Vitol and Total bid for Urals for Nov. 28 to Dec. at
discounts of $1.00 and $1.10, respectively, to Dated Brent on a
delivered basis to Rotterdam, according to the survey. The grade
traded in northwest  Europe  at minus $1.05 on Nov. 15.  PKN Orlen bought 100,000 tons of Urals for Dec. 1 to Dec. 5
delivery to Butinge in  Lithuania  from Vitol, according to two
people who participate in the market, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential. The cargo
was sold at about $1.05 a barrel less than Dated Brent, one of
the people said.  A 600,000-barrel crude shipment will be loaded tomorrow at
the Libyan port of Mellitah, Mohamed Elharari, a spokesman for
state-owned National Oil Corp., said today by phone from
Tripoli. The oil will come from the Eni SpA-operated El Feel, or
Elephant, field, he said.  West Africa  Angola plans to ship 44 crude cargoes in January, according
to a partial loading program obtained by  Bloomberg News . The
plan doesn’t include Saturno, Palanca, Kuito and Gimboa grades,
and compares with the 56 lots scheduled to be shipped in
December.  Thailand ’s PTT Pcl bought 1 million barrels of Algerian
Saharan Blend from BP Plc for Jan. 1 to Jan. 5 delivery via a
tender, according to two people who participate in the market.  The cargo was sold at a premium of about $5 a barrel to
Dated Brent, the people said, asking not to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  It will be shipped to IRPC Pcl’s 215,000 barrel-a-day
Rayong refinery, where state-owned PTT holds a 38.5 percent
stake in the refiner, the unit’s website shows.  PT Pertamina’s tender to buy 950,000 barrels of crude for
Jan. 7 to Jan. 9 delivery to its Cilacap refinery in Java closed
today. Offers are to be valid until tomorrow at 6 p.m. Singapore
time, a tender document obtained by Bloomberg shows.  Indian Oil Corp.’s tender to buy crude for Jan 1. to Jan.
15 also closes tomorrow, according to a document obtained by
Bloomberg News. The company bought 5 million barrels of Nigerian
Qua Iboe,  Bonny Light , EA and Escravos from Shell, Total and
Chevron Corp. in its first tender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  