-- Ottolenghi, Tamimi Share Recipe for Top-Selling Cookbooks
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/ottolenghi-tamimi-share-recipe-for-top-selling-cookbooks.html
Yotam Ottolenghi , a  London 
restaurateur and chef of omnivore proclivities, almost turned
down an offer to write a column on vegetables for the Guardian.  The herbivores he ended up cultivating inspired him to
write a cookbook. “ Plenty : Vibrant Vegetable Recipes from
London’s Ottolenghi” became an international bestseller. Last
year’s “ Jerusalem: A Cookbook ,” co-written by his Palestinian
partner, Sami Tamimi, also did well.  Recently released in the U.S., their 2008 collaboration,
“ Ottolenghi: The Cookbook ,” features recipes from their  London
restaurants . The Jerusalem natives spoke to me at Bloomberg News
world headquarters in New York.  Cole: What’s a typical day like?  Ottolenghi: Sami runs the kitchens. At the moment we have
four locations. Sami works with the teams, training the head
chefs, and checking the quality of food. We have this
perfectionist work culture at Ottolenghi. I spend most of my
time testing recipes and writing my column.  Cole: Where have you eaten in New York?  Ottolenghi: Last night we went to Empellon Cocina. Tonight
we’ve been invited to Daniel by  Daniel Boulud . We’ve never been.
I think we’re going to go jogging before.  Working Together  Cole: How do you write a cookbook together?  Ottolenghi: We brainstorm ideas for a few weeks. Every
recipe has a story. Either we ate it somewhere or one of our
chefs introduced us to a new ingredient.  Cole: How many did you start with when you wrote
“Jerusalem”?  Tamimi: We started with 250 recipes or ideas for recipes.
Then we had to cut many out because we didn’t like them. Some of
them weren’t recipes. We had to create them from memory or
research. Some come with a lot of fat and sugar, so we have to
change them.  Ottolenghi: “ Jerusalem ” is a slightly different book
because it’s not our current food. It was going back and
rediscovering the food we had as children.  Cole: About 3,000 cookbooks are published a year and many
never sell more than 35,000 copies. Why have your books been
such a big hit?  Ottolenghi: Our first book (“Ottolenghi”) didn’t have
many takers. The next book, “Plenty,” was a vegetable book and
vegetables were becoming popular. So it came at a really good
time, and it was a new approach to vegetables.  Ancient Hummus  Cole: What’s the oldest recipe in the book?  Ottolenghi: Hummus is one of the most ancient recipes, but
many of these are really old whether they’re 500 or 1,000 years
old. They’re quite ancient.  Cole: How many people do you think actually cook from your
cookbooks?  Ottolenghi: I think 80 percent of the cookbooks bought
aren’t being used. But I believe people cook from our books
because we make them very straightforward. There may be a long
list of ingredients, but we write them for home cooks, not
chefs.  Cole: There has been talk here in the U.S. about the
nutritional value of insects. Will you consider using them in
your cuisine?  Tamimi: We haven’t used them yet. There aren’t any of our
recipes where you think, maybe I can add a bug here or there.  Ottolenghi: I’m not against it. If they taste good, then
use them.  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on theater, Jeffrey
Burke on books.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  