-- Lloyds Sells Scottish Widows Fund-Management Arm to Aberdeen
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-11-18T17:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/lloyds-sells-scottish-widows-fund-management-unit-to-aberdeen.html
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  agreed
to buy  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership unit for 560 million pounds ($903 million), a deal
that will create  Europe ’s largest publicly traded money manager.  Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, will receive a
9.9 percent stake in Aberdeen, the bank said in a statement
today. Aberdeen will also start to manage assets on behalf of
the bank. Depending on how that venture performs, Lloyds will
receive a further 100 million pounds in cash over five years.  The purchase would increase Aberdeen’s assets to about 336
billion pounds, allowing it to surpass  Schroders Plc (SDR)  as Europe’s
biggest publicly traded fund company. It would also mark a
reversal of Aberdeen’s strategy to focus on growth without
acquisitions and returning cash to investors. Shares of the
Scottish firm jumped the most in almost five years in London.  “The benefits of the transaction for Aberdeen are a much
stronger U.K. foothold, access to retail investors and
diversification away from emerging-market and Asia-Pacific
equities and into U.K. equities and fixed-income,” said Peter Lenardos, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in London who rates
Aberdeen an outperform.  Aberdeen climbed 15 percent to 489.70 pence in London
trading, the biggest increase since Oct. 2008. Lloyds advanced
1.1 percent to 76.17 pence.  ‘Big Americans’  Equities accounted for 56 percent of Aberdeen’s assets
under management at the end of June. Of that, the firm invests
two-thirds in global  emerging markets  and Asia-Pacific stocks.
Only 2.8 percent of its stock holdings are in the U.K. and 0.9
percent in Europe. By comparison, more than a third of SWIP’s
136 billion pounds of assets are in U.K. and European equities,
and it has just 1.7 billion pounds in emerging-market stocks.  “You need a certain amount of size to compete with big
Americans,” Aberdeen Chief Executive Officer Martin Gilbert,
58, told Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua today.
“Strategically it fulfills a large number of criteria,” he
added, commenting on the purchase.  Aberdeen said separately today that underlying pretax
profit rose 39 percent from the year-earlier period to 482.7
million pounds in the 12 months through September and assets
under management advanced 7 percent to 200.4 billion pounds.  Horta-Osorio  Lloyds CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio, 49, has been seeking to
bolster the lender’s balance sheet by selling assets, cutting
costs and eliminating jobs following the bank’s bailout by the
government in 2008. The sale will add about 11 basis points to
Lloyds’s core tier one capital, a measure of financial strength.  The lender purchased  Scottish Widows , which runs a life-insurance business and the SWIP fund-management operation, for
7.3 billion pounds in 2000. London-based Lloyds hired Deutsche
Bank AG this year to advise on the sale of SWIP.  Bloomberg News  reported on Sept. 24 that Gilbert was in
talks to buy SWIP. Macquarie Group Ltd., Australia’s largest
investment bank, was among other firms weighing bids for the
business, people with knowledge of the talks said in September  The sale doesn’t include Scottish Widows, Lloyds’s life,
pensions and investment business.  Gilbert said today that there will be “some job cuts in
areas where there’s duplications,” without giving further
details. More than half of Aberdeen’s assets will be managed
from Edinburgh, he told analysts on a conference call today.  Solutions Unit  The acquisition is Aberdeen’s largest and its third this
year. Gilbert has made a series of purchases from U.K. and
European banks seeking to raise capital since the financial
crisis. The Aberdeen, Scotland-based firm acquired part of  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s fund management in 2010 for 84.7
million pounds and also bought a part of Credit Suisse Group
AG’s funds operation for about 250 million pounds in 2008.  Gilbert earlier this year called a purchase of SWIP
“highly unlikely.” He said that changed after Lloyds included
its solutions business in the sale. The division covers multi-asset investing,  asset allocation  and private  wealth management .  “It was the solutions business that made it attractive,”
the CEO said. “We were of the view it was absolutely vital it
was included. We wouldn’t have done the deal without that bit.”  Gilbert co-founded the company in 1983, buying out a
closed-end fund with 50 million pounds of assets from Aberdeen
law firm Brander & Cruickshank, where he worked.  Scottish Widows traces its origins to 1812, when a group of
Edinburgh businessmen set up a fund to provide for the wives of
British soldiers killed in the Napoleonic wars. The firm set up
the Scottish Widows Fund Life Assurance Society in 1815, and
early clients included Walter Scott, author of the Waverley
novels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  