-- Paris Gunman Sought as Officials Appeal for Public Help
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-11-18T23:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/paris-hit-by-shootings-at-socgen-tower-newspaper-liberation.html
French authorities appealed to the
public for help in their manhunt for the suspected perpetrator
of three shootings and a carjacking in Paris.  French police were searching for a man last seen getting
out of the car on the  Champs Elysees , releasing the driver,
after shootings at the offices of the Liberation newspaper and
the headquarters of the bank  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)  Last week, he
targeted the offices of BFM television.  Law enforcement  believe the attacks were committed by one
person, state prosecutor  Francois Molins  said at a press
conference yesterday as he called for help from the public.  “We expect a lot of help from witnesses to enable
investigators to apprehend this individual,” Interior Minister
 Manuel Valls  told reporters at a subsequent briefing. “There’s
a great determination” to make the arrest because “he acted
without a doubt to kill,” he said.  A suspect was seen running from the La Defense business
district after three shots were fired at the bank’s tower
shortly after noon, a police spokesman said. Less than two hours
earlier, a man opened fire at the headquarters of the Liberation
daily newspaper, wounding a photographer’s assistant.  Soon after the Societe Generale shooting, a man was taken
hostage at La Defense in his car, which then headed toward the
Champs Elysees, where the suspect got out and fled on foot,
police said. A police helicopter was flying over the west of
Paris looking for the suspect, television news stations showed.  Valls visited Liberation’s office in the eastern third
arrondissement, across town from La Defense. Police were sent to
protect other media offices across Paris.  Hollande’s Condemnation  In a televised statement from Israel, President  Francois Hollande  condemned the attacks as a direct assault on freedom of
expression.  On Nov. 15, an armed man entered the headquarters of BFM-TV, an all-news station, and made threats before leaving. The Le
Monde newspaper reported that video surveillance cameras show he
appears to be the same man who fired at Liberation.  Molins described the suspect as of “European” origin,
between 35 and 45, with three-day stubble and graying hair.  While  France  has been hit by frequent shoot-outs between
rival gangs in Marseille and the Paris suburbs, shootings in
central Paris are rare. France had 665 murders last year,
according to the  Interior Ministry , which doesn’t break out
statistics based on type of weapon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  