-- Poland Seeks Up to $913 Million From Energa’s Share Sale
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-11-18T12:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/poland-plans-to-raise-up-to-913-million-from-energa-ipo.html
Poland  plans to raise as much as
2.83 billion zloty ($913 million) from the sale of a stake in
power utility Energa SA in central Europe’s largest initial
public offering in two years.  Poland started the sale of 141.5 million shares, or a 34.2
percent stake, in its third-biggest utility at a maximum price
of 20 zloty apiece, Energa said in a prospectus published on its
website today. The country, whose stake will fall to 50 percent,
plans to sell its shares for at least 15 zloty each, according
to terms obtained by  Bloomberg News  today.  “There should be demand for the stock as Energa is set to
join all main indexes key to foreign investors due to its free
float,” Jaroslaw Niedzielewski, who helps manage the equivalent
of $707 million zloty at Warsaw-based Investors TFI SA, said by
e-mail today. “The final price may be near 16-17 zloty.”  The government is selling stakes in companies to meet its
2013 asset sale target of 5 billion zloty and has so far raised
1.91 billion zloty. Over the last five years, Poland has sold
stakes in Energa’s competitors including PGE SA, Tauron Polska
Energia SA, Enea SA and PAK SA, raising a total of 12.9 billion
zloty from their IPOs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  IPO Boom  The IPO is the biggest in central  Europe  since Polish coal
producer Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA’s 5.37 billion-zloty sale
in June 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Energa
and other Polish companies including railway unit PKP Cargo SA,
train maker Newag SA and developer Capital Park SA are set to
sell as much as 5 billion zloty of shares in IPOs this quarter.
Romania sold a 1.7 billion-lei ($516 million) stake in natural-gas producer Romgaz SA last month.  Energa, which makes most of its profit from a regulated
power-distribution business, boosted nine-month earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization 13 percent to 1.5
billion zloty, it said in a filing on Oct. 25. Net income rose
15 percent from a year earlier to 610.8 million zloty.  The company plans to recommend a dividend of as much as 400
million zloty for this year and 500 million zloty for 2014,
according to the prospectus. The payouts will increase by at
least an inflation rate from 2015 onwards.  The distribution business makes Energa “safer than other
utilities that are more dependent on market power prices,”
Niedzielewski said. “Foreign investors may treat it like a bond
with a 5 percent to 6 percent coupon and this stock may also be
interesting for Polish pension funds, while it won’t be very
attractive for more aggressive mutual funds.”  Renewable Energy  Earlier this year Energa, which operates the country’s
biggest hydroelectric plant in Wloclawek, bought 165 megawatts
of wind farms from Dong Energy A/S and Iberdrola SA, raising its
total  renewable energy  capacity to 508 megawatts, or 40 percent
of its portfolio. The company plans to spend 19.7 billion zloty
through 2021, with 12.5 billion zloty of that amount earmarked
for investments in power distribution.  The Treasury Ministry first tried to sell Energa in 2010.
The 7.5 billion-zloty sale of an 84.2 percent stake to PGE was
blocked by Poland’s antitrust regulator. The country’s biggest
utility is still interested in Energa and may buy shares in the
IPO, PGE Chief Executive Officer Krzysztof Kilian said Nov. 13.  The government has no plans to sell more Energa shares in
the “foreseeable future,” Deputy Treasury Minister Pawel
Tamborski told reporters in Warsaw today. Asked whether the
ministry would sell shares to PGE in the IPO, he said that the
transaction is directed “mainly” at financial investors.  The ministry isn’t in talks with the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, which bought a stake in the IPO
of state-controlled Cargo, about the bank’s participation in
Energa’s share sale, Tamborski added.  Warsaw Listing  The government, which will end collecting bids for Energa
shares from institutional investors on Dec. 3, pledged not sell
a further stake in the company within 180 days. The company will
start trading on the  Warsaw Stock Exchange  on Dec. 11  Volumes of IPOs on European exchanges have jumped to $10.3
billion this quarter, reaching the highest since the $37 billion
raised in the April-June period of 2011, as investors resumed
buying on strengthening economies and an easing euro debt
crisis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG are global coordinators and
joint bookrunners of the IPO. Citigroup Inc., PKO Bank Polski
SA, UniCredit SpA, Banco Espirito Santo, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, Ipopema Securities SA, BRE Bank SA, Bank Ochrony
Srodowiska SA and Alior Bank SA also help manage the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  