-- Portugal Plans to Raise 430 Million Euros in IPO of CTT
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-11-19T11:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/portugal-plans-to-raise-430-million-euros-in-ipo-of-ctt.html
Portugal’s government plans to raise
at least 430 million euros ($581 million) from the sale of 70
percent of postal operator CTT-Correios de Portugal in the
country’s first initial public offering in five years.  State holding company Parpublica will dispose of as many as
105 million shares of Lisbon-based CTT, with 21 million sold
through an IPO and the remainder offered directly to
institutional investors for at least the same price as the stock
offered to individual investors, the government said in a
statement yesterday.  CTT shares will be sold at 4.10 euros to 5.52 euros apiece,
valuing the 493-year-old mail service at as much as 828 million
euros, including a 30 percent stake that Parpublica will retain.
Employees will be able to purchase as many as 5.25 million
shares through the IPO, the government said.  The IPO is the first since EDP-Energias de Portugal SA
disposed of a stake in its renewable-energy unit in June 2008.
The transaction is taking place after the U.K. and  Belgium  took
steps to sell their state-owned mail services this year.  Portugal was “inspired” by similar IPOs in Europe, Sergio Monteiro, secretary of state for public works, transport and
communications, told reporters in Lisbon yesterday. The
government is “very confident in the success of this operation
which will send a message of vitality about the country’s
capital markets.”  Bailout Package  Portugal’s 78 billion-euro bailout package from the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund requires the
government to dispose of assets and raise revenue. Authorities
completed the sale of airport operator ANA-Aeroportos de
Portugal SA for 3 billion euros to Vinci SA, Europe’s biggest
builder on Sept. 17, almost nine months after it was announced.  CTT Chief Executive Officer Francisco Lacerda said on Nov.
14 that the he expects the IPO will be concluded by early
December. The IPO prospectus says shares of CTT, whose logo
still appears on mailboxes and buildings in some of Portugal’s
former colonies in  Africa , may start trading on Dec. 5. The sale
price will be set on Dec. 3.  Royal Mail Plc (RMG) ’s IPO last month, the biggest privatization
in the U.K. since the state-owned British Rail was broken up in
the 1990s, raised 1.7 billion pounds ($2.74 billion) for the
state in a stock sale that was seven times oversubscribed by
small investors. A panel of British lawmakers is starting an
investigation into whether the shares were under-priced.  Bank License  CTT, which is expanding its express-package delivery
service to new markets as Web-based purchasing rises, requested
a license from the Bank of Portugal on Aug. 5 to enable a future
buyer to also operate the company as a bank, according to its
website.  Nine-month net income rose 28 percent to 45.2 million euros
and the company plans to pay dividends representing at least 90
percent of distributable profit in 2014 and in the following
years, according to the prospectus.  Caixa Banco de Investimento SA and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are
global coordinators and bookrunners for the IPO, with  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and Espirito Santo Investment as
co-lead managers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Marco Bertacche at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  