-- Princeton to Offer Students Meningitis-B Vaccine After New Case
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/princeton-to-offer-meningitis-b-vaccine-after-new-case-reported.html
Princeton University  will offer
students, pending federal approval, a meningitis vaccine not
currently available in the U.S., after a seventh case was
reported this year on the  Ivy League  campus.  The U.S. Centers for Disease Control is preparing to
recommend that all undergraduate students, as well as graduate
students living in dormitories, get the vaccine, the Princeton,
New Jersey-based college said yesterday in a  statement . Costs
would be covered for students who receive the vaccine, it said.  “The University is prepared to accept these
recommendations and make arrangements to provide access to this
vaccine as soon as possible,” Princeton said.  All seven cases -- six students and one campus visitor --
developed infections with meningococcus B. Because the strain of
the bacteria isn’t covered by vaccines available in the U.S.,
federal health officials approved importation of the
immunization Bexsero, made by  Novartis AG. (NOVN)  Princeton expects to
make the first of two doses of the vaccine available in early
December. The second dose would come in February, according to
the statement. Two doses are required for maximum protection,
the school said.  The danger may increase in the winter, when the bacteria
tends to spread more rapidly, said Andrin Oswald, head of
Novartis vaccines and diagnostics, in a phone interview from
 Basel ,  Switzerland . Since the first patient was diagnosed in
March after spring break, it’s crucial to closely monitor
residents through the cold months, he said.  ‘So Important’  “That’s why it is so important to vaccinate and stop the
spread to a lot of students,” Oswald said. “You want to make
sure people aren’t carrying the bacteria if they are healthy, so
it can’t spread from one to the next.”  Not everyone gets sick from the bacteria, which may be
carried by as much as 10 percent of the Princeton population,
Oswald said. The number of cases is occurring in about 1 out of
1,000 students there. That’s significantly higher than most
other vaccine-preventable diseases, and 100 times the 1 to 2 in
100,000 seen with other forms of meningitis, he said.  Kelsey Kane-Ritsch, a sophomore from La Canada,  California ,
said she plans to get the vaccine.  “I know it isn’t approved here, but it’s already been
approved in Europe,” Kane-Ritsch said in an interview. She’ll
accept the shots “just to be cautious,” she said.  The university has been working with the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention and the New Jersey Department of
Health since the first case was reported in March. The CDC
requested and received permission last week from the  Food and
Drug Administration  to bring in the vaccine, Barbara Reynolds, a
CDC spokeswoman, said Nov. 16 in a telephone interview.  No Guarantees  Students shouldn’t waver about getting the vaccine because
even if diagnosed early, there isn’t a guarantee of survival,
said Lynn Bozof, president of the  National Meningitis
Association,  a nonprofit group.  Her son, Evan, died from meningitis at age 20 while a
college student at Georgia Southwestern University in 1998. She
said young people think they are invincible.  “I’m really concerned that kids are going to miss this
opportunity,” Bozof said in a telephone interview. “I would be
first in line there to get that vaccine. You can’t think that,
‘I’m going to catch it early.’ This is a disease you can’t fool
around with.”  Vaccines exist for four of the five common strains of
meningitis. The vaccine against the B strain has been difficult
to develop because of its makeup, Oswald at Novartis said.  Dominant Strain  The outer coating of the bacteria is similar to something
found naturally in the body, making it harder to attack, he
said. Bexsero, the first vaccine against the strain, is based on
a protein found on the surface of about 80 percent of the
circulating B strains, including the one found in Princeton,
Oswald said.  Meningococcus B accounts for 40 percent of cases in the
U.S. and as much as 80 percent in  Australia  and parts of  Europe .
Bexsero was cleared for sale in Europe in January and in
Australia in August. The vaccine hasn’t been available in the
U.S. because drug companies and regulators couldn’t agree on how
to measure the efficacy of the injection, Oswald said.  “In many geographies B has become the dominant strain
because we could vaccinate against the other” types of
meningitis,’’ Oswald said.  To obtain the immunization for Princeton, the CDC asked the
FDA to grant the vaccine investigational new drug status,
typically used to begin a clinical trial, Oswald said. The CDC
would need to oversee the use of the immunization since the
company doesn’t have an actual study under way, he said.  Timing Crucial  “When a child is affected and potentially dies, each case
is terrible,” Oswald said. “You can’t protect each individual
against everything that’s out there, so you have to look at
epidemiology and the larger numbers.”  Bacterial meningitis can occur sporadically, especially in
the close quarters seen on college campuses. It’s spread through
respiratory and throat secretions and close contact -- such as
kissing and sharing drinking glasses -- though is typically less
infectious than viruses, including influenza.  By early May, three students had been diagnosed. The most
recent patient developed symptoms eight month later on Nov. 8.  Meningitis can be caused by viruses, fungi and bacteria,
with bacterial meningitis causing about 170,000 deaths globally
each year, according to the  World Health Organization . The
infection is marked by inflammation surrounding the thin lining
around the brain and spinal cord, causing such symptoms as stiff
neck, high fever, sensitivity to light, confusion, headaches and
vomiting.  Sometimes Fatal  As many as 10 percent of those infected die within 48 hours
after symptoms start, according to the WHO. Brain damage,
hearing loss or learning disabilities may affect as many as 20
percent of survivors.  Novartis, Sanofi and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  all make shots
available in Europe and the U.S. that protect against four of
the five major strains of the disease, not including the B
strain.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the New York-based drugmaker, has a vaccine
for meningitis B that has begun the final stage of development.  Princeton is a member of the Ivy League, a group of eight
selective colleges in the Northeastern U.S. It has about 7,800
students, according to its website. Chartered in 1746, alumni
include First Lady  Michelle Obama  and Supreme Court Justices
Elena Kagan,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Samuel Alito .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in London at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  