-- Rabobank Said to Avoid EU Yen Libor Fine After Collusion Bids
-- B y   G a s p a r d   S e b a g ,   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-11-18T08:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/rabobank-said-to-avoid-eu-yen-libor-fine-after-collusion-bids.html
Rabobank Groep, the Dutch lender
fined 774 million euros ($1.04 billion) by U.S., U.K. and
 Netherlands  regulators for rigging interbank lending rates, will
escape a European Union antitrust fine this year, two people
familiar with the probe said.  Rabobank isn’t among a group of lenders settling a case
over manipulation of yen Libor and will avoid punishment at this
stage, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the EU’s decision isn’t yet public. More than half a dozen banks
are set to be fined as part of a settlement with the EU in the
yen Libor case, one of the people said.  Rabobank made as many as 384 internal attempts to rig yen
Libor, the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority said last month.
As part of a “collusive effort” to manipulate rates, staff
also sent at least 10 requests outside the bank and received
seven from others, the FCA said.  Antitrust regulators have “a harder case to make” than
financial watchdogs because they need to show a conspiracy
between traders, said Robert Fleishman, a lawyer at Steptoe &
Johnson LLP in Brussels.  For at least five years beginning in 2005, benchmark
submitters in London and Utrecht, Netherlands, would routinely
take requests from traders seeking to fix the rate of Euribor
and Libor for the  U.S. dollar , yen and pound sterling, according
to the  U.S. Department of Justice  statement of facts.  The Dutch lender declined to comment on whether it would be
fined by the Brussels-based commission. Antoine Colombani, a
spokesman for the EU regulator, also declined to comment.  ‘Big Piece’  “A big piece of the fact pattern seems to be internal
communications from traders to submitters within the bank and
that complicates a theory of conspiracy because under antitrust
law you can’t conspire with yourself,” Fleishman said in a
phone interview.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is among lenders that will be fined by the
EU as soon as December for rigging yen Libor submissions, two
people with knowledge of the case said earlier this month. In a
parallel probe, regulators are preparing to issue fines as soon
as next month to settling banks accused of Euribor manipulation.  Avoiding punishment in the first wave of fines doesn’t mean
the bank is immune from future penalties if the EU antitrust arm
decides to revisit the dossier, said one of the people.  ‘May Change’  Rabobank has “recently not been in talks” with the EU’s
antitrust regulator, Sipko Schat, board member responsible for
commercial banking at the Utrecht, Netherlands-based company
said on Oct. 29. “That may change in future. We have provided
them with information but haven’t heard from them since.”  Reuters reported on Nov. 6 that Rabobank was among lenders
that would face fines next month, citing a banking industry
source.  Banks were first quizzed by EU regulators in 2011 over
manipulation of lending rates that may have helped them and
others generate profits from derivatives trades. The EU, unlike
financial supervisors, must build an antitrust case to show
collusion among financial firms rather than demonstrate market
abuse.  Two years on, the EU antitrust regulator is on the brink of
levying its first penalties in a scandal that tarnished the
image of banks emerging from the biggest financial crisis since
the Great Depression.  Rejected Settlement  Banks including Barclays Plc,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  entered into
settlement talks with the commission, a person familiar with the
Euribor probe said earlier this month.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  has said that it rejected a settlement
in the Euribor case. HSBC Holdings Plc also dropped out of these
settlement talks, people familiar with the case said this month.  Rabobank, a co-operative formed in 1898 to lend to Dutch
farmers, was charged last month with  wire fraud  in a deferred
prosecution agreement with the  Justice Department  and with
“serious, prolonged and widespread misconduct” by the FCA.  Its fines, the second-largest over manipulation of Libor,
brought total settlements in the rate-rigging probe to $3.7
billion. Global investigations into banks’ attempts to
manipulate the benchmarks for profit have led to fines and
settlements for Barclays, RBS,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  ICAP Plc. (IAP)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  