-- Rain Slowing French Corn Harvest Widens Premium to U.S. Prices
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-11-18T06:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/rain-slowing-french-corn-harvest-widens-premium-to-u-s-prices.html
France ’s corn harvest, the biggest
in the European Union, is being delayed by excess rain, slowing
exports from the country and pushing up prices for the grain
relative to those in the U.S.  Farmers in the main French growing regions still needed to
 harvest  42 percent of their crops as of Nov. 11, compared with
just 12 percent at the same time last year, according to crop
office FranceAgriMer. Growing areas in the southwest, center and
northeast had two-to-three times the normal amount of rain in
the last two weeks, after the northeast saw double the average
precipitation in October, AccuWeather Inc. said.  “Soil moisture is a real disaster,” Renaud de Kerpoisson,
the president of Bourges, France-based farm adviser Offre &
Demande Agricole, said in an interview last week. “There is not
enough corn on the market at this moment and everybody is
waiting for the harvest.”  Corn for January delivery on NYSE Liffe in Paris closed at
174 euros ($234.93) a metric ton on Nov. 15, about 50 euros more
expensive than December futures on the Chicago Board of Trade,
the contract closest to expiration. The premium widened from 17
euros a ton in June, while the price difference between
contracts with those delivery months was 32 euros a ton at this
time last year. Corn has still tumbled on both exchanges in 2013
on the outlook for record production worldwide.  The EU issued licenses for French shippers to export
166,583 tons of corn since the marketing year began July 1, 12
percent less than at this time last year, according to online
data from the 28-country bloc. French corn exports may total
5.62 million tons during the 2013-14 season, down 14 percent
from last year and below a previous forecast of 5.91 million
tons, FranceAgriMer said Nov. 13. It also cut its estimate for
the French harvest by 1.4 percent to 15.16 million tons.  French Corn  Spot prices for French corn in Bordeaux were $237.85 a ton
as of Nov. 14, or $22.70 more expensive than U.S. grain at the
 Gulf of Mexico  at $215.15 a ton, said Nathan Kemp, an economist
at the International Grains Council in London. French prices
were near parity or at a discount to the U.S. from mid-August to
mid-September, IGC data show. The U.S. is the biggest exporter.  Harvest is progressing slowest in southwest  France , with 37
percent of crops collected in Aquitaine and 45 percent in Midi-Pyrenees as of Nov. 11, compared with a 90 and 95 percent pace
respectively last year, FranceAgriMer said. Agen, France,
located in Aquitaine, had 3.5 inches (8.9 centimeters) of rain
in the first two weeks of November, compared with normal
rainfall of 1 inch, said Dale Mohler, a senior meteorologist at
AccuWeather.  Precipitation may slow fieldwork further this week, with
western and central France expected to receive an inch of rain
from storms starting Nov. 20, Mohler said. Northeastern regions
may be drier, he said.  Farmers “don’t harvest if it’s too wet, so they need days
with sun for things to dry out,” Mohler said. “This time of
year the sun is pretty low, and it takes longer to dry out than
it would in September.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  