-- Rajaratnam Loses Bid for Full-Court Review of Conviction
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-11-19T15:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/rajaratnam-loses-bid-for-full-court-review-of-conviction.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, the fund manager convicted in 2011 of masterminding
one of the biggest insider trading schemes in a generation, lost
a bid for a rehearing of his case by a federal appeals court.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Manhattan  yesterday denied
Rajaratnam’s request that a larger group of judges reconsider
the ruling of a three-judge panel that upheld his conviction.
The decision leaves a possible request for a hearing by the U.S.
Supreme Court as Rajaratnam’s last chance to have his conviction
overturned.  Rajaratnam, 56, is serving an 11-year sentence in the
Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayers,  Massachusetts . His case
was the first in which investigators used widespread tapping of
targets’ telephone calls, a tactic often used in organized crime
investigations.  More than 75 people, including portfolio managers, hedge
fund analysts and employees at public companies have been
convicted of insider trading in a crackdown by the Justice
Department.  Jurors in Rajaratnam’s trial listened to more than 45
wiretap recordings, on some of which Rajaratnam can be heard
discussing inside information from his sources. Rajaratnam’s
lawyers argued that the wiretaps shouldn’t have been permitted
as evidence.  Though U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell , who presided
over the trial, found that prosecutors acted with “reckless
disregard” in omitting information from wiretap applications in
the case, he allowed them to be introduced in Rajaratnam’s
trial. The three-judge panel ruled in June that the information
omitted from the applications would have strengthened the case
for allowing them. Holwell has since retired as a judge.  The appeal is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 11-04416, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net  