-- Real Gains as China Economic Plans Offset Brazil Fiscal Concern
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-11-18T21:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/real-gains-as-china-economic-plans-offset-brazil-fiscal-concern.html
The real climbed the most among
emerging-market currencies as a planned easing of economic
regulations in  China , the nation’s biggest trading partner,
offset  Brazil ’s fiscal concern.  The currency appreciated 2.2 percent to 2.2639 per  U.S.
dollar  at the close in Sao Paulo, the biggest gain in two
months. It declined on Nov. 13 to 2.3341, the weakest since
Sept. 4. Swap rates on contracts maturing in January 2015 fell
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 10.74 percent.  “Brazil only really rallies on positive risk sentiment,”
Ilan Solot, a strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., said
in a phone interview from  London . “Brazil is kind of guilty
until proven innocent.”  Brazil extended the maturity on $988 million of currency
swaps in a fourth straight session of rollover auctions. It sold
$496 million of swaps earlier today as part of a $60 billion
intervention to bolster the real and curb import price
increases. The currency has pared its gain since the program was
announced Aug. 22 to 7.6 percent on concern the government’s
budget deficit will lead to a cut in the nation’s credit rating.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini didn’t see any
shortage of foreign currency as the real declined to a two-month
low last week.  The nation and other  emerging markets  face a sell-off
because of “interest-rate normalization” in advanced
economies, Tombini said in a speech delivered in Santiago on the
evening of Nov. 15 and published on the central bank’s website
the following day.  Fed Outlook  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg on Nov. 8 project the
 Federal Reserve  will start paring its bond purchases to
$70 billion a month at their March 18-19 meeting.  Inflows from from Vale SA’s sale of its 22 percent stake in
aluminum maker Norsk Hydro ASA may also be boosting the real
today, Joao Paulo de Gracia Correa, currency manager at
Correparti Corretora de Cambio, said in a phone interview from
Curitiba, Brazil. Vale, the world’s biggest iron-ore exporter,
completed the sale for $1.82 billion, according to a Nov. 14
statement.  In China, leaders have pledged to expand farmers’ land
rights, loosen the one-child policy and encourage private
investment in state businesses.  “The market likes the possibility of a speedier pace of
reforms in China,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at
Banco Mizuho do Brasil, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  Budget Deficit  Brazil’s government  deficit  as a percentage of gross
domestic product swelled to 3.3 percent in September, the
largest since 2009, the central bank reported Oct. 31.  Standard
& Poor’s  may reduce the nation’s BBB credit rating if fiscal
accounts worsen, Regina Nunes, a managing director at the
company, said in an interview this month.  The government will announce measures by the end of this
month to boost the primary  budget surplus , excluding interest
payments, to more than 1.6 percent of gross domestic product
this year, according to person on the government’s economic team
who asked not to be identified because discussions aren’t
public. The  Finance Ministry ’s press office declined to comment.  Analysts covering Brazil’s economy lowered their 2013
inflation forecast to 5.84 percent from 5.85 percent, according
to the median estimate in a central bank survey published today.  Brazil has raised the  target lending rate  to 9.50 percent
from a record low 7.25 percent this year, the most among 49
nations tracked by Bloomberg, in a bid to cool consumer demand
and hold down prices.  “The change in inflation expectations is marginal,
projections are still above the target,” Rostagno said. “If
the central bank wants to reduce inflation more, rates may have
to rise above 10.25 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  