-- Ringgit Advances Most in Three Weeks on China Reform Pledge
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-11-18T09:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/ringgit-advances-most-in-three-weeks-on-china-reform-pledge.html
Malaysia’s ringgit climbed the most
in three weeks after  China , the nation’s top export destination,
announced economic reforms including plans for market-determined
 interest rates . Ten-year  government bonds  fell.  The ringgit rose for a third day after a Nov. 15 statement
from China’s Communist Party showed the world’s second-largest
economy will also expand farmers’ land rights, loosen the one-child policy and encourage private investment in state
businesses. Malaysia’s  gross domestic product  increased 5
percent last quarter, the fastest pace since the period ended
December, as overseas shipments recovered, central bank data
showed on Nov. 15.  “Markets have reacted positively to the reform
announcements from China’s third plenum,” said Khoon Goh, a
senior foreign-exchange strategist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “As the ringgit was trading
poorly last week, there has been a bit of a retracement.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.5 percent, the biggest gain
since Oct. 28, to 3.1881 per dollar in Kuala Lumpur, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It touched a one-week high of
3.1837. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 30 basis
points to 8.33 percent.  Current Account  The outlook for the ringgit is relatively stable given the
improving global trade and likely tapering of Federal Reserve
stimulus in March, Leong Sook Mei, Southeast Asian head of
global markets research in Singapore at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd., said in an interview today. The ringgit will probably
“gravitate” around the 3.00-3.25 per dollar range over the
next six months, she said.  Malaysia’s  current-account surplus  increased to 9.8 billion
ringgit ($3.1 billion) in the three months through September
from 2.6 billion ringgit in the previous period, according to a
Nov. 15 government report.  The 10-year sovereign bond yield rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 3.95 percent, the highest level since
Sept. 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
the 3.172 percent securities maturing July 2016 fell one basis
point to a two-week low of 3.12 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  