-- Rio Tinto, Paladin Namibia Uranium Mines Face Water Shortage
-- B y   F e l i x   N j i n i
-- 2013-11-19T08:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/rio-tinto-paladin-uranium-mines-in-namibia-face-water-shortage.html
Uranium mines operated by companies
including  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and Paladin Energy Ltd. in  Namibia  face
a water shortage as a drought in the southwest African nation
curbs supply to the operations and three coastal towns.  Volumes from the Omaruru Delta aquifer, about 200
kilometers (124 miles) northwest of the capital, Windhoek, have
declined to 4 million cubic meters this year from 9 million
cubic meters a year earlier, said Nehemia Abraham, under-secretary for water and forestry in the Ministry of Agriculture.  The source is in the semi-arid Erongo region, which
supplies the towns of Swakopmund, Walvis Bay and Henties Bay and
suffers from severe shortages. Water from a desalination plant
owned by  Areva SA (AREVA) , the country’s first such facility, isn’t
enough to meet the needs of  Paladin (PDN) ’s Langer Heinrich uranium
mine, China Guangdong Nuclear Power Co.’s Husab uranium project
and Rio’s Rossing complex.  “The water-supply situation at the coastal area has become
too critical,” Abraham said by phone yesterday. “Mining
companies in the area will have to operate with less water. We
are reviewing the situation now and from end of November we
might be unable to get enough water from the aquifer to supply
to mines.”  Langer Heinrich spokeswoman Ratonda Murangi didn’t
immediately respond to e-mailed questions. Botha Ellis, a
spokesman for Rossing, directed queries to Namibia Water Corp.,
the country’s state-owned utility known as Namwater.  Water Needs  Rossing’s total water requirement for 2012 was 7.48 million
cubic meters, 41 percent of which was for fresh water, while the
rest was recycled, according to its  website .  The three towns use about 4.5 million cubic meters and
there is currently no spare capacity from the aquifer, known as
Omdel, Abraham said.  Areva, the world’s biggest nuclear-reactor builder, in
August signed an agreement with Namwater for it to supply 10
million cubic meters to the three uranium mines from its
desalination facility. The plant was built to supply the
Trekkopje complex, which was mothballed last year after the
fuel’s price fell.  The government of the southwest African nation, which is
enduring its worst drought in three decades, in August said it
would name a private investor to build the country’s second
desalination plant, which will cost 1.5 billion Namibian dollars
($148 million).  The state is evaluating three bids for the project, which
will have capacity of 20 million cubic meters annually, Abraham
said.  “We want this plant to be in operation yesterday because
of the serious water crisis the Erongo region is facing,”
Abraham said. “We can’t take chances; all the financial,
technical capacity and social issues pertaining to this project
have to be properly looked into,” he said. Construction will
start next year.  Rio Tinto  declined 1 percent to 3,232 pence by 8:12 a.m. in
 London , extending the drop this year to 8 percent. Paladin fell
3.7 percent to A$0.39 in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felix Njini in Windhoek via  Cape Town  at 
 dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  