-- Senate Republicans Block Third U.S. Appeals Court Nominee
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-11-18T23:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/senate-republicans-block-third-u-s-appeals-court-nominee.html
Senate Republicans blocked the last
of President  Barack Obama ’s three nominees to a federal appeals
court considered second only to the U.S. Supreme Court in
importance because of its influence over  government regulation .  The 53-38 vote was shy of the 60 needed to advance the
nomination of U.S. District Judge Robert L. Wilkins to the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the District of Columbia Circuit.  Republicans argue the caseload is insufficient to justify
filling three vacancies on the 11-member court, which often
rules on challenges to regulations from such agencies as the
Environmental Protection Agency and the Federal Communications
Commission.  Obama said in a statement today he is “deeply disappointed
that Senate Republicans have once again refused to do their
job” and urged the Senate again to take a yes-or-no vote on his
judicial nominees.  “This obstruction is completely unprecedented,” he said.  In a floor speech, Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell 
said Democrats were trying to “concoct a crisis on the D.C.
Circuit” so they can “distract Americans from the failings of
Obamacare.”  Senate Democrats should instead seek votes to fill
vacancies where the U.S. court system has declared a judicial
emergency to denote a shortage of judges on courts with
overwhelming caseloads “rather than complain about a fake
one,” McConnell said.  ‘Manufactured Excuse’  Democratic Whip  Dick Durbin  called the workload argument
“a manufactured excuse for them to filibuster an Obama
nominee.” The Illinois senator said when  George W. Bush  was
president “Republicans were eager to confirm nominees for the
ninth, 10th and 11th seats on the D.C. Circuit.”  On Oct. 31, the Senate blocked consideration of Washington
lawyer Patricia Millett for another vacancy on the court. On
Nov. 12, Republicans blocked Georgetown University law professor
Nina Pillard’s nomination to a vacancy on the same court.  The actions have revived a call from some Democrats for a
change in the Senate’s rules to ban or curb moves to block
judicial and some executive-branch nominees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  