-- Sinopec Leads Rally on Economic Reforms: China Overnight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-11-18T22:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/sinopec-leads-rally-on-economic-reforms-china-overnight.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (SNP)  led
Chinese stocks in  New York  to a two-year high after the
government vowed to reshape state-controlled industries to lure
investments.  The Bloomberg China-US Index of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. climbed 2 percent to 108.06, the highest
since August 2011. China Petroleum, known as Sinopec, jumped to
a seven-month high, while China Life Insurance Co., the nation’s
biggest insurer, rose the most since July. Video website
operator  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  climbed for a second day after two
analysts raised price estimates.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  advanced after
Altimeter Capital Management LLC said it  increased  its stake.  China pledged to allow more private investments in state-controlled industries while easing the one-child policy as part
of the biggest package of reforms since the 1990s.  Standard
Chartered  Plc sees the nation’s energy companies benefiting the
most from the reforms while Fidelity Investment Management Ltd.
said it’s adding more Chinese consumer-related stocks, including
Internet and health-care companies.  “The free-up of many government-controlled sectors, such
as the banking and financial sectors which the Internet
companies can go in” is sending Internet stocks higher, Michael Ding, the lead manager of the China Region Fund at U.S. Global
Investors, which oversees $2.2 billion, said by phone yesterday
from  San Antonio , Texas. “The one-child policy will indirectly
help the online retailers.”  ETF Advances  The  iShares China Large-Cap ETF , the nation’s biggest U.S.-
listed exchange-traded fund, climbed 3.6 percent to $39.82 in
New York, the highest in nine months. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 0.4 percent after investor  Carl Icahn  warned of a
“big drop” in the stock market, Reuters reported.  Sinopec jumped 4.9 percent to $89.86, the most in two
months. Oil and energy companies will benefit from reforms,
 Erwin Sanft , the head of China and Hong Kong equity research at
Standard Chartered, said in an interview yesterday. The document
made clear statements about moving back to market-driven
policies, Sanft said.  “The whole idea of expanding economic freedoms in general
is certainly positive for the financial markets in China,”
 Timothy Ghriskey , the chief investment officer at Solaris Group
LLC in  Bedford Hills , New York, which manages over $1.5 billion,
said in a telephone interview. “The reforms are better than
people expected. China to us just continues to be a great
opportunity.”  Youku Advances  China Life, based in Beijing, added 7.1 percent to $45.46,
a nine-month high. Jefferies Group LLC listed brokerages and
insurers among its top picks in a note yesterday.  Youku Tudou, the Beijing-based company that owns  China ’s
biggest video websites, gained 2.6 percent to $30.05 on volume
that was 3.6 times the average during the past 90 days. Two
analysts  raised their estimates  for the stock price by an
average 23 percent while one analyst lowered the rating to the
equivalent of a sell.  NQ Mobile, the Chinese mobile-services provider accused of
inflating revenue by short-seller  Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters
LLC, climbed as much as 11 percent before closing at $12.90,
paring its gain to 1.9 percent. Altimeter said it increased its
holdings of NQ Mobile to 6.1 percent from 1.5 percent, making it
the largest shareholder.  LDK Solar Co., China’s second biggest maker of solar
wafers, rose 7.3 percent to $1.62, in the biggest advance on the
Bloomberg China-US index. JinkoSolar Holding Co., based in
Xinyu, China, said solar module shipments increased 75 percent
from a year ago in the third quarter. JinkoSolar surged 13
percent to $33.30, the highest in three years.  Child Policy  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) , a private
education company, advanced 5.4 percent to $29.67, the highest
since October 2011. Trading volume was quadruple the three-month
average.  “I think the somewhat removal of the one-child policy is
the first of many steps to address a clear aging workforce
issue,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which oversees $700 million in assets, said by
e-mail from Lisle, Illinois. It seems logical that the stock is
rallying on the reforms as it expands their potential market
size, he said.  LightInTheBox Holding Co., a Beijing-based online retailer,
slumped 7.1 percent to $9.98, the biggest drop in two weeks. The
company is set to report today third-quarter sales rose 37
percent to $69.9 million, according to the mean estimate of four
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in  Hong Kong  advanced
5.7 percent, the most in two years, to a six-month high of
11,307.33, while the Shanghai Composite Index rallied 2.9
percent to 2,197.22, the most since September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  