-- Sinopec Starts Marketing $2.5 Billion Five-Year Term Facility
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2013-11-18T10:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/sinopec-starts-marketing-2-5-billion-five-year-term-facility.html
China Petrochemical Corp., whose
Hong Kong-listed unit is  Asia ’s biggest refiner, has started
marketing a $2.5 billion five-year  term loan  in syndication,
according to a statement from two of the arranging banks.  Tiptop Energy Ltd. and Sinopec Century Bright Capital
Investment Ltd. are the borrowing entities and the facility is
guaranteed by Sinopec Group, as the company is more commonly
known, according to the statement today from United Overseas
Bank Ltd. and the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Beijing-based Sinopec posted a 20 percent increase in
third-quarter profit last month, beating estimates, as higher
retail fuel prices helped margins. The company continues to see
steady growth in both its overseas and domestic markets and its
refinery business has seen a “significant increase” in
profitability this year, according to today’s statement.  “The group’s overall financial performance remains strong
and is well supported by various financing channels,” Sinopec
said. “We are confident this will become a landmark transaction
in the syndicated loan market.”  Proceeds of the loan will be used for general corporate
purposes and the facility pays a margin of 1.23 percent per
annum, according to the statement.  China  Construction Bank Corp., Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd., Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and United Overseas Bank Ltd. have been hired as the
facility’s mandated lead arrangers, bookrunners and
underwriters, Sinopec said.  Lending Volumes  Syndicated loans in Asia-Pacific outside of  Japan  total
$315.9 billion this year compared with $319.6 billion in the
same period of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Companies from China and Hong Kong make up three of the top 10
takers of bank debt since Dec. 31 and China National Offshore
Oil Corp. leads borrowers, signing $9 billion of facilities.  Sinopec has the  equivalent  of about $38.9 billion in bonds
and loans outstanding, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Incorporated in  Hong Kong  in April 2008, Tiptop is an asset
holding company of Sinopec and is wholly owned by Sinopec
International Petroleum Exploration & Production Corp. Century
Bright is also wholly-owned by Sinopec and, as the sole offshore
treasury center of the group, serves as the platform for
offshore settlement, financing and cash management, according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  