-- SK Capital’s Archroma to Double Sales to $3 Billion, CEO Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-11-18T12:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/sk-capital-s-archroma-to-double-sales-to-3-billion-ceo-says.html
Archroma, the company forged from SK
Capital Partners LP’s purchase of three  Clariant AG (CLN)  units, aims
to double sales to about $3 billion and lead consolidation in
paper- and textile- chemical markets.  “Further consolidation in this market is inevitable,”
Chief Executive Officer Alexander Wessels said in an interview
in Reinach,  Switzerland , adding that he wants to reach the sales
target within five years through acquisitions and organic
growth.  The emergence of private equity-backed Archroma highlights
a shift away from commodity chemicals to higher-margin products
for nutrition and personal care by companies from Clariant to
 BASF SE. (BAS)  BASF, which aborted an attempt to exit leather
chemicals, is restructuring under-performing units to get extra
savings in areas such as paper.  The  chemical industry  will see further consolidation in the
coming years amid pressure to pay back debts from purchases in
the years from 2006 to 2008,  A.T. Kearney  said. Some 27
chemicalmakers with turnover of more than $1 billion will face a
 $110 billion  wave of debt repayments due between 2013 and 2016,
the management consultancy said in a September report.  Swiss Heritage  Wessels will build on the history of Archroma’s businesses,
whose roots date back to 1886 with the founding of Sandoz in
Basel. With a company of 3,000 employees and sales of about $1.4
billion, there’s an opportunity to add rival businesses across
paper, textiles, emulsions and other industries to Archroma’s
portfolio, he said.  Archroma, the maker of Cartasol paper dyes and Mowilith
emulsions used in paints, will also seek adjacent markets for
its existing portfolio, such as technology for water repellency
in paints to protect buildings.  “A couple of big plays may transform the market for paper
and textiles,” Wessels said. “Our ownership gives us the
chance and ability to make quick decisions, and the ambition to
further develop and grow the business.”  Dutch national Wessels, an industry veteran who holds an
MSc in Molecular Sciences with a career spanning almost 25
years, spent seven years at Royal DSM NV where he most recently
headed the Pharmaceutical Products division and was based in the
U.S. He’s also held management positions at Unilever, Quest
International, and Imperial Chemical Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  