-- Ski-Doo Maker BRP Rallies to Year’s Best IPO
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-11-18T22:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/ski-doo-maker-brp-rallies-to-year-s-best-ipo-corporate-canada.html
Shares of  BRP Inc. (DOO) , the maker of
Ski-Doo snowmobiles and three-wheeled motorcycles, have surged
31 percent since their May debut, the best performer among
 Canada ’s biggest initial public offerings this year.  BRP raised C$262.3 million ($251.4 million) in its May
stock sale and topped the 4 percent average increase of 10
companies that raised at least $100 million from IPOs in Canada
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Valcourt, Quebec-based firm beat the 23 percent surge of
Saskatchewan registry operator  Information Services Corp. (ISV)  and
the 6.5 percent rise of  TransAlta Renewables Inc. (RNW) , data show.  BRP is benefiting from revenue growth driven by sales of
year-round products including all-terrain vehicles and its Can-Am Spyder three-wheel roadsters. The company added the Sea-Doo
Spark to its personal watercraft lineup in September, targeting
price-conscious buyers. BRP employs 6,800 people worldwide and
sells in more than 105 countries.  “We continue to think that longer term BRP is a very
attractive business with a limited amount of competitors,” said
Brian Huen, managing partner at Red Sky Capital Management Ltd.
in Toronto, which manages about C$225 million including BRP
shares. “We like the prospect longer term, just given the
recovery in consumer spend and industrial spend that we’re
seeing, and the technology that’s being applied to these
products.”  ‘Good Lineup’  BRP  rose  0.4 percent to C$28.20 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
stock has outperformed the 5.6 percent increase of Canada’s
benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite  Index (SPTSX)  since its May 22
pricing date. BRP’s 31 percent gain compares with the 40 percent
advance of  Polaris Industries Inc. (PII) , the Medina, Minnesota-based
maker of snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles and  Indian
motorcycles , the U.S.’s oldest bike brand, in that period.  “We have a very good lineup, a good international presence
and good distribution base around the world,” Pierre Pichette,
a BRP spokesman, said in a Nov. 15 telephone interview.  BRP is a spinoff of  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , which in 2003 sold its
recreational products business to investors including Boston-based Bain Capital Partners LLC, members of the Bombardier and
Beaudoin families who are part of closely held Beaudier Group,
and Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec , Canada’s second-largest pension-fund manager.  ‘Inflection Point’  BRP was Canada’s third-largest IPO this year, following the
C$400 million sale of Loblaw Cos.’ Choice Properties Real Estate
Investment Trust in June and the C$263.5 million offering of
Canadian Tire Corp.’s CT REIT last month. BRP’s initial sale was
led by  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , Royal Bank of Canada, UBS AG and
Citigroup Inc.  “It was an excellent company for us to be able to take to
the market, and as a company it has performed very well,” said
Peter Miller, head of  equity capital markets  in Canada at BMO
Capital Markets. “The inflection point of a growing North
American economy and consumer demand, particularly in the U.S.
being strong, helped to sell the IPO and has helped propel BRP
in the aftermarket.”  Still, the performance of BRP and other Canadian IPOs pale
by comparison to those in the U.S., Red Sky’s Huen said. The
average increase among 93 companies that raised at least $100
million in U.S. IPOs this year is 15 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “If you look at the performance of some of the U.S. IPOs,
it’s staggering,” Huen said. “These things go up 100 percent
in a day.”  Resource Focused  Canadian IPOs lag behind their U.S. peers because they lack
liquidity, the companies are smaller and are predominantly
energy and resource focused, which has less broader appeal, Huen
said. BRP’s consumer and industrial expertise and global focus
sets it apart from other Canadian firms, he said.  BRP hasn’t had difficulty selling stock in the Canadian
market. In October, original investors Bain and the Caisse sold
8 million BRP shares for C$27.85 each -- about 30 percent higher
than the May per-share  IPO price  of C$21.50.  “We’re not specialists in the market, we’re new at this,
and going into the market was an interesting exercise for us,”
BRP’s Pichette said. “We worked hard at it and I guess the
result is there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  