-- Sony Pictures Said Hiring Bain for $100 Million in Cuts
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-11-19T10:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/sony-pictures-said-hiring-bain-for-100-million-in-cuts.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , which meets with
investors this week about improving the company’s entertainment
unit performance, has hired Bain & Co. to identify $100 million
in cuts, a person familiar with the situation said yesterday.  Sony Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  is hosting a
conference on Nov. 21 at the company’s studios in  Culver City ,
 California , to discuss his strategy for entertainment. The cuts
will include job losses, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the moves haven’t been announced publicly.
Sony shares rose.  Hirai is seeking to lower costs after reporting a second-quarter loss that led Moody’s Investors Service to warn Sony’s
debt rating could be cut to junk. The Tokyo-based company has
faced criticism over the profitability of its entertainment
division, with billionaire  Daniel Loeb  of Third Point LLC
calling for a partial sale of the business.  “The effect of Daniel Loeb is generating results,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , chief  fund manager  at Ichiyoshi Asset
Management Co. in  Tokyo . “However, entertainment is a growing
area for Sony, and improving the business cannot be all about
just cutting costs.”  Cheryl Krauss, a spokeswoman for Bain in New York, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Business Review  The cuts are part of a nearly four-year process of
increasing fiscal discipline,  Charles Sipkins , a spokesman for
Sony Pictures, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The
entertainment division is conducting a review of its business to
identify further efficiencies, according to the e-mail.  Sony  rose  1.3 percent to 1,886 yen in Tokyo trading,
extending its gain to 97 percent this year.  At the conference this week, Hirai, 52, will seek to
convince investors that owning content gives Sony a competitive
advantage even as investors including  Third Point , which holds a
6.5 percent stake in the company, have argued the division would
be more valuable as a separate business.  “The hope and dream is that they might unlock the value of
that business,” Daniel Ernst, an analyst at Hudson Square
Research in New York, said in an interview. “Big conglomerates
don’t get full value.”  Sony’s film studios, which include  Columbia Pictures  and
Screen Gems, regularly vie with Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros.
as the biggest movie distributor. Sony Pictures Television
produces the shows “Breaking Bad” and “Masters of Sex,” and
owns 65 TV channels worldwide. The company also owns the second-biggest music company after Vivendi SA’s  Universal Music Group .  Convince Investors  After box-office flops “After Earth” and “White House
Down,” the film studio is reviewing changes to how movies are
selected, Loeb said last week at an investor conference in New
York sponsored by The New York Times.  Sony ranks fourth in domestic  box-office sales  this year,
with revenue of $1.13 billion, according to Box Office Mojo, an
industry researcher. That’s down 32 percent from $1.65 billion
at this time a year earlier.  The company also hopes to use its new PlayStation 4 console
as the centerpiece of its plan to deliver its own content to
consumers’ living rooms. Sony sold more than 1 million consoles
in  North America  during the first 24 hours of sales beginning
Nov. 15, topping initial results for the predecessor device in
2006.  Loeb Letter  Starting with the second quarter, Sony began disclosing
more details about the entertainment division, which produced an
 operating loss  of $179 million on $1.8 billion in sales.
Investors are pushing for even more granular details, including
profit margins at each of the entertainment unit’s operations,
Ernst said.  “Entertainment is a growing area for Sony, and improving
the business cannot be all about just cutting costs,” Akino
said. “Sony should do both cost-cutting and pursue growth
measures.”  The  New York  Times reported the cost-cutting plans earlier
yesterday.  In a May 14 letter, Loeb began agitating for Hirai and
Sony’s board to split off the entertainment business. In
response, Sony’s board in August pledged to provide more
financial detail on its entertainment business, while declining
to spin off the operation.  A separate Sony entertainment company would be more highly
valued, just as Sony’s financial-services division was given
more value once it was separately traded, Ernst said.  TV Channels  While profit margins on films and music are small, clarity
on Sony Pictures Television could be a catalyst for the stock,
Ernst said.  The division’s 65 cable, on-demand and Internet channels
worldwide are undervalued, Ernst said, compared with AMC
Networks Inc.’s $1.04 billion acquisition of Liberty Global
Plc’s Chellomedia, which reaches 390 million households in 138
countries. Sony’s networks are in 484.1 million pay-TV homes in
 India  and 84.2 million households in  Latin America .  “Owning channels abroad has been a big area for growth for
media companies,” Ernst said. “Sony has those, too, but it’s
unclear if the earnings are to the same extent.”  Sony has few examples of content spurring electronics sales
and even fewer of its devices selling films or TV shows,
according to Ernst. The company needs to show it can compete
against Apple Inc. and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in mobile phones
and tablets, he said.  “They have been going downhill for a long time,” Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment Research Corp. in
Tokyo, said in an interview. “There is no strategy that I can
see. It’s not too late but time is running out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  