-- South African Opposition Faces Rift in Bid for Black Vote
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-11-19T17:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/south-african-opposition-faces-policy-rift-in-bid-for-black-vote.html
The  Democratic Alliance , South
Africa’s main opposition party, is battling to quell infighting
over its stance on race-based employment quotas that may stall
its recent gains among the black electorate in next year’s vote.  The dispute overshadows this week’s policy conference when
the party plans its challenge against the ruling  African
National Congress . Some members argue the DA’s opposition to
proposed laws aimed at pressuring companies to hire and promote
more black staff will discredit the party among black voters
just as it has been gaining electoral support. Party leader
 Helen Zille  and others say such measures amount to “racial
coercion” and would hurt investment and jobs.  “To a lot of members of the public, the DA gives the
impression that wherever there is a conflict between white
interests and black interests, its gut reaction is always to
come out fighting to defend white interests,” Keith Gottschalk,
a politics lecturer at the University of the Western Cape in
 Cape Town , said in a Nov. 14 phone interview. “This may be a
misperception, but it is something the party needs to address
very seriously.”  Traditionally backed by whites and mixed-race voters and
espousing free-market policies, the DA controls Cape Town, the
second-largest city, and has made headway in attracting black
voters and leaders. It’s seeking to win more than 20 percent of
the vote next year by tapping into public anger with the ANC-led
government over shortages of jobs and corruption. In 2009, the
party won backing from 16.7 percent of the electorate, up from
12.4 percent five years before.  ANC Threat  Zille, 62, a former journalist who is currently premier of
the Western Cape Province, won a second five-year term as DA
leader in November last year.  The increasing threat her party poses to the ANC’s
political dominance was evident in 2011 municipal elections,
when it won 24 percent of the vote. Besides retaining control of
Cape Town, the only big city that doesn’t have a black majority,
it also won 39 percent of the vote in the capital  Pretoria , 34
percent in Johannesburg and 40 percent in the southern city of
 Port Elizabeth .  The wrangling over quotas went public this month when party
legislators voted in favor of government-proposed changes to
 labor laws , only for the DA leadership to reverse the support.
Sej Motau, the party’s shadow minister for labor, and his deputy
Andricus van der Westhuizen were removed from their posts.  The amendments include increasing penalties for companies
that don’t meet racial hiring targets, and scrapping a
requirement for available skills and economic and financial
factors to be taken into account when determining compliance.  Opinion Differences  Motau told Johannesburg’s City Press newspaper he stood by
his vote. He declined a request for comment yesterday, saying he
would only do so after the party’s Nov. 23 conference.  Lindiwe Mazibuko, the DA’s parliamentary leader, said that
while there were differences of opinion within the party over
the law, legislators failed to properly consider its
implications and erred when they voted in favor of it.  The flip-flop may undermine the DA’s attempts to portray
itself as a credible alternative to the ANC. It also risks
shedding support to Agang SA, a new party formed by ex-World
Bank Managing Director Mamphela Ramphele, which has many similar
policy positions to the DA.  “The DA were beginning to focus all their energy and
policy strategies on the black voters, especially your black
middle class,” Somadoda Fikeni, a political analyst at the
University of South  Africa  in Pretoria, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  ‘Massive Effect’  “Now you get this thing which says that the DA is
vehemently opposed to a policy which the black middle class
looks at as a necessary corrective action in terms of historical
redress,” he said. “They are most likely going to lose those
people either to Agang, or the ANC or some may simply stay away
and not vote. I think it’s going to have a massive effect.”  Census data shows that nearly two decades after the end of
apartheid, white households earn six times more than their black
counterparts. Whites, who make up 8.7 percent of the population
of 53 million, occupied 73 percent of top business management
posts, the Employment Equity Commission said in an April 20
report.  The ANC, which has ruled Africa’s largest  economy  since
taking power under  Nelson Mandela  in the first multiracial vote
in 1994, accuses the DA of abandoning the black electorate.  ‘Employment Equity’  “By withdrawing its support for employment equity and
broad-based black economic empowerment, the DA has effectively
sent an unequivocal message to its black supporters that they
are on their own,” Stone Sizani, the ANC’s chief whip in
Parliament, said in a Nov. 12 statement. “It has become
increasingly apparent that the party is using black supporters
as mere voting fodder.”  While the DA supports measures to redress the injustices of
white minority rule, Zille told the Cape Town Press Club on Nov.
14, the new laws “take us back to the era of race
classification, segregation, imposed quotas, draconian
enforcement and inspectors.”  In a Nov. 17 newsletter, Zille conceded that the party’s
stance on affirmative action was “difficult to explain and
understand, even to some members of our own caucus,” and said
the issue would be addressed at the party conference.  The debate within the DA is a symptom of a growing party,
Daniel Silke, author of Tracking the Future: Top trends that
will shape  South Africa  and the World, said in a Nov. 14 phone
interview from Cape Town.  “Its new supporters are a substantially different group to
its existing minority support base,” he said. “Their life
experience and fears and expectations are quite different. There
will be policy differences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  