-- Southeast Asians Snap Up New London Homes, Land Securities Says
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-11-18T08:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/southeast-asians-snap-up-new-london-homes-land-securities-says.html
Two-thirds of new  London  homes sold
before completion are being purchased by Southeast Asian buyers,
according to  Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) , the U.K.’s largest real
estate investment trust.  Singaporeans account for a third of buyers from  Southeast
Asia , with a further third from countries including Malaysia and
 Thailand , while  Hong Kong  makes up another third, Tom Eshelby,
residential director at London-based Land Securities, said in an
interview in  Singapore  today.  Measures taken by Singapore and Hong Kong to cool their
housing markets have prompted buyers to seek investments abroad.
Singapore has linked borrowers’ maximum debt levels to their
incomes and raised stamp duties and capital gains taxes, while
Hong Kong has increased minimum down payments six times in less
than three years and in February doubled stamp-duty taxes for
all properties over HK$2 million ($258,000).  “The property curbs in Singapore and Hong Kong have
stymied and paralysed the market,” Eshelby said. “Buyers are
disenchanted with the local markets so they are looking overseas
now.”  Prices in central London are estimated to climb 25 percent
in the next five years, Eshelby said. London  home prices  have
“massively outperformed” the rest of the U.K. over the past
five years, he said. Meanwhile, prices in other parts of the
U.K. are still not back to where they were in 2008, he said.  “It is possible London will do less well, but not by
much,” Eshelby said. “There are millions of high-net-worth
individuals in the world and there are thousands of new homes in
London,” which suggests a continued imbalance between supply
and demand, he said.  London Luxury  Luxury homes in central London have been the best
performing in the U.K. since at least 2009, rising more than 60
percent from their low that year, according to broker  Knight
Frank  LLP. Home prices in central London’s most expensive
neighborhoods rose 6.8 percent in October from a year earlier,
the slowest pace since December 2009, as asking prices deterred
buyers, according to an index compiled by Knight Frank.  Land Securities will start marketing its 170-unit
residential project -- part of a 5.5 acre (2.2 hectare), 2.2
billion-pound ($3.5 billion) development of offices, retail,
shops and homes in the Victoria area -- early next year, Eshelby
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  