-- Spain’s Economy Is Main Risk for Nation’s Banks, EU Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-11-18T15:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/spain-s-economy-is-the-main-risk-for-nation-s-banks-eu-says.html
Spain ’s economy is weighing on
Spanish banks and is the “main risk factor” as lending shrinks
and real estate prices fall, the European Union said.  “Lending to the real economy is  still contracting  at a
rapid pace against the backdrop of weak solvent demand for new
lending and a large increase in the banks’ holdings of
 government securities ,” the European Commission, the EU’s
executive arm, said today in its fourth review of Spain’s
compliance with terms of a banking industry bailout. The
government needs to keep pressing for changes, and the banks
should continue to improve their solvency to underpin lending,
the report said.  Spain took 41.3 billion euros ($55.8 billion) in European
aid last year as real estate linked losses at former savings
banks such as the Bankia group threatened government finances.
Rising bad loans and shrinking lending at Spanish banks show
they still face challenges to profitability after a property
crash that led the industry to take 87 billion euros of
impairment charges last year.  The report, after a joint European Commission and European
Central Bank team visited Madrid in September, said that Spain’s
compliance with the program, together with government changes
designed to enhance growth, was accompanied by a return of
investor confidence.  Shares (POP)  in Spanish lender Banco Popular
Espanol SA have jumped almost 80 percent since the end of June.  ‘Positive Trends’  Even so, “a continuation of the positive trends is needed
for the successful completion of the program according to the
planned timetable,” the report said. European finance ministers
said last week they supported Spain’s decision not to request
more bank aid after the program ends in January.  Spain needs to continue efforts to make the economy run
more efficiently “to reap fully the expected positive growth
and competitiveness effects from the reforms,” the report said,
noting there are still risks to the government meeting its 2013
deficit target.  Given weak economic growth, banks need to “follow prudent
policies” to maintain or increase  capital ratios , the report
said, adding that limitations set by the Bank of Spain in June
on cash dividends paid by banks was “very welcome.” While
banks have benefited from improved funding costs, they haven’t
passed on their lower costs to customers, the commission said.  The report called the level of deferred tax assets on bank
balance sheets an “area of concern.” Under new regulations
known as Basel III, the deferred tax assets, which built up
during Spain’s financial crisis, will have to be deducted over
time from capital ratios. The Spanish government is working to
avoid the banks having to take the deduction, the report said.  Spain still needs to tighten governance of savings banks,
as required by Spain’s bailout accord, said the report. The
terms of the bailout oblige Spain to give incentives to the
savings banks, known as cajas, to gradually divest their
controlling stakes in the lenders that they still own.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  