-- Spain Bank Bad Loan Ratio Climbed to 12.7% in September
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-11-18T11:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/spain-bank-bad-loan-ratio-climbed-to-12-7-in-september.html
Defaults as a proportion of total
lending at Spanish banks increased to a record in September as
more borrowers missed loan payments in an economy with
unemployment at 26 percent.  Non-performing loans  accounted for  12.7 percent of lending
in September compared with 12.1 percent in August and 10.7
percent in the same month a year earlier, the Bank of  Spain  said
on its website today. The stock of bad loans rose to 187.8
billion euros ($253.8 billion) during the month as 6.9 billion
euros in loans were classified as in default.  Rising bad debts show that Spain’s banks, which have come
under pressure from regulators this year to ensure that their
bad loans are properly classified, still face challenges in
controlling their asset quality even as the economy starts to
crawl out of a five-year slump. The  International Monetary Fund 
is predicting unemployment in Spain will not fall below 25
percent until 2018.  “There is no indication from this data on when non-performing loans might peak,” said Daragh Quinn, a banks
analyst at Nomura International in  Madrid , in a phone interview
today. “Spain has come out of recession, but you’d have to see
stronger economic growth than what is forecast to become
positive on the asset-quality trends.”  Some Spanish bank shares dipped when the data was published
shortly after 10 a.m. in Madrid.  Bankia SA (BKIA) , which was
nationalized last year, fell as much as 4 percent.  The Bank of Spain has been making banks review their assets
to ensure that loans that have been refinanced and that have
little chance of being repaid are properly classified.  The exercise resulted in a jump in third-quarter bad loans
at lenders including  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , which said 7 percent of
its Spanish  mortgage loans  were in default in September compared
with 3.1 percent in June. Bad debts as a proportion of total
loans in Spain at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA rose to 6.2
percent in September from 4.7 percent in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  