-- U.K. Bank Whistle-Blowers Increase as Regulator Scrutiny Grows
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-11-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/u-k-bank-whistle-blowers-increase-as-regulator-scrutiny-grows.html
The number of whistle-blower calls
to the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority increased 23 percent
during the last year, even as the regulator was criticized for
failing to do enough to encourage bank employees to come
forward.  The FCA received 4,718 complaints on its whistle-blower
hotline in the 12-month period ending Aug. 31, according to
London-based law firm RPC LLP. The firm attributed the rise to
calls for individuals to report malpractice.  The U.K. markets regulator was criticized in June by
lawmakers for its lack of support offered to whistle-blowers in
a government review of culture in the finance industry by the
Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards.  “It is important for the FCA to show that in instances
where whistle-blowing is valid it is vigilant if it wants to
continue to see issues of malpractice reported,” said Steven
Francis, a lawyer for RPC. “There are also a lot of people who
have an ax to grind so there needs to be a high quality filter
to ensure time isn’t wasted on claims without merit.”  Financial rewards for whistleblowing, similar to the U.S.
system, has been a key topic of government debate in the U.K.
The Home Office said it was considering incentivizing
whistleblowing with payments in a policy document announcing the
opening of the National Crime Agency last month.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s Office of the
Whistleblower in fiscal year 2013, received more than 3,200 tips
and complaints, Jane Norberg, deputy chief of the SEC unit, said
last week.  “We conducted a detailed review of our whistleblowing
procedures and have increased our resources to track and analyze
whistle-blowing information,” the FCA said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are also liaising with U.S. regulators, support
groups, attorneys and government departments to consider
incentivization and best practice in protecting
whistleblowers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  