-- U.K. Said to Probe Private Accounts of Currency Traders
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-11-19T08:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/u-k-said-to-probe-private-accounts-of-currency-traders.html
British regulators expanded their
probe into the manipulation of global currency markets by asking
banks to examine foreign-exchange traders’ personal
transactions, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  The Financial Conduct Authority is focusing on so-called
personal account dealing by traders who may have placed bets for
their own benefit based on knowledge of customer currency orders,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
request hasn’t been made public.  Regulators in the U.K., Switzerland, the U.S. and Asia are
probing the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market after
Bloomberg News reported possible misconduct in June. Dealers
said they had been front-running client orders and trying to rig
the benchmark WM/Reuters rates by colluding with counterparts
and pushing through trades before and during the 60-second
windows when the figures are set, Bloomberg reported.  Britain’s markets regulator asked traders to come in for
interviews in recent weeks, two people with knowledge of the
inquiry said last week.  Officials at the London-based FCA declined to comment on
the investigations. The probe of personal trading was reported
earlier by the  Financial Times .  At least seven banks including Britain’s  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  have disclosed investigations by regulators.
Citigroup Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Barclays have suspended
or put on leave some of their most senior currency traders. No
one has been accused of wrongdoing.  Pension Funds  The WM/Reuters rates determine what many pension funds and
money managers pay for their foreign exchange and are used by
index providers such as FTSE Group and  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  to calculate
daily valuations of indexes that span multiple currencies. Even
small movements could affect the value of what Morningstar Inc.
estimates is $3.6 trillion in funds including pension and
savings accounts that track global indexes.  Because banks agree with clients to trade at the WM/Reuters
rates, regardless of later moves, dealers are at risk of losses
if the market moves against them.  The rates are published hourly for 160 currencies and half-hourly for the 21 most-traded. They are the median of all trades
in a minute-long period starting 30 seconds before the beginning
of each half-hour. Rates for less-widely traded currencies are
based on quotes during a two-minute window.  The data are collected and distributed by World Markets
Co., a unit of Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT) , and  Thomson
Reuters  Corp. Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg
News, competes with Thomson Reuters in providing news and
information as well as currency-trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  