-- EU Justice Chief Urges U.S. Privacy Deal to Repair Trust
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-11-18T17:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/u-s-urged-to-grant-eu-citizens-right-to-sue-for-data-violations.html
The European Union’s justice chief
said the U.S would win back lost trust amid spying scandals by
granting EU citizens the right to sue U.S. agencies that violate
their  privacy rights .  A meeting of EU and U.S. government officials in  Washington 
today must progress on this “fundamental issue” and come up
with “concrete and enforceable rights, notably the right to
judicial redress” in the U.S. for citizens from the 28-nation
EU, Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  said in a statement
today.  “It is important that a European boarding a plane in  Rome 
or searching the web from his home in  Germany  has a right of
judicial redress in the U.S. whenever their personal data are
being processed in the U.S.,” Reding said. An accord “will
contribute to restoring trust in trans-Atlantic relations, which
is of particular importance at this moment in time.”  Reding has urged the U.S. to boost its privacy rules or
risk harming relations with the bloc in the wake of reports the
U.S. National Security Agency eavesdropped on world leaders
including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . The EU and U.S.
started  talks  in 2011 on a data protection agreement for
cooperation to combat terrorism or crime. More than 15
negotiating rounds have failed to yield a deal, Reding said.  Meetings today with Attorney General Eric Holder and Rand Beers, acting secretary of the U.S. Department of  Homeland
Security , “will be an opportunity to advance in the
negotiations,” the commission said.  U.S. Right  “Every U.S. citizen in the European Union already enjoys”
the right to judicial redress “irrespective of whether he or
she is resident in the EU,” said Reding. “But European
citizens who are not resident in the U.S. do not enjoy this
right.”  EU Home Affairs Commissioner Cecilia Malmstroem will also
take part in today’s talks, as the bloc presses for
clarification of the extent of U.S surveillance programs.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration and U.S. lawmakers
have said they are open to placing restrictions on the NSA,
including what kind of data it can collect, how its databases
can be mined, the ability to eavesdrop on foreign leaders and
requiring the agency to defend its requests against a privacy
advocate before a secret intelligence court. Most of the spying
was exposed by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.  No Wrongdoing  U.S. companies weren’t responsible for any wrongdoing when
they handed over data to the NSA, Billy Hawkes, head of
Ireland’s data protection authority, said at a data protection
event in Trier, Germany, today.  The most controversial of Snowden’s revelations “are not
the requests that come through the front door of these
companies,” Hawkes said. “If it’s a secret intelligence
service, they’re not going to ask the company” to hand over
data. “They’re going to get it in some other way.”  The spying controversy come as the EU’s Reding struggles to
win approval for separate proposals to bolster the EU’s privacy
rules, including measures to foist tough constraints on U.S.
tech companies.  The overhaul of that law could result in U.S.-based
technology companies facing fines as high as 100 million euros
($135 million) for data-protection violations.  EU leaders last month bowed to U.K. demands for a slowdown
in adoption of the data-protection law to consider the effect of
the legislation on businesses, dropping the deadline in favor of
a pledge to introduce the plans in “timely fashion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Trier at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  