-- UniCredit Sells Euro Bonds as Yields Drop by Most in 6 Months
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-11-18T14:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/unicredit-markets-euro-bonds-as-yields-drop-by-most-in-6-months.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Societe Generale
SA (GLE)  sold bonds after borrowing costs for financial companies
dropped by the most in six months in  Europe  amid confidence
central banks will maintain stimulus measures.  UniCredit Bank Austria AG, a unit of Italy’s biggest bank,
marketed 500 million euros ($676 million) of securities due May
2019 while  France ’s second-largest lender issued 1.5 billion
euros of floating-rate notes that mature in May 2015, according
data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield on investment-grade financial bonds fell 23 basis points to 1.54 percent, the
lowest since May 31, according to Bloomberg  bond index  data.  “This is opportunistic issuance towards the end of the
year while the environment is accommodative,” said Roger Francis, a credit analyst at Mizuho International Plc in  London .
“Normally at this time of year one would expect banks to have
finished their issuance. The  European Central Bank  acted faster
than the market had anticipated, showing they are acting
aggressively to keep rates low.”  The ECB will add another round of loans into the banking
system early next year after cutting its benchmark rate to a
record 0.25 percent this month, according to economists’
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. Federal Reserve nominee  Janet
Yellen  said last week she would ensure monetary stimulus
continues until the  U.S. economy  improves.  UniCredit Bank Austria’s securities were priced to yield
135 basis points more than the mid-swap rate while Paris-based
Societe Generale’s notes yield 28 basis points more than the
three-month euro interbank offered rate.  Favorable Market  The “purpose of our  bond issue  is refinancing,” said
Martin Halama, a spokesman for UniCredit Bank Austria in Vienna.
“We’re doing this now because the market is favorable and we
understand that the investors are still cash-rich. Today’s bond
issue is already a pre-funding for 2014.”  The cost of insuring investment-grade financial company
debt against losses is approaching the lowest since April 2010,
with the Markit iTraxx Senior Financial index falling 3.3 basis
points to 104 basis points at 2:38 p.m. in London.  Other banks in the market today include  Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)  The
Stockholm-based lender sold 1 billion euros of floating-rate
notes maturing in three years at a spread of 33 basis points
more than three-month Euribor, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Banco Espirito Santo SA, Portugal’s biggest publicly traded
bank by market value, has hired banks to arrange investor
meetings starting tomorrow for a sale of subordinated bonds in
euros, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Sterling Sales  In the sterling market, The AA Group Ltd., the roadside
recovery and insurance division of Folkestone, England-based
Acromas Holdings Ltd., is selling 500 million pounds ($805
million) of notes maturing July 2020 through its AA Bond Co.
Ltd. unit, a person with knowledge of the transaction said. The
securities will yield 233 basis points more than U.K. government
debt.  The Great Rolling Stock Company Plc, a U.K. train leasing
company known as Angel Trains, is adding to its 6.5 percent
pound notes maturing in April 2031 at a spread of 145 basis
points more than gilts.  In the sterling high-yield market,  Brakes Group , a food
distributor based in Kent,  England , is meeting investors until
Nov. 20 for a potential sale of 200 million pounds of five-year
notes. The securities, to be issued through the company’s Brakes
Capital unit, may be rated B3 by Moody’s Investors Service, six
levels below investment grade.  Grainger Plc (GRI) , a Newcastle-based residential landlord, is
also holding investor meetings this week to sell 200 million
pounds of secured notes to refinance existing debt.  The average yield on junk-rated pound bonds is 6.15
percent, 20 basis points above a record low of 5.95 percent
reached on May 9, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  