-- Uralkali Deal Seen Failing to Mend Trust Among Potash Peers
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-11-19T17:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/uralkali-deal-seen-failing-to-mend-trust-among-potash-suppliers.html
Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s
planned purchase of a stake in OAO Uralkali opens the door to
reviving a global marketing venture, while failing to restore
potash prices undermined by mistrust and high stockpiles.  Prices for the key crop nutrient won’t rise significantly
for a year or more, following a 30 percent slump, even if the
Russian producer rebuilds the partnership with Belarus that used
to control 40 percent of exports, Elena Sakhnova, a VTB Capital
analyst in Moscow, said by phone yesterday.  Uralkali’s withdrawal from its trading joint venture with
Belarus in late July and its plan to boost production, pushed
potash to its lowest level since 2010. It shook the $20 billion
market for the fertilizer ingredient and hurt the share prices
of competitors including Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.,
Mosaic Co. and  K+S AG. (SDF)   “There’s no trust anymore among the members of the global
potash oligopoly,” said Sakhnova, Institutional Investor
magazine’s top-ranked Russian industrial analyst. “It’s hard to
predict what the North American producers will do, even if
Belarus and Uralkali are back together again.”  Potash stockpiles remain high, with Belarus alone
reportedly holding about 1.5 million metric tons of the soil
nutrient in warehouses in China and  Brazil , Sakhnova said.  Belarusian Born  Uralkali fell 1.9 percent to 175.86 rubles by the close in
Moscow today, after gaining 2.3 percent the previous day. Potash
Corp. was little changed in Toronto yesterday after Onexim’s
statement about the planned purchase of 21.75 percent from
Kerimov for an undisclosed price. K+S was also little changed,
while Mosaic declined 1.3 percent yesterday.  While the sale may satisfy President Aleksandr Lukashenko’s
demand for ownership changes at Uralkali before starting talks
about recreating the trading venture, the Belarus leader said
last month he didn’t know Prokhorov or his business.  Onexim may be joined in an acquisition of the combined 33
percent stake held by Kerimov and his business partners by
Belarusian-born billionaire Dmitry Mazepin, who controls another
Russian fertilizer-maker, OAO Uralchem, three people with
knowledge of the plans said.  The fact that Mazepin was born in Minsk didn’t play a
leading role in Prokhorov’s choice of him as a partner, although
it may “help a bit,” given that Mazepin is already in the
fertilizer business, Kirill Chuyko, head of equity research at
BCS Financial Group in Moscow, said by phone.  Create Deficit  The only way to make clients pay more now is to “almost
completely halt production for some time to create a deficit,”
which will lead to losses and won’t correspond with Lukashenko’s
wishes, Chuyko said.  Uralkali’s press service declined to comment, as did
Onexim.  Uralkali is working at full capacity and expects to sell 13
million tons of potash next year. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Chief Executive Officer Bill Doyle said last month that the
Russian producer’s decision to expand sales volumes at the
expense of prices has been self-destructive and the “dumbest
thing” he has seen.  Even if Belaruskali and Uralkali regain control over a
combined 40 percent of global potash exports, it won’t have a
short-term impact on the market, Konstantin Yuminov, an analyst
at ZAO Raiffeisenbank in Moscow, said by phone. “Prices started
to fall since the start of the year, much earlier than Uralkali
quit the joint trader.”  Chinese Prices  Potash prices in  China , the largest consumer, have fallen
to about $325-$330 a ton in the market for immediate delivery
since the venture’s collapse, from about $345 a ton in July,
according to Uralkali data. In Brazil, prices have dropped to
$310 a ton, VTB Capital’s Sakhnova said.  “For a year to come, a formal return to the oligopoly
could merely have the effect of containing the price collapse,”
Sakhnova said. Lower prices were “accompanied by lower buying
activity, which has left producers and the distribution chain
sitting on high inventories which we estimate globally at 40
percent above normalized levels.”  A pick-up in sales suggests prices could advance next year,
with any gain accelerated by potential consolidation among
suppliers, Oleg Petrov, Uralkali’s chief of sales and marketing,
said in an interview in Moscow on Nov. 1. He expects potash
demand to grow to as much as 60 million tons next year, the
highest level since at least 2003.  “It’s not easy to restore a partnership like that, it will
take a lot of time,” BCS Financial’s Chuyko said. “Belarus’s
economy has suffered from the break up and Lukashenko is likely
to seek some kind of compensation, which may delay the
process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  