-- Wal-Mart Releases Names of Bangladesh Factories Inspected
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-11-18T23:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/wal-mart-releases-names-of-bangladesh-factories-inspected.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  posted the
names and safety assessments of 75 factories in  Bangladesh  where
its apparel is made after clothing-manufacturing working
conditions in the nation led to public outcry in the past year.  About 10 of the 75 factories failed their initial
assessments and improved their scores by follow-up inspections,
Wal-Mart spokesman Kevin Gardner said in an e-mail yesterday.
Two facilities didn’t meet standards during follow-up
assessments and Wal-Mart no longer will use those locations,
Gardner said. The names were published  online  by Wal-Mart on
Nov. 17.  The company currently uses “just over 200 factories” in
Bangladesh, Gardner said. Officials from the world’s biggest
retailer unveiled the new inspection process in May after the
collapse of a garment-factory complex killed more than 1,100
workers. While the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company
originally said 279 companies would be involved in the process,
the number of factories Wal-Mart uses fluctuates, he said.  “We will post the remaining assessments as they are
completed,” Gardner said.  Bureau Veritas is the third-party inspector Wal-Mart hired
to conduct the electrical, fire and building safety assessments
in Bangladesh.  The reports “provide very little real information,” said
Scott Nova, executive director of the Worker Rights Consortium,
a Washington-based labor-rights monitoring group. “The scoring
system provides only a general assessment. There is, for
example, no way to tell from these documents whether any of
these factories have proper fire exits,” Nova said in an e-mail
yesterday.  “Wal-Mart may indeed be doing some useful things in some
of these factories, but it is not possible, based on the
information they provided today, to have confidence that that is
the case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  