-- Wall Street Pushes Back on CFTC’s Advisory for Overseas Swaps
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/wall-street-pushes-back-on-cftc-s-advisory-for-overseas-swaps.html
The largest  Wall Street  banks are
mobilizing to fight a new policy by the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission that gives the regulator broader authority in
overseas derivatives deals.  The policy, issued Nov. 14, negates a  legal interpretation 
that banks have been using to keep some swaps trades off
electronic platforms and away from CFTC rules enacted to make
the market less opaque. The companies and their lawyers say the
announcement, which the agency published as a “staff
advisory,” is written so broadly it could expose their overseas
deals to even more U.S. regulation.  Within hours of its release, bank lobbyists met to discuss
possible legal action against the agency and began contacting
members of Congress, according to people involved in the
pushback. The next day, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  began
receiving letters from lawmakers saying he was upsetting the
$693 trillion market by issuing policy with little consultation.  “These uncertainties are causing, and will continue to
cause, disruptions in the OTC derivatives market,” the top
Republican senators on the banking and agriculture committees,
 Mike Crapo  of  Idaho  and  Thad Cochran  of  Mississippi , wrote to
Gensler on Nov. 15.  The question of how to apply U.S. derivatives rules in
foreign jurisdictions has been debated since the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul began to take shape. The biggest banks
sometimes trade half their swaps with overseas clients. Gensler
has fought to extend his agency’s reach, pointing out that
financial failures, including the collapse of American
International Group Inc., often originate in overseas units.  Elevator Rules  Gensler, who drew support from one Democratic lawmaker
yesterday, defended the policy at a speech in  New York  to an
industry conference held by swap execution facilities, the new
platforms where most swaps are supposed to trade. He said the
policy ensures equal treatment for market players.  “A U.S. swap dealer on the 32nd floor of a New York
building and a foreign-based swap dealer on the 31st floor of
the same building, have to follow the same rules when arranging,
negotiating or executing a swap,” Gensler said. “One elevator
bank, one set of rules.”  Gensler’s move was cheered by Senator  Carl Levin , a Wall
Street critic who issued a statement yesterday saying that the
CFTC “has it exactly right” in the new policy and blasting the
banks for using an “obscure footnote” and “offshore gimmick”
to evade oversight.  ‘Latest Loophole’  “The CFTC is underfunded and understaffed, but it had the
backbone to slam shut the latest loophole some swap dealers have
concocted to circumvent U.S. rules,” said Levin, the Michigan
Democrat who has run Senate investigations involving trading by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The advisory has also reopened a rift between the CFTC and
European regulators. In July, Gensler had reached an agreement
with his counterparts to defer to foreign authorities when the
CFTC finds their rules to be comparable -- a deal seen as
benefiting the largest banks.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for  Michel Barnier , the
European Union’s financial services chief, said the EU is
examining the new policy in light of the agreement.  “At first sight, it raises concerns because of its
potential extra-territorial application and impact on liquidity
fragmentation,” Hughes said.  Private Handling  The CFTC released its Nov. 14 advisory after Bloomberg News
reported that banks were seeking to avoid Dodd-Frank rules by
having brokers based in the U.S. arrange swap trades and book
them in the banks’ affiliates overseas, handling them privately
instead of on electronic platforms. Banking lawyers told brokers
such moves were permissible because of language in a footnote
deep in an 84-page CFTC policy statement published in July.  Under the new advisory, traders based in the U.S. who
arrange, negotiate or execute a deal -- even on behalf of an
overseas affiliate -- must comply with Dodd-Frank regulations.  The banks’ main lobby group, the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, convened an emergency conference
call after the CFTC distributed the document, according to three
people with knowledge of the meeting. The group discussed
whether the CFTC advisory was issued lawfully and whether it
should be challenged in court, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks were private.  ‘Gone Rogue’  Liz Pierce, a spokeswoman for Sifma, declined to comment.  Many of the banks’ complaints focused on the CFTC’s process
for issuing the policy, which was drafted by staff members and
hasn’t been voted on by the commissioners.  The agency also declined the banks’ request to say publicly
when the policy would take effect, the people said. Agency staff
told financial industry lawyers privately that Wall Street would
be given time to adjust to the new rules.  Republican lawmakers slammed Gensler for setting regulation
by fiat.  “We clearly have an agency chairman gone rogue,” said
Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, who
called the move illegal. “Since when did it become acceptable
for the chairman of the CFTC to change law and commission-approved guidance though an advisory opinion issued by staff at
his discretion?”  ‘Changed Overnight’  Representative  Frank Lucas  of  Oklahoma , chairman of the
House Agriculture Committee that oversees the CFTC, called on
the agency to immediately issue a public statement clarifying
the rules so markets wouldn’t be disrupted.  “Regulations market participants thought were in place
changed overnight without warning or consultation,” Lucas said
in a statement.  Steve Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, declined to comment
about the lawmakers’ statements.  The CFTC released a second document on Nov. 15 reinforcing
the agency’s message on the applicability of overseas rules. It
tells trading platforms, including those based overseas, that if
they allow anyone located in the U.S. to trade on their venues
that they must register with the CFTC and fall under Dodd-Frank.  More than a dozen firms have registered swap execution
facilities with the CFTC, including  ICAP Plc (IAP) ,  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) ,
Tradeweb Markets LLC,  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX)  and Bloomberg
LP, parent of  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  