-- Wind Farms Dominating Brazil Power Auction Set for Record Year
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-11-18T19:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/wind-farms-dominating-brazil-power-auction-set-for-record-year.html
Developers of wind farms in  Brazil 
won all the contracts in an auction for new power capacity as
turbine makers seek to supply South America’s biggest renewable-energy market.  Companies including Eletrosul and CEEE agreed to build 39
wind farms with a total capacity of 867.6 megawatts, the
national energy agency Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica, also
known as EPE, said today on its  website . The developers will
sell the projects’ energy to distributors at an average price of
124.43 reais ($54.87) a megawatt-hour.  Brazil looks set to auction more than 3,000 megawatts of
wind farms in 2013, the most ever, Elbia Melo, president of the
Sao Paulo-based  wind energy  trade group Associacao Brasileira de
Energia Eolica, said today in a telephone interview. That will
benefit turbine suppliers including  France ’s  Alstom SA (ALO)  and
Spain’s Acciona SA that are investing in factories to meet a
local-content requirement.  The suppliers “need at least 2,000 megawatts of wind farms
contracted a year to break even,” on their investments in new
local manufacturing capacity, Melo said. “Brazil could see a
record amount of wind farms contracted this year.”  Wind farms dominated because they’re quick to build and
developers that signed contracts in the so-called A-3 auction
are required to have power projects operating in less than 26
months, Melo said.  More than 10,000 megawatts of wind farms, solar projects,
small hydroelectric dams and biomass plants were registered to
participate in the auction, EPE said in a  statement .  “This is the time for wind energy, there’s no doubt,”
Mauricio Tolmasquim, president of EPE, was cited as saying in
the statement.  Eletrosul, a unit of the state-run power utility, is
officially known as Eletrosul Centrais Eletricas SA while  CEEE (EEEL3) 
is the Cia. Estadual de Geracao e Transmissao de Energia
Eletrica.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  