-- Twitter Falls as Wunderlich Starts Coverage With Sell Rating
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-11-18T23:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/twitter-falls-as-wunderlich-initiates-coverage-with-sell-rating.html
Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  fell the most since its
second day of trading after Wunderlich Securities Inc. initiated
coverage with a sell rating, citing concerns that user growth
may be limited compared with rival social networks.  The shares of the San Francisco-based company, whose online
service lets users post 140-character messages, fell 6.5 percent
to $41.14 at the close in  New York , the steepest decline since
Nov. 8. A quarter of analysts covering Twitter now rate the
stock a sell, and less than half recommend buying it, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Twitter has come under pressure as analysts question
whether the company can deliver strong enough growth to justify
its stock price, which rose more than 70 percent on Nov. 7, the
first day of trading after an initial public offering. Twitter
doesn’t have the same potential to expand its user base as
rivals  Facebook (FB)  Inc. and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , Blake Harper, an
analyst at Wunderlich Securities, wrote in a note today.  “We believe the engaged community has also created a
barrier for attracting new users who may not yet understand how
Twitter works,” he wrote. “The company must better simplify
and customize its product to reach new users in the mass market
to justify its current growth projections.”  On Nov. 16, a story in  Barron’s  said social-media stocks,
including Twitter and LinkedIn, may be overvalued.  Twitter, which sold shares for $26 apiece at its IPO this
month, is up 58 percent since the market debut.  Limiting Ads  Facebook, owner of the world’s largest social-networking
service, which went public at $38 a share, has advanced 21
percent since its May 2012 IPO. The shares declined 6.5 percent
to $45.83 today are are down 15 percent since reaching a record
on Oct. 18. LinkedIn slipped 3.9 percent to $222.07.  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook  spurred concerns
about growth last month after it said usage among some teens
declined during the third quarter. The company also said it
would limit space for expanding advertising, its main source of
revenue, as it tries to keep parts of its service from being
overrun with promotions.  Facebook, which held its market debut last year, remains
much larger than Twitter. While Facebook has more than 1 billion
users, Twitter has less than 250 million. Its market value is
about $114 billion, compared with about $23 billion for Twitter.  Track Record  Wunderlich’s Harper has outperformed his peers the last few
months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. He recommended buying
 TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)  on June 13. The stock climbed 36 percent since
then, almost four times the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. He
switched his rating on  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  to buy from hold on Aug. 1.
Shares have climbed 25 percent since, compared with a 5 percent
rally in the  S&P 500 .  Even with Twitter’s challenges, Harper said the company has
potential to boost annual revenue by an average 49 percent for
the next three years, citing its effective targeting platform
for advertisers and its ties to television programming. The
service is popular on mobile devices, where consumers are
increasingly accessing digital content, and may attract 4
percent of total advertising spending for smartphones and
tablets, he wrote.  “The service is inherently well-suited for mobile devices,
with the short length of tweets ideal for smaller screen
sizes,” Harper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  