-- Women’s Quota on German Company Boards Agreed On in Negotiations
-- B y   A r n e   D e l f s   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-11-18T10:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/women-s-quota-on-german-company-boards-agreed-on-in-negotiations.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s next
government will require  listed German companies  to fill at least
30 percent of supervisory board seats with women by 2016, party
negotiators said.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc and the  Social
Democratic Party  agreed on the plan late yesterday during talks
in Berlin on forming  Germany ’s next government. The quota won’t
apply to executive boards.  “We want to improve women’s opportunities for advancement
in German companies,” Annette Widmann-Mauz, the negotiator for
Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , told reporters today.  The deal, which still needs to go to top negotiators for
approval, is a reminder that progress is being made in talks
behind closed doors that are entering their final 10 days.
Merkel, whose party won election on Sept. 22, says she wants to
finish the coalition accord for her third term by Nov. 27.  The agreement reached on women revisits a parliamentary
clash in April when Merkel’s coalition rebuffed opposition moves
to force large companies to reserve as many as 20 percent of
board seats for women starting in 2013, rising to 40 percent
from 2018. Merkel then agreed to a binding quota of 30 percent
from 2020.  “It was important for us to get going quickly with a
serious quota of 30 percent for supervisory boards,” SPD
negotiator Manuela Schwesig said today in an interview on ARD
television.  The SPD pledged during the election campaign to require
 publicly traded companie s to have a 40 percent quota for women
on management and supervisory boards to address gender disparity
in German boardrooms. The SPD women’s group has separately said
that it wants half of all SPD government jobs including cabinet
posts to be reserved for women.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  