-- Won Rises for a Third Day as Fed Concerns Ease; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-11-18T01:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/won-rises-for-a-third-day-as-fed-concerns-ease-bonds-decline.html
South Korea’s won rallied for a
third day as foreigners bought local stocks on speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will maintain its unprecedented stimulus that
has boosted  emerging markets .  Government bonds  fell.  The American economy and job market are performing “far
short of their potential,” and the Fed will ensure measures
aren’t removed too soon,  Janet Yellen , nominated to be the next
U.S. central bank chief, said last week. Overseas investors
bought more South Korean stocks than they sold for a second day
after nine days of net sales, exchange data show.  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,061.76 per dollar as of 10:18
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Japanese yen weakened for a third day, breaching 100 per dollar
for the first time since Sept. 11.  “Yellen’s comments eased concerns that the Fed’s stimulus
cuts may start as early as December, which helps drive foreign
demand for Korean assets,” said Jude Noh, chief currency trader
at Suhyup Bank in Seoul. “The won’s rise will be limited as
traders are cautious around 1,060 level versus the dollar about
possible intervention, and the weak yen doesn’t help.”  South Korean companies have gained non-price
competitiveness and diversified their export markets enough to
overcome a weak yen,  Bank of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo told
reporters at Incheon, near Seoul on Nov. 15. A decline in
Japan’s currency help boost sales by Japanese exporters that
directly compete with South Korean companies such as Hyundai
Motor Co. and Samsung Electronics Co.  Producer Prices  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 6 percent.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2016 rose one basis point to 2.94 percent, according to
Korea Exchange Inc. prices. The finance ministry plans to sell
1.75 trillion won ($1.65 billion) of 10-year notes today.  The nation’s producer prices fell 1.4 percent in October
from a year earlier, declining for the 13th straight month, the
Bank of Korea said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  