-- Woolwich Soldier Murder Suspects to Stand Trial in London
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-18T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/woolwich-soldier-murder-suspects-to-stand-trial-in-london.html
Two men accused of murdering an off-duty British soldier in broad daylight in a case that transfixed
the country with televised images of bloodshed will stand trial
in  London  this week.  Michael Adebolajo, 28, and Michael Adebowale, 22, both
pleaded not guilty to charges of murdering Lee Rigby and
attempting to kill a policeman. The duo are scheduled to go on
trial this week at London’s Central  Criminal Court , known as the
Old Bailey.  Rigby was hit with a car and attacked by two men with
knives just after 2 p.m. on May 22 outside a military barracks
in Woolwich, southeast London. Adebolajo, who has asked to be
called Mujaahid Abu Hamza, and Adebowale, who goes by Ismail Ibn
Abdullah, were shot, wounded and arrested by police at the scene
of the crime and later taken into custody.  Police have said they are treating the killing as an act of
terrorism and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has called it a
“betrayal of Islam.”  Rigby, the father of a 2-year-old son when he died, was a
drummer in the 2nd Battalion of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers.
A fan of the  Manchester United (MANU)  soccer team, he served as a
machine gunner in Cyprus and then in 2009 as a member of a fire
support group in Helmand province,  Afghanistan .  An autopsy found that the soldier’s cause of death was
multiple cut and stab wounds, police said. About 500 police
officers and other investigators, including members of counter-terrorism units from forces around the country, have worked on
the case, U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May said at the time.  The case is scheduled to last at least three weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  