-- World Emissions May Peak Amid China Green Push, Germanwatch Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-11-18T12:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/world-emissions-may-peak-amid-china-green-push-germanwatch-says.html
Global carbon-dioxide emissions from
energy may peak this decade because of  China ’s efforts to cut
pollutants, Bonn-based research group Germanwatch said.  China, which accounted for about four-fifths of the growth
in annual CO2 emissions in 2002-2012, is adding renewable power
and boosting  energy efficiency  as it expands climate-protection
measures, Germanwatch Director Christoph Bals said today in
Warsaw. “There is a real opportunity and possibility that there
is a plateau or peak of global emissions in this decade.”  China’s government, seeking to tackle the pollution that’s
choking Beijing and other cities, is increasingly promoting
cleaner-burning natural gas, as well as wind and solar energy,
to produce electricity and reduce  carbon emissions . While the
country remains the world’s largest consumer of coal, growth in
use of the fuel is slowing.  China is ranked 46th on Germanwatch’s  Climate Change
Performance Index , which ranks the world’s 58 biggest emitters.
Denmark tops the index, followed by the U.K. and  Portugal ,
mainly because of their efforts to expand renewable energies and
increase efficiency.  While China’s progress sparks “hope,” the world’s
climate-protection policies remain insufficient to keep global
warming since industrialization to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6
Fahrenheit), according to Wendel Trio, director of CAN Europe, a
network of environmental non-governmental organizations.  Europe Standstill  Europe is “facing a standstill” on climate policy because
nations have already achieved much of the emissions cuts they
agreed to under their reduction targets, Trio said today in
Warsaw, where climate envoys from about 190 nations are gathered
to lay the groundwork for a 2020 emissions treaty.  The risk to humans from  climate change  was emphasized in
the runup to this year’s talks by the devastation wrought in the
Philippines by Typhoon Haiyan. Climate scientists have warned
that global warming will intensify natural disasters.  Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, dropped 11 places to
19th in the Climate Change Performance Index, mainly because of
its opposition to climate and environmental policies at the
European Union level and its rising use of coal, Trio said.  Producers of the fuel, among the dirtiest used for power
generation, “must change rapidly and dramatically” to avoid
the worst effects of climate change,  Christiana Figueres , the
 United Nations ’ top climate official, said today in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  