-- Brent Drops for a Second Day; Citigroup Lowers Forecast
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-11-18T13:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/wti-drops-as-saudi-arabia-crude-exports-reach-eight-year-high.html
Brent crude declined for a second
day amid signs global markets are adequately supplied after
Saudi Arabia exported the most oil in eight years.  Futures dropped as much as 0.8 percent in  London  as
Citigroup Inc. said it’s “rescinding” expectations for higher
prices amid progress toward an agreement over Iran’s nuclear
program. Saudi Arabia exported more crude in September than in
any month since November 2005, according to data from the Joint
Organizations Data Initiative. Hedge funds became the least
bullish on West Texas Intermediate in five months as U.S.
inventories expanded.  “In the longer run the market is still bearish, with
plentiful supplies,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB
Capital in London. “The market was a tad overbought from a
fundamental perspective.”  Brent for January settlement fell as much as 97 cents to
$107.53 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, and traded for $107.96 as of 1:45 p.m. local time. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $13.89 to WTI. The
spread narrowed on Nov. 15 for the first time in six days to
$14.01 a barrel.  WTI for December delivery slid as much as 59 cents to
$93.25 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. Last week prices capped a sixth weekly drop, their
longest run of losses since 1998. The volume of all futures
traded was about 41 percent below the 100-day average.  Saudi Supply  Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 10.12 million barrels a
day of crude and shipped 7.84 million a day in September,
statistics posted on the JODI  website  yesterday show. JODI is
supervised by the Riyadh-based International Energy Forum and
compiles data provided by member governments.  Saudi Arabia boosted exports in October by 300,000 barrels
a day even as its production eased, a person with knowledge of
the country’s supply policy said on Nov. 11, without providing
total export data and asking not to be identified because the
figures haven’t been officially released.  U.S. Inventories  In the U.S., the world’s biggest oil consumer, crude 
stockpiles  rose to 388.1 million barrels in the seven days ended
Nov. 8 as output surged to the highest rate since January 1989,
the Energy Information Administration said last week. The EIA is
the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  “Supply has been more than enough to cover demand,
particularly in the U.S.,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market
analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “That, plus a diminished
Middle East risk premium, has seen the supply situation being a
dominant factor.”  Money managers reduced  net-long positions  on WTI by 4.3
percent in the week ended Nov. 12, according to data from the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Long positions, or
bets that prices will gain, slid for the 10th time in 11 weeks
and short positions advanced to a six-month high.  “Bearish pressures” on the oil market are increasing and
looking less likely to be derailed by potential supply
disruptions, Citigroup said in an e-mailed report today. It
forecast Brent will trade at $105 a barrel in the fourth quarter
and $98 in 2014. Futures averaged $111.68 last year.  World powers will meet in Geneva on Nov. 20 for talks with
 Iran  on its nuclear program, which the Persian Gulf nation says
is for civilian energy and medical use. The U.S. and its allies
say the government in Tehran is covertly seeking atomic-weapons
capability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  