-- WTI Falls as Dudley Bolsters Concern That Fed Will Taper
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-11-18T21:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/wti-fluctuates-amid-china-reforms-as-saudis-export-more.html
West Texas Intermediate fell to a
five-month low and the discount to Brent widened after comments
by Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley
added to speculation that the central bank will reduce stimulus.  Futures dropped 0.9 percent. The New York Fed chief pointed
to payrolls growth as a positive sign in the text of remarks
given in Flushing, New York, today. The policy-setting Federal
Open Market Committee is buying $85 billion of bonds every month
to spur growth and has said it plans to slow the purchases when
the economy improves. WTI’s discount to Brent ended the day at
the widest level in almost eight months.  “We dropped about a dollar after Dudley said he was upbeat
about the economy,” said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at
Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “The good news about the
economy will strengthen calls for a tapering of stimulus, which
will strengthen the dollar and hurt commodity markets.”  WTI for December delivery decreased 81 cents to $93.03 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
settlement since May 31. The volume of all futures traded was 19
percent below the 100-day average at 2:59 p.m.  Brent crude for January settlement declined 3 cents to end
the session at $108.47 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Volume was 31 percent lower than the 100-day
average. The European benchmark crude’s $14.79 premium to
January WTI was the widest spread at settlement since March 21.  Tapering Estimates  The FOMC won’t taper its purchases until its March 18-19
meeting, according to the median estimate of 32 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News Nov. 8.  WTI climbed in early trading on  China ’s pledge to expand
economic freedoms, which spurred optimism that the country is
headed toward more sustainable growth. China passed the U.S. to
become the world’s biggest crude importer in September,
according to the Energy Information Administration’s October
Short Term-Energy Outlook.  “WTI is spiraling downward and will soon be testing
Thursday’s lows,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures
division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. “It’s not a
broad-based risk-off day, which is interesting. Equities are
holding their own.”  The Dow Jones Industrial Average surpassed 16,000 for the
first time and European shares rose. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index exceeded 1,800 for the first time, reaching 1,802.33. The
S&P’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials slid as much as 0.7 percent
to 612.49.  Iran Talks  Citigroup Inc. rescinded projections for higher prices amid
progress toward an agreement over  Iran ’s atomic activities.
Talks between Iran and the five permanent members of the United
Nations Security Council plus  Germany  will resume Nov. 20 in
Geneva. The U.S. and its allies say the government in Tehran is
covertly seeking atomic-weapons capability, while Iran says its
efforts are for peaceful purposes.  Iran’s oil output has decreased 16 percent since the U.S.
and the European Union tightened sanctions in July 2012 to curb
its nuclear program.  Brent’s premium to WTI widened to $15.86 on Nov. 14 after a
round of talks between Iran and world powers ended without
agreement and as unrest in Libya disrupted exports. The European
benchmark grade is more sensitive to potential changes in Middle
East and North African output than WTI because Europe depends
more on barrels from the regions.  Brent Premium  “The Brent premium would be a lot lower if not for the
disruptions in Libya and sanctions on Iran,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “If there’s an agreement with Iran
announced at this week’s negotiations, you will see the Brent-WTI spread come in a lot more.”  The Joint Organizations Data Initiative showed Saudi Arabia
exported more crude in September than in any month since
November 2005. The largest oil producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 10.12 million barrels a
day of crude and shipped 7.84 million a day in September,
statistics posted on the JODI  website  yesterday show. JODI is
supervised by the Riyadh-based International Energy Forum and
compiles data provided by member governments.  Hedge funds became the least bullish on WTI in five months
as U.S. inventories expanded. Money managers reduced  net-long
positions  on WTI by 4.3 percent in the week ended Nov. 12, data
from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed. Long
positions, or bets that prices will gain, slid for the 10th time
in 11 weeks and short positions advanced to a six-month high.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
January was 17.9 percent, little changed from Nov. 15, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 430,742
contracts as of 2:54 p.m. It totaled 435,190 contracts Nov. 15,
25 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was 1.66
million contracts, the least since March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  