-- Yahoo Privacy Suit Lawyers Want Judge Who Dinged Google
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-11-19T01:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-18/yahoo-privacy-suit-lawyers-want-judge-who-dinged-google.html
Lawyers mounting privacy lawsuits
over  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s mail service are lining up to be heard by
U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh after she ruled against  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  in a case mirroring their clients’ accusations that Yahoo
intercepted e-mails for its own gain without getting consent.  One plaintiff who filed a complaint Nov. 15 against Yahoo
made a request that same day that his case be joined with
related cases before Koh. His move followed an Oct. 25 request
by plaintiffs in another suit against the largest U.S. Web
portal to join an Oct. 2 complaint Yahoo assigned Oct. 23 to Koh
in San Jose, California.  Koh rejected  Mountain View , California-based Google’s bid
in September to dismiss a privacy suit over its Gmail service,
saying the operator of the world’s largest search engine hadn’t
explicitly sought consent for all its uses of personal
information gleaned from e-mails.  Her ruling was “enormously important” for plaintiffs in
group privacy suits, lawyer David Straite said in an e-mail
after the Google ruling and before his firm, Kaplan Fox &
Kilsheimer LLP, filed the Nov. 15 complaint. The plaintiff in
the case, Brian Pincus, is seeking class-action status on behalf
of others affected by Yahoo’s privacy practices, and is
demanding more than the $5 million minimum threshold for damages
in such cases, Straite said today.  Koh hasn’t ruled yet on Google’s request to appeal her
decision, which the company said is so “novel” that it
warrants review by a higher court.  Yahoo’s Request  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , doesn’t comment on
lawsuits, Sarah Meron, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. For
efficiency, Yahoo asked the court on Oct. 30 to join two other
privacy suits against it to the Oct. 2 case brought by plaintiff
John Kevranian, according to filings.  It “appears likely that there will be an unduly burdensome
duplication of labor and expense or conflicting results if the
cases are conducted before different judges,” the company said.  The  law firm  that filed the Kevranian case, Cotchett Pitre
& McCarthy LLP in Burlingame, California, asked this month that
it and Kirtland & Packard LLP be allowed to lead a possible
class-action suit.  Each of the cases against Yahoo include allegations that
the company scans e-mail messages for targeted advertising.  “As in the Kevranian action, the Pincus action alleges
that defendant scans the content of e-mails sent by non-Yahoo!
Mail subscribers to Yahoo! Mail users, and that such scanning
violates, among other things, the California Invasion of Privacy
Act,” according to the Nov. 15 complaint.  A September lawsuit alleging  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  hacked into
subscriber e-mail contacts without their consent was assigned to
Koh, according to court records.  Scanning Policies  In the past, Internet companies have persuaded courts to
dismiss such complaints after pointing out that plaintiffs
consented to e-mail scanning policies when they signed up for
services.  Koh said in her ruling on the Google complaint that
plaintiffs weren’t explicitly told private messages sent through
Gmail would be used to build user profiles and aid advertisers,
and their consent wasn’t valid.  Pincus, who didn’t subscribe to Yahoo’s mail service, said
in his complaint he never consented to scanning policies
published for its customers.  Yahoo’s policy states that “automated systems scan and
analyze all incoming and outgoing communications content sent
and received from your account,” according to the complaint.
The purpose is to “match and serve targeted advertising and for
spam and malware detection.”  Tailoring Advertisements  Information that Yahoo gleans from users’ and non-users’
messages is used for tailoring advertisements, increasing the
company’s revenue, according to the complaint.  Ads bring in three-quarters of  revenue  for Yahoo, which has
more than 275 million customers globally, Pincus said in his
complaint.  In another case involving privacy issues, Koh in 2011
refused to dismiss a suit against  Facebook Inc. (FB)  over claims that
the operator of the world’s largest social network used
subscribers’ names without their permission in its “Sponsored
Stories” program.  She cited Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg ’s
comments reproduced in the complaint that such ads, based on a
recommendation by a Facebook “friend,” are a “holy grail” of
marketing. Without giving a reason, Koh later recused herself
from overseeing a settlement of the case when it was proposed.  The judge hasn’t always ruled for plaintiffs in privacy
cases. In a consumer case against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over applications
approved by the company for the iPhone, she first told
plaintiffs they hadn’t shown they were harmed by use of their
personal information, then dismissed some key claims in an
amended complaint because they hadn’t proved defendants were
breaking applicable laws.  The case is Pincus v. Yahoo! Inc., 13-cv-05326, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  