-- ‘Muslim Rage’ Has Little To Do With Dumb Video
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-09-24T22:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/-muslim-rage-has-little-to-do-with-dumb-video.html
Last week,  Barack Obama ’s
administration  bought  $70,000 worth of airtime on seven
Pakistani television networks to broadcast a commercial
denouncing the now-infamous YouTube video that portrayed the
 Prophet Muhammad  as a pedophile and as a lover of goats.  The video, which set off deadly riots across the Islamic
world, is an absurdity -- a risible script, bad lighting and
pornography-quality acting. But U.S. officials think that the
film, apparently produced by a Coptic Christian in  California ,
is at the root of the latest eruption of what has come to be
known as “Muslim rage,” and so they thought it necessary to
produce a response video.  The administration’s video featured a well-lit president
and secretary of state using many judgmental adjectives to
denounce the YouTube film and to deny strenuously that the U.S.
government had anything to do with its making.  Last week, thousands of Pakistanis, either the sort who
fast-forward through commercials or the sort who are unmoved by
U.S. propaganda efforts, laid siege to American diplomatic
outposts as a way of displaying their religious feeling. At
least 15 Pakistanis died in the mayhem.  In retrospect, that $70,000 didn’t represent a wise
allocation of American taxpayer resources. It also showed that
the administration has misdiagnosed the problems it faces in the
Muslim world -- and has missed a crucial chance to take more
substantive steps to redress them.  Different Motivations  In assessing the U.S. response, it’s important to remember
that these outbreaks of rage aren’t actually about the YouTube
video. Yes, some Muslims -- members of the “If-you-don’t-call-
Islam-a-religion-of-peace-we’ll-slaughter-you” school of
interreligious understanding -- react in brittle and aggressive
ways to insults directed against their faith, and in so doing
humiliate their prophet in ways anti-Islam polemicists could
never hope to achieve. But they represent a small minority of
Muslims.  Motivation for rioting differed from country to country,
but there are common threads. Many of the riots took place in
countries with poor economies and venal, incompetent governments
with mythomaniacal worldviews. (Recall that the president of
 Egypt  is a  Sept. 11 Truther .)  More to the point, much of the rioting could be attributed
to the exploitation of religious sentiment by radicals
affiliated with Salafism, the extreme, puritanical, anti-Western
and anti-Semitic strain of political Islam from which al-Qaeda
draws much of its ideology. Salafists are competing with
secularists and more moderate Islamists for power (only
Salafists could make the Muslim Brotherhood appear moderate),
and so they look for any opportunity to highlight their anti-
American bona fides. This video, like the Danish cartoons
mocking Muhammad that set off protests in 2005, was merely an
excuse.  So why won’t the administration acknowledge this fact?
Because that would mean acknowledging that the killing of  Osama bin Laden  and the withdrawal of troops from  Iraq  didn’t bring to
an end the unhappy U.S. entanglements in the  Middle East . It
would mean acknowledging that Obama hasn’t charmed radical Islam
into submission, and that American counterterrorism policies,
especially drone strikes, sometimes cause as many problems as
they solve. It would mean acknowledging that the aftermath of
the Arab Spring is messy and ambiguous, and that anti-American
resentment in the Muslim world is often a byproduct of deeper
dysfunctions of culture, religion and politics. We are sometimes
vain enough to believe that hatred of the sort we see on the
streets of Cairo, Karachi and Tunis is wholly about us.  Squandered Opportunity  Given the obvious truth that this latest spasm of
(ostensibly) blasphemy-induced rioting won’t be the last, I
think that Obama and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
squandered an opportunity to treat Muslims like thinking adults
and to advance a core American interest: the spread of freedom.  Blasphemy, we have come to learn, is taken quite seriously
by Muslims. Free speech, however, is taken quite seriously by
Americans. It would have been bracing for the president to go on
Pakistani television, and to sit for interviews with Egyptian
and Tunisian journalists, and stand up for a core American
principle. Imagine a speech in which Obama described the
mechanics of free speech and the undergirding philosophy that
protects it. He could have spoken about the great gifts free
speech bestows on a society. He could have spoken about how he
himself is attacked mercilessly by a free press, yet he still
values the principles that allow him to be attacked. He could
have described how Christianity is often the target of attack,
yet survives and thrives in the U.S.  This wouldn’t have been an easy message to deliver. As
Hussein Ibish of the American Task Force on  Palestine  told me,
many of these protesters simply can’t fathom the existence of a
political system in which the government has no control over the
news media, or over what gets posted on the Internet.  Would it work? It wouldn’t change the minds of Salafists,
and al-Qaeda would continue to seek to kill Americans, whether
or not some among us continue making idiotic anti-Muhammad
videos. But a bold, uncompromising and guilt-free defense of
free speech might have given comfort to the many Muslims,
religious and secular alike, who want to lead their lives free
of the fear of fundamentalist tyranny, and who would prefer the
U.S. not attempt to reason with the mob.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg , a national correspondent for The
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Libor and criminal charges 
and on a needed delay for  Arctic oil drilling ; Susan P. Crawford
on  Apple’s war with Google ; William Pesek on  Myanmar’s economic
development ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  QE3 FAQs ; Roben Farzad on the
breakup between  Goldman Sachs and ambitious youth ;  Jeff Rubin  on
 oil’s inadequate replacements .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 