-- Advent Makes $1 Billion Bid for Dutch Pharmacy Chain Mediq
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-09-24T14:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/advent-makes-1-billion-bid-for-dutch-pharmacy-chain-mediq-1-.html
Advent International Corp. will
offer to buy Dutch pharmacy chain  Mediq NV (MEDIQ)  for 775 million euros
($1 billion) in cash as it seeks to expand in the health-care
distribution industry.  The Boston-based leveraged buyout fund plans to make a bid
of 13.25 euros a share, 53 percent more than Mediq’s closing
price on Sept. 21, the companies said in a statement today.
Advent will pay for the takeover with debt and equity. Mediq
shares rose as much as 52 percent in Amsterdam trading.  Mediq, founded in 1899 and based in Utrecht, owns 226
pharmacies in the Netherlands. It sells drugs, medical devices
and related care services in 15 countries including  Poland , the
U.S., Germany and  Sweden . Private ownership will enable Mediq to
make acquisitions to expand globally, and provide easier access
to financing, the company said.  “It makes sense for Mediq to operate in a private
setting,”  Richard Withagen , an Amsterdam-based analyst at SNS
Securities, said in a note. “At the current offer, we believe
Advent would obtain the direct and institutional business at an
attractive price, without paying anything for the pharmacy
operations.”  Mediq  rose  49 percent to 12.87 euros at 2:20 p.m., and had
the biggest intraday gain since the shares started trading in
1992.  Support for Bid  The management and supervisory boards of Mediq support the
offer, the companies said. Templeton Investment Counsel and
Silchester International Investors, representing 20.2 percent of
shares in the Dutch company, have agreed to tender their stakes.  Silchester owned 15.3 percent as of Aug. 31, according to a
regulatory filing. Mediq’s other largest shareholders include
ING Groep NV,  Delta Lloyd  NV and Navitas BV, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “As far as we’re concerned the takeover is just a proposal
and no done deal yet,” Jack Jonk, head of equities at Delta
Lloyd’s asset management unit, said in an interview with
 Bloomberg News . Delta Lloyd  owns  about 14 percent of Mediq in
total, he said.  “I’m satisfied with the interest in Mediq, which is proof
of the company being undervalued enormously on the exchange,”
said Jonk, adding the proposed takeover price “doesn’t mean the
undervaluation has been resolved.”  Indicative Offer  Advent, whose other European health-care investments
include Median Kliniken in Germany, made an indicative offer for
Mediq in June, after the Dutch company started looking for
buyers in the second half of last year, supervisory board
Chairman Sjoerd van Keulen told reporters on a conference call
today. No other party made a “tangible bid,” he told analysts
today.  The offer price values Mediq at 6.98 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. That compares with
a median of about 10 times Ebitda for retail drugstore deals in
the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Excluding pharmacy operations, Advent’s offer values
Mediq’s direct and institutional business at less than 10 times
Ebitda, below the estimated median 11-times multiple that Mediq
has paid for acquisitions in that business since 2010, SNS’s
Withagen said.  The possibilities for a takeover by a strategic partner
were limited, Van Keulen said. The company found only a couple
of private-equity firms would be able to pay for the takeover.
During its review, Advent came forward with its offer, he said.  International Expansion  The easier access to financing may support plans to expand
internationally through takeovers, Mediq Chief Executive Officer
Marc van Gelder said.  The firm has a “pipeline of acquisitions” and would
mainly look in countries where it is already active, including
 Germany  and the U.S., he told reporters today.  Deutsche Bank AG, Rabobank and BNP Paribas SA advised
Advent on the deal, while ING Groep was financial adviser to
Mediq and ABN Amro Group NV to its supervisory board.
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and Allen & Overy LLP were
the legal advisers for Advent and Mediq, respectively.  Advent is seeking 7 billion euros for its biggest fund, a
person with knowledge of the matter said in February. Founded by
Peter Brooke in 1984, the firm invests in industries such as
health care, financial services, technology and retail. Recent
purchases include Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s credit-card
payment processing unit jointly with Bain Capital LLC for 1.7
billion pounds ($2.75 billion) in 2010 and Francois-Charles
Oberthur Fiduciaire SA’s smart-card unit last year.  Alliance Boots  Walgreen Co., the biggest U.S. drugstore operator, agreed
on June 19 to buy 45 percent of Alliance Boots GmbH for $6.7
billion, valuing KKR & Co.’s stake in the company at more than
twice its original equity investment. KKR bought a third of
Alliance Boots, the largest drugstore chain in the U.K., in
2007.  Buyout firms such as Advent typically use loans secured on
the targets they acquire to finance half to two thirds of the
purchase price, and cash from their own funds for the rest. The
firms seek to improve performance at the companies they acquire,
or expand them, before selling them within about five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  