-- Exiled Thai Leader Thaksin Says Rice Policy Should Stay
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e ,   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2012-09-24T07:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/thai-rice-policy-should-stay-several-more-years-thaksin-says.html
Former Thai Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  said a rice-purchase program should be extended for
several more years, rebuffing critics who say the policy has
increased government debt and encouraged corruption.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra implemented the price-
support policy to boost incomes of farming families whose
support helped her Pheu Thai party win an election last year.
The program, under which the government buys rice from farmers
at above-market rates, reaps economic gains that are about three
times the program’s cost, Thaksin said in an interview.  “If we manipulate the mechanism for two years, three
years, then things will be moving naturally,” Thaksin, who was
ousted in a 2006 coup and has lived overseas since fleeing a
2008 jail sentence, said in  Singapore  today. “The rice price in
the world market is increasing.”  Yingluck’s opponents have attacked the policy as her party
pushes for constitutional changes that would allow Thaksin to
return and investigators weigh charges for the deaths of his
supporters during protests in 2010. Parties linked to Thaksin
have won the past five elections on support from rice-growing
areas that are poorer and more populous than the rest of
Thailand.  The government spent 282.5 billion baht ($9.13 billion)
since October buying about 18 million metric tons of unmilled
rice from 2.45 million farmers at above-market rates, according
to the Ministry of Commerce. Spending may increase by a further
405 billion baht in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1, as the
government seeks to buy as much as 34 million tons, Commerce
Minister Boonsong Teriyapirom said on Sept. 21.  ‘Add Momentum’  “This may help  consumer spending  to remain well-supported
and expansionary fiscal policy may add momentum to growth,”
said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in Singapore. Thailand’s fiscal deficit may expand to
more than 2 percent of gross domestic product next fiscal year,
from 1 percent, because of the rice program, he said.  “We do not just throw away the money,” Thaksin said. The
program will lead to higher government revenue through the sale
of stockpiled grain, increased local consumption and will help
cushion Thailand from the effects of the  European debt crisis ,
he said. “The domestic economy in Thailand accounts for only 30
percent of GDP growth but now is increasing because people have
the purchasing power.”  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy expanded 4.2
percent in the three months through June from a year earlier,
exceeding all 16 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey that had a
median prediction of a 3.1 percent rise. The rice policy
“helped boost the economy in the first and second quarter,”
Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, secretary-general of the National
Economic and Social Development Board, said on Aug. 20.  Record Stockpiles  Government purchases will boost stockpiles of milled rice
from the annual harvest that starts next month to a record of
12.1 million tons and may reduce Thailand’s exports this year by
39 percent to 6.5 million tons, less than  India  and  Vietnam ,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Thaksin said the government has about 17 million tons of
paddy on hand, and stockpiles of milled rice are estimated at
about 4 million tons. Sales to  Indonesia , Iraq and  Ivory Coast ,
as well as other countries in the  Middle East  and  Africa , will
keep reserves down, he said.  “I don’t think we have much because we keep selling,” he
said, referring to the rice stockpile next year.  Thailand’s October harvest accounts for about 70 percent of
total output, and a secondary crop is harvested through to July.
The  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization said in
August that Thailand should be able to retain its position as
the world’s top exporter, shipping 7 million tons this year.  ‘Still Number One’  Shipments at that level would mean that Thailand “is still
number one, but with a better price,” Thaksin said. “If we
were to push to sell to compete with India when they started
dumping the rice at that time we probably end up with $400 per
ton. Now it’s $602. We will be doing ok.”  The government is targeting exports of 8.5 million tons
this year, boosted by sales to Bangladesh, China and Indonesia.
Sales tumbled 45 percent to 4.75 million tons for the year
through Sept. 18, according to the Thai Rice Exporters
Association.  Thaksin said the previous government “spoiled” exporters
by selling them cheap rice and called on them to become better
at marketing. About 40 percent of  Thailand ’s 67 million people
who depend on rice farming are satisfied with the policy, he
said.  Higher Prices  Under the program, the government pays as much as 15,000
baht a ton for unmilled white rice, which accounts for more than
70 percent of all exports, and 20,000 baht a ton for a higher-
quality variety. Purchases for the crop year ending this month
may increase by a further 5.5 million tons because farmers
planted additional grain after floods receded at the end of last
year, Boonsong said last week.  The program helped boost prices of unmilled white rice as
much as 24 percent to 10,800 baht a ton in local markets from a
year ago, and lifted prices of jasmine paddy by 18 percent to
16,000 baht a ton, the Commerce Ministry said on Sept. 12.  Total losses from the program are estimated at about 60
billion baht a year, based on a purchase cost of about $660 a
ton, Thaksin said. “We don’t lose that much,” he said.  The cost could rise to 200 billion baht after accounting
for losses and storage fees for the grain, Kiat Sittheeamorn, an
opposition parliamentarian, said last month.  An income-support program implemented by the previous
government, headed by now-opposition leader  Abhisit Vejjajiva ,
provided about 67 billion baht in direct payments to 4 million
rice farmers in the 2010-2011 production year, according to the
state-run  Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives .  Election Pledge  While Yingluck’s administration doesn’t disclose prices in
sales to other governments, Boonsong said the average price of
all rice sold overseas this year is more than $600 per ton --
below the break-even price of about $750 per ton for white rice
and up as much as 20 percent from last year.  The proposal of guaranteed prices for rice farmers was
among policies directed at lower-income voters that helped
Yingluck’s Pheu Thai party win a majority in elections last year
to fill Thailand’s 500-member parliament. The party took 149 of
189 constituency seats in the north and northeast, while the
Democrat party won 16 seats in those regions, where incomes
 average  about a third of those in Bangkok.  Happy Farmers  About 86.5 percent of the 1,200 farmers said price-support
measures were needed because of high production costs and low
prices, according to a July survey by the University of the Thai
Chamber of Commerce.  About 35 percent of respondents were more satisfied with
the current government’s rice-buying program, compared with
about 28 percent who favored the subsidy measures offered by the
previous administration. The remainder were equally satisfied by
both programs, the surveyed showed.  In 1981, Thailand introduced a policy to allow rice farmers
to pledge grain as collateral for loans if they wanted to delay
selling their crops to get better prices. After taking power in
2001, Thaksin started raising the pledging price above market
rates to boost farmer incomes,  according to  the FAO.  “Please sympathize with them,” Thaksin said of the
farmers. “They are poor. Let them have a chance to survive in
this world, to live a better life.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  