-- Algae.Tec Plans to Raise $600 Million for Fuel Factories by 2015
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-09-24T10:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/algae-tec-plans-to-raise-600-million-for-fuel-factories-by-2015.html
Algae.Tec Ltd. (AEB) , a producer of algal
oils used in clean fuel, plans to raise as much as $600 million
and win fuel supply deals allowing it to build as many as six
factories by 2015 in Brazil,  Sri Lanka ,  Australia  and the U.S.  “We will be using different project finance structures for
all of these projects and they’ll all be roughly $100 million,”
Chairman Roger Stroud said by phone from  Sao Paulo .  Airlines in July 2011 won approval from the U.S. technical
standards body to fly passenger planes using compounds made from
inedible plants and organic waste mixed with petroleum-derived
fuel. The ruling allows for blends of up to 50 percent biofuel.
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  in July 2011 became the world’s first
carrier to offer routine scheduled flights running on biofuel.  Algae.Tec on Sept. 19 said it was working with Lufthansa,
 Europe ’s second-biggest airline, to build a factory in the south
of the region. The company said it was seeking a site for the
facility and expected to begin producing fuel in early 2015.  The airline will contribute to funding for the project and
buy at least half of the fuel produced at an agreed price.
Algae.Tec has declined to disclose the expected cost of the
development, saying it’s subject to a feasibility study.  Algae.Tec also began talks with Brazilian partners as it
seeks to build one or two factories in the country, Stroud said.
“There’s no shortage of people who will buy the fuel; both our
biodiesel and jet fuel,” he said.  The company is studying the possibility of a plant in Sri
Lanka as part of its joint venture with a unit of  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)   “We know that they’re keen to build a fully fledged
facility in Sri Lanka, and that will likely be for biodiesel
because of the demand for diesel in the country,” Stroud said.  The company is also “well advanced” with feasibility
studies for sites in the southwestern U.S. and Australia.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  