-- Mali Risks Second Coup Without Intervention, Crisis Group Says
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-09-24T12:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/mali-risks-second-coup-without-intervention-crisis-group-says.html
Mali  may face a second coup and
West Africa risks the spread of religious extremism if there is
no international support for the country’s response to armed
groups that have taken control of the north, according to the
 International Crisis Group .  All scenarios are possible in the landlocked nation,
“including another military coup and social unrest in the
capital,” the Brussels-based group said in an e-mailed report
published today. That may create “chaos that could allow
religious extremism and terrorist violence to spread in Mali and
beyond.”  In March, President Amadou Toumani Toure was overthrown in
a military coup, creating a power vacuum in the southern
capital, Bamako. That opened up the country’s north to an influx
of armed groups and religious extremists, some linked to al-
Qaeda.  Leaders in Mali have been unable to agree on what kind of
international assistance to request and haven’t given a clear
direction to the post-coup transition, ICG said in the report.
Neither interim President Dioncounda Traore, Prime Minister
Cheick Modibo Diarra nor ex-junta leader Captain Amadou Sanogo
has popular legitimacy or the ability to prevent an escalation
of the crisis that has unfolded since the coup, according to the
report.  “The use of force will probably be necessary to neutralize
transnational armed groups that indulge in terrorism, jihadism
and drug and arms trafficking and to restore Mali’s territorial
integrity,” according to the ICG report.  A high-level meeting on the Sahel security situation will
be held in  New York  on Sept. 26 on the sidelines of the United
Nations General Assembly meeting, according to ICG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  