-- Mancini Shoves Balotelli Down Tunnel After City’s Draw: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-24T09:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/mancini-shoves-balotelli-down-tunnel-after-city-s-draw-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Balotelli Bust-Up  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  was involved in a
confrontation with  Mario Balotelli  following yesterday’s 1-1
Premier League draw against Arsenal, the  Daily Mail reported .  Mancini shoved Balotelli down the tunnel after the Italian
striker, who had come on as an 85th-minute substitute, made a
comment as he left the pitch, the newspaper added.  “I don’t remember if he asked me something but it’s not
important,” the Mail cited Mancini as saying after the match.
“Mario may think it was important. Tomorrow I will ask him.”  Red Card  Liverpool midfielder Jonjo Shelvey said Manchester United
manager Alex Ferguson influenced the referees’ decision to send
him off during yesterday’s Premier League match at Anfield, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Shelvey, who apologized to fans for his red card in
Liverpool’s 2-1 defeat, pointed and shouted at Ferguson as he
left the pitch yesterday, the Mirror said.  “I have also apologized to Sir Alex, just where I come
from people don’t grass people up to get someone sent off,” the
newspaper cited Shelvey as saying.  Agger’s Knee  Liverpool defender Daniel Agger may miss the rest of the
season after he was carried off on a stretcher with a knee
injury during yesterday’s game, the  Mail reported .  “The medics were saying it might be a medial ligament,”
the newspaper cited Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  as saying.
“We’ll see.”  Free Agent  Fulham manager Martin Jol is considering a move for free
agent Nigel Reo-Coker to solve the team’s shortage of
midfielders, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Jol already lost Moussa Dembele,  Clint Dempsey ,  Danny Murphy  and Dickson Etuhu since the end of last season before
Mahamadou Diarra suffered a cruciate knee ligament injury, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  