-- Anti-Islamist Ads in NYC Subways Get Little Reaction From Riders
-- B y   M a x   R a s k i n
-- 2012-09-24T19:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/anti-islamist-ads-in-nyc-subways-get-little-reaction-from-riders.html
Most subway riders in New York’s
Times Square subway station walked past both Cyrus McGoldrick
and the anti-Islamist wall advertisement he was protesting.  It reads: “In any war between the civilized man and the
savage, support the civilized man. Support  Israel . Defeat
Jihad.” The ad is one of 10 purchased for $6,000 by a group
called the  American Freedom Defense Initiative . The  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority , which runs the  subway system , lost a
court battle to block the ads, which went up today.  “I’m pleasantly surprised that everyone is walking by this
and ignoring it,” said McGoldrick, an advocacy director of the
Council on American-Islamic Relations' New York chapter, who was
handing out leaflets. “The most distasteful speech is the most
protected, and so we stand by that. What we see is that it is
our responsibility to counter that message with something
productive, with something inclusive, rather than something that
is so poisonous and hateful.”  The MTA initially refused to allow the posters to be put
up, citing a violation of its policy against ads that are
demeaning. In a July 20 decision, U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in  Manhattan  ruled the MTA’s actions unconstitutional
as a violation of the First Amendment.  “We understand the sensitivities that are raised by this
ad, and that’s why we initially declined to run it,” Adam
Lisberg, an MTA spokesman, said in an interview.  Film Protests  He said the agency’s board may discuss revising its
advertising policy when it meets this week. The MTA said the
posters are just 10 out of 11,000 through the system. Similar
ads from AFDI, which the MTA didn’t find demeaning, have run on
station platforms for the agency’s Metro-North commuter trains
in the northern suburbs.  The appearance of the ads follows protests and attacks on
U.S. missions in North Africa, one of which claimed the life of
the U.S. ambassador to  Libya  who was killed at the consulate
in Benghazi. The protests were sparked by a film made in the
U.S. that is seen as insulting the  Prophet Muhammad .  “If you are pro-Israel, this is abhorrent,” said commuter
Rebecca Klinger, 61, a massage therapist who said she lived in
Israel for a year. “It is contrary to the basic values that
Israel was founded on. So many suffered in the Holocaust because
of racism. It’s painful to see supporters of Israel doing the
same things. Nazis thought Jews weren’t human, and this ad
implies some humans are savages.”  The ads are the brainchild of Pamela Geller, the  executive
director  for AFDI and publisher of a blog called Atlas Shrugs.
She once headed a campaign against an Islamic center near the
site of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Last week her group
filed a similar lawsuit against the  Washington Metropolitan Area
Transit Authority , which is also seeking to block the ads.  “I intend to run these across the country,” Geller said
in an interview. “Anywhere that won’t run them will be legally
challenged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Raskin in  New York  at 
 mraskin5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  