-- Arctic Oil-Drilling Delays Allow Time for a Safety Review
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-24T22:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/arctic-oil-drilling-delays-allow-time-for-a-safety-review.html
Shell Alaska’s six-year, $4.5
billion-and-counting attempt to tap into the oil under the
 Arctic Ocean  has seemed snakebit recently (or, given the
indigenous wildlife, whalebit?).  In July, one of its drilling rigs nearly ran ashore, and
then this month it was almost hit by an ice floe many times the
size of  Manhattan . Meanwhile, an oil containment barge destined
for duty at the drilling site has been plagued by mechanical
problems and remains stranded in Bellingham,  Washington .
Drilling plans have now been  put off  until next summer.  To  environmental groups , the delay is evidence that the
company shouldn’t be allowed to drill in the pristine northern
waters. Many of them would just as soon the Arctic seafloor be
left untapped.  That would be unrealistic. The world needs the oil.  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  just has to show it can extract it safely.  About 24 billion barrels of oil are thought to be below the
American continental shelf in the Chukchi and Beaufort seas,
according to U.S. Geological Survey  estimates  -- which amounts
to about a third of all the oil in the Arctic Circle. Although
that would  not be enough  to wean the U.S. from imported crude,
with the high price of oil today (more than $90 a barrel) it is
well worth extracting.  Still, the delay could be constructive if Shell and the
U.S. government use the time to address discomfiting safety
issues.  The troubles that Shell has had with its containment barge
are not exactly encouraging. This month, after various
mechanical problems with the vessel had been fixed, a test of
its oil containment dome failed. According to  a report  in the
Los Angeles Times, a minisubmarine (also meant to be used in the
event of a spill) was sent to investigate, but became entangled
in the dome’s anchor lines and sank into the silt at the bottom
of Puget Sound.  Now, in the short time it has left before the ocean ices
over for the winter, Shell will drill 1,300-foot “top holes” for
exploratory wells it hopes to drill next summer. If viable
discoveries are made, actual production is still many years off,
as it will require constructing new conduits to carry oil from
offshore rigs to the Trans Alaska Pipeline System.  Shell is preparing multiple defenses against a blowout,
including two sets of plungers on its blowout preventers and
additional “capping stacks” that could seal a malfunctioning
blowout preventer. In addition, the company has promised to test
those preventers more frequently than is required.  The company’s efforts are commendable, but they don’t take
away the need for strong regulatory oversight. Congress has done
nothing to raise ocean oil-drilling standards since the
Deepwater Horizon disaster in the  Gulf of Mexico  more than two
years ago.  The Interior Department has filled some of the gap by
strengthening its oversight of ocean drilling. Although this is
laudable, it still needs to make sure that Shell and other
companies wanting to operate in the Arctic are equipped to
handle the unique conditions there. The agency, which is
planning to hold two more lease sales in the region during the
 next five years , already excludes certain sensitive areas in the
Arctic Ocean from exploration. It also restricts the time that
drilling can occur to the warmest months.  Other concerns need to be addressed. Although the water is
relatively shallow -- about 150 feet deep, compared with 5,000
feet in the Gulf of Mexico -- floating ice is a constant threat.
So it is essential that all vessels used in drilling and all
equipment used in cleanup be field-tested to work in cold, icy
and windy conditions.  The same rising temperatures that make it easier than ever
to bring oil-drilling rigs to the Arctic are causing drastic
environmental change -- melting ice, warmer water, stronger
waves and greater erosion. This puts stress on the fish, birds,
plants and animals in the ecosystem. Important as it is to find
new sources of oil, it is equally important to take every safety
precaution so that this fragile, (still) frosty patch of the
planet remains protected.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Libor and criminal charges ;
Susan P. Crawford on  Apple’s war with Google ;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on  “Muslim rage” in Pakistan ; William Pesek on  Myanmar’s
economic development ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  QE3 FAQs ; Roben Farzad
on the breakup between  Goldman Sachs and ambitious youth ;  Jeff
Rubin  on  oil’s inadequate replacements .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 