-- Argentina Insists on Clarin Media Breakup Ahead of Court Ruling
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-09-24T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/argentina-insists-on-clarin-media-breakup-ahead-of-court-ruling.html
Argentina’s government and one its
leading critics,  Grupo Clarin SA (GCLA) , clashed over President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s determination to break up the
country’s biggest media conglomerate.  The government, in  advertisements  broadcast nationwide
during soccer matches over the weekend, said it will strip most
of Clarin’s television licenses even as the  Supreme Court 
considers a company-requested injunction to block the move.  The Supreme Court ruled on May 22 that Clarin has until
Dec. 7 to fall in line with an antitrust law approved by
Congress in 2009 requiring the Buenos Aires-based company to
sell dozens of television networks it operates across the
country. Still, justices have yet to rule on a company lawsuit
claiming its constitutional rights are being violated.  The government, deflecting criticism by opposition
politicians and advocacy groups that it’s trying to control news
coverage, said that its actions seek to guarantee “diversity
and democracy” in  Argentina ’s media. If Clarin doesn’t adhere
to the law the government will be forced to auction its licenses
so no jobs are lost, the video said.  “The Argentine state will not expropriate the news media;
the Argentine state will not nationalize the news media,”
according to the advertisement, referring to the deadline date
as “7D.” “The Argentine state will guarantee their jobs and
compliance with a law that democratizes the news media in the
Argentine republic.”  Clarin owns the country’s largest-circulation newspaper as
well as its biggest cable-television operator, Cablevision SA,
 radio stations ,  Internet providers  and Argentina’s biggest
printing press. It has been feuding with the government since
Fernandez’s late husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner ,
accused it of supporting farmers in a national strike over
export taxes.  Constitutional Rights  Clarin responded yesterday, saying the law violates
constitutional guarantees and that justices can still rule to
extend its injunction and even in the worst-case scenario the
law gives the company a full year to divest its holdings.  “Unless the government wants to implement something
different, on Dec. 7, legally and factually, nothing should
happen to the media outlets of Grupo Clarin,” the company said
in a statement in its flagship newspaper and posted on its
 website . “This isn’t an opinion or an interpretation, it’s what
the law says.”  Clarin shares are trading near a three-year low after
plunging 24 percent since the Supreme Court’s decision in May.
That compares with a 15 percent gain for the nation’s benchmark
 Merval index  and an 8.7 percent jump in the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Latin America (MXLA)  benchmark index.  Under the new rules, media companies can hold a maximum of
24 cable-television licenses and 10 broadcast radio and
television licenses. Clarin has 240 cable networks, 10 radio and
four broadcast TV licenses, according to the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 