-- Marines Face Charges for Urinating on Corpses in Afghanistan
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-09-24T19:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/marines-face-charges-for-urinating-on-corpses-in-afghanistan-1-.html
 Two U.S. Marines accused of
urinating on dead Taliban fighters in  Afghanistan  and posing for
photos with the corpses will face trial by court-martial for
violations of the military’s code of justice.  “The incident allegedly took place during a counter-
insurgency operation in the vicinity of Sandala, Musa Qala
District in Helmand Province, Afghanistan, on or about July 27,
2011,” the Marine Corps said today in an e-mailed statement.  The Marines charged, Staff Sergeants Joseph W. Chamblin and
Edward W. Deptola, are assigned to the Third Battalion, Second
Marine Regiment at Camp Lejeune in  North Carolina , the Marines
said.  The Marine Corps imposed administrative punishments last
month on three Marines who pleaded guilty for their roles in the
desecration. The episode roiled U.S.-Afghan relations and
triggered apologies from top U.S. officials after video
depicting four Marines urinating on the corpses circulated
across the globe in January.  The punishments for the first three Marines weren’t
disclosed. Among the possibilities were a reduction in rank,
forfeiture of pay and a reprimand, according to a Marine Corps
statement.  After the video became public, the deputy commander of U.S.
forces in Afghanistan issued an order to all coalition forces in
the country to treat dead insurgents with “appropriate dignity
and respect,” according to a copy of the order released and
signed by Army Lieutenant General Curtis Scaparrotti. He said
desecration of the dead violates the law of armed conflict “and
can cause serious damage to relations with the Afghan
government.”  The video appeared to show the four Marines urinating on
three Afghan corpses lying on the ground. An American voice can
be heard saying, “Have a great day, buddy,” while another
says, “He likes his shower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  