-- Las Vegas Sands Recommended to Break Up to Boost Value
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/las-vegas-sands-recommended-to-break-up-to-boost-value.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the casino
operator controlled by billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , should break
up into three companies to boost its stock-market value, a
shareholder recommended.  The company, with operations in  Las Vegas , Pennsylvania,
Singapore and  Macau , China, would be worth $85 a share if it
spun out its shopping-mall and hotel properties as two real
estate investment trusts, with the rest of the company remaining
a pure casino owner, according to a report released today by
Jonathan Litt, founder and chief executive officer of Greenwich,
Connecticut-based investment firm LandandBuildings. Las Vegas
Sands shares closed at $44.92 on Sept. 21.  “LVS is a growth company at a value price at half the
multiple of REITs despite twice the growth,” Litt,  former
senior global real estate strategist at Citigroup Inc., wrote in
the report. “LVS is a property company and when valued as such
it can be a double to current pricing.”  The Las Vegas-based company said this month it plans to
invest at least $2.5 billion to build its fifth resort in Macau,
and will develop Europe’s largest casino complex in Madrid.
Adelson said last week that his company is looking for other
development opportunities internationally, including projects in
Japan, Korea and  Vietnam .  Ron Reese , a spokesman for Las Vegas Sands, didn’t respond
to a telephone call and e-mail seeking comment.  LandandBuildings, also known as Land & Buildings Investment
Management LLC, held 79,600 shares of Las Vegas Sands as of June
30, the firm said in a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Adelson, 79, owns 424 million shares, or almost 52 percent,
of Las Vegas Sands, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares Decline  The shares of Las Vegas Sands, owner of the Venetian and
the Palazzo on the  Las Vegas Strip , have  fallen  6.8 percent over
the past year. Wynn Resorts Ltd. has dropped 22 percent and MGM
Resorts International has declined less than 1 percent. Caesars
Entertainment Corp. has fallen 24 percent since its February
IPO.  Should Las Vegas Sands be broken up, according to Litt’s
plan, the new mall and lodging REITs wouldn’t have any debt
“and would have exceptional external growth opportunities
through development and acquisition in Asia and around the
world.”  A REIT is a company that focuses on owning and operating
income-producing properties such as office buildings and malls,
and doesn’t pay corporate income taxes. A REIT must distribute
at least 90 percent of its taxable income to shareholders to
maintain is tax status, according to the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts, a Washington-based trade group.  Companies that have announced plans this year to become
REITs include  Equinix Inc. (EQIX) , an operator of data centers, and
document-storage company  Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  