-- Euro Drops With Commodities on European Crisis
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-24T20:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/asia-stocks-fall-as-australian-dollar-kiwi-weaken-gold-drops.html
U.S. stocks fell for a third day
and commodities dropped as European leaders clashed on ways to
stem the debt crisis and reports from China and Germany signaled
the slowdown is deepening. Treasuries rose and the euro slid.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.2 percent to
1,456.89 as of 4 p.m. in  New York  for the longest streak of
losses in seven weeks. The MSCI All-Country World Index lost 0.4
percent. The euro weakened 0.4 percent to $1.2929. The S&P GSCI
gauge of 24 commodities retreated 1 percent as oil slumped 1
percent. Ten-year  Treasury notes  gained for a sixth day.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and President  Francois Hollande 
disagreed on a timetable for starting joint oversight of
 Europe ’s banking sector. German business confidence unexpectedly
fell in September, the Ifo institute in Munich said. China’s
manufacturers and retailers are less optimistic about sales than
they were three months ago and are cutting jobs, according to
the findings of a survey by New York-based researcher CBB
International LLC.  “The global macro concern could prove challenging for
stocks in the near term,”  David Sowerby , a  fund manager  at
Boston-based Loomis Sayles & Co., said in a telephone interview.
His firm oversees about $170 billion. “When Germany says you
need to be responsible and they voice their apprehension, that’s
simply uncertainty that the market does not like.”  Germany’s governing coalition showed growing exasperation
with Spain, as a senior ally of Chancellor Angela Merkel said
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  must stop prevaricating and decide
whether Spain needs a full rescue.  ‘Communications Problem’  “He must spell out what the situation is,” Michael Meister, finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic
Union , said in an interview in Berlin today. The fact he’s not
doing so shows “Rajoy evidently has a communications problem.
If he needs help he must say so.”  Apple Inc. slid 1.3 percent after saying it sold more than
5 million of the iPhone 5 in three days, fewer than Piper
Jaffray Cos.’s projection of as many as 10 million during the
opening weekend. Facebook Inc. slumped 9.1 percent after surging
27 percent since the end of August.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.4 percent. The gauge,
which is trading near its highest  price-to-estimated-earnings
ratio  since 2010, has still surged 17 percent from this year’s
low in June as the  European Central Bank  and the  Federal Reserve 
introduced new bond-buying programs.  European Stocks  CGGVeritas declined 5.3 percent after the world’s largest
surveyor of oilfields agreed to buy  Fugro (FUR)  NV’s seismic division
for 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion). Fugro rose 2.1 percent in
Amsterdam. QinetiQ Plc, the military researcher split off from
the U.K. Ministry of Defense, jumped 6.5 percent after saying
its performance in the first half was stronger than forecast.  The euro dropped as much as 1.1 percent to 100.36 yen.  “A period of consolidation in the month ahead looks the
more likely outcome,” said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based
head of investment strategy at UBS AG’s Australian wealth
management unit. The Swiss bank has about $1.5 trillion in
assets under management. “In Europe, there will continue to be
some lingering challenges.”  Australia’s dollar weakened 0.3 percent to $1.0422. New
Zealand’s currency declined 1 percent to 82.12 U.S. cents.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries slipped three basis points
to 1.72 percent, while rates on German bunds of similar maturity
declined three basis points to 1.56 percent.  Crude in New York slipped to $91.93 a barrel and copper
declined 1.5 percent. Arabica coffee dropped 0.6 percent after
rising 2.8 percent on Sept. 21.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 0.2 percent. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies traded
in Hong Kong slipped 0.4 percent.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  tumbled 19
percent leading Indonesian stocks lower after a shareholder
started a probe into the company’s finances. Vietnam’s VN Index
sank 1.3 percent after inflation quickened for the first time in
more than a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  