-- Asia’s Hedge Funds Find GDP Growth Doesn’t Help Returns
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-09-25T07:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/asia-s-hedge-funds-find-gdp-growth-doesn-t-help-returns.html
The world’s fastest economic growth
isn’t helping  Asia ’s  hedge funds .  The Eurekahedge Asian  index  tracking 395 hedge funds
returned 1.6 percent this year through August, the worst
performer among regions and about half the 3.2 percent gain by
the global benchmark.  Funds have been hampered by a concentration on Asian
equities, which have been driven more by  Europe ’s debt crisis
and  China ’s slowdown than by company fundamentals such as
earnings.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  has climbed 8.2 percent in
2012, compared with the 13 percent gain by the MSCI World Index.  “Most Asian funds have been focused on the equity space
and that hasn’t done well,” said Dhawal Mehta, head of India
equity investments at Reliance Asset Management ( Singapore ) Pte.
“In the U.S. and Europe, you have more variety in terms of the
kind of funds.”  Investors have withdrawn $447 million this year from Asian
hedge funds, while 73 of them have closed in 2012, according to
Eurekahedge Pte, a Singapore-based data provider. Seventy-seven
percent of the funds in the region are equity-related, versus 46
percent globally, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc.  The Eurekahedge index tracking Asian funds dropped 8.3
percent in 2011, its second-worst year on record, after 2008.
The Asian index has underperformed global peers since 2009, when
it had a record annual return, Eurekahedge  data  show.  ‘More Difficult’  “The key problem that most hedge funds have had over the
past couple of years is that they have spent too much time
trying to guess the macro direction of the markets and less time
trying to find out what stocks are going to deliver earnings,”
said London-based Richard Cardiff, who manages the $380 million
CC Asia Absolute Return Fund.  This year has been more difficult for managers who invest
in equities based on fundamentals such as earnings because
quality stocks haven’t done as well as cyclical ones that are
more sensitive to economic moves, Cardiff said, declining to
name the stocks.  The fund, run by Coupland Cardiff Asset Management LLP in
the U.K., is down 3 percent this year.  Managers also are struggling to meet investor demand for
stricter regulatory and risk-management compliance. The often
smaller asset base of Asian funds makes it harder to absorb the
costs of such infrastructure.  ‘Caught Between’  “Managers are caught between a rock and a hard place as
investors want the Asian story, but with developed-market levels
of risk management,” said  Peter Douglas , principal of
Singapore-based GFIA Pte, which advises investors seeking to
allocate money to hedge funds.  Asian hedge funds managed $125.4 billion as of August,
compared with $358.8 billion in Europe and $1.2 trillion in
 North America , according to Eurekahedge.  “Many Asian hedge funds remain equity focused and long
biased, making them more exposed to equity-market volatility,”
said Fred Ingham, London-based Asia head of hedge-fund
investments at Neuberger Berman Group LLC’s alternative-assets
division. “A lack of hedging tools relative to the West,
coupled with a tendency to try to capture market upside, has
meant that Asian hedge funds have struggled in difficult global
and regional equity markets.”  A Eurekahedge global index that tracks long-short equity
funds that bet on rising and falling stock prices has gained 2.8
percent this year through August. The similar  index  for Asian
funds advanced 1.1 percent in the period.  No Fundamentals  Relative-value funds that attempt to profit from price
discrepancies between markets made up 12 percent of hedge-fund
strategies in Asia, while event-driven funds that bet on
corporate events such as mergers accounted for 6.3 percent and
macro funds, which seek to profit from economic trends by
trading stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities, made up 4.6
percent, Chicago-based HFR’s data showed.  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its 2013 global
growth forecast to 3.9 percent in July from 4.1 percent in April
on Europe’s debt crisis and slower expansion in emerging markets.
Developing Asian nations are projected to grow 7.1 percent in
2012, while China is forecast to expand 8 percent and  Japan  2.4
percent, according to the IMF.  Among funds investing in equities, Senrigan Capital Group
Ltd., the $620 million Asia-focused event-driven fund backed by
Blackstone Group LP, lost about 16 percent through August, a
person with knowledge of the information said, asking not to be
identified because the information is private. Nick Taylor,
Senrigan’s chief investment officer, declined to comment.  QAM Asian Equities Fund declined 19.4 percent through
August as stock-market moves have been driven by macro-economic
and political news related to the debt cycle rather than company
fundamentals, said Frank Holle, the Kuala Lumpur-based co-
founder of Quant Asset Management Pte.  High Correlation  The fund invests in undervalued stocks with the strongest
positive earnings revisions and shorts MSCI index futures based
on its own systematic computer models, according to Holle. In a
short sale, a manager borrows stocks and sells them, betting
they can be bought back later at a cheaper price.  “Volatility has come down a lot in the past years but
correlation is still pretty high,” Holle said. “This basically
means that individual stocks perform generally in line with the
markets. This is driven by the fact that macro-economic and
political news play a big role in the current markets.”  QAM started to fold the Asian equities fund with about $6
million of assets at the end of last month into its $29 million
QAM Global Equities Fund Ltd., Holle said.  “With the smaller assets under management in the Asian
fund, it seemed more efficient for our investors to transfer
them to the global fund,” he added. The process is expected to
be completed by the end of this month, he said.  Commodity Funds  Volatile commodity markets have also roiled funds in Asia.  AN Commodity Fund, which invests in energy, metals and
agricultural derivatives traded on exchanges, fell 6.5 percent
this year through Sept. 12, said Tan Tien Leong, the chief
investment officer of Singapore-based AN Capital Pte.  “Being a commodity hedge fund, the reason why you’re in
the space is because you believe in a long-term growth story so
you tend to be more directionally bullish than bearish,” Tan
said. “Since early 2011, a lot of exogenous shocks occurred
outside of our analytical framework which affected psychology
and fund performance.”  Decisions to buy wheat and corn as their prices declined
contributed to the fund’s performance, said Tan, a former  fund
manager  at Millennium Capital Partners LP.  Redemptions by risk-averse investors forced commodity hedge
funds to sell out of their positions to return cash, also
affecting the fund’s performance, he said. AN Commodity Fund has
shrunk to about $2.6 million from its peak of about $41 million
in November 2010, in part because of redemptions, he said.  Country Focused  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
has dropped as much as 13 percent and gained as much as 11
percent this year amid expectations for further quantitative
easing measures and concerns about Europe’s debt crisis.  Country-focused funds are also struggling. The Quam
Silkroad Mongolia Fund, which primarily invests in overseas-
traded companies whose main assets are in Mongolia, is down 36
percent this year through August on investments in copper, gold
and coal mining companies that are in production and exploration
stages, said Laurent Ettedgui, a Hong Kong-based manager.  Mongolia’s stock benchmark Silk Road Mongolia Index dropped
50 percent this year through August because of the even heavier
dominance of mining companies amid declines in commodity prices,
he said.  Cyrus Mak, Quam’s Hong Kong-based investor relations
officer, declined to share the assets under management of the
fund, citing confidentiality.  ‘Risk Aversion’  “There has been an overall sense of  risk aversion , which
means that  emerging markets  get less favored by investors at a
time like this,” said Reliance Asset’s Mehta. “Markets today
are globally linked. If the news flow from the U.S. and Europe
is not good, then you get affected even if you did well with
your investments in Asia.”  Mehta’s India Equity Growth Fund Long Term Share Class
returned 10 percent this year through August, according to the
company. The fund, which focuses on mid-to-small cap stocks, is
long-biased -- meaning that more of its bets are concentrated on
stocks it expects to rise -- with a three-to-five-years
investment return horizon and doesn’t generally short stocks, he
said. The fund had $66.7 million as of Aug. 31, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Hedge funds are relatively new to this part of the
world,” he said. “The U.S. and Europe have a lot more history,
but you just have to wait out a particular cycle in Asia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  