-- Atlanta, Miami, Las Vegas Cut Credit After Housing Bust
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-09-24T19:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/atlanta-miami-las-vegas-cut-credit-after-housing-bust.html
Credit card borrowing dropped in
August from a year earlier in U.S. cities that suffered some of
the biggest declines in  home prices , showing consumers continue
to shed debt six years after the residential market peaked,
according to  Equifax (EFX)  Inc. data provided to Bloomberg.  Credit-card debt fell 1.9 percent in the Las Vegas
metropolitan area, 1.7 percent in  Los Angeles , 0.9 percent in
Miami and 0.8 percent in Atlanta and  San Francisco , according to
Atlanta-based Equifax, a provider of consumer-credit data. Total
U.S. card debt was unchanged in the month, the company said.  The new data shows that regional borrowing has veered from
U.S. trends with local housing markets an important influence.  “You see some unevenness in terms of recovery,” Trey Loughran, president of Equifax’s Personal Information Solutions
business, said in an interview. Credit is being reduced “in
some of the places where the housing bust was the worst, such as
Florida, California and Nevada.”  By contrast, card debt rose 1.9 percent in Houston, 1.2
percent in Washington-Baltimore and 0.8 percent in  Dallas ,
according to Equifax.  “People are more willing to expand credit in areas with a
little healthier economic picture,” Loughran said. “Then
certainly consumers are taking advantage of that a little bit
more.”  Nationally, U.S. home prices have dropped 30 percent since
peaking in the 2006’s second quarter, according to the Case-
Shiller  U.S. home-price  indexes. Miami, Las Vegas and Phoenix,
which had a 0.6 percent decrease in credit, all have had
declines in housing prices of 50 percent or more.  Signs of Rebound  “Credit-card use appears to be enduring a payback in
markets were home-price appreciation tended to be the greatest
and where mortgage-credit growth was most aggressive,” Wells
Fargo Securities LLC senior economist  Mark Vitner  said.  Americans have cut  household debt  by $1.3 trillion since
the peak in the third quarter 2008 as the economy sank deeper
into the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009, according
to an Aug. 29 report by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  The lowest  mortgage rates  on record helped boost the
S&P/Case-Shiller gauge of home prices in 20 U.S. cities, which
rose 0.5 percent in June from a year earlier for the first gain
since September 2010.  Coastal regions continue to recover slowly from the housing
price slide. California cities led real estate foreclosures
nationally in the first half of 2012, with Miami, Phoenix, Las
Vegas and Atlanta all among the top 20 in the pace of filings,
according to  RealtyTrac .  Energy Boom  The slow growth is likely to continue for those areas,
according to economists at IHS Global Insight. Florida and
 California  may not return to their prerecession peaks of
employment until 2016 and Nevada won’t regain lost jobs until
2018, the firm projects.  By contrast, Alaska, North Dakota,  Texas , and Louisiana,
which have all been beneficiaries of a U.S. energy boom, have
reached or surpassed their prerecession employment peaks.  North Dakota has led the U.S. in overall economic
performance in the year ended with 2012’s first quarter,
according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States Index.  Texas also avoided the volatility in home prices over the
past decade, Vitner said.  “As a result, consumers did not spend as freely in the
boom years and did not become as overleveraged as borrowers in
some other parts of the country,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe at 
 asharpe6@bloomberg.net  