-- AU Optronics Fine, Facebook’s Faces, Divorces: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-24T12:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/au-optronics-fined-facebook-s-faces-u-k-divorces-compliance.html
AU Optronics Corp. (2409) , Taiwan’s
second-largest maker of liquid crystal display screens used in
electronic devices, was ordered to pay $500 million for
colluding with rivals to fix prices on the screens.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in  San Francisco 
sentenced AU Optronics Sept. 20. A jury in March found the
company guilty of a price-fixing conspiracy based on charges
filed by the U.S. Justice Department in 2009.  Illston said the $1 billion fine sought by the government
was excessive. AUO had said it should pay no more than $285
million. The judge said she would allow the  company  to pay the
fine over three years.  Executives of Hsinchu, Taiwan-based AUO secretly met with
counterparts at other panel makers in hotel rooms, karaoke bars
and tea rooms at so-called crystal meetings around Taiwan from
2001 to 2006 to set prices as an oversupply was pushing prices
down 40 percent, federal prosecutors told jurors during the
eight-week trial.  Illston also sentenced AUO Vice Chairman H.B. Chen,
formerly the company’s chief executive officer, and former
executive Hui Hsiung to three years in prison and ordered each
to pay a $200,000 fine.  AUO was the only LCD maker charged with price-fixing by the
U.S. to take its case to trial. Since 2008, rivals including  LG
Display Co. (034220) ,  Chunghwa Picture Tubes (2475) , Chi Mei Optoelectronics
Corp. and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  agreed to plead guilty and pay a total of
more than $890 million in fines.  Dennis Riordan, a lawyer for AUO, told Illston the company
had set aside $277 million to cover potential liability for the
case. Illston granted his request to allow AUO to pay in
installments.  The AUO fine is tied with one by Swiss pharmaceutical
company F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. for the highest paid by a
company in a Justice Department antitrust case, according to
agency data.  Chen and Hsiung were ordered to surrender by Nov. 30 to
begin serving their prison terms. Illston rejected requests to
delay their sentences during an appeal.  The case is U.S. v. Lin, 3:09-cr-00110, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Compliance Policy  EU Lawmakers Ask Why Banks’ Rate-Rigging Culture Was Unchecked  A panel of European Union lawmakers will ask regulators
from three continents today why authorities failed to crack down
on a culture of rigging  interest rates .  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, will
testify to a European Parliament panel along with  Gary Gensler ,
chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and
Masamichi Kono, board chairman of the International Organization
of Securities Commissions, in Brussels today.  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark interest rate for more
than $500 trillion of securities, plummeted following  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ’s admission in June that it submitted false rates. The
revelations provoked renewed calls for tougher oversight of the
financial system and pushed regulatory and criminal probes of
interbank lending rates to the top of the political agenda.  The EU session will be followed later this week by a report
from Martin Wheatley, managing director of the FSA, on a
regulatory overhaul of Libor.  Rate-riggers face harsher punishments in the EU in the wake
of the revelations. The parliament’s economic and monetary
affairs committee is preparing to vote on Oct. 8 to boost the
bloc’s sanctions against market abuse, including jail sentences
for bank staff found guilty of collusion to fix inter-bank
lending benchmarks.  The EU plans would also set financial penalties for
attempted manipulation of rates. The commission is also seeking
views on possible rules to overhaul Libor, Euribor and other
market benchmarks.  British Banks Say Regulation Sufficient, Focus on Culture  U.K. banks said regulation already being considered by
government will be sufficient to restore trust in the industry
and suggested plans to foster a more honest culture.  “The changes already in place and in contemplation are
comprehensive and well designed,” said  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
Europe’s biggest bank, in evidence to Parliamentary Commission
on Banking Standards, published Sept. 21.  The inquiry in the wake of the Libor scandal comes after
banks set aside at least 9 billion pounds ($14.7 billion) to
redress customers who were mis-sold loan insurance and interest-
rate swaps. The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, which starts
regulating next year, will crack down on bank incentives that
encourage the improper sale of products, Martin Wheatley, its
chief executive officer-designate, said this month.  The banks agreed cultural change was necessary, though
offered different routes to get there. Barclays Plc proposed the
creation of a professional code of conduct to be policed by an
independent body, while HSBC proposed “behavioral monitoring
audits.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Facebook Agrees to Delete EU Users’ Facial-Recognition Data  Facebook Inc. (FB)  agreed to delete data collected from users
within the European Union for its facial-recognition feature by
Oct. 15, the Irish privacy regulator  said .  The owner of the biggest social-networking site has faced
several European reviews over concerns a facial-recognition
program that automatically suggests people’s names to tag in
pictures breaches privacy rights.  Facebook Ireland “agreed to delete collected templates for
EU users by Oct. 15” and to seek regulator consent “if it
chooses to provide the feature to EU users again,” the Irish
Office of the Data Protection Commissioner said in the
 conclusions to a review  Sept. 21.  Data-protection regulators from the 27-nation EU have been
looking into Facebook’s facial-recognition feature. Norway’s
data-protection regulator said in August it was reviewing how
the feature worked and what information Facebook was storing.
Earlier this year, a group of regulators known as the EU’s
 Article 29  Data-Protection Working Party,  said  people must
consent to the use of their images.  The Irish audit “is part of an ongoing process of
oversight, and we are pleased that, as the data-protection
commissioner said, the latest announcement is confirmation that
we are not only compliant with European data-protection law, but
we have gone beyond some of their initial recommendations,”
Facebook said in an e-mailed statement.  The Irish agency Sept. 21 said Facebook had demonstrated
“a constructive approach” in responding to its
recommendations.  A separate probe in Germany is ongoing.  For more, click here.  SEC Said to Scrutinize Private Equity on Share of Fund Profits  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is seeking to
determine whether some  private-equity  firms are taking more
profits from investments than they should under agreements with
fund clients, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter.  The SEC, pursuing a review of the industry begun after
passage of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010, is examining how buyout
funds ensure that payouts follow the sequence set out in
partnership documents, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. Regulators are
looking for deviations from the distribution process, or
waterfall, which usually calls for clients to receive some gains
on investments before the  fund manager .  The SEC stepped up its scrutiny of the private-equity
business following the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., which accelerated a financial crisis that froze deal-
making and forced firms to write down the value of their
holdings. After Dodd-Frank authorized greater oversight of money
managers, the agency initiated its broad review of practices at
private-equity and hedge funds.  The SEC has implemented examinations to police the
industry. In connection with regular inspections, the SEC is
also looking into how buyout firms allocate expenses among
investors, including those incurred for deals that are pursued
but not completed.  When a buyout fund exits a holding, investors often get
their investment back first, plus a certain percentage of the
profits, known as the hurdle. Once the hurdle has been paid, the
fund manager can begin collecting carried interest.  Investment agreements aren’t uniform among funds.  For more, click here.  Goodrich Petroleum Says SEC Probe Recommends No Further Action  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has completed
its investigation of  Goodrich Petroleum Corp. (GDP)  regarding a July
2011 subpoena, according to a company statement.  The subpoena related to Haynesville Shale gas wells,
reserves. No enforcement action was recommended, Goodrich
Petroleum said in the statement.  Goodrich Petroleum received subpoenas on shale gas wells
Aug. 18, the company said in a statement at the time.  Courts  Lehman Unit Held Liable for Failed CDOs Sold to Australian Towns  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Australian unit must repay
three towns that invested in failed securities backed by U.S.
subprime mortgages, a judge ruled. The lawsuit’s sponsor said
the case is the first of its kind to complete a trial.  Lehman’s unit “engaged in misleading and deceptive
conduct,” Federal Court Justice Steven Rares said. The unit
“is liable to compensate the councils for their losses,” he
said in issuing the decision in Sydney Sept. 21, more than a
year after the trail’s conclusion.  Grange Securities Ltd., which was bought by Lehman,
invested the towns’ money in securities whose value collapsed
along with the U.S. housing market. The collateralized debt
obligations in 2008 played a role in the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, as world-wide credit froze and the
$330 billion market for auction-rate securities collapsed.  The three Australian towns that invested A$37.3 million
($39 million) in securities sold by Grange sued in 2009 to
recover their losses. The Sept. 21 decision signals that about
70 councils, church groups and charities in Australia which made
similar investments may be more likely to recover about A$200
million.  The towns and organizations have claimed the securities
were sold with the safest  credit rating , AAA, which didn’t
reflect their actual risk.  The case is Between Wingecarribee Shire Council and Lehman
Brothers Australia Ltd. NSD 2492/2007. Federal Court of
Australia (Sydney).  Oklahoma, South Carolina, Michigan Join Suit Over Dodd-Frank  Oklahoma, along with  South Carolina  and Michigan, joined a
lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act that overhauled financial regulation and created the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The states, in an amended complaint filed Sept. 20 in
federal court in Washington, said they’re only challenging the
portion of the Dodd-Frank law that empowers the  Treasury
Secretary  to order a liquidation of a financial company whose
collapse may threaten the stability of the banking system.  The law “denies the subject company and its creditors
constitutionally required notice and a meaningful opportunity to
be heard before their property is taken,” the states said in
the complaint.  The lawsuit was filed in June by a small bank in Texas and
the  Competitive Enterprise Institute , a group that advocates for
limited government, alleging that the law setting up the CFPB
violates the U.S. Constitution because Congress doesn’t
appropriate its budget, the president has limited ability to
remove its director and the courts face restrictions in
reviewing its actions.  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment on the filing. The government has until Oct. 26 to
respond to the original complaint, according to court records.  Oklahoma and South Carolina are among a group of Republican
state attorneys general that declined to sign cooperation
agreements with the consumer bureau.  The case is State National Bank of Big Spring v. Geithner,
12-cv-01032, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  For more, click here.  Interviews  Attorney Nadel Discusses SEC Scrutiny of Private Equity  Steven Nadel, a partner at the law firm of  Seward & Kissel
LLP  in New York, talked about the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s review of the private-equity industry.  The SEC is seeking to determine whether some private-equity
firms are taking more profits from investments than they should
under agreements with fund clients, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter. Nadel spoke with Deirdre Bolton on
Bloomberg Television’s “Money Moves.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Banker Breakups Seen Spurring Revisions of U.K. Divorce Laws  Wealthy Britons going through a divorce may benefit from a
review of U.K. court standards that some lawyers argue promote
unfairly generous rulings in favor of less well-off spouses.  An inquiry announced last week by the Law Commission, an
advisory body sponsored by the Ministry of Justice, is the first
step toward reversing a trend that’s made Britain the “divorce
capital of the world,” said Louise Spitz, an attorney with
Manches LLP in London. The commission may submit a draft statute
to Parliament next year.  A lack of judicial standards and the arbitrary nature of
divorce cases stem from a 12-year-old court ruling, lawyers
said. The commission’s review also comes six months after an
appeals court ruling in the high-profile case of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  equity analyst Peter Lawrence. He won a decision cutting
by 9 percent to 1.37 million pounds ($2.22 million) a payout to
his civil partner of 11 years, former “Priscilla Queen of the
Desert” star Donald Gallagher.  Divorce judges may have an easier time resolving cases if
the law included a clear definition of “needs” in relation to
a spouse’s living requirements, the commission said in a Sept.
11 statement.  The review of U.K. divorce law was triggered in part by the
case of German heiress Katrin Radmacher and ex-JPMorgan
investment banker Nicolas Granatino, lawyers said. In October
2010, the U.K. Supreme Court ruled for the first time that a
U.S.-style pre-nuptial agreement on asset-division, reached
before marriage, should be decisive.  The commission started a probe of U.K. pre-nuptial accords
in January 2011, three months after the Radmacher judgment. The
announcement Sept. 11 expanded the study to review support
payments and division of non-marital assets -- assets belonging
to one spouse, often from before a marriage. Such assets are
generally not the subject of division in a divorce.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 