-- Mauritius May Keep Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-09-24T09:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/mauritius-may-keep-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged.html
Mauritius’s central bank will
probably leave its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a
second meeting to help curb price pressures and bolster the
currency.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Rundheersing Bheenick, will hold the  repo rate  at 4.9 percent, according to
six out of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One analyst
predicted a 10 basis-point increase, while two forecast a rate
cut. The Port Louis-based bank is due to announce the decision
on its website at 6 p.m. local time today.  Inflation in the Indian Ocean island nation may accelerate
from 3.7 percent in August as the currency weakens, food prices
climb to records and fuel costs jump. The rupee has slumped 4.1
percent against the dollar since April 1. Mauritius, with a
population of about 1.3 million people, is a net importer of
food and fuels.  “A cut will do more harm than good,” Swadicq Nuthay, an
economist at Axys Capital Management Ltd. in  Port Louis , said in
a phone interview on Sept. 21. “We already have a negative
return on rupee-denominated assets.” Mauritius “is poised for
a higher inflation rate as the rupee is weakening,” he said.  The rupee strengthened 0.7 percent to 30.05 a dollar by
1:30 p.m. in Port Louis, the capital. A close at this level will
be the highest since Sept. 18, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Oil Imports  Oil imports accounted for 23 percent of foreign purchases
in the six months through June, Statistics Mauritius said on
Aug. 28.  Policy makers have reduced borrowing costs twice since
December to support economic growth as a debt crisis in  Europe ,
the island nation’s biggest trading partner, cuts export
revenue. Tourism and textiles are Mauritius’s biggest source of
foreign currency income.  The $10 billion economy will probably expand at its slowest
pace since 2009 this year at 3.1 percent, said Gilbert Gnany,
group chief strategy officer at  Mauritius Commercial Bank (MCB) , the
largest lender by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  