-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Fall on Europe Stalemate, Before RBA
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-09-24T06:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/aussie-dollar-falls-amid-european-stalemate-before-rba.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars declined on speculation disagreement among the euro
region’s leaders on debt-crisis solutions is curbing prospects
for growth, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie and kiwi declined against most of
their major peers before data today forecast to show German
business confidence stayed near the lowest in more than two
years.  Greece  and representatives of its so-called troika of
international creditors agreed to take a break from inconclusive
aid talks. The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will hold a policy
meeting next week.  “What could move markets would be some friction news on
the Greek-troika inspections,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist
in Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-largest
lender. “Aussie is seeing a bit of slippage on the possibility
of the RBA cutting rates as early as October.”  The  Australian dollar  fell 0.4 percent to $1.0415 as of
4:45 p.m. in Sydney. It declined 0.6 percent to 81.28 yen. The
New Zealand dollar dropped 0.6 percent to 82.39 U.S. cents and
lost 0.7 percent to 64.32 yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of regional shares slid 0.3
percent.  The Ifo institute will probably say its German  business
climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, was at
102.5 this month from 102.3 in August, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the
data today. August’s reading was the lowest since March 2010.  Troika ‘Pause’  The  International Monetary Fund , the  European Central Bank 
and the European Commission said in a joint statement on Sept.
21 that their mission to  Athens  for financial talks will take a
“brief pause” and “expects to return to Athens after about a
week.”  RBA policy makers are set to meet on Oct. 2. Swaps indicate
an 83 percent chance of a quarter percentage point cut at the
meeting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Five of 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News also predict a reduction.  Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered the overnight
cash rate target by a total of 1.25 percentage points from
November to June to help shield the economy from Europe’s debt
crisis and slower growth in  China . In minutes of its Sept. 4
meeting released Sept. 18, the RBA signaled scope to reduce
rates should the outlook for the economy deteriorate
significantly.  RBA Rates  “Swings in sentiment towards the likelihood of the RBA
cutting rates when it next meets on Oct. 2 are likely to be the
major direct influence on the AUD,” Ray Attrill, global co-head
of foreign-exchange strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
Sydney, wrote in a report today.  Australia’s dollar has weakened 1.6 percent in the past
month, the worst performance after its U.S. peer among 10
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
New Zealand’s dollar was little changed over the same period.  The Aussie dollar has weakened even as the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of commodities has risen almost 20 percent
from its low this year in June. Its decline comes amid concern
of a slowdown in China, Australia’s biggest trading partner.  Downward pressure on  China’s economy  is increasing,
Economic Information Daily reported, citing the transcript of a
speech by Zhang Ping, head of the National Development and
Reform Commission. Europe’s debt problems are still at a “high
risk” phase and the global economic recovery is “bumpy,” the
newspaper cited Zhang as saying.  Bonds Gain  Australia’s government bonds  advanced , pushing the yield on
the 10-year security down by six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 3.23 percent.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said the government’s
budget deficit was little changed from a previous forecast in
the year through June, and the government remains committed to
delivering a surplus this fiscal year. The shortfall was A$43.7
billion ($45.5 billion) in the 12 months to June 30, compared
with the A$44.4 billion projected in the May budget, Swan said
in a statement.  New Zealand ’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, fell three basis points to 2.70 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  