-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Fall on Chinese Growth, Euro-Region Concern
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-24T21:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/aussie-n-z-dollars-fall-on-chinese-growth-euro-region-concern.html
Australia’s dollar fell against its
U.S. peer as speculation slowing economic growth in  China , the
South Pacific nation’s biggest trading partner, damped demand
for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie dropped against the majority of its 16 most-
traded counterparts as China’s Economic Information Daily said
downward pressure on the Asian nation’s economy was increasing.
The  New Zealand dollar  declined against all major currencies on
speculation that disagreement among the euro region’s leaders is
curbing prospects for growth.  “The big question for the  Reserve Bank  of Australia is, do
they fight the  currency risk  by cutting rates and cheapening the
currency, or do they embrace it and get the benefits of that?”
 James Rickards , senior managing director of Tangent Capital
Partners, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch
Money” with Dominic Chu. “My sense so far is that they’re
actually going to embrace the strong currency. This is probably
a good buying opportunity.”  Australia’s currency depreciated 0.3 percent to $1.0425
yesterday in New York after earlier falling as much as 0.7
percent. It decreased 0.7 percent to 81.16 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, declined 0.8
percent to 82.29 U.S. cents after earlier falling 1.3 percent,
its biggest drop since July 23. The kiwi slipped 1.1 percent to
64.06 yen.  RBA policy makers are set to meet on Oct. 2. Swaps indicate
an 83 percent chance of a quarter percentage point cut at the
meeting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Five of 20
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  also predict a reduction.  Europe, China  Central-bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered the overnight
cash rate target by a total of 1.25 percentage points to 3.5
percent from November to June to help shield the economy from
Europe’s debt crisis and slower growth in China. In minutes of
its Sept. 4 meeting released Sept. 18, the RBA signaled scope to
reduce rates should the outlook for the economy deteriorate
significantly.  New Zealand’s dollar has strengthened 3.6 percent this
year, the biggest increase among the 10 developed-nation
currencies on the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The
Aussie has fallen 0.4 percent and the greenback is down 2.7
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  