-- Australian LNG Projects Worth A$100 Billion Await Decisions
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-09-24T06:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/australian-lng-projects-totaling-a-100-billion-await-decisions.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s liquefied
natural gas venture in Australia is among four projects that may
make final decisions in the next 18 months on investments
totaling about A$100 billion ($104.3 billion).  Final determinations are expected for  Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. (WPL) ’s Browse and Sunrise projects, Exxon Mobil’s and  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s Scarborough gas field and  Hess Corp. (HES) ’s Equus
project,  Martin Ferguson , Australia’s natural resources minister,
said in a Sept. 21 interview in Tokyo.  “Our job as a government is to nurture a regulatory regime
that continues to attract investment, to reduce the time and
cost of environmental approvals and to make sure Australia
continues to remain attractive for investment,” Ferguson said.  Australian LNG projects may face increased competition from
terminals planned in North America and southeast Africa. Buyers
in Asia are pushing for pricing formulas that could make gas
cheaper than the long-term oil-linked contracts traditionally
offered by suppliers in Australia, which depend on Japan for
most of their sales.  Ferguson didn’t mention  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
 PetroChina Co. (857) ’s Arrow Energy Ltd. among those expected to
announce investment decisions within 18 months. Arrow reiterated
in March that it planned to decide in late 2013 whether to
develop an LNG export project on Queensland state’s  Curtis
Island . Deutsche Bank AG estimates the venture may cost more
than $20 billion.  Western Australia  Woodside and its partners in the proposed Browse LNG
venture are due to decide in the first half of 2013 whether to
go ahead with a plant in the Kimberley region of Western
Australia. The project may cost A$44 billion, Deutsche Bank said.  The development, approved in July by the environmental
regulator of Western Australia, also needs clearance from the
federal governments.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Mitsui & Co. agreed in
May to buy a 14.7 percent stake in Browse for $2 billion,
acquiring about 1.5 million metric tons of LNG a year.  “The expectation is that Browse will” reach a final
 investment decision  within 18 months, Ferguson said.  Woodside is also talking with the government of East Timor
to resolve a dispute that has stalled the development of the
Sunrise gas field, which straddles a boundary between Australian
waters and an area jointly managed by the two countries,
Woodside said in July.  Floating Terminals  East Timor, which became a sovereign state in 2002 and
depends heavily on oil and gas revenue, has said it wants the
gas piped to an LNG plant built on its soil. Woodside favors
using a barge-based floating LNG plant for Sunrise, saying it
would deliver the most revenue to both countries.  BHP and Exxon Mobil are also considering a floating LNG
plant to process gas from their Scarborough field off Western
Australia, Mike Yeager, chief executive officer of BHP’s
petroleum unit, told reporters in May. The floating platforms
would eliminate the need to build pipelines and jetties, he said.  Hess plans to send from its Equus development off Western
Australia to Woodside’s Pluto LNG venture,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s
Wheatstone LNG project or the Woodside-led North West Shelf
project, the U.S. oil company said in March.  “They’re the projects I’ve got in my mind with potential
final investment decisions over the next 12 to 18 months,”
Ferguson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  