-- Australian Dollar Remains Lower on European Slump Concern
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-09-25T07:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/australian-kiwi-dollars-hold-losses-on-europe-concern.html
The Australian dollar remained
lower before a report forecast to show French  consumer
confidence  fell amid concern disagreement among the euro
region’s leaders is curbing prospects for growth.  Demand for the so-called Aussie and the New Zealand
currency was limited after a senior ally of German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  said Spain’s Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy must
stop prevaricating and decide whether the country needs a full
rescue. The South Pacific nations’ currencies briefly gained
after a leading indicator for  China’s economy  rose.  “Markets are still cautious,” said Alvin Pontoh, a
Singapore-based strategist at TD Securities Inc. “ Europe  is
still going to be the key event this week. If we see a not-so-
favorable outcome from Spain, we could see the Aussie come
down.”  Australia’s currency was little changed from yesterday at
$1.0432 as of 5:28 p.m. in Sydney, after falling 0.3 percent in
New York. It traded at 81.14 yen from 81.16.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, traded at 82.53
U.S. cents from 82.29 yesterday, when it dropped 0.8 percent.
The currency was at 64.19 yen from 64.06.  The Aussie has weakened 1.5 percent in the past month, the
second-worst performance among 10 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s currency
was little changed over the same period.  Communications Problem  Spanish leader Rajoy “must spell out what the situation
is,” Michael Meister, finance spokesman for German  Chancellor
Merkel ’s  Christian Democratic Union , said in an interview in
Berlin yesterday. The fact he’s not doing so shows he “has a
communications problem. If he needs help he must say so,”
Meister said.  “It looks as though the unstable situation in Europe could
last for some time,” said Kumiko Gervaise, an analyst at
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo . “The Australian
dollar is looking softer amid uncertainty over whether Spain
will ask for aid.”  Elsewhere in Europe, a report tomorrow will probably show a
gauge of French  consumer confidence  fell to 86 in September from
87 last month, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That would be the lowest since
February.  RBA Policy  Australian bonds advanced before the central bank’s policy
board meets on Oct. 2. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note
fell 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.16 percent,
the lowest since Sept. 12.  “If we see another significant move up in the Aussie
dollar to $1.06-$1.07, I think the RBA could lean against
cutting rates to bring the currency down,” TD’s Pontoh said.  Swaps indicate an 83 percent chance policy makers will cut
the overnight cash-rate target to 3.25 percent from 3.5 percent
at the meeting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The RBA said Australian households are building a financial
cushion by repaying mortgages faster and saving more, while
businesses are indicating renewed willingness to borrow.  “Given the large share of households with mortgage
prepayment buffers, along with relatively low unemployment and
moderate income growth, most households appear well placed to
meet their debt obligations,” the central bank said in its
semiannual financial stability review released in Sydney today.  The Aussie had pared losses after the Conference Board said
its leading economic index for  China  rose 1.7 percent to 240.4
in August from the previous month. China is Australia’s biggest
trading partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export market.  “ Risk aversion  eased after the release of the Chinese
economic indicator,” supporting riskier assets such as the the
Australian dollar, said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign
exchange department in Tokyo at  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  