-- EADS-BAE Merger Plan Undergoes Added Political Scrutiny
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-09-24T15:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/bae-eads-merger-plan-undergoes-expanded-political-scrutiny-1-.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD) ’s planned merger with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  came under
increased scrutiny from European governments, with Germany
questioning synergies,  job security  and the exchange ratio.  The value split between EADS and BAE is closer to 70-30
rather than the 60-40 ownership proposed by the companies,
Germany’s economy ministry said in a document obtained by
 Bloomberg News . Governments would be denied a say in operating
decisions, and the special shares being offered to states would
be limited to 15 percent voting rights, the ministry said.  The document lays bare the  fault lines  in European
politics, as governments struggle to establish unified backing
for the biggest aerospace merger plan in history while
protecting national labor, security and financial interests.
Whereas  France  has the most at stake with its 15 percent EADS
holding, Germany is wary of keeping domestic jobs, and the U.K.
is keen not to watch BAE being absorbed by the  larger  EADS.  “There is still hard work to be done convincing the
governments that this deal can satisfy all their various
interests,” said Robert Stallard, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets . “This does not mean that the merger will fall apart,
but it could take longer than expected to reach resolution, and
the eventual compromise may not be the optimal outcome that EADS
and BAE management are aiming for.”  Hard Work  BAE  declined  as much as 6.6 pence, or 1.9 percent, to 333.5
pence in  London , clipping the gain since the merger plan became
public to 1.8 percent. EADS, which has lost 16 percent since the
first announcement was made, dropped as much as 74 cents, or 2.9
percent, to 24.96 euros in Paris.  With little more than two weeks left until the companies
aim to wrap up negotiations, the three main governments involved
sought to find common ground. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
has spoken with French President  Francois Hollande  and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who both continue to work
“intensively” on the proposal, their spokesmen said.  Germany is seeking to find common ground with France and is
in close contact with the other side, the ministry document
said. Merkel’s government has created an inter-ministerial group
to evaluate the merger proposal, which hasn’t made clear what
synergies it may reap, the document said.  Deadline Looming  The companies have less than three weeks to wrap up
negotiations with governments and corporate shareholders, as
well as the U.S. Department of Defense, which requires
subsidiaries of non-U.S. defense companies remain independent
from parent companies, a request EADS and BAE have said they’ll
meet. The U.K. can veto a change of ownership at BAE.  The defense ministers for France,  Germany  and the U.K. will
meet specifically to discuss EADS and BAE on Wednesday or
Thursday in Cyprus, on the site of an official EU defense
ministers’ meeting, according to a French government official.  Merkel told reporters after talks with Hollande in southern
Germany on Sept. 22 that they have agreed to review the
“required questions intensively and with the necessary
diligence in concert with the companies.” Hollande said that
answers would be submitted “in the coming days.”  Under U.K. takeover rules, the companies must submit a
formal merger proposal by Oct. 10 or seek an extension of the
deadline. EADS and BAE said Sept. 12 that they’re in
negotiations regarding a combination to create a European
aerospace and defense champion that would help the region better
compete with U.S. companies including  Boeing Co. (BA)   ‘Properly Protected’  The U.K. parliament’s defense committee today said it will
review the plan, although a hearing date has not been set. The
inquiry will examine the impact of a merger on U.K. defense,
including the “protection of sovereign capabilities and the
nature of the defense industrial base,” the committee said.  “Given the nature of the companies’ activities, the
government will clearly have an involvement,” Cameron’s
spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters in London. “We need to
make sure the U.K. public interest is properly protected.” He
declined to say whether Cameron backs a merger.  The U.K. inquiry will also examine whether the merger could
impede access to U.S. technology, including the largest Pentagon
acquisition program, the $395.7 billion Lockheed Martin Co.-led
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. The U.K. has access to sensitive
Pentagon technology beyond that granted to other allies.  EADS Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  told employees in a
letter last week that talks are making progress. The companies
plan to give EADS 60 percent of the combined business, and BAE
the rest. BAE CEO Ian King, in a separate statement, said the
merger does not amount to a takeover and is instead the
combination of “two complementary businesses.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  