-- Baird Says Canada Committed to Completing Trade Talks
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/baird-says-canada-committed-to-completing-trade-talks.html
Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister
 John Baird  said his country is committed to concluding existing
free trade talks with countries such as  South Korea  and Japan
ahead of beginning negotiations with other partners.  “While some have suggested that Canada should consider
launching all sorts of new trade talks, our government is
committed to concluding the agreements already under
negotiation,” Baird said in  a speech  to the Canadian Council of
Chief Executives in Ottawa, according to a prepared text of his
remarks.  Canada has lagged behind other countries in developing
trade links with Asia, and hasn’t signed a free trade agreement
with any country in the region. The country’s failure to deepen
trade links with fast-growing  emerging markets  explains the
country’s falling share of global exports, Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  has said.  Baird, in his speech yesterday, said deepening trade links
with Asia has become a “top foreign policy priority.” He cited
the country’s ongoing talks with India, Japan, South Korea and
Singapore, and the possibility of pursuing an agreement with
Thailand.  “While we have completed nine free trade agreements since
2006, we have yet to complete one with any country in Asia,”
Baird said. “We have no room for complacency.”  Baird also cited the importance of deepening links with the
Latin American countries that already have free trade agreements
with Canada, such as Chile, Mexico, Peru and Colombia.  China Pact  While Chinese officials have said they may also be
interested in pursuing a free trade agreement with Canada, Baird
made no mention of any future trade pact with that Asian country
in his speech.  China’s ambassador to Canada, Zhang Junsai, said in an
 interview  with the Globe and Mail published Sept. 22 the two
countries should begin exploratory work on a free trade
agreement.  After meeting Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  in Beijing in
February, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said Canada and China
should hold discussions on a possible free trade agreement, the
Xinhua News Agency reported at the time. He said China is
“ready to expand imports of energy and resource products from
Canada” and boost cooperation in areas including renewable
energy and the peaceful use of nuclear power, according to
Xinhua.  On Sept. 9, the two countries signed an agreement to
protect foreign investors in their respective countries. The
signing, which took place at the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit in Vladivostok, Russia, came as Harper’s
government reviews  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s proposed $15.1 billion takeover
of  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , a Calgary-based oil and gas producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  