-- Bankers Made a Killing When U.S. Was Formed, Like Now: Review
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-09-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/bankers-made-a-killing-when-u-s-was-formed-like-now-review.html
William Duer was a friend of
 Alexander Hamilton  who wrote essays supporting the ratification
of the U.S. Constitution in 1787 and ’88.  He proposed that the new federal government should gain
investors’ trust by paying old state and national debts --
failing to mention that he was one of the creditors who would
benefit most handsomely from those payments.  In “ A Nation of Deadbeats: An Uncommon History of
America’s Financial Disasters ,”  Scott Reynolds Nelson  presents
a good case that the U.S. was founded by bankers who used their
insider knowledge and political connections to make lots of
money. And their influence hasn’t diminished all that much
despite having caused dozens of financial crises since.  Nelson’s book belongs to the lessons-from-past-crises
genre, which has been booming since the 2008 financial meltdown.
One of the most influential entries has been “This Time Is
Different” by  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff , who analyzed
episodes of financial trouble from 66 countries over 8 centuries
to show how this crisis actually wasn’t that different from
earlier ones.  “A Nation of Deadbeats” is closer to Liaquat Ahamed’s
“Lords of Finance”: lots of storytelling, hardly any data.
Nelson has compiled dozens of interesting episodes from 19th-
century U.S. history involving the interactions of politicians
and bankers and shows how they all culminated in financial
troubles as well as, eventually, solutions.  Fun Tidbits  Nelson doesn’t weave his anecdotes together as masterfully
as Ahamed, whose book won the 2010 Pulitzer Prize for history.
Yet “A Nation of Deadbeats” is fun to read; it gleans
interesting tidbits from the past and puts today’s troubles in
better perspective.  For example, I had no idea that the  Democratic Party  was
founded by politicians opposing a big bank’s influence on
finance and politics. Or that Democrats then established their
own competing bank, which went on to finance land purchases in
undeveloped regions.  The land speculation financed by easy money caused a
financial crisis when prices collapsed and loans couldn’t be
paid back.  Of course, despite having taken place in 1819, this sounds
similar to the housing crash we just went through. Then, as now,
the banks played a crucial role in financing a bubble, ended up
almost collapsing when the bubble popped and relied on
government support to survive.  People Ruined  “The bank was saved and the people were ruined,” wrote a
political economist criticizing government policy at the time of
the collapse of the Second Bank of the U.S. Not much has changed
on that front either.  Banks in the 1800s were also engaged in pretending that
they’d gotten rid of risk by passing it onto other players,
though it never truly left their balance sheets. This imaginary
risk elimination made it possible to place bigger bets but also
exacerbated the damage when the bets soured. The securitization,
derivatives and off-balance-sheet entities that were supposed to
lower risk for today’s institutions made the latest crisis much
more harmful to the global economy for the same reason.  In 1857, the  Bank of England  ended up rescuing several U.S.
banks that collapsed, according to Nelson’s account. It’s good
that we returned the favor in 2008 when the  Federal Reserve ’s
rescue efforts helped British, French and German banks as much
as their American counterparts.  Repo Man  The book’s title refers to the overstretched borrowers who
can’t pay their debts when markets crash every few decades,
causing a financial and economic crisis. Nelson introduces the
idea at the beginning of the book by talking about his father, a
debt collector who sweet-talked his way into people’s homes
before they realized he was there to repossess their TV sets.  The repo man thought too many people borrowed more than
they should have. Yet Nelson doesn’t live up to his promise of
making the connection from the deadbeats to the financial
crises. Nor does he spell out the reasons behind the crises and
the lessons we should take from them in dealing with today’s
realities. Readers have to draw their own conclusions.  Nelson can’t hide his disappointment with the Democratic
Party, which was founded two centuries ago to attack “vested
privilege.” Following in  Bill Clinton ’s footsteps, President
 Barack Obama  has embraced  Wall Street  and didn’t “reach for the
broom stick” to clean up the mess the banks had created, Nelson
writes.  He probably shouldn’t hope for the broom to be picked up
after November’s elections either, regardless of the outcome.  “A Nation of Deadbeats” is published by Knopf (330 pages,
$27.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Yalman Onaran, a senior writer at  Bloomberg News , is
author of “ Zombie Banks : How Broken Banks and Debtor Nations
Are Crippling the Global Economy.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on television and  Elin
McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  