-- BHEL Said to Seek $500 Million Europe Purchase: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-09-25T11:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/bhel-said-to-seek-500-million-europe-purchase-corporate-india.html
Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) ,
 India ’s biggest power-equipment maker, may buy a European
provider of metro-rail technology for as much as $500 million to
help revive profit  growth  from a three-year low.  The company plans to use part of its 67 billion rupees
($1.3 billion) of cash reserves and raise debt to fund the
purchase, two people familiar with the plans said. Bharat Heavy
has identified targets in  Italy  and the Netherlands and the
acquisition may be completed by March 31, said the people,
asking not to be identified as the talks are private.  The state-owned company is seeking to expand its
transportation business to tap metro-rail networks being built
in seven Indian cities at an estimated cost of $21.5 billion.
Bharat Heavy’s profit may drop for the first time in a decade
according to a survey of 37 analysts compiled by Bloomberg, as
competition from Chinese rivals including  Shanghai Electric
Group Co. (601727)  and Dongfang Electric Corp. drives down prices, while
lack of fuel prompts utilities to delay projects.  “It’s imperative for Bharat Heavy to diversify,” said
Lakshminarayana Ganti, an analyst with Standard Chartered
Securities in Mumbai, who rates the stock underperform. “The
power business is fraught with challenges. The company has
rightly identified areas like turnkey project implementation,
transport and renewables as new focus areas.”  Profit at the maker of turbines, boilers and switchgear may
drop 11 percent to 62.86 billion rupees in the year ending March
31, according to the survey  Sustaining Growth  Bharat Heavy  shares  extended gains for a third day,
climbing to the highest level in five months. The stock rose 2.4
percent to 253.70 rupees at close in Mumbai. The shares have
climbed 6.2 percent this year, compared with a 21 percent
increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   “Deals are waiting to happen in the technology space in
 Europe ,” said Vijaya Sampath, a senior partner at Lakshmi
Kumaran & Sridharan, a Mumbai-based legal firm that specializes
in corporate law. “Most of these are family-owned businesses,
which are facing liquidity issues or the younger generation
wants to sell out.”  Economic and business challenges will make it difficult for
the company to sustain past growth rates in the near term,
Chairman B. Prasada Rao said in an address to shareholders on
Sept. 19. Bharat Heavy earned 76 percent of its revenue from
power equipment last financial year and 22 percent from its
transport business, which makes electric locomotives and
electrical systems for urban rail networks.  The company’s market share in power equipment almost halved
to 51 percent in the five years ended March 31 as competition
from overseas and local rivals such as  BGR Energy Systems Ltd. (BGRL) 
and  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  intensified.  ‘Panic Price’  Prices of boilers, turbines and generators together have
fallen 22 percent to 23 million rupees a megawatt, which is
“the ultimate panic price,” Pritesh Chheda, Prerna Jhavar and
Harshad Shukla, analysts at Emkay Global Financial Services in
Mumbai, wrote in a report dated Sept. 20. The average price of
the equipment in the previous two to three years was 29.5
million rupees, they said.  Bharat Heavy is expected to maintain its profitability
until the financial year ending March 2014 because of orders
booked at higher prices, Ganti said, adding that the company’s
profit margin is expected to shrink.  Power companies such as  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR) , JSW Energy Ltd.
and GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. have deferred projects worth
at least $35 billion, citing shortage of coal and natural gas,
which together fire 66 percent of India’s electricity generation
capacity. State-run  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC)  cut its expansion target by 11,000
megawatts, or 44 percent, for the five years ending March 2017
because of coal shortages.  Half Capacity  About 30,000 megawatts of capacity at existing power plants
is lying idle because of coal and natural gas shortages, said
Ashok Khurana, director general at the Association of Power
Producers, a lobby group for the nation’s generation companies.  As much as $35 billion of debt at state distribution
utilities is also hurting the power industry. The utilities,
whose tariffs are lower than their costs, have had to cut back
on electricity purchases as coal costs increase.  NTPC, the country’s biggest power producer, was forced to
cut generation by 13 billion kilowatt hours, or 6 percent of its
total production, in the year ended March 31, as state
government utilities reduced purchases, Chairman Arup Roy Choudhury said on Aug. 7. The company may have to cut output by
almost as much this year.  “As long as these concerns prevail, companies will be
reluctant to place new orders,” Khurana said.  Sound Decision  The challenges in the power industry make Bharat Heavy’s
push in urban-rail equipment a sound decision, said  Standard
Chartered ’s Ganti.  The government is encouraging Bharat Heavy to “seriously
get into” urban transportation, Chairman Rao told analysts in
an earnings call on July 26. The company is focusing on metro-
rail transportation as about 30 Indian cities are planning to
build the networks.  Bharat Heavy plans to bid for a  Delhi Metro Rail Corp. 
project, Rao said on the call, without elaborating. The company
also plans to increase production of railway locomotives by 50
percent to 75 this year, he said.  “We are not increasing our presence in the transportation
sector because we are despondent about our power business,”
Bharat Heavy Finance Director P.K. Bajpai said in a phone
interview. “We are doing so because we don’t want to be a
peripheral player in anything that we do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  