-- Billionaire Ellison Increases Credit Line to $4.5 Billion
-- B y   M a t t h e w   G .   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-25T04:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/billionaire-ellison-increases-credit-line-to-4-5-billion.html
Billionaire  Larry Ellison  more than
tripled the amount of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  stock he has pledged against
lines of credit in the last year, effectively reducing his
fortune by billions of dollars.  Ellison owns 1.1 billion shares of the Redwood City,
California-based software maker. According to the company’s
proxy statement, which was  filed  with the U.S. Securities
Exchange Commission on Sept. 21, 139 million shares are
“pledged as collateral to secure certain personal indebtedness,
including various lines of credit.” The collateralized stock is
valued at $4.5 billion.  According to Oracle’s 2011 proxy statement, the billionaire
had  pledged  40 million shares as collateral. The increase
reduced Ellison’s net worth estimate by $3.5 billion, according
to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. He’s now the world’s 8th-
richest person with a $37.9 billion fortune. Collateralized
shares aren’t counted toward an individual’s net worth,
according to the ranking’s methodology.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The bulk of Ellison’s fortune comes from his 23.5 percent
stake in Oracle, the world’s largest database company. He also
has interests in software makers NetSuite Inc. and  LeapFrog
Enterprises Inc. (LF)  In addition, Ellison owns numerous real estate
properties, including the Hawaiian island of Lanai and estates
in California and Newport, Rhode Island.  Oracle reported fiscal first-quarter revenue that missed
analysts’ estimates last week, as sales of computer hardware
fell for a sixth straight period. The company’s shares dropped
0.8 percent to $32.23 at 4:00 p.m. in New York. The  stock  has
gained 25.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew G. Miller in  New York  at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Newcomb at 
 pnewcomb2@bloomberg.net  