-- BNY Urges Judge to Reject New York’s Forex Fraud Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-09-24T20:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/bny-urges-judge-to-reject-new-york-s-forex-fraud-suit.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
world’s largest custody bank, asked a judge to dismiss a lawsuit
brought by the  New York  attorney general that accused it of
defrauding clients through foreign currency transactions.  The bank argued at a hearing today in New York State
Supreme Court in  Manhattan  that the state’s securities fraud
statute, known as the Martin Act, doesn’t apply to the
transactions at issue in the case.  “What the AG is asking this court to do is something
unprecedented,” Reid Figel, an attorney for the New York-based
bank, told Justice Marcy Friedman.  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman sued BNY Mellon last
year, saying the bank engaged in a “multipronged campaign of
deception” in pricing practices for foreign currency trades on
behalf of clients. The bank generated more than $2 billion in
revenue from the fraud over a 10-year period, the state said.  BNY Mellon priced foreign currency trades for clients at
the worst rates at which currencies traded rather than the
market rates at the time of the trades, the state said. The bank
promised the “best rate” and concealed its practice from
clients, pocketing the difference between the rate it gave
clients and the market price when it executed a transaction,
according to the state.  “This is a case where they knew what they were saying was
false,” Roger Waldman, an attorney for the state, said at the
hearing.  BNY Mellon, which has also been sued the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in Manhattan, argued in court papers that it accurately
reported the actual rates it applied to the transactions and
that clients could “easily determine” how the price the bank
applied compared with other market rates.  The case is People v. the  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
114735-2009, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  