-- Brazil Economists Raise Forecast for Year-End Benchmark Rate
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-09-24T12:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/brazil-economists-raise-forecast-for-year-end-benchmark-rate-1-.html
Analysts covering  Brazil ’s economy
raised their forecast for the year-end  benchmark rate  for the
first time in 2012, as faster inflation cements expectations the
central bank has completed its rate-cutting cycle.  Brazil’s Selic rate will be 7.5 percent at year-end,
according to the median estimate in a central bank survey of
about 100 analysts published today. Analysts had forecast a rate
of 7.25 percent the previous week.  Since last August, policy makers led by central bank
President Alexandre Tombini have cut the Selic by 500 basis
points to a record low 7.5 percent in an effort to spur Brazil’s
economic  growth , which trailed  Japan  and the U.S. in the second
quarter. On Sept. 14, the central bank reduced  reserve
requirements  to free up 30 billion reais ($14.8 billion) in
credit. Still, inflation rates above the central bank’s 4.5
percent target will limit Selic cuts, according to Daniel Snowden,  emerging markets  analyst at Informa Global Markets.  “The central bank needs to try and get inflation down to
4.5 percent, but it doesn’t look like that is going to happen,”
Snowden said in a telephone interview from  London . “It’s come
to crunch time now, and it doesn’t look like they’ll be able to
cut rates further.”  The economists surveyed by the bank raised their forecast
for 2012 inflation to 5.35 percent from 5.26 percent the
previous week, while leaving unchanged at 5.50 percent their
prediction for inflation next year.  Stimulus Measures  The largest emerging market after  China  is showing signs of
responding to the stimulus measures. Retail sales in July beat
economists’ forecasts and rose at the second-fastest pace since
January, while vehicle sales rose to a record 420,101 in August.
Steady employment has helped sustain consumer demand, as
Brazil’s  unemployment  rate fell to 5.3 percent in August, the
lowest ever for that month, and has remained close to record
lows all year.  Brazil’s  inflation  quickened for the third straight month
through mid-September, to 0.48 percent. Earlier this month,
Tombini told a Senate hearing that price increases will slow to
the 4.5 percent target in a “non-linear” way by year-end.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.76 percent at 9:37 a.m. local time. The
real declined 0.2 percent to 2.0271 per dollar.  While consumption may be picking up, local manufacturers
are struggling to remain competitive against cheaper imports.
Brazil’s industrial production fell 2.9 percent in July from a
year ago. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last week that
Brazil will take all necessary measures to prevent the real from
strengthening in order to shield Brazilian manufacturers from
the effects of the latest round of U.S. monetary easing.  This month, Mantega cut his 2012 economic growth
expectations to 2 percent from 3 percent, adding that the
economy will expand more than 4 percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  