-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall on Global Growth Concern; Real Weakens
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-09-24T21:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/brazil-swap-rates-fall-on-global-growth-concerns-real-weakens.html
Brazilian swap rates dropped for a
third day as global growth concern overshadowed a central bank
survey showing economists raised their end-of-year interest-rate
forecast for the first time in 2012.  Yields on most contracts fell even as the median estimate
in a central bank survey of about 100 economists published today
indicated the Selic rate will remain at its current 7.5 percent
for the rest of the year, compared with a projection of 7.25
percent in the prior week. German business confidence
unexpectedly fell, and  China ’s manufacturers and retailers are
less optimistic about sales, reports showed today.  “Markets have negative views principally in respect to
China and  Europe ,” Ures Folchini, the head of fixed income at
Banco West LB do Brasil SA, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .
“Longer-term contracts tend to fall” when global economic news
is negative, he said.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.76 percent at 6
p.m. in Sao Paulo. The real slid along with most of the 16 most-
traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg, dropping 0.1 percent to
2.0256 per dollar.  Since August 2011, policy makers led by central bank
President Alexandre Tombini have cut the target lending rate by
500 basis points to a record low 7.5 percent to spur  Brazil ’s
economic growth, which trailed that of  Japan  and the U.S. in the
second quarter.  Inflation View  Economists in the central bank survey also raised their
forecast for 2012 inflation to 5.35 percent from 5.26 percent in
the previous week.  Earlier this month, Tombini told a Senate hearing that
annual inflation will slow to the central bank’s 4.5 percent
target in a “non-linear” way by year-end.  “Faster-than forecast inflation and stronger activity --
all this signals that maybe another cut isn’t necessary,” Marco
Antonio Caruso, an economist at Banco Pine SA, said by phone
from Sao Paulo.  “The most recent comments by the government
are more about the need to not raise rates next year, rather
than lower rates.”  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Paris last
week that “the policy of low  interest rates  will continue.”  The real weakened for a second day as stocks and
commodities fell after European leaders clashed on ways to stem
the debt crisis. Manufacturers and retailers in China, Brazil’s
biggest trading partner, are less optimistic about sales than
they were three months ago and more companies are cutting jobs,
according to a survey modeled on the  Federal Reserve ’s Beige
Book.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  