-- Breast Cancer DNA Study Yields New Targets for Therapy
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/breast-cancer-dna-study-yields-new-targets-for-therapy.html
Genetic mapping of hundreds of
breast cancer tumors confirmed there are four main subtypes and
discovered that one closely resembles ovarian cancer, suggesting
the two may be attacked with similar therapies.  The study, in which the genomes of 825 breast tumors were
sequenced, was the most comprehensive of its type involving the
disease. It is part of a U.S. research project into the genetics
of 20 types of cancers. Earlier this month, the group, called
the  Cancer Genome Atlas  project, released a similar report on
new DNA mutations affecting a type of lung malignancy.  The breast cancer findings were published yesterday in the
journal  Nature . They support the expanding medical view that
cancers should be categorized by their genetic origins, rather
than where they’re found on the body. The link between breast 
and ovarian cancer gives scientists added leverage to compare 
treatments and outcomes across both tumors.  “There are certain mutations you can find across cancers
in different organs,” said  Eric Topol , a professor at the
Scripps Research Institute in  La Jolla , California, who wasn’t
involved in the research. “This is a real transition point, and
we have to move toward more sequencing to give patients the best
shot toward curing their cancer.”  The personalized medicine approach has fueled a move among
drugmakers to identify treatments targeting genetic mutations,
such as  Roche Holding AG’s (ROG)  Zelboraf and Pfizer Inc.’s Xalkori.  Drug Targets  For years, doctors have classified breast cancers according
to measures such as how they invade other tissues, their
cellular variability, and their appearance when stained with
certain chemicals, said Paul Billings, a geneticist who is
medical director  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , a maker of DNA
sequencers in Carlsbad,  California .  “That’s the old world,” Billings said. “The new world is
a diagnostic system that will be based on targetable DNA
mutations present in breast cancer.”  In the breast cancer study, a computer analysis suggests
the form known as “basal-like,” named for its resemblance to
basel skin cells, may be treatable with drugs that either cut
off the tumor’s blood supply, prevent blood vessel growth or
chemotherapy, according to a statement from the  National Cancer
Institute .  The research released yesterday backed up earlier work
segmenting breast cancer into four groups according to genetic
markers: HER2-enriched, Luminal A, Luminal B and basal-like.  72 Therapies  More than 72 gene-based therapies are available already, a
fivefold increase from the 13 available in 2006, according to
the  Personalized Medicine Coalition , an industry advocacy group
based in  Washington .  Among these drugs are Zelboraf, from Basel, Switzerland-
based Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, and
Xalkori, from New York-based  Pfizer (PFE) , approved to treat a rare
form of  lung cancer .  “With this study, we’re one giant step closer to
understanding the genetic origins of the four major subtypes of
breast cancer,” Matthew Ellis, a lead author of the study and
oncology professor at Washington University School of Medicine
in  St. Louis , said in a  statement . “Now, we can investigate
which drugs work best for patients based on the genetic profiles
of their tumors.”  Therapies already exist that target some of these genetic
markers. Roche’s Herceptin is aimed at patients whose tumors
have the HER2 abnormality. An estimated 226,870 women will be
diagnosed with breast cancer this year, and 39,510 women will
die from the disease, according to the  National Cancer
Institute .  The breast cancer study, funded by the National Cancer
Institute and the National Human Genome Research Institute, is
the fifth report released by the Cancer Genome Atlas project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  