-- Patriots’ Belichick May Be Next After NFL Fines for Fox, Del Rio
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-25T04:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/broncos-fox-del-rio-fined-for-yelling-at-officials-espn-says.html
New England  Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  could learn as early as today whether he’ll be fined
by the  National Football League  for grabbing the arm of a
replacement official after his team’s loss two days ago.  The NFL said yesterday it was investigating the incident
involving Belichick, as well as cases in which Baltimore Ravens
coach  John Harbaugh  and Washington Redskins offensive
coordinator Kyle Shanahan had disputes with officials.  The league yesterday issued a $30,000 fine to Denver
Broncos coach John Fox and a $25,000 discipline on assistant
Jack Del Rio for verbally abusing officials in a Sept. 17 loss
to Atlanta. The NFL told teams on Sept. 20 that it wouldn’t
tolerate abuse of substitute officials working games during the
lockout of the NFL Referees Association.  Three weeks of the regular season have been played and
backup officials have drawn heavy criticism for their
performance the past two weeks. Belichick, Harbaugh and Shanahan
yesterday apologized for their actions two days ago.  Belichick grabbed the arm of an official as the teams left
the field following New England’s 31-30 loss to the Ravens. He
said yesterday he was trying to get an explanation as to whether
a game-winning field goal by the Ravens -- in which the football
flew directly over the right goalpost -- would be reviewed.  Clean Record  “I’ve coached in this league a long time and never been
penalized, never had any incidents with officials,” Belichick
said. “I have never meant any disrespect or in any way tried to
abuse or be disrespectful to the officials and the job that they
do. I was just trying to get an explanation for obviously an
important play.”  Shanahan, the son of Redskins coach  Mike Shanahan , was
flagged for unsportsmanlike conduct with seven seconds remaining
in a 38-31 loss to the  Cincinnati Bengals . The penalty occurred
when he was trying to get an explanation from an official who
erroneously told the Redskins the game was over because a false-
start penalty would mean a 10-second clock runoff, Shanahan said
in a statement of apology.  “I was frustrated and, in the process of trying to get
some answers from the officials, I conducted myself in the wrong
way,” Shanahan said. “I ask our players to hold themselves to
a high standard and be accountable and I know that I’m
accountable for my actions as well.”  Harbaugh was penalized for unsportsmanlike conduct in the
fourth quarter after bumping an official while trying to get his
attention to call a timeout.  “I didn’t mean to bump him,” Harbaugh said after the
game. “I wanted to call a timeout.”  Harbaugh in 2010 was fined $15,000 by the NFL for touching
an official while demonstrating where linebacker Terrell Suggs
hit then-Cincinnati Bengals quarterback  Carson Palmer  on a
roughing-the-passer penalty.  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  was involved in the
negotiations with the referees’ union two days ago, ESPN said,
citing unidentified people familiar with the talks. The two
sides still have significant differences, ESPN said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  