-- Rothschild’s Bumi Probes ‘Irregularities’ at Bakrie Company
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-09-24T16:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/bumi-starts-urgent-probe-of-alleged-financial-irregularities-1-.html
Bumi Plc, the London-listed
Indonesian coal venture founded by  Nathaniel Rothschild , began a
probe into alleged irregularities at associated companies in the
Asian country, prompting a record drop in the shares.  The stock has lost almost half its value in the past five
days, or about $556 million. “An independent investigation has
been commissioned to investigate the allegations on an urgent
basis, and is to report to the board,” Bumi said in a statement
today. Jakarta-based  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) , 29 percent-owned by Bumi
Plc, said it was unaware of the investigation.  The probe is the latest development in a dispute involving
Rothschild and the Bakries, the Indonesian palm-oil-to-property
family empire founded in 1942. Rothschild, 41, and Indra Bakrie
were behind a $3 billion Indonesian coal deal in 2010 that
resulted in Rothschild’s Vallar Plc venture being renamed Bumi.  “Its assets are good, but the question is in how it
manages the company and its debt,” said Akbar Syarief, a  fund
manager  overseeing about $323 million in assets at PT MNC Asset
Management in Jakarta. “There’s the tricky part. It’s a
question about good corporate governance.”  Relations between Rothschild and co-chairman Bakrie frayed
in November after the U.K. investor, the son of financier  Jacob Rothschild , made public a letter to then-Bumi Plc Chief
Executive Officer Ari Hudaya detailing his concerns. He called
for a “radical cleaning up” of Bumi Resources and a timetable
for the “repatriation of funds deposited with connected
parties.”  Hudaya Resigns  Hudaya today resigned from Bumi’s board, the company said
in a separate statement. The 53-year-old was CEO until March
this year and is president director of Bumi Resources.  Bumi has fallen 83 percent  this year , the worst performance
among members of the FTSE 350 Mining Index, as coal prices
dropped and concern that it may struggle to pay debt weighed on
the stock.  Vallar, founded by Rothschild and former  Anglo American Plc (AAL) 
executive  James Campbell , sold shares at 1,000 pence apiece in a
2010 initial public offering. It later struck the deal with
Bakrie, giving it a stake in Bumi Resources and 85 percent of PT
Berau Coal Energy.  Bumi fell 25 percent to 147.6 pence by the close of trading
in London, the biggest drop and the lowest price since trading
started in July 2010, giving Bumi a market value of 356 million
pounds ($577 million). The shares declined 22 percent on Sept.
21. Bumi Resources fell 19 percent in Jakarta today.  ‘Extensive’ Funds  The probe will focus on “extensive” development funds at
Bumi Resources and an asset in Berau Coal, which were marked
down to zero in the accounts of  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  as of Dec. 31, the
company said.  The value of the items was slashed after auditor PwC was
unable to verify the underlying assets, according to a person
familiar with the situation, who asked to not be identified as
the matter is confidential. A London-based  law firm  has been
appointed to handle the independent probe, which is likely to
take weeks to complete, the person said.  One investment with a carrying value of $39 million was
maintained in the consolidated financial statements, Bumi said.  It also plans to contact authorities in the U.K. and
 Indonesia  over the claims, it said, without giving the source of
the allegations.  Shareholder Turnoff  Details revealed by the probe “may turn off shareholders
in the short term,”  Richard Knights , an analyst at Liberum
Capital Ltd. in London, said today. The investigation should
prove positive for the company in the longer term, he said.  Bumi Resources Director Kenneth Farrell said by phone he
wasn’t aware of the allegations noted in the statement. The
Indonesian company is seeking further information before
commenting, Director Dileep Srivastava said in an e-mailed
statement.  Bumi’s $700 million of bonds due October 2017 plunged 15.75
cents to 78 cents on the dollar, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices.  The company sold the bonds in September 2010 to yield 10.75
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes
yield 17.5 percent, up from 12.5 percent on Sept. 20, RBS prices
as of 5:15 p.m. in Jakarta show.  Bumi said Aug. 28 that PT Recapital Asset Management missed
a deadline to repay a $231 million investment due to Bumi
Resources. Bumi board member Rosan Roeslani is the president
director of Recapital and the funds were at the center of the
dispute between Rothschild and Bakrie.  Bumi Resources also owes $1.3 billion to China Investment
Corp. CEO Nalin Rathod said in a May interview the company was
in talks to repay the debt early as part of a wider plan to
reduce financing costs.  The London-listed company will make a further announcement
in due course, it said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  