-- Bumi Ex-CEO Hudaya Quits Board as Indonesia Probe Starts
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-09-25T06:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/bumi-s-former-ceo-hudaya-quits-board-as-indonesia-probe-starts.html
Bumi Plc, the London-listed coal
venture founded by  Nathaniel Rothschild , said former Chief
Executive Officer Ari Hudaya quit the board, after it started a
probe into “irregularities” at its Indonesian operations.  Hudaya, 53, was CEO until March and is also president
director of PT Bumi Resources, which is at the center of the
investigations announced separately yesterday. The focus of the
“urgent” probe into the group part-owned by Indonesia’s Bakrie
family will be so-called development funds, Bumi said yesterday.
Hudaya is to “focus exclusively on value building” at Bumi
Resources, the Jakarta-based company said in e-mailed comments.  The probe is linked to a $637 million writedown of
development funds and exploration assets in Bumi’s Dec. 31,
2011, year-end financial statement. It’s the latest turn in a
dispute involving Rothschild, 41, and the Bakries since they
agreed to a $3 billion deal in 2010 that married a centuries-old
British banking dynasty with a family-owned palm oil-to-
property-empire started in Sumatra in 1942.  “The company needs to give more and get out in front of
these issues,” James Kallman, president of PT Mazars in
Indonesia, said by phone from Jakarta. The firm is the auditor
of Bumi Resources, which is 29 percent owned by Bumi Plc. “They
need to communicate better. If somebody says you have a tsunami
of debt and you’re not going to be able to pay your debt, you
need to get out there.”  Independent Probe  The value of the funds and assets was slashed after auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP was unable to verify the underlying
assets, according to a person familiar with the situation, who
asked to not be identified as the matter is confidential. A
London-based  law firm  has been appointed to handle the
independent probe, which is likely to take weeks to complete,
the person said.  Bumi plunged to the lowest on record in London trading
yesterday, with $556 million wiped off its market value over
five days. It has dropped 83 percent this year, the worst
performance among members of the FTSE 350 Mining Index, as coal
prices dropped and concern that it may struggle to pay debt
weighed on the stock. Bumi Resources owes $1.3 billion to China
Investment Corp.  Market Reaction  In Indonesia, Bumi Resources dropped as much as 13 percent
today before recovering most of the losses. The shares were  down 
1.5 percent as of 12:27 p.m. local time.  Bumi’s $700 million of bonds due October 2017 have slumped
25 cents this week to 68 cents on the dollar as of 11:20 a.m. in
 Hong Kong , according to ING Bank NV prices.  The company sold the bonds in September 2010 to yield 10.75
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes
yield 21.5 percent, up from 12.7 percent on Sept. 20, ING prices
show.  “We believe this leaves  Bumi plc (BUMI)  with an unnecessary level
of reputational/corporate governance risk for investors,”
Nomura International Plc analysts including Patrick Jones said
in a note yesterday. Servicing PT Bumi’s debt will be
“challenging” next year unless the coal price moves higher,
Nomura said. Bumi Resources had about $4.1 billion of gross debt
at June 30, Nomura said.  The probe comes almost 11 months after Rothschild, whose
ancestor helped bankroll Britain’s war against Napoleonic
 France , made public a letter to then-Bumi Plc CEO Hudaya calling
for a “radical cleaning up” of the company and a timetable for
the “repatriation of funds deposited with connected parties.”  Letter  The Nov. 8 letter cited $394 million of business
development funds under non-current assets on the balance sheet
of Bumi Resources as at June 20, 2011.  “The existence of these assets are well known to the
investment community and certain of these assets are invested
with connected parties,” wrote Rothschild, the son of financier
 Jacob Rothschild . “This is one of the principal reasons why PT
Bumi Resources’ shares trade at a significant ‘corporate
governance’ discount to the broader Indonesian coal sector.”  Bumi Resources Director Kenneth Farrell said yesterday he
wasn’t aware of the allegations noted in the statement. The
Indonesian company is seeking further information before
commenting, Director Dileep Srivastava said in an e-mailed
statement.  Probe Focus  The probe will focus on “extensive” development funds at
Bumi Resources and an asset in PT Berau Coal Energy, which were
marked down to zero in the accounts of Bumi Plc as of Dec. 31,
the company said. It gave no figures for the writedown.  According to its 2011 annual report published in April,
Bumi wrote down the value of exploration and evaluation assets
by $390 million to zero. It also cut the value of business
development funds by $247 million.  The London-listed firm plans to contact authorities in the
U.K. and  Indonesia  over the claims, Bumi said, without giving
the source of the allegations.  PT Bakrie & Brothers, controlled by Aburizal Bakrie,
billionaire and brother of Bumi Plc Co-Chairman Indra Bakrie,
sold half of their 47.6 percent stake in London-listed Bumi in
November to help pay $1.35 billion in debts owed to Credit
Suisse Group AG. Aburizal is the chairman of the Golkar Party of
Indonesia. He’s also the 2014 presidential candidate for the
nation’s second-biggest political party which was founded by
former dictator Suharto.  Public Offering  Rothschild raised 707.2 million pounds ($1.1 billion) in
the 2010 initial public offering of Vallar Plc, selling stock at
1,000 pence apiece. It later struck the deal giving it the stake
in Bumi Resources and 85 percent of PT Berau Coal Energy, and
led to Vallar being renamed Bumi.  That made Bumi the first major Indonesian business to tap
the U.K. equity market. Bumi Resources is the largest Indonesian
coal producer and owns a 65 percent stake in Kaltim Prima Coal
operation, or KPC, and 70 percent of the Arutmin mine.  Bumi Resources purchased coal miner PT Arutmin Indonesia
from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  in 2001. Since then, the company has
borrowed to expand its production.  PT Recapital Asset Management missed a deadline to repay a
$231 million investment due to Bumi Resources, Bumi said Aug.
28. Bumi board member Rosan Roeslani is the president director
of Recapital and the funds were part of the dispute between
Rothschild and Bakrie.  Bumi CEO Nalin Rathod said in a May interview the company
was in talks to repay debt owed to CIC early as part of a wider
plan to reduce financing costs.  The London-listed company will make a further announcement
on the investigation in due course, it said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  