-- Cable, Burned by News Corp. Sting, Vows Silence on BAE-EADS
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-09-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/cable-burned-by-news-corp-sting-vows-silence-on-bae-eads.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable, who came close to losing his job in 2010 after he was
secretly recorded discussing  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , pledged not to offer any view on the
proposed merger between  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and  European Aeronautic,
Defence and Space Co.   “I have views obviously, and I know the companies
concerned,” Cable said in an interview yesterday at his Liberal
Democrat party’s conference in Brighton on  England ’s south
coast. “But for reasons which you will very well understand, I
may well be asked to make a ruling on the takeover or merger
depending on how it occurs, and I have a quasi-judicial role in
those contexts, so it would be completely wrong to express a
view for or against.”  Cable’s 2010 remark that he’d “declared war” on News
Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , made to two newspaper reporters
he believed were constituents at a private meeting in his London
electoral district, led to him being stripped of responsibility
for deciding if the BSkyB bid should be allowed to go ahead. The
then culture secretary,  Jeremy Hunt , was given the job. Hunt was
himself criticized by the opposition  Labour Party  for previous
expressions of support for News Corp., which abandoned the
takeover last year.  The business secretary’s department manages the U.K.’s
“golden share” in BAE, which gives it an effective veto over
any change of ownership. Cable could also be called upon to
decide whether to refer the deal to the  Competition Commission ,
as he was with News Corp.  “Obviously government has an interest in this, that’s
perfectly clear, because there’s a lot of national-security
issues involved and there’s also major employment issues
involved,” Cable said. “I acknowledge the importance of that,
but I’m not passing a judgment on the proposal. It hasn’t
actually been crystallized yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  