-- Cable Confirms $1.6 Billion of Funding for U.K. Business Bank
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-09-24T11:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/cable-confirms-1-6-billion-of-funding-for-u-k-business-bank.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
confirmed that the government is providing 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion) of backing for a “business bank” to offer long-
term financing to small and medium-sized companies.  “We need a new British business bank with a clean balance
sheet and an ability to expand lending rapidly to the
manufacturers, exporters and high-growth companies that power
our economy,” Cable told the annual conference of his Liberal
Democrat party in Brighton on  England ’s south coast today. He
said the bank “will apply leverage through guarantees to
support up to 10 billion pounds of finance to small and mid-
sized business, a significant portion of all the lending
currently available.”  Cable has long argued that a lack of funding is stopping
businesses from expanding and helping the British economy to
grow.  “Our leading banks are often anti-business, especially
anti-small business,” Cable said. “They threw traditional
relationship banking over the side and sold useless insurance
and dodgy derivatives instead.”  The business bank, which will operate on a wholesale basis
rather than lending directly, will aim to raise more than 1
billion pounds of private-sector funding, according to details
given by Cable’s office. His Business Department is looking for
a high-profile figure to lead the bank and intends to have it
running within 18 months.  German Model  Cable’s ministry has looked at how  Germany ’s Kreditanstalt
fuer Wiederaufbau, the state-owned  development bank  set up under
the  Marshall Plan  in 1948, works to fund lending.  Cable said there was a need for “a demand stimulus” to
help fight recession.  “That does not just mean pumping more money into the
banks,” he said. “That great Liberal Keynes had exactly the
right analysis of the problem we now have -- not enough spending
power in the economy. And not only him -- but also the
 International Monetary Fund , who no one could accuse of
financial irresponsibility, and the coalition understands this
very well.”  Cable called for “an aggressive program of house building
by housing associations and local councils, with government
providing guarantees so they can build, in  large numbers,
now.”  Cable acknowledged yesterday that government efforts to
increase lending had struggled. He told Liberal Democrat
activists in Brighton that banks are trying to reduce their
exposure to risks and are reluctant to lend against commercial
property, the main asset of many businesses.  ‘Public Anger’  “When I start haranguing them, as I do, the chief
executives say: ‘Do you really want us to get back into the same
kind of problems we had before?”’ Cable said.  “Public anger at the greed and stupidity in this industry
will continue for a long time,” the business secretary said in
his speech today. “But I am looking forward to and I want to
work with the new generation of sensible bankers to support the
real economy.”  The business secretary said the government’s Funding For
Lending program, introduced in August, had been more successful
in increasing mortgage availability than in helping businesses.  The opposition  Labour Party  expressed skepticism about
Cable’s plan.  “It is crucial that this business bank is more than merely
a rebadging of existing schemes, but that it gets credit to
profitable firms that can’t access it,” Labour’s business
spokesman, Chuka Umunna, said in an e-mailed statement. “It is
far from clear whether ministers want to create the kind of
institution which is needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Brighton, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in Brighton, England, at
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  