-- Cable Says U.K. Will Have Another Coalition Government in 2015
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-09-24T14:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/cable-says-u-k-will-have-another-coalition-government-in-2015.html
Liberal Democrat Business Secretary
Vince Cable said Britain will need another coalition government
after the 2015 election, attacking Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Tories and the opposition  Labour Party  as unfit to
rule alone.  In a speech to  his party’s annual conference  in Brighton,
southern  England , Cable said its current coalition partners, the
Conservatives, feature “head-bangers” and “backwoodsmen” in
thrall to free-market ideology and tax cuts for the rich, some
of whom “seem to find sacking people an aphrodisiac.” He said
Labour had “scarcely begun the long march back” after its
“economic competence disappeared under the rubble of collapsing
banks” before the 2010 election.  Support for the Liberal Democrats has fallen by more than 
half since their 2010 decision to go into coalition with the
Conservatives. Cable argued they’d been a moderating influence
on the Tories and would be able to act similarly with Labour.  “We remain willing to work with other parties in the wider
interest,” Cable said. “After two years in government we are
battle-hardened, but certainly not war-weary. None of us knows
exactly how it will end. But we all know we must fight the next
election as a totally independent, national, credible challenger
for power.”  Fringe events at this year’s conference have discussed how
the party, which in decades out of government attacked Labour
over issues such as civil liberties and the invasion of Iraq and
the Tories over welfare policies, can fight the next election
having spent five years supporting Cameron’s fiscal-austerity
program.  ‘Coalitions Work’  “I don’t believe, actually, that the British people will
want to entrust their future to any one party next time,” Cable
said. He described the “major contribution” of Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg , the Liberal Democrat leader, as being to
“show that coalitions work.”  Cable joked about recent reports that he’d exchanged  text
messages  with Labour leader  Ed Miliband , pretending to receive
one during his speech. He mocked Labour Treasury spokesman  Ed Balls , saying his difference with the government was over
whether to cut the deficit in six years or seven.  Cable even offered support to Conservative Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne . “I have great personal sympathy
for the chancellor, who is being attacked for borrowing too
much, and borrowing too little, at the same time,” he said.  Still, he also poked fun at Cameron’s privileged
background, departing from his agreed text to wonder aloud
whether he’d had pillow fights in the dormitory with London
Mayor  Boris Johnson  when they were both at Eton, Britain’s most
prominent private school.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Brighton, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in Brighton, England, at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  