-- California Boosts Issue to $1.75 Billion at Record Yield
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/california-shops-1-55-billion-in-bonds-with-half-sold.html
California  sold $1.75 billion in
tax-exempt debt at an all-time low interest rate of 3.72 percent
for 30-year bonds, after boosting the size of the offering due
to demand, the treasurer’s office said.  The state completed its sale one day early after receiving
orders for 58 percent of the bonds from individual investors,
 Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for Treasurer Bill Lockyer, said
yesterday in a statement.  California offered $1 billion of general obligations for
public-works projects and increased debt refinancing to $750
million from $550 million, Dresslar said, even as it reduced the
yield on 10-year securities to a preliminary 2.45 percent from
2.51 percent on Sept. 22.  “Our bonds’ market performance continues to rebut those
who can’t seem to break the habit of trying to paint the darkest
picture of California’s financial condition,” Lockyer said in a
statement. “This result shows investors know better, and that
they recognize we have greatly improved our fiscal management.”  By refinancing $750 million in debt, California saved about
$157 million in interest payments, or $118 million in net
present value, Dresslar said.  The yields were lower across the board than California’s
prior general-obligation sale of $1.35 billion in April,
Dresslar said.  The bonds offer 0.68 percentage point more yield than top-
rated munis maturing in 10 years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s down from 0.84 percentage point on bonds with
similar maturities sold in April. Thirty-year bonds were offered
at 0.82 percentage point above AAAs.  ‘Really Good’  “They got a really good amount of retail interest on
Friday so they pre-sold a lot of the deal,” Daniel Solender,
who helps manage about $17 billion of municipal bonds at Lord
Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said before the sale
concluded. “There’s just a real demand for anything with a
little incremental yield right now, and particularly in a liquid
credit like California.”  With another $500 million sale slated for market in
October, Lockyer plans to offer about $5.5 billion this year,
about a quarter of the state’s sales in 2009.  California’s economy is bigger than  India ’s, ranking ninth
in the world as measured by gross domestic product, according to
the state Finance Department. Its bonds have returned 7.1
percent in 2012, beating the 6.1 percent gain for the broader
$3.7 trillion muni market, according to Standard & Poor’s data.  S&P rates California A-, six levels below AAA and the worst
mark it gives any U.S. state.  Benchmark tax-free debt due in 10 years yields 1.77 percent
today, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index. Thirty-year
debt yields 2.9 percent.  “It’s been several months since the last time they issued,
which definitely benefits” California, Solender said.  -- Michelle Kaske in  New York  contributed to this report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  