-- Cameron Sees No Need to Probe Mitchell Police Comments Further
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-09-24T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/cameron-sees-no-need-to-probe-mitchell-police-comments-further.html
U.K. Cabinet Secretary Jeremy Heywood, the government’s most senior civil servant, said he and
Prime Minister  David Cameron  see no need for any further
investigation into an altercation between Chief Whip Andrew Mitchell and a police officer last week.  The Sun newspaper reported Sept. 21 that Mitchell called an
officer a “pleb” -- an abbreviation of the word “plebeian,”
an insult directed at one’s perceived inferior -- when police
refused to let him cycle through the main gate to Cameron’s
Downing Street office in central  London . Mitchell, a Cabinet
member who is in charge of party discipline in the House of
Commons, apologized for showing a lack of respect.  “There clearly remains a genuine difference of view about
what words were actually used,” Heywood wrote in a letter that
was released by the Cabinet Office yesterday to the opposition
 Labour Party ’s  Yvette Cooper , who had demanded an inquiry. He
said Mitchell had apologized and that the police weren’t
pursuing the matter.  “Given these circumstances neither the prime minister nor
I see any purpose in a further investigation,” Heywood wrote.  “I have apologized to the police officer involved on the
gate and he’s accepted my apology and I hope very much that we
can draw a line under it there,” Mitchell told reporters in
London yesterday morning. “I didn’t show the police the amount
of respect I should have done. We should all respect the police,
they do an incredibly difficult job.”  Labour said it wasn’t satisfied by the cabinet secretary’s
announcement.  “Either David Cameron does not believe the written
testimony of at least two police officers tasked with guarding
VIPs or he is willing to overlook it in order to keep  Andrew
Mitchell  in his Cabinet,” Labour’s spokesman on the police,
David Hanson, said in an e-mailed statement. “What is now
beyond doubt is that he is a weak prime minister unable to
establish the truth of what goes on -- even just yards from his
own doorstep.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Brighton, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  