-- Canaccord Shuts 16 Canada Branches, Buys U.K. Unit
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-09-24T20:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/canaccord-shuts-16-canada-branches-buys-eden-unit-in-u-k-2-.html
Canaccord Financial Inc. (CF)  said it
will shut 16 branches at its wealth management unit, half the
total, as it tries to revive profit at the division.  The outlets account for 16 percent of the C$13.1 billion
($13.4 billion) of assets the division manages for clients, the
Toronto-based company said in a statement today. The firm will
record a C$11.5 million charge in its fiscal second quarter.  Canaccord said last month it would eliminate a further 60
jobs after posting a larger-than-estimated loss for the first
quarter. After the cuts, the wealth management unit will operate
on a “near break-even basis,” the company said today.  “This initiative will allow us to make additional
investments in markets where we see the most opportunity for
future growth,” John Rothwell, president of Canaccord Wealth
Management in  Canada , said in the statement.  The company today agreed to buy the private wealth
management division of Eden Financial Ltd. for 12.8 million
pounds ($20.8 million) to expand its business in Britain.  The purchase follows Canaccord’s December acquisition of
London-based Collins Stewart Hawkpoint for 253.3 million pounds.
Eden manages 835 million pounds of assets for 2,500 clients.  “Our expanded client base will benefit from a wider
variety of investment opportunities and the backing of an
independent, global financial services company,” Alexis de Rosnay, chief executive officer of Canaccord’s U.K. and European
operations, said in the statement.  Canaccord  fell  34 cents, or 5.6 percent, to C$5.76 at 4
p.m. trading in Toronto, the biggest one-day decline since Aug.
2, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  