-- Caterpillar Cuts 2015 Outlook as Mining Spending Falls
-- B y   S h r u t i   S i n g h   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-09-25T20:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/caterpillar-cuts-2015-outlook-as-mining-spending-falls.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
biggest construction and mining equipment maker, cut its
forecast for 2015 earnings after commodity producers reduced
capital expenditure.  Caterpillar said profit will be $12 to $18 a share,
compared with previous projections of $15 to $20. While a global
recession remains possible, Caterpillar is forecasting moderate
and “anemic” growth through 2015, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said yesterday in a presentation to
analysts at the MINExpo industry conference in  Las Vegas .
Construction activity in  emerging markets  will probably show
modest improvements, he said.  “We’ve seen a slowing in economic growth that was more
than we expected,” he said. “We think ’13 could look like 2012
in terms of worldwide economic growth.”  Oberhelman has bet on a continuation of growth in commodity
demand by buying mining-equipment maker Bucyrus International
Inc. for $8.6 billion last year and agreeing in November to
acquire ERA Mining Machinery Ltd. in  China . His plans are coming
under pressure as mining companies cut  capital expenditures 
after economic expansion slowed in China, the world’s largest
user of coal and metals.  Caterpillar fell 4.2 percent to $87.01 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since May 17.  The shares  have declined
4 percent this year, while the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , of
which Caterpillar is a member, has advanced 10 percent.  ‘More Reasonable’  The lowered forecasts for 2015 are “more reasonable,”
 Stephen Volkmann , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York,
said in a report.  Global mining capital expenditures will drop 14 percent
through 2014 from a peak of $136 billion this year, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said in a Sept. 21 report. BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s biggest mining company, last month delayed an estimated
$68 billion of projects. Australian iron-ore producer Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. on Sept. 4 cut its full-year spending forecast
by 26 percent to $4.6 billion.  Chinese excavator sales have fallen 36 percent this year,
according to JPMorgan. Caterpillar said last month it shut its
main Chinese excavator plant for much of July. The company said
Sept. 21 that it’s planning to temporarily idle a component
plant in  Illinois  for a week around Thanksgiving and a week
around Christmas.  ‘Downside to Budgets’  “Despite some improvement in commodity prices, the global
economic prospects don’t instill confidence to increase capital
expenditure,” Karen Ubelhart, a Bloomberg Industries analyst,
said Sept. 20. “There’s more downside to budgets and equipment
cancellations.”  Caterpillar’s profit excluding one-time items will rise 29
percent to $9.55 a share this year, according to the average of
23 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. That growth will
slow to 8.4 percent in 2013, the estimates show.  The company also forecast yesterday that sales will rise to
$80 billion to $100 billion in 2015, from $60.1 billion in 2011.
Capital and acquisition spending will be lower in the next three
or four years compared with the last few years, Oberhelman said.  There isn’t “another big rash of acquisition opportunities
out there,” he said.  GE Plans  That contrasts with General Electric Co., which announced
yesterday at MINExpo the creation of a new mining unit. The
division is preparing to buy more mining-equipment and services
companies and should reach $5 billion in sales “within a few
years,” said Lorenzo Simonelli, CEO of GE Transportation, of
which the business will be part.  Oberhelman also said Caterpillar expects to be the “market
share leader” in China by 2015 at the latest.  The Caterpillar CEO’s comments on growth echo those of
Michael Sutherlin, CEO of Milwaukee-based  Joy Global Inc. (JOY) , the
biggest manufacturer of underground mining machinery. Central-
bank actions in China and the U.S. are removing some uncertainty
from financial markets and have provided more stability,
Sutherlin said in a Sept. 18 telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  