-- CFTC Will Give Banks 2 Minutes to Accept or Reject Cleared Swaps
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-09-24T20:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/cftc-will-give-banks-2-minutes-to-accept-or-reject-cleared-swaps.html
Swaps dealers will have two minutes
to accept or reject trades that will be sent to clearinghouses
starting next month, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
said in the most-detailed requirement about timing to date.  The time allowed for trade approval will fall to one minute
90 days after the CFTC rules are published in the Federal
Register, according to a Sept. 21 e-mail sent by Ananda Radhakrishnan, director of the division of clearing and risk.
Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have  argued  that the
technology to instantly verify the credit and risk allowance of
their customers doesn’t exist and asked the CFTC to reconsider.  The CFTC time limits, verified by spokesman  Steve Adamske ,
contrast with the commission’s  final rule  in this area, which
stated that acceptance be done “as quickly after submission as
would be technologically practicable if fully automated systems
were used.” The rule is set to become effective Oct. 1.  “The Commission clarified that this standard would require
action in a matter of milliseconds or seconds or, at most, a few
minutes, not hours or days,” Radhakrishnan said in the e-mail,
a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg News . It was sent to
executives at clearinghouse owners  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
Intercontinental Exchange Inc., LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and
representatives of the Futures Industry Association.
Radhakrishnan asked that the clearinghouses inform their bank
clearing members of the change, according to the e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 