-- CGGVeritas to Buy Fugro’s Seismic Unit for $1.6 Billion
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-09-24T16:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/cggveritas-to-buy-fugro-s-seismic-unit-for-1-6-billion.html
CGGVeritas (GA) , the world’s largest
surveyer of oilfields, agreed to buy  Fugro NV (FUR) ’s seismic division
for 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) in cash to benefit from a
forecast recovery in survey rates.  CGG will finance the acquisition, which adds four seismic-
survey vessels to its fleet, through debt and a share sale and
expects to complete the transaction by the end of the year, the
Paris-based company and Leidschendam, Netherlands-based Fugro
said in statements today.  CGG  fell  the most in almost four months as analysts
including Credit Agricole Chevreux said the deal looked a “bit
pricey.” The acquired unit generated sales of $1 billion with
$161 million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization last year. The deal price implies an enterprise
value to earnings ratio of 7.8, according to Chevreux.  “It’s a rather risky deal for CGG, which is not a big oil
player and doesn’t have huge piles of cash to spend,” said
Alexandre Andlauer, an oil and gas analyst at Alphavalue in
Paris.  The global seismic survey business, which uses ships to
look for the likely location of oilfields under the sea bed, is
set to improve as  oil companies  increase offshore exploration
spending, according to CGG. Rates had fallen after the 2010
moratorium on drilling in the  Gulf of Mexico  following the
Deepwater Horizon disaster.  ‘Market Recovery’  “It perfectly fits our strategy,” CGG Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Georges Malcor said in a statement. “In
particular, with immediate access in marine to high-end vessels
at a time of market recovery.”  The acquisition will boost revenue by 31 percent to $4.2
billion on a pro-forma basis, the company said in a
presentation, and add to earnings from 2013.  “In the context of a market that’s turning around, it will
bring us the growth rates we are used to,” Malcor said later on
a conference call.  CGG fell 5.3 percent to 24.44 euros in Paris, paring its
advance for the year to 31 percent. Fugro climbed 2.1 percent to
53.48 euros in Amsterdam.  The companies also agreed to create a venture in seabed
geophysics, which involves the installation of permanent
monitors on the ocean floor. Fugro will make a 225 million-euro
payment to CGG to secure a 60 percent holding in the venture.
The business is expected to have revenue of 400 million euros in
the first year of operation, Fugro said.  Revenue Growth  “It’s a fast-developing field,” said Malcor. “We expect
double-digit growth in revenue. It will allow us to create a
world leader in the field.”  Fugro decided to sell its seismic survey business because
it lacks a market-leading position and earnings have been
volatile, the company said in its statement. Fugro said it will
maintain a position in the oil services industry in exploration,
development and production.  “This divestment allows Fugro to exit the capital
intensive and volatile seismic segment of the oil and gas
exploration market,” Fugro said. “Most seismic companies have
indicated fleet expansion plans in the immediate future,
creating a clear window of opportunity for Fugro to complete the
transaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  