-- China’s Stocks Rise on Speculation of Market-Boosting Measures
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-24T07:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/china-stock-index-futures-drop-on-concern-slowdown-will-persist.html
China’s stocks  rose for a second
day on speculation regulators will introduce measures to bolster
equities after the benchmark index dropped to the lowest levels
since 2009.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.3 percent to
2,033.19 at the close, erasing a loss of as much as 1.1 percent.
Regulators may introduce “concrete” measures to boost the
stock market should the Shanghai index fall below the 2,000
level, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Anhui Conch
Cement Co. (600585)  and Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co. jumped more
than 3 percent after Shenyin & Wanguo said prices of the
building material rose last week. Poly Real Estate Group Cp. led
property developers to the biggest gain among industry groups.  “With the Shanghai Composite close to 2,000, there’s
speculation among investors that the government may unveil some
market-boosting measures,” said Wu Kan, Shanghai-based  fund
manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.
“They will focus on boosting confidence in the short term.”  The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.8 percent to 2,215.52 today,
while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  dropped 0.6 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US
55 Index (CH55BN)  of Chinese companies traded in the U.S. added 0.7
percent in  New York  on Sept. 21.  The Shanghai index plunged 4.6 percent last week after a
report on manufacturing signaled a contraction and escalating
tensions with  Japan  threatened trade. For the year, it’s down
7.6 percent on concern the government isn’t loosening monetary
policy or introducing stimulus policies fast enough to counter
the slowdown in the economy. It’s valued at 9.4 times estimated
earnings, compared with the average of 17.4 since Bloomberg
began compiling the  weekly data  in 2006.  CSRC Measures  The Shanghai index may rebound by about 10 percent should
it breach 2,000, Ling Peng, a strategist at Shenyin & Wanguo,
wrote in a report dated Sept. 21. The Shanghai-based brokerage
was ranked No. 1 for equity strategy research by New Fortune
magazine in 2010.  The  China  Securities Regulatory Commission will implement
measures to raise the  level of returns  for investors in  capital
markets , the Securities Daily reported today, citing Zhang Yujun, assistant chairman at the regulator.  So far this year, the CSRC has expedited approvals of
foreign investors, cut stock-trading fees by 25 percent and
allowed individual investors to advise on pricing initial public
offering shares as part of efforts to boost the market.  Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd. , the construction company
that helped build the “Bird’s Nest” Olympic stadium in
Beijing, gained 2 percent to 2.03  yuan  after the company said
executives bought back shares on Sept. 20 and Sept. 21. The
shares have plunged 23 percent this year.  Cement Rebound  Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, added 3.7
percent to 15.27 yuan. Gansu Qilianshan Cement jumped 5.8
percent to 11.35 yuan.  Huaxin Cement Co. (600801) , the Chinese affiliate
of Holcim Ltd., gained 3.9 percent to 10.90 yuan.  Cement prices rose between 10 yuan and 30 yuan in eastern
provinces of Jiangsu and Anhui last week, Wang Siyu and Zhang Shengxian, analysts at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities, wrote in
report dated yesterday.  Prices in east China and Guangdong and Guangxi provinces
may rebound further on expectations of economic stabilization
policies and as some factories halt production to improve
profitability, the report said.  A gauge of property developers in the Shanghai index rose
0.9 percent, the most among five industry groups. Poly Real
Estate, the second-largest developer, surged 2.7 percent to
10.12 yuan. China Vanke Co., the biggest, added 1 percent to
7.89 yuan.  Slowing Growth  Chinese property companies are paying the least in almost
two years to sell dollar-denominated debt as investors bet that
the new Communist Party leadership to be announced next month
will ease curbs on the housing market.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said this month that property market
controls had achieved “obvious results,” giving his likely
successor Vice Premier Li Keqiang room to loosen policies during
the transition of power and support an economy growing at the
slowest pace since 1999.  The Shanghai Composite fell earlier today after Song Guoqing, an academic adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said
the economic  slowdown  may persist into 2013 amid a lack of
funding for approved infrastructure projects.  The economy will grow between 7.3 percent and 7.4 percent
in the fourth quarter and 7 percent to 7.5 percent in the first
half next year, Song, a Peking University professor, said in an
interview in Beijing on Sept. 21. He reiterated a July forecast
of 7.4 percent third-quarter growth that was lower than most
economists’ projections then and is now in the middle.  China Beige Book  Downward pressure on the economy is increasing, the
Economic Information Daily reported, citing the transcript of a
speech by Zhang Ping, head of the National Development and
Reform Commission.  China’s manufacturers and retailers are less optimistic
about sales than they were three months ago and more companies
are cutting jobs, according to a survey by CBB International 
LLC modeled on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s  Beige Book .  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 17.6
today, compared with this year’s average of 17. About 5.8
billion shares changed hands in the gauge, 25 percent lower than
the daily average this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  