-- Chinese Boats Enter Disputed Waters as Japan Tensions Simmer
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-09-24T08:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/chinese-boats-enter-waters-disputed-with-japan-as-ties-sour.html
Three Chinese patrol vessels
entered what  Japan  says are its territorial waters near islands
at the center of a rift that prompted China to put off an event
marking bilateral ties.  The three boats were spotted today close to the islands,
known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura told reporters in  Tokyo . The
ships left the area this afternoon, Japan’s Coast Guard said in
a statement.  “We have protested this incursion at a high diplomatic
level,” Fujimura told reporters in Tokyo. At least six Chinese
patrol vessels in the area have entered the waters this month.  Japan’s purchase of the islands this month set off protests
and attacks on Japanese businesses in  China , harming a $340
billion trade relationship between  Asia ’s two biggest economies.
Chinese Defense Minister Liang Guanglie said last week that his
government reserves the right to take action on the East China
Sea chain of islets, calling them “inherent Chinese
territory.”  China yesterday postponed a reception for the 40th
anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties with Japan,
the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported, citing an
unidentified official from the China-Japan Friendship
Association. The official cited the current situation for the
delay, saying the reception will be rescheduled, Xinhua said.  ‘Extremely Regrettable’  The postponement “is extremely regrettable,” Fujimura
said. “We should hold talks from a broader perspective and move
toward a resolution.”  Japan dispatched Vice Foreign Minister Chikao Kawai to
Beijing today to meet a senior Chinese diplomat, according to a
Japanese Foreign Ministry statement. Kawai will meet with his
Chinese counterpart Zhang Zhijun, Foreign Ministry spokesman
Hong Lei said at a briefing today.  “The serious consequence of Japan’s illegal actions has
shown in the area of trade,” Hong said. “China hopes Japan can
return to the table of dialogue and negotiation.”  The dispute comes ahead of a generational leadership
transition in China and as Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  faces pressure to call elections from an opposition that
seeks a harder line against the Chinese government. In another
sign of increasing tensions, China will deploy drones to monitor
the disputed islands, Xinhua said.  Bilateral Ties  Ties between the two countries may be at their worst since
the 1970s, said Kunihiko Miyake, a visiting professor of
international relations at Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto.  “This is the beginning of a new era,” Miyake said.
“China is becoming more assertive.”  Japan, whose pacifist  constitution  limits its military
activities, has used Coast Guard vessels to protect its
territorial claims. Noda said last month the government will
increase its maritime security and Japan has stepped up
specialized training to help defend its outlying islands in case
of invasion.  About 40 members of the Japanese military are taking part
in the first joint island defense training exercise with 2,200
U.S. Marines that started in Guam on Sept. 18, public
broadcaster NHK said over the weekend.  The U.S. last week reiterated its stance that while it
doesn’t take a position on the sovereignty issue, the disputed
islands are covered by a security treaty with Japan, a position
China has rejected. U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  last
week in Beijing called on both countries to resolve the issue
peacefully.  Separately, a spokesman for fishermen in  Taiwan , which also
lays claim to the islands, said more than 100 boats would set
sail for the area at 3 p.m. today to safeguard their fishing
rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  