-- China Money Rate Surges to 7-Month High Before Weeklong Holiday
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-24T09:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/china-money-rate-surges-to-7-month-high-before-weeklong-holiday.html
China ’s overnight money-market rate
climbed to a seven-month high on speculation cash shortages will
worsen as banks hoard funds to meet quarter-end  capital
requirements  and demand for holiday withdrawals.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for 14- and 28-day
reverse-repurchase contracts this week, according to a trader
required to bid at the auctions. The central bank used money-
market operations to  inject  a net 101 billion  yuan  ($16 billion)
of capital last week to ease the cash crunch. China’s financial
markets will close from Oct. 1 for the weeklong National Day and
Mid-Autumn holiday.  “Cash supply will get very tight during the last week of
this month,” said Peng Hao, a bond analyst at Fudian Bank Co.
in Kunming, capital of the southern Yunnan province. “The
crunch may start to ease on the last day when banks finish
borrowing all the money they need.”  The one-day  repurchase rate,  which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 10 basis points to 4.39 percent as of
4:40 pm. in  Shanghai , the highest since Feb. 24, according to a
weighted average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined six
basis points to 3.23 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The seven-day repo rate rose eight basis points to
4.51 percent, the highest level since June, a weighted average
showed.  The yield on the 2.95 percent government bond due August
2017 climbed two basis points to 3.30 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  