-- Clinton Says U.S. Investment Abroad Fends Off Extremism
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-09-24T13:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/clinton-says-u-s-investment-abroad-fends-off-extremism.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said strategic investment in developing countries from
Haiti to the Arab Spring nations is key to minimizing extremism
and furthering U.S. interests.  “We are backing reformers who build accountable
institutions and combat the corruption that stifles innovation,
initiative, and hope,” Clinton said in remarks today to the
annual meeting of the  Clinton Global Initiative  in New York. She
urged governments, philanthropists and nonprofits around the
world to work together.  “Unity on this throughout the international community is
crucial,” she said. “Extremists around the world are working
hard to drive us apart. All of us need to stand together to
resist these forces and to support the democratic transitions
under way in North Africa and the  Middle East .”  The  Clinton Global Initiative  was founded by her husband,
former President  Bill Clinton , who introduced her.  Hillary Clinton said President Barack Obama “will have
much more to say” about the Arab Spring when he addresses the
UN General Assembly tomorrow, and that she would be meeting with
the new presidents of Libya, Egypt, Tunisia, and Yemen.  She cited as a model a coordinated effort with the U.S. and
Haitian governments, private investors and the  Inter-American
Development Bank  that includes opening a power plant and
building an industrial park that has attracted companies such as
a Korean apparel company that now employs 800 people.  Clinton also emphasized development in Africa, saying six
of the world’s 10 fastest-growing countries in the last decade
were on the continent. She said the State Department is focused
on getting more U.S. companies involved in infrastructure,
energy and agriculture projects in  developing countries .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  