-- Two in Columbia University Theft Get Prison Terms
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-09-24T19:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/columbia-university-fraud-convict-gets-7-to-21-year-sentence.html
Two of four men convicted last
month of stealing more than $5 million from  New York ’s  Columbia
University  were sentenced to as long as 21 years in prison.  Justice  Robert Stolz  of New York State Supreme Court in
Manhattan today sentenced George Castro, 50, of the Bronx, New
York, to seven to 21 years for grand larceny, possession of
stolen property and money laundering. Jeremy Dieudonne, 47, of
Lawrence, Massachusetts, got the same term for grand larceny and
possession of stolen property, and five to 15 years for a second
stolen-property charge. All sentences will run concurrently.  Those two, along with Walter Stephens Jr., 66, of  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey , and Joseph Pineras, 36, of the Bronx, were
convicted Aug. 7 after a two-week  jury trial . The four were
accused of stealing $5.7 million from the Ivy League school in
October and November 2010 by redirecting payments from Columbia
that were intended for New York Presbyterian Hospital.  Prosecutors had asked the judge to impose a sentence of
eight to 24 years for each count against Castro, saying that the
crime was motivated by “callous greed” and that he has shown
no remorse for his actions.  Castro’s attorney, Michele Hauser, asked the judge to
impose a sentence of 6 to 18 years, saying the scheme was
hatched by Dieudonne. Castro, who has served time in prison for
armed bank robbery, asked the court for mercy before he was
sentenced.  Theft ‘Bridge’  Prosecutors asked the judge to impose a similar sentence
for Dieudonne, saying he was the “bridge” that allowed the
theft to proceed. Dieudonne, who was arrested in Massachusetts
in July 2011, said he received no money from Castro and wasn’t
trying to elude authorities.  “I’m not guilty of anything,” said Dieudonne, who
represented himself during the trial. “I didn’t do any crime.
I’m the son of a preacher. I’m not a thief.”  Castro, Dieudonne and Stephens, with the help of Pineras’s
access to the school’s vendor payment system, redirected
payments for the hospital into a TD Bank account registered to
IT & Securities Solutions LLC, a company formed by Castro,
 Manhattan  District Cyrus Vance Jr.’s office said. Stephens was
the chief financial officer and Dieudonne was an executive at
IT, prosecutors said.  Audi Q7  Castro withdrew more than $800,000 in cash from the account
and spent at least $80,000 on an Audi Q7 and more than $18,000
on products from Apple Inc., prosecutors said. He sent money to
other accounts in Stephens’s name and to brokerage accounts he
and Stephens controlled, and sent payments to a bank account in
the name of Dieudonne Partners & Co., according to prosecutors.
He also lost about $400,000 trading on the two accounts.  Castro was arrested in November 2010 outside his home with
$200,000 cash while entering his Audi, prosecutors said.
Stephens was arrested in June 2011, Dieudonne was apprehended in
 Massachusetts  the following month, and Pineras was taken into
custody in January.  At least $4.1 million of the $5.7 million had been
identified, frozen or seized Vance’s office said at the time of
Castro’s arrest. Prosecutors today said about $1.9 million
hasn’t been located.  Cooperating Witness  A former Columbia employee, Moise Jean-Paul, who testified
against the four men, pleaded guilty to grand larceny and agreed
to cooperate with prosecutors in exchange for a recommendation
of no jail time, Robert Anesi, an attorney who had represented
Pineras, said after the convictions last month.  Jean-Paul’s attorney, Anthony Martone, didn’t return a
telephone message today seeking comment on his client’s case.
Vance’s office has declined to comment on that case, saying
information about cooperators isn’t public.  Pineras, an accounts payable clerk at Columbia, was the
only defendant who worked for the university. The sentencing of
Stephens was postponed until later this week and Pineras until
November.  Robert Hornsby , a spokesman for the university, didn’t
respond to an e-mail or phone call seeking comment on today’s
sentencing. The school has declined to comment on the case.  The case is People v. Castro, 11-02922, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  