-- Commodities Drop on Demand Concerns Amid Europe Discord on Debt
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n ,   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-09-24T22:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/commodities-drop-on-demand-concerns-amid-europe-discord-on-debt.html
Commodities fell, heading for the
first monthly decline since May, as discord over  Europe ’s debt
crisis and fading business optimism in  China  pointed to a deeper
slowdown that may reduce demand for energy, metals and grains.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  raw materials 
fell 0.9 percent to settle at 657.68 at 4 p.m.  New York  time,
led by cocoa, silver and aluminum. The gauge slid 4.4 percent
last week, the most since June 1, and has dropped 2.6 percent
this month.  Germany and  France  disagreed on a timetable to introduce
joint oversight of banks, a deadlock that may delay resolution
of the euro-area debt crisis. China’s manufacturers and
retailers are less optimistic about sales than they were three
months ago and are cutting jobs, according to the findings of a
survey by New York-based researcher CBB International LLC.  “The market wants to see proof that Europe is climbing out
of the doldrums,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive
officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney.
“The market has become a lot more pessimistic.”  Cocoa for December delivery declined 3 percent to $2,446 a
metric ton on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, the biggest drop
since July 12.  Silver futures for December delivery slid 1.9 percent to
$33.984 an ounce on the Comex in New York, the largest fall
since Aug. 2. Aluminum in London declined 1.7 percent.  Crude-oil futures for November delivery fell 1 percent to
$91.93 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Last week,
the price tumbled 6.2 percent, the most since June.  Hedge Funds  Money managers and  hedge funds  cut their  net-long positions 
across 18 U.S. futures and options by 1.7 percent to 1.307
million contracts in the week ended Sept. 18, halting two weeks
of gains that had sent holdings to a 16-month high, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  The China Beige Book, a survey modeled on the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s Beige Book, said manufacturing was the area with the
biggest declines at companies reporting higher revenue and
higher output. China is the world’s biggest consumer of
everything from copper to pork to soybeans.  “The dramatic and unexpected worsening of the European
crisis and slowing of America’s economy brought China’s export
order growth to a near-standstill,” said Craig Charney,
research director for the China Beige Book.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Morison in  London  at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  