-- Cosmo Pharma CEO Sees $1.5 Billion Dye Luring Buyer by 2013
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-25T07:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/cosmo-pharma-ceo-sees-1-5-billion-dye-luring-buyer-by-next-year.html
Cosmo Pharmaceuticals SpA (COPN) , the
developer of a dye that may help detect pre-cancerous colon
growths, plans to use the product to lure a buyer within the
next year, Chief Executive Officer Mauro Ajani said.  More than 10 companies have expressed interest in the dye,
called Methylene Blue MMx, and the company expects to start
talks before April, Ajani said in an interview at Cosmo’s
headquarters in Lainate, near Milan. The company probably won’t
sell rights to the product separately because it would reduce
the appeal of the company to a potential acquirer, Ajani said.  “Usually a pharma company wants to buy when the company
that is going to be bought retains the rights,” he said. “What
I can tell you for sure, in one year we will understand what our
way out will be.”  Cosmo is preparing to test Methylene Blue MMx in the third
and final stage of trials usually required for regulatory
approval, and plans to seek marketing clearance in the U.S. and
 Europe  next year, Ajani said. Results from the second stage of
tests are expected in the next month, he said. The product may
reach $1.5 billion in sales, said Chris Tanner, Cosmo’s chief
financial officer.  “We have so many companies that have already shown
interest in the project that it should be very easy to find a
partner,” Ajani said. “If the outcome is positive, we have a
major opportunity to reach an important agreement with a big
company.”  Cosmo’s Ownership  Ajani founded Cosmo in 1997, took it public on the Swiss
exchange 10 years later and owns 43 percent of the stock. He has
an arrangement with other executives that gives him control of
53 percent of the shares, Tanner said.  Cosmo has gained 54 percent this year, compared with a 14
percent gain in the Swiss Performance Index. The stock dropped
0.8 percent to 26.1 Swiss francs as of 9:25 a.m. in Zurich,
giving the company a market value of 391 million Swiss francs
($417 million).  Cosmo is testing Methylene Blue MMx as a tablet that
patients take before a colonoscopy, the procedure in which
surgeons thread a camera through the rectum and colon to look
for and remove polyps and lesions, which can become cancerous.
About 30 million people will have the procedure this year in the
seven largest markets, Ajani said.  White Light  In most cases doctors use white light to check for
abnormalities in the colon, said Matt Rutter, a consultant
gastroenterologist at the University Hospital of North Tees in
the U.K. In as much as 5 percent of cases they use an older form
of methylene blue in a spray applied via a catheter that’s
inserted with the camera, Rutter said. The process adds about 15
minutes to a standard half-hour procedure, he said.  If it works, Cosmo’s tablet “would speed up the procedure
and allow you to focus on detecting the lesions rather than
applying the dye,” said Rutter, who’s also a member of the
British Society of Gastroenterology committee that sets
guidelines for endoscopies in the U.K. He said he has no
financial ties to Cosmo.  Currently doctors only use methylene blue in patients who
have a tendency to develop pre-cancerous polyps, or who have
bowel inflammation that puts them at risk of cancerous changes,
Rutter said. Evidence that Cosmo’s product benefits other groups
of patients could expand the usage to as much as 20 percent of
cases, he said.  “It’s something that is improving an existing procedure
and therefore should gain a relatively high acceptance rate and
have fast uptake,” Peter Welford, an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. in  London , said in a telephone interview.  Peak Sales  He said he expects the product to reach peak annual sales
of about $100 million, assuming it’s used in as much as 30
percent of colonoscopies and sells for about $70. That’s a
conservative estimate, Welford said.  Cosmo expects to charge at least $100 for the product,
because it will replace the need for single-use catheters that
cost about $85, and will save doctors time, Tanner said. The
pill’s advantages may enable Cosmo to capture as much as half of
the entire colonoscopy market, he said.  “I presume that the company will want us to use it in
every case, but at that price it wouldn’t be possible,” Rutter
said. “Unless the price came down then it would still be only
used in a small minority of patients.”  Methylene Blue MMx uses Cosmo’s patented technology to
distribute the dye evenly throughout the colon. The same
technology is the basis of all Cosmo’s products, including
Lialda, the drug for ulcerative colitis that the company
licensed to  Shire Plc (SHP)  in 2001. Manufacturing fees and royalties
from Lialda accounted for about half of Cosmo’s sales of 33.5
million euros ($43.8 million) last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  