-- Credit Suisse Said to Cut Dubai Jobs After Deutsche, Nomura
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-09-24T12:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/credit-suisse-said-to-cut-dubai-jobs-after-deutsche-nomura-1-.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
biggest Swiss bank, cut two Dubai investment banking jobs and is
moving others to Qatar as part of cost-reduction plans announced
last year, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The lender will move five junior analysts to the Qatari
capital Doha from its regional headquarters in Dubai, the people
said, asking not to be identified because the information is
private. Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund holds a  5.54 percent 
stake in Credit Suisse. Reuters reported the changes yesterday.  Credit Suisse joins other global lenders announcing job
cuts this month as deal flow slows and banks reduce costs.
Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest lender, eliminated seven
jobs at its investment bank unit in Dubai, two people with
knowledge of the situation said, while Nomura Holdings Inc. cut
four of 12 similar positions, two people familiar said.  Credit Suisse is “realigning resources to growth areas and
adjusting capacity to meet client needs and to manage costs
across our businesses,” it said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Qatar is a key market for Credit Suisse, and we are
redeploying resources according to our business needs.”  The bank reduced its fixed-income positions by 18 percent
in the year through June, Chief Financial Officer  David Mathers 
said Sept. 12. The bank announced 3,500 job cuts last year.  ‘Important Market’  “The  United Arab Emirates  remains an important market and
hub for our business in the region,” Credit Suisse said in
yesterday’s statement. It declined to comment on specific cuts.  Credit Suisse reported a 2.6 percent rise in second-quarter
profit to 788 million francs ($843 million) on July 18.  The bank will continue to look for opportunities to reduce
costs across the group to adjust to the market environment,
Mathers said in the presentation. These reductions would come on
top of the previously announced 3 billion-franc cost savings
program, Mathers said in the presentation at the Barclays Global
Financial Services Conference in  New York .  Credit Suisse has advised Qatar Investment Authority on
several deals including the purchase of  London  retailer Harrods
Ltd. In February, Qatar Investment Authority bought Credit
Suisse’s London headquarters and leased it back to the bank.  Qatar Holding is the world’s 12th-largest sovereign wealth
fund, according to the Las Vegas-based SWF Institute, well
behind such funds as  Abu Dhabi ’s $627 billion Investment
Authority. Its riches come from the world’s fourth-largest gas
reserves, which provide for a population of less than 2 million.  The country’s high-profile deals this year have occurred
across a range of industries. In August it agreed to spend
$1.45 billion for a 20 percent stake in BAA Ltd., the owner of
London’s  Heathrow airport . It also acquired a 3 percent stake in
Total, now worth about $3.7 billion, and shares in Royal Dutch
Shell Plc.  Credit Suisse declined 2.5 percent to 21.07 francs as of
1:35 p.m. in Zurich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  or
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  