-- Crude Declines for Fifth Time in Six Days
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-09-24T20:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/crude-drops-fifth-time-in-six-days-on-european-debt-concern.html
Oil dropped for the fifth time in
six days as discord over the handling of  Europe ’s debt crisis
and a decline in German business sentiment renewed concern that
the European crisis will reduce oil demand.  Prices fell 1 percent after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President  Francois Hollande  disagreed at a meeting
Sept. 22 on a timetable to introduce joint oversight of Europe’s
banks. German business confidence unexpectedly fell to the
lowest level in more than two years, helping push the euro down
against the dollar.  “The news out of Europe is not good and the dollar is
stronger, and the combination is putting pressure on oil demand
expectations,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “It’s
making people think that even $90 for oil is a little too
high.”  Oil for November delivery declined 96 cents to settle at
$91.93 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 7.1
percent since Sept. 14 and 7 percent for the year.  Brent oil for November settlement decreased $1.61, or 1.4
percent, to end at $109.81 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark grade’s  premium 
to West Texas Intermediate narrowed for the first time in three
days, falling to $17.88.  In speeches marking Franco-German reconciliation after
World War II, Merkel rejected Hollande’s appeal to activate
oversight of the banking union as soon as possible. Deadlock
over regulation may delay a key building block in resolving the
single currency’s debt crisis.  German Doubts  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  led criticism of
the euro region’s rush toward common bank oversight at a meeting
of European Union finance ministers in Cyprus this month.
 Germany  has raised doubts about plans backed by France, Spain
and  Italy  to hand the European Central Bank oversight powers
over all banks in the euro area, and to do so by Jan. 1.  “Nothing has really changed in Europe,” said Jacob Correll, a Louisville, Kentucky-based analyst at Summit Energy
Inc., which manages more than $20 billion in companies’ annual
energy spending. “There is still the fundamental problem of how
to solve the crisis.”  Oil demand in Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development countries will fall by 0.7 percent this year to 46.2
million barrels a day, led by a 2.6 percent drop in Europe “due
to sluggish economic growth,” the  International Energy Agency 
said on Sept. 12.  Ifo Index  The Ifo institute in Munich said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped for a
fifth straight month to 101.4 in September from 102.3 in August.
That’s the lowest reading since February 2010. Economists
predicted an increase to 102.5, according to a Bloomberg  survey .  The euro fell as much as 0.7 percent to $1.2891. A weaker
euro and stronger dollar reduce oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative.  “This is further liquidation of assets,” said Bill
Baruch, senior market strategist at Iitrader.com in  Chicago .
“We are heading into the weaker demand season and momentum is
kind of on the downside.”  Demand for gasoline slid to a two-month low of 8.63 million
barrels a day in the week ended Sept. 14, the Energy Department
reported last week.  China Pessimism  Oil also fell as a survey modeled on the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s  Beige Book  showed China’s  manufacturers  and retailers
are less optimistic about sales than they were three months ago,  The China Beige Book, through interviews of more than 2,000
company executives and bankers from Aug. 9 to Sept. 3, found
limits to monetary easing after interest-rate  cuts  in June and
July, according to a summary from CBB International LLC, the New
York-based researcher that conducted the survey.  The country is the world’s second-largest oil consumer. The
U.S. is first.  “We’re focused on the demand side of the market and the
worries about China and Europe,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in  New York .  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 324,205
contracts as of 3:25 p.m. Volume totaled 421,200 contracts on
Sept. 21, 22 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  