-- Cuomo Goes Fishing for Tourism in New York’s Adirondacks Region
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-09-24T14:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/cuomo-goes-fishing-for-tourism-in-new-york-s-adirondacks-region.html
Photographers chased New York
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  across a ridge for almost an hour,
attempting to catch his image as he trolled for trout in a
rowboat about 100 feet below.  It was the backdrop of the state’s tallest mountains
painted with the gold, red, and yellow of fall foliage at its
peak that he wanted them to capture.  “I want people in New York City to know from a tourism
point of view that there’s a northern New York,” Cuomo said,
before grabbing a rod. “I want the publicity so people can see
the asset and understand that it’s available.”  Cuomo went fishing in the Adirondack Mountains yesterday,
bringing along cabinet members, local elected officials and the
press for the wilderness jaunt to promote tourism. Boreas Ponds
and Lodge, which Cuomo used as the setting, will be open to the
public within five years for the first time in more than 100.
It’s part of a $49.8 million deal Cuomo struck in August to buy
69,000 acres of former logging land, the largest single addition
to the forest preserve in more than a century.  For the 54-year-old Democrat, who is mentioned as a
possible presidential candidate in 2016, the trip provided a
diversion from the politics of  Albany , where an ethics
commission is investigating allegations of sexual harassment
against Democratic Assemblyman Vito Lopez and a secret $103,000
payout to the victims approved by state officials. Last week,
Cuomo’s administration delayed a decision on allowing hydraulic
fracturing for natural gas to study its effects on health.  High Peaks  The view from Boreas is unique, and the land will provide a
path to the high peaks from the south, said Connie Prickett, a
spokeswoman for the Nature Conservancy’s Adirondack chapter,
which is selling Boreas to New York. All other access points are
from the north, she said.  “There is no reason that you need to leave New York state
for vacation,” Cuomo said.  Cuomo, who grew up in the  New York City  borough of Queens,
has rarely left the state since taking office in January 2011,
choosing instead to spend his time off either in  Long Island ’s
Hamptons or the Adirondacks, the largest publicly protected area
in the contiguous U.S. The region covers 9,375 square miles,
about the size of  Vermont .  North Country  He guards his private life and stays out of the limelight
while vacationing in Adirondack towns such as Lake Placid, home
of the 1980 Winter Olympics, and nearby Saranac Lake. Often in
tow are his three daughters and his girlfriend, Food Network
host Sandra Lee.  During his North Country jaunts, Cuomo has been spotted
skiing Whiteface Mountain, filling gas at a Mobil station and
buying groceries.  The mountainous region provides him solitude. The lodge
that served as the governor’s jumping-off point for his foray
into the forest and nearby waters, is seven miles along a bumpy
and winding dirt path from the nearest public road and about 100
miles (161 kilometers) north of Albany. There’s no mobile phone
coverage.  On this trip, though, Cuomo allowed his guard to drop. He
joked about his “state issued” fishing pole, and, asked about
the success of his fishing trip, spread his arms broadly to
exaggerate the size of the fish he caught, grinning widely.  He actually caught an 8-inch river trout, he said. He then
explained the ins and outs of catch and release.  “Sometimes, depending on how the hook goes in, there’s
just no way they’ll survive,” Cuomo said. He threw his back in.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  