-- Czech President’s Pension Veto Undermines Cabinet, Premier Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-09-24T13:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/czech-president-s-pension-veto-undermines-cabinet-premier-says.html
Czech President Vaclav Klaus’s veto
of bills overhauling the pension system may destabilize the
government at the time it lacks a parliamentary majority,
Premier Petr Necas said.  Klaus vetoed two laws today needed to implement a system
that will redirect part of  compulsory payments  from the pay-as-
you-go pension program into private accounts. The government
failed to secure a political and expert consensus for the change
while the financial crisis exposes the risks of privately
managed retirement savings, Klaus said in a statement.  Necas’s government is seeking to boost private savings as
the aging  population  is increasing the deficit in the state
system where workers pay for pensions of the retired. The
Cabinet can overturn a presidential veto with 101 votes in the
lower house of parliament, a majority it failed to secure in a
vote on tax increases earlier this month.  The opposition’s objections to the pension changes are “in
reality only excuses to not do anything,” Necas said in a
statement. “Mr. President is certainly aware that some of his
steps, which are based on the opposition’s arguments, aren’t
helping the government’s political stability.”  Necas is battling a revolt inside his  Civic Democratic
Party  against a plan to raise the sales levy and increase
taxation of the highest earners.  The government, which lost its parliamentary majority in
April amid personnel and budget rows, fell seven votes short of
the 101 needed on Sept. 5 to override a veto by the Senate of a
package of measures needed to raise state revenue and cut
spending. Klaus had urged lawmakers not to endorse Necas’s tax
plan before the failed vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  