-- Czechs Find Methanol Source After Tainted Drinks Kill 25
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-09-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/czech-police-find-methanol-source-after-tainted-drinks-kill-25.html
Czech officials will meet today as
the government considers easing a nationwide ban on spirits
after police found a source of methyl-alcohol used to taint
drinks after contaminated beverages killed at least 25 people.  Two men were charged with public endangerment and face as
many as 20 years in prison if found guilty, while prosecutors
may also demand an “exceptional punishment,” state prosecutor
Roman Kafka said at a news briefing in Prague yesterday. The
main suspect is a 42-year-old man from the eastern region of
Moravskoslezsko, the prosecutor said.  The worst case of mass alcohol poisoning in 30 years forced
the government on Sept. 14 to ban sales of hard liquor as police
and customs officers searched for the source of the contaminated
beverages. The prohibition locked about 20 million bottles of
spirits in warehouses, hurting hospitality businesses and liquor
makers such as Paris-based  Pernod Ricard SA (RI) , which owns the
Czech liqueur Becherovka.  “We’d be happy if we could narrow the ban on Wednesday,”
Prime Minister Petr Necas told reporters yesterday. The Cabinet
also banned exports of beverages with more than 20 percent
alcohol content last week.  The two suspects intentionally provided the mixture of
methyl-alcohol and ethanol in order to enrich themselves,
according to Kafka.  Cheap Booze  Using the substances in production is cheaper and maximizes
profits for the distiller, and such spirits are also sold
without a government liquor-tax stamp.  “We have a full confession, including the description of
the action that took place, including the motivation of this
person, including the process of creating the base distribution
network,” Kafka said.  The Czech ban is hurting the budget as the state collects
about 750 million koruna ($40 million) a month in taxes from
hard liquor sales, according to Ladislav Mincic, a deputy
finance minister. A longer ban would “complicate” efforts to
cut the budget gap, he said Sept. 16.  The tainted alcohol was contained in bottles under fake
labels from at least two Czech liquor makers and the bottles
weren’t properly sealed, according to police. The poisonous
drink was sold at discounts in bottles labeled as vodka or
tuzemak, a local rum-like alcoholic beverage. Several people
went blind or fell into coma after consuming it.  Authorities are still searching for about 15,000 liters of
tainted liquor, Police President Martin Cervicek said yesterday,
warning against the consumption of any spirits of doubtful
origin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  