-- Daiwa Securities to Cut Up to 50 Hong Kong Derivatives Jobs
-- B y   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-09-24T03:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/daiwa-securities-to-cut-up-to-50-hong-kong-derivatives-jobs-1-.html
Daiwa Securities  Group Inc.,
 Japan ’s second-largest brokerage, said it will eliminate as many
as 50 derivatives jobs in  Hong Kong  and may shrink investment
banking and equity research in the city as part of an expanded
cost-cutting program.  The firm will close its Hong Kong desk for over-the-counter
trading of equity, currency and interest-rate derivatives,
affecting 30 to 50 staff, Tokyo-based spokeswoman Kana Shirakawa
said by phone today.  The reductions are in addition to the 500 positions
eliminated in Asia and Europe since last October as Daiwa
follows bigger rival  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  in widening cost cuts
to cope with losses abroad. Tokyo-based Daiwa has posted pretax
losses outside of Japan for 11 straight quarters.  “Additional cost cuts must be unavoidable after Daiwa
incurred losses overseas in the fiscal first quarter,” said
Azuma Ohno, a Tokyo-based analyst at Barclays Plc, who has an
“underperform” rating on the shares. “Daiwa is seeking to
improve the bottom line of its businesses abroad through
cutbacks including job reductions as competition intensifies in
 Asia ’s investment-banking market.”  The Nikkei newspaper reported the plans earlier, and said
Daiwa aims to widen a target for expense cuts to 70 billion yen
($897 million) from 60 billion yen.  Shares of Daiwa fell 0.7 percent to 303 yen at the midday
trading break in  Tokyo . The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) 
slid 0.7 percent.  Hibino Retrenches  Chief Executive Officer Takashi Hibino is scaling back
abroad as global economic growth slows and Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis destabilizes markets. Daiwa Capital Markets Hong
Kong Ltd. eliminated 60 positions across departments earlier
this year, about 10 percent of the unit’s staff.  Daiwa employed 14,744 people worldwide as of June 30, down
1,151 from a year earlier, according to company data.  The latest reductions won’t affect the personnel that Daiwa
gained through its $1 billion purchase of Belgian bank  KBC Groep
NV (KBC) ’s convertible-bond and Asia equity derivatives units in 2010,
Shirakawa said. Daiwa bought those assets to expand broking and
investment-banking operations globally after ending a decade-
long venture with Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.  Cost cutting helped Daiwa post net income of 2.7 billion
yen in the three months ended June, compared with a loss of 9.4
billion yen a year earlier. The company continued to lose money
 abroad , reporting a pretax loss of 5 billion yen.  Nomura’s Program  Nomura last month pledged to trim an additional $1 billion
of costs as it pares a global push following its 2008 purchase
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. operations in  Europe  and Asia.
The firm is eliminating about 100 investment banking jobs in
Europe, three people with knowledge of the plans said last week.  Daiwa and Nomura were embroiled in an insider-trading
investigation this year. Regulators found that employees at both
firms leaked information to traders ahead of share sales they
managed in 2010.  In Daiwa’s case, the actions were found to be isolated and
the company wasn’t punished. Nomura received an order to improve
its business and the company’s top two executives resigned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  