-- Denmark Is Biggest Loser in Basel Plan Redefining Assets
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-09-25T08:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/denmark-is-biggest-loser-in-basel-plan-redefining-trading-assets.html
Denmark ’s mortgage system, already
fighting global liquidity rules the industry warns would spell
its demise, is now battling a plan to redefine trading assets it
says ignores the Nordic country’s centuries-old framework.  A proposal by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
would require banks to shift all mark-to-market assets to
trading books. That would force Denmark’s $480 billion mortgage
industry to reclassify home loans as traded assets, even though
they’re not resold. The plan also ignores the fact that a
mortgage’s interest-rate risk is passed on to the bondholder,
leaving issuers with a capital shortfall as big as $61 billion,
according to the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks.  “The capital requirements will be increased by a factor of
two to five, so it’s a huge problem,” Jan Knoesgaard, deputy
director of the association in Copenhagen, said in an interview.
“It’s our business model that’s in trouble again.”  Denmark’s home-loan industry, which backs the world’s
third-largest mortgage-bond market, is still trying to persuade
regulators in  Europe  to change Basel liquidity rules it says
would force banks to dump mortgage assets. What’s more,
Denmark’s limited public debt means there aren’t enough
 government bonds  -- deemed more liquid by Basel -- to fill
banks’ liquidity requirements. The mortgage association and the
central bank argue that Basel’s rules punish one of the few
markets that didn’t freeze during the global financial crisis.  Latest Example  The trading book proposal, unveiled in May, is the latest
example that Basel, whose 27-member committee doesn’t include
Denmark, doesn’t understand the Nordic country’s mortgage
system, said Jesper Berg, senior vice president and head of
regulatory affairs at Copenhagen-based Nykredit A/S, Europe’s
biggest issuer of covered bonds backed by home loans.  “This is a killer too,” Berg, a former departmental head
at the Danish central bank who has also worked at the  European
Central Bank , said in an interview. “Our capital requirements
would go through the roof.”  He estimates that no other country will face losses as big
as those threatening Denmark, if the proposal isn’t changed.  “If the loans are put in the trading book, then there is a
capital charge for the market risk, but the market risk has been
outsourced to investors,” Berg said. “We think Basel will be
amenable when they take the time to understand our system.”  Since Lehman  Since September 2008 -- the month Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s failure plunged global financial markets into disarray --
the  Nykredit index  of the most-traded Danish mortgage bonds has
returned 33 percent, including re-invested interest, as
investors sought out securities in AAA rated Denmark. That tops
the 24 percent return on U.S. Treasury bonds with maturities of
more than one year, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS index data.  The index rose yesterday to its highest in eight days,
climbing to 398.05, as Europe’s leaders clashed again over how
to address the debt crisis. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Francois Hollande  disagreed over the weekend on
a timetable to introduce joint oversight of the region’s banks.  The Basel Committee’s deadline for accepting comments on
the proposal was this month. Denmark’s central bank and
Financial Supervisory Authority, in a  letter  dated Sept. 11,
said such a requirement would raise Danish mortgage bank capital
needs by “several multiples” without reflecting lenders’
actual risk levels.  While the central bank and the FSA “agree with the Basel
Committee that the definition of the regulatory boundary between
the banking book and the trading book has been a source of
weakness in the design of the current regulatory regime,” the
proposed changes “could have an adverse and unwarranted impact
on the Danish mortgage system,” according to the letter.  The Basel committee has said it will release a more
detailed proposal after considering the feedback it receives.
All measures would be subject to a quantitative impact study,
according to the committee.  Don’t Trade  Under Denmark’s mortgage system, banks sell bonds on tap
and in regular refinancing auctions to match the loan amount.
Banks keep the loans on their books at a value equal to the
market value of the bonds, retaining the credit risk and
charging fees to administer the loans and cover losses. Risks
created by fluctuations in the  interest rate  are borne by the
investor and the borrower, not the issuer.  “We don’t trade our loans; we keep them until maturity,”
Karsten Beltoft, director of the Danish Mortgage Bankers’
Federation, said in an interview. “The capital requirements
that are coming” and that are due to be implemented by 2019
already “reflect the risk in the system, and it would be
unnecessary to have even further increases,” he said.  Denmark’s mortgage-bond system, established in 1797 after
fire spread through Copenhagen two years earlier and left
thousands homeless, has in recent years battled onslaughts on
multiple fronts. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings
have warned that an increase in adjustable-rate mortgages --
whereby long-term loans are backed by short-term bonds -- are
creating refinancing risks.  Industry Onslaught  The central bank has urged the industry to phase out
interest-only loans, which it says contributed to Denmark’s
housing bubble and subsequent recession. Banks have had to
provide as much as 246 billion kroner in extra collateral to
cover a 25 percent slump in  house prices  since the market peaked
in 2007. The extra security was needed to ensure loan-to-value
ratios weren’t breached and to satisfy demands from ratings
companies.  Trading in Danish mortgage bonds rose during the financial
crisis, both in the total value of securities and in the median
size of individual trades, according to the central bank. It was
easier to trade short-term mortgage bonds than government notes,
the bank said.  Stressed Times  Denmark has made some progress in arguing its corner
against Basel. The European Union agreed in July 2011 to base
liquidity assessments on tests, rather than on an asset’s class,
after Denmark lobbied to ease the Basel rules. The industry is
ready to take up any battle needed to ensure Basel’s trading
book proposal doesn’t bloat capital requirements, Beltoft said.  “Mortgage banks have come through the crisis and come
through it very well, so the system has proved that it can
function in very stressed times,” he said. “This is another
capital requirement which would not be fair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  