-- Digital Domain Sale to Chinese-Indian Venture Approved by Court
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-09-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/digital-domain-sale-to-chinese-indian-venture-wins-approval-1-.html
Digital Domain Media Group Inc. (DDMGQ) ,
the bankrupt provider of special effects for the movies
“Transformers” and “Titanic,” won a judge’s approval to sell
its business to a partnership of Chinese and Indian film
companies.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Linehan Shannon said he would
sign an order approving the sale after lawyers work out the
final wording.  Units of Beijing Galloping Horse Film Co. and Reliance
MediaWorks Limited, based in  Mumbai , won an action for Digital
Domain, whose special-effects artists have won multiple Academy
Awards, including one for the Brad Pitt movie, “The Curious
Case of Benjamin Button.” The companies agreed to pay $30.2
million, plus take on contracts worth $3.6 million and pay $2.9
million in employee wages, according to court records.  “We had an outstanding result,” company attorney Robert
Feinstein said in court yesterday in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Digital Domain, with operations in Florida, California,
Canada, India, China and  Abu Dhabi , filed for bankruptcy on
Sept. 11 with plans to hold an auction for most of its assets,
including an investment in “Ender’s Game,” the science-fiction
movie starring  Harrison Ford  that is scheduled to be released
next year.  Galloping Horse will fund $20 million of the purchase using
an interest-free loan from the Beijing Municipal Bureau of
Radio, Film and Television, through a government-affiliated
investment agency. Galloping Horse’s unit will own 70 percent of
the company and the Reliance unit the rest.  Payam Shohadai, co-founder of digital effects company Luma
Pictures, said the sale reflects a change in the U.S. movie
industry.  “What was once firmly a US market to lose, is now
irrefutably a global market,” Shohadai said. “Growth of the
Chinese and Indian industries is just an accepted part of
business in many fields. We need to make sure that the U.S.
industry gains enough tools to level the playing field against
foreign subsidies and low wages.”  The case is In re Digital Domain Media Group Inc.,
12-12568,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  