-- Discover to Keep Selling Card Add-ons in Wake of U.S. Penalties
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-09-24T19:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/discover-to-keep-selling-card-add-ons-in-wake-of-u-s-penalties.html
Discover Financial Services (DFS)  will
continue to sell credit-card add-on products subject to new
restrictions under a $214 million settlement with U.S.
regulators, according to Jon Drummond, a company spokesman.  The company, which is scheduled to release third-quarter
financial results Sept. 27, must meet 15 pages of requirements,
down to the font size of disclosures delivered to consumers
under a consent order signed today with the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  Under the accord, Discover will refund $200 million to more
than 3.5 million consumers who were charged for four products
from Dec. 1, 2007 to Aug. 31, 2011. Regulators said the company
used deceptive marketing in selling the products -- credit score
tracking, and protection against  identity theft , stolen cards
and catastrophic events such as job loss. Discover, which
announced the settlement on Sept. 21, also will pay $14 million
in fines to be split between the FDIC and CFPB.  “Our current intention is to continue to market these
products,” Drummond said in a telephone interview. He declined
to comment further on the company’s plans.  Discover, based in Riverwoods,  Illinois , earned $428.2
million from card add-ons in 2011, a year in which it had net
income of $2.2 billion, according to Drummond. Of that total,
$101.7 million was from identity theft products, he said.  Isaac Boltansky, Washington policy strategist with Compass
Point Research & Trading LLC, said the effect of the regulators’
crackdown will be to reduce the revenue card companies make from
add-on products.  “The whole market for these is going to shrink,”
Boltansky said in an interview. “It has to. We have to expect
restraints on these products.”  Capital One  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , which agreed to a $210 million
settlement with CFPB and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency on July 18 over add-on products, announced the next day
it would no longer market them.  “We have no intention to sell these card add-on products
in the future, because the economics of our credit card business
does not depend on revenues from add-on products, and we have a
lot of opportunities to grow our franchise in other ways,”
Capital One Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank said on
July 19.  Discover deceived consumers by suggesting they wouldn’t be
charged for the products until they reviewed printed materials,
or enrolled customers without their consent, according to the
the CFPB and FDIC. Other times, marketers deliberately spoke too
quickly for consumers to understand, the regulators said.  Passing Judgment  Kent Markus, the CFPB’s assistant director of enforcement,
said his agency isn’t passing judgment on the products, only on
the manner in which they were sold.  “Consumers can’t make good decisions about whether they
want to buy something or not if they are deceived in the process
of it being sold to them,” Markus said today during a
conference call with reporters.  Boltansky said the consumer bureau has a strong incentive
not to hint at any disapproval of the products because critics
including congressional Republicans have accused the agency of
dictating Americans’ credit choices.  “They don’t want to be perceived as having the power to
eliminate these products,” Boltansky said.  Richard Cordray , the CFPB’s director, said companies should
anticipate similar action in the future, and do their best to
guard against it.  “We continue to expect that more such actions will
follow,” Cordray said during the conference call. “In the
meantime, we are signaling as clearly as we can that other
financial institutions should review their marketing practices
to ensure that they are not deceiving or misleading consumers
into purchasing financial products or services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  