-- Dotcom Says He’s Bond Villain as Key Orders NZ Spy Probe
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-09-24T04:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/dotcom-says-he-s-bond-villain-as-key-orders-nz-spy-probe.html
New Zealand  Prime Minister John Key
ordered an inquiry into allegations the country’s spy agency
conducted illegal surveillance and wiretaps of people tied to
Megaupload.com, whose founder Kim Dotcom is accused of the
biggest copyright infringement in U.S. history.  The Government Communications Security Bureau, which
provides New Zealand with foreign intelligence, acted unlawfully
in helping police find individuals connected to Megaupload and
illegally acquired communications, Key said in an e-mailed
statement today, citing a court filing by prosecutors. Key
didn’t name any of the people involved.  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money-laundering charges in the indictment, with the U.S.
seeking his extradition for a trial in  Virginia .  “I’m now a real life  James Bond  villain in a real life
political copyright thriller scripted by Hollywood and The White
House,” Dotcom said on the social media site Twitter after
Key’s statement. “Please extend the inquiry to cover the entire
Crown Law Mega case.”  Key referred the probe to the  Inspector-General of
Intelligence and Security  after he was informed on Sept. 17,
according to the statement. He has asked the independent officer
to offer recommendations to prevent a reccurence.  U.S. Role  The probe should examine the U.S. role in the illegal
spying, Dotcom’s U.S. lawyer Ira Rothken said in a phone
interview from the Auckland suburb of Coatesville.  “We want to know if the U.S. was aiding or abetting
domestic spying in New Zealand,” said Rothken, of San
Francisco-based Rothken Law Firm. “It’s something that must be
scrutinized, not only to protect Kim Dotcom’s privacy but to
protect the privacy of all New Zealanders.”  Dotcom is also attempting to prove that the Jan. 20 search
and seizure of his leased Auckland property were unreasonable.
He is seeking recovery of computers and hard drives that were
taken by police. A New Zealand police officer overseeing the
raid questioned whether using helicopters was “over the top”
in an August court hearing.  “I expect our intelligence agencies to operate always
within the law,” Key said. “Their operations depend on public
trust.”  The case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney-General. Civ
2012-404-1928.  High Court  of New Zealand (Auckland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  