-- Drug-Trial Operator Quintiles Said to Consider IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-09-24T16:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/drug-trial-operator-quintiles-said-to-study-initial-offering.html
Quintiles Transnational Corp., the
biggest provider of testing and drug-trial services to
pharmaceutical companies, is studying an initial public
offering, said two people familiar with the situation.  The company may file for the IPO in the next 18 months,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. Quintiles was bought in 2008 by private-
equity firms including TPG Capital and Bain Capital LLC in a
deal that valued the company at $3.8 billion, including debt,
another person said.  Quintiles is among the contract-research organizations
whose revenue growth has accelerated as drugmakers outsource
trials and testing, Moody’s Investors Service said in a Sept. 12
research note. The Durham, North Carolina-based company also
hired new Chief Executive Officer Tom Pike in April and has
bought up smaller competitors.  “I view the fact that they have a new CEO now as
potentially a sign that they’re preparing their next leg of
growth or next strategy, which could include an IPO,” Jessica Gladstone, a New York-based senior analyst at Moody’s, said in
an interview. “An IPO could also be a way to reduce leverage
and an exit strategy for the owners.”  The company hasn’t yet invited banks to pitch for roles on
the sale, the people said.  Unwinding Investment  “Quintiles routinely evaluates its capital strategy, and
it is our policy not to comment on these matters,” Phil Bridges, a spokesman for Quintiles, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Quintiles had $3.53 billion in sales during the past 12
months, more than a quarter of the market made up by the 10-
biggest contract research organizations, according to Moody’s.
It had research partnerships with London-based AstraZeneca Plc,
Tokyo-based Eisai Co. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., based in
 Osaka ,  Japan , according to the Moody’s report.  Its owners may be more eager to start unwinding the
investment after U.S. stocks this month rallied to the highest
since 2007. Bain and TPG bought Quintiles from One Equity
Partners, the private-equity arm of JPMorgan Chase & Co. One
Equity had taken Quintiles private about a decade ago with a
consortium led by founder Dennis Gillings for about
$1.7 billion.  3i Group Plc (III)  and Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s state-
owned  investment company , also own stakes in Quintiles.  Quintiles has 25,000 employees in 60 countries, according
to its  website . Two of its next biggest competitors by sales are
 inVentiv Health Inc.  and Catalent Pharma Solutions Inc.,
according to Moody’s.  Both are closely held by private equity firms. Blackstone
Group LP bought Catalent from Cardinal Health Inc. in 2007 for
$3.3 billion, and Thomas H Lee Partners LP bought inVentiv in
2010 for $1.09 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  