-- Medical Boondoggles; Life Post-‘Office’; Holmes’s NYC: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/medical-boondoggles-life-post-office-holmes-s-nyc-tv.html
Unnecessary cancer screenings,
risky procedures and an estimated $800 billion in annual
“overtreatment” costs take a thrashing in filmmaker Roger
Weisberg’s provoking new PBS documentary “ Money & Medicine .”  “If you add up medical errors, drug interactions and
hospital-acquired infections, medicine itself is the third
leading cause of death in this country,” author Shannon Brownlee
(“Overtreated: Why Too Much Medicine is Making Us Sicker and
Poorer”) tells Weisberg.  He clearly agrees, as his film builds a case favoring the
“watchful waiting” style of one hospital over the more
aggressive approach of another.  At the UCLA Medical Center in  California , C-section
deliveries account for 45 percent of births, while the number at
 Utah ’s Intermountain Medical Center is about 20 percent.  The country could save $3.5 billion annually, “Money” says,
by adopting Intermountain’s safe and more conservative approach.  Citing an avalanche of statistics, Weisberg argues that many
screenings and treatments for  breast cancer , prostate cancer and
brain injuries are too costly and of little value.  No Threat  His numbers are compelling. “Money” claims that for every 15
prostate glands removed, only one would have posed a mortal
threat, while all 15 patients face a significant risk for
impotence and incontinence.  And all 15 men will likely remain convinced they’ve dodged a
bullet, “Money” concedes. The film addresses (with an
occasionally off-putting hint of condescension) the emotion that
inevitably drives so many patient decisions.  At UCLA, an elderly woman in a vegetative state is kept
alive for 10 months at the insistence of an ever-hopeful son,
who remains unconvinced by odds and medical advice.  “Miracles happen if you believe in miracles,” he says.  “Money & Medicine” airs Tuesday on PBS at 8 p.m.  New York 
time. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Mindy Project’  Mindy Kaling has a project, all right.  “ The Mindy Project ,” the Fox comedy created by and starring
the former co-star and co-writer of “ The Office ,” is an uneven
mix of formula sitcom set-ups and Kaling’s thorny persona.  She plays Dr. Mindy Lahiri, a 31-year-old OB/Gyn obsessed
with romantic comedies and fixated on her own lack of a
boyfriend.  “I’m  Sandra Bullock !” she yells during a drunken, late-night
bike ride that lands her in jail.  Dr. Mindy isn’t far removed from Kaling’s boy crazy “Office”
character Kelly Kapoor, juggling adolescent selfishness with
girlish optimism.  But much of the pilot’s humor seems off (even with guest
appearances by  Ed Helms  and Bill Hader). When Dr. Mindy tells
hospital staffers she prefers insured white patients, Kaling’s
appeal falters.  Chris Messina (“ Damages ”) plays Lahiri’s colleague Dr. Danny
Castellano, a cranky, hypercritical former beau possibly
destined for another romantic go-round. For now, Dr. Mindy looks
right through him, occasionally settling on (and for) hospital
lothario Dr.  Jeremy Reed  (Ed Weeks).  Handsomely shot with a single camera (by the great Vilmos
Zsigmond) and without a laugh track, “The Mindy Project”
certainly doesn’t telegraph its punch lines.  “You know what would really look great?” snaps an angry
Danny, as banter with Mindy takes an oddly cruel turn. “If you
lost 15 pounds.”  It’s a jarring moment, possibly hinting at darker notes to
come. Or maybe just failing to land a joke.  “The Mindy Project” could go either way.  “The Mindy Project” airs Tuesday on Fox at 9:30 p.m. New
York time. Rating: **1/2  ‘Elementary’ Procedural  Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s great mystery solver jumps the pond
(and some centuries) to modern  Manhattan  in “ Elementary ,” CBS’s
amiable new crime drama.  British actor Jonny Lee Miller, tamping down the broader
comic strokes of his failed “ Eli Stone ” series, plays  Sherlock
Holmes , a brilliant police consultant fresh out of rehab and
living off the largesse of his wealthy father.  Dad’s only condition: Sherlock must accept the constant
presence of a “sober companion,” the beautiful former surgeon
Joan Watson (Lucy Liu).  With the set-up established quickly and painlessly,
“Elementary” gives the duo a Manhattan murder mystery that calls
for Holmes’s unmatched skills of deduction.  The mystery writing could be sharper -- the pilot episode
hinges on an identity twist common to soap operas -- but Miller
and Liu exude an easy charm.  “You can solve people just by looking at them,” says she to
he. “I notice you don’t have any mirrors around.”  “Elementary” airs Thursday on CBS at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ***1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and Daniel Billy
on  architecture .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 