-- Egypt Says Aims to Settle Investor Disputes Amicably
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-09-24T16:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/egypt-says-aims-to-settle-investor-disputes-amicably-correct-.html
(Corrects investment figure in final paragraph.)  Egypt  is working to amicably
resolve disputes with investors while pushing ahead with new
projects and drafting an economic program needed to secure an
International Monetary Fund loan, officials said today.  The new government under President Mohamed Mursi wants to
settle these disputes “amicably in one month,” Investment
Minister Osama Saleh told reporters in Cairo during a conference
organized by Beltone Financial. Each of the contracts involves
more than 1 billion Egyptian pounds ($164 million) in
investment, he said.  “We are planning to rebalance all contractual agreements
either in favour of the country, to get its money back, or just
to keep it as is and give the investor the green light,” Saleh
said.  Court cases challenging contracts signed under the
administration of ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  have been one
of the main obstacles to restoring investor confidence after
last year’s uprising. The government under Mursi and Prime
Minister Hisham Qandil has also been grappling with a widening
budget deficit at a time when foreign reserves have been
depleted to about 50 percent of their level at the end of 2011.  IMF Request  That decline is one of the factors driving Egypt’s request
for a $4.8 billion IMF loan. The financing was requested more
than a year ago and has yet to be approved as the fund awaits
popular consensus on the government’s economic plans.  Officials had said earlier that an IMF team was due in
Cairo by the second half of this month to discuss the loan.
Deputy Finance Minister Hany Kadry said in an interview today
that officials had drawn up the framework of the program, and it
would be finalized after being submitted for “societal
dialogue” in two weeks.  “The economic plan has not been written yet,” Kadry said.  As part of the push to win back investors, Kadry said the
government had identified 14 public-private partnership
projects, half of which were in the planning stage and the
remainder to be launched in 18 to 24 months. Saleh, the
investment minister, said the projects were valued at $8 billion
in total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  