-- Elong Drops on Tourism as Facebook Sinks Renren: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-09-24T20:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/elong-drops-on-tourism-as-facebook-sinks-renren-china-overnight.html
Chinese travel companies led
declines in the nation’s stocks traded in  New York  after a
report showed tourist arrivals retreated for a fifth month as
the economy slows.  Elong Inc. (LONG) ,  China ’s second-biggest online travel agency,
dropped the most in two weeks, and the largest,  Ctrip.com (CTRP) 
International Ltd., sank to a one-week low. The  Bloomberg China-
US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S.
fell 0.3 percent to 91.59 yesterday, after retreating 2.2
percent last week. Social media company  Renren Inc. (RENN)  tumbled as
Barron’s said Facebook Inc. is overvalued.  Visitor arrivals to China in August dropped 2.4 percent
compared with a year ago, the National Tourism Association said
yesterday. A “material recovery” in the economy, which has
decelerated for six straight quarters, won’t come before the
first half of 2013, Barclays Plc said yesterday in a report.
MSCI indexes show Chinese equities are lagging behind Russian,
Brazilian and Indian shares this quarter.  “Stocks are going to look for some evidence that economic
growth really has bottomed,”  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment
officer at Solaris Group LLC, which manages about $2 billion in
assets, said yesterday by phone from Purchase, New York. “We
are expecting a growth re-acceleration from early next year.
Before that, the stock market’s slump will continue.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined 0.3 percent to $34.65
yesterday. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slid 0.2 percent to
1,456.89 as European leaders clashed on ways to stem the debt
crisis and economic data from China and Germany signaled that
the slowdown is deepening.  Manufacturers’ Survey  China’s manufacturers and retailers are less optimistic
about sales than they were three months ago and more companies
are cutting jobs, a survey summary by the New York-based
researcher CBB International LLC showed yesterday. Twenty-three
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  this month forecast growth
would slow to 7.4 percent in the third quarter from 7.6 percent
in the previous three months, based on the median estimate.  Companies and traders visited by Barclays didn’t show any
impact from the stimulus “on the ground,” Barclays economists
led by  Jian Chang  wrote in a note yesterday. Chinese equities
have risen 3.1 percent this quarter, compared with gains of 12
percent in Russian stocks, 8.4 percent for Brazilian shares and
7.8 percent for those of  India , according to the MSCI measures.  Tourism Trouble  Elong, which receives more than 75 percent of its revenue
from hotel reservations, retreated 2.2 percent to $17.71, the
biggest slump since Sept. 10. Ctrip.com lost 1.5 percent to
$17.4, the lowest level since Sept. 13.  Foreign visitors arrivals in China have shown year-on-year
declines since April, data from the Chinese tourism organization
showed. Income from foreign tourists fell 1.8 percent to $4.2
billion last month. Chinese consumers are boycotting Japanese
goods and travel to the country after it moved earlier this
month to nationalize disputed islands in the  East China Sea .  “Tourism between China and Japan has basically shut
down,” Michael Ding, lead portfolio manager of the China
Regional Fund at U.S. Global Investors, which oversees about $2
billion, said in a phone interview from  San Antonio . “Tourism
was already slowing and now you have this. Travel stocks are
going to suffer.”  Renren, which runs a real-name social networking website in
China, plunged 4.8 percent to $3.95, the steepest slump in three
weeks.  Facebook (FB)  tumbled as much as 11 percent yesterday in New
York after Barron’s said the world’s largest social networking
service is overvalued as it falls behind in capitalizing on the
growing number of mobile-device users.  Focus Tumbles  Focus Media, a digital advertising company based in
Shanghai, sank 3.6 percent to $22.91, the lowest since Aug. 1.
The company’s board said on Aug. 13 it received a “going-
private” proposal from its chief executive officer and a group
of private-equity firms, who bid for taking the company private
at $27 per share.  “Investors appear to be saying that they’re not going to
wait around for this deal to close,” David Riedel, president of
Riedel Research Group Inc., said by phone from  San Francisco 
yesterday.  Suntech Power Holdings Co., the world’s largest solar-panel
maker, tumbled 6.5 percent to $1.01, snapping a six-day rally.
 Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the fourth-largest, slid 2.2 percent to $4.4.  Chinese solar companies have started cutting jobs as they
seek to reduce overcapacity in the industry, the Beijing Morning
Post reported yesterday, citing plans at Suntech, Trina and LDK
Solar Ltd.  Suntech said Sept. 21 that it received a warning notice
from the New York Stock Exchange after its share prices failed
to meet criteria for continued listing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  