-- Emerging Stocks Drop as Europe Crisis Talks Deadlocked
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-24T21:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/emerging-stocks-drop-as-europe-crisis-talks-deadlocked.html
Developing-nation stocks fell, led
by energy companies, as oil retreated and European leaders
disagreed on ways to address the region’s debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.2 percent to
1,004.37. The ruble weakened 0.4 percent against the dollar,
while emerging-market borrowing costs rose. OAO Gazprom,
Russia’s gas-export monopoly, slid in Moscow as the benchmark
Micex  index (VXEEM)  fell for a second day. Brazil’s Bovespa index rose
with oil company OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA rising 5.1
percent.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  clashed over the weekend on a timetable for
starting joint oversight of banks in the European Union, which
buys about 30 percent of the exports from countries in the MSCI
developing nations gauge. The disagreement curbed investor
optimism after the  European Central Bank ’s new bond-buying plan
helped send the MSCI index to a four-month high on Sept. 14.  “There was this illusion that now maybe policy makers in
the  euro zone  may come to an agreement and there will be no
dispute,”  Michael Ganske , head of emerging-market research at
Commerzbank AG, said by phone from London. “The coordinated
central bank behavior we have seen to stabilize international
markets is necessary but isn’t sufficient. Fundamentals are not
really improving and the euro zone crisis is now once more
coming up to the surface and investors are getting nervous.”  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, declined 0.1
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 0.6 percent.  The Bovespa increased for the second time in six days,
adding 1 percent. Iron-ore producer Vale SA advanced 0.4
percent, gaining for the first time in four days.  September Gain  The MSCI gauge has climbed 6 percent in September, poised
for the best month since January. The gauge is valued at 11.3
times estimated earnings, compared with the average multiple of
13.4 for the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)   Russia’s Micex Index dropped 0.4 percent to the lowest
level since Sept. 13 and the BSE India Sensitive Index slipped
0.4 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies listed in Hong Kong retreated 0.4 percent, while the
Shanghai Composite Index rallied 0.3 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries increased three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 297, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Index.  Oil Slump  Gazprom retreated to the lowest level since Sept. 6 and OAO
Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, rose 0.1 percent.
A gauge of energy companies in the MSCI emerging-market index
lost 0.6 percent for the largest slide among 10 industries. Oil
futures sank 1 percent in New York while copper lost 1.5
percent.  Merkel rebuffed appeals by Hollande to activate oversight
of the euro zone’s banking union “the earlier, the better.”  Financial markets “that are watching Europe want to see
results,” Merkel said at the Sept. 22 meeting of the two
leaders near Ludwigsburg, Germany, celebrating the two nations’
reconciliation after World War II. Still, “it has to be
thorough, the quality has to be good and then we’ll see how long
it takes,” she said.  Bumi Resources slumped the most since October 2008 and
posted the biggest decline in the MSCI emerging-market index.
 Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the London-listed Indonesian coal venture founded by
 Nathaniel Rothschild , began a probe into alleged irregularities
at associated companies including Bumi Resources, Bumi said in a
statement today. Bumi has a 29 percent stake in Bumi Resources.  Shanghai Rally  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , the whiskey maker controlled by
billionaire Vijay Mallya, jumped 6.1 percent in Mumbai. People
familiar with the matter said Diageo Plc, the world’s biggest
distiller, may buy a stake.  The Shanghai Composite index rose for a second day, closing
at 2,033.19. Regulators may introduce “concrete” measures to
boost the stock market should the gauge fall below the 2,000
level, according to a Sept. 21 report by Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co., ranked No. 1 for equity strategy research by New
Fortune magazine in 2010.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission will implement
measures to raise the level of returns for investors in  capital
markets , the Securities Daily reported today, citing Zhang Yujun, assistant chairman at the regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  