-- Tesco CEO Says ‘Long Way to Go’ in U.K. as Market Share Slips
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-09-24T13:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/tesco-ceo-says-long-way-to-go-in-u-k-as-market-share-slips.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Philip Clarke  said the U.K.’s largest supermarket chain still
has a long way to go to turn around its underperforming domestic
business as its market share slips.  “We have only just begun, we have a long, long way to
go,” Clarke, 52, told journalists today at Tesco’s newly-
renovated 42,000 square feet (3,902 square meter) superstore in
Bishop’s Stortford, north east of London.  The CEO is spending 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion)
overhauling the U.K. business with more staff dedicated to fresh
food, new own-brand ranges such as Everyday Value entry-price
products, and services to help customers monitor their spending
and check out of the store faster. U.K. same-store  sales  have
declined for the last four quarters at the Cheshunt, England-
based company while its market share slipped to 30.8 percent in
the last three months, according to Kantar Worldpanel.  U.K. Chief Operating Officer Chris Bush said “food is
first” in the customer offer, with more than 1,000 new lines
being added. At the Bishop’s Stortford store, space given to
fresh food has been increased by 8 percent, while non-food space
such as cooking utensils and saucepans has been reduced by 23
percent as customers go online to shop for those items.  The executive team overseeing the overhaul meets for one
day a week inside a store as it tests about 150 projects such as
new bakeries, which have been introduced to all Tesco’s large-
format Extra outlets and superstores. That includes 675 new
product lines, one tier of pricing instead of the typical three
price points of “good, better and best,” and centre-aisle
stands with fresh produce on wooden slats. Hand-made wood-fired
pizzas and a Rowe’s Cornish pasty stand are also being trialled.  Guided by Clubcard  “We’re really pleased that we’re starting to see the green
roots of progress,” David Hobbs, operations strategy and
business director for the U.K., said at the store.  Clarke said Tesco is being guided by its  Clubcard  loyalty
program to determine range and space layout of each store.  “Ranging was about store size, now it’s about
demographics,” the executive said. For example, the Bishop’s
Stortford store, which has a relatively wealthy customer base,
has a premium range of water products that includes Voss Still
Artesian 800 ml bottle for 2.29 pounds.  Tesco, which reports interim results on Oct. 3, has
responded to more customers seeking midweek meal deals with
Family Favourite 6-pound dinners for four people, Clarke said.
The frozen-food section has had its first range overhaul in five
years with new ranges like a 1-pound macaroni cheese Everyday
Value meal and Tesco is also using rounder prices.  Coupons in newspapers have been reined back, in favor of
more personalized coupons linked to products that customers buy,
rather than tempting them to buy other brands, Clarke said.  Tesco has also made changes to its meat offer, which was
“a bit clinical” in the past, said Andrew Yaxley, fresh food
commercial director. Tesco has increased signs promoting 100-
percent British chickens and beef that is “matured for extra
flavor” as well improving the quality of its product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  