-- Esteves-Agnelli Firm Betting Crops Lead Metals: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-09-24T22:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/esteves-agnelli-firm-betting-crops-lead-metals-corporate-brazil.html
B&A Mineracao SA, the mining
venture between billionaire  Andre Esteves  and former  Vale SA (VALE3) 
Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli , is investing in
fertilizers on a bet corn and soybeans will outperform minerals.  B&A Mineracao has avoided the iron deposits that made Vale
 Brazil ’s third most-valuable company and is instead buying parts
of crop-nutrient companies.  MBAC Fertilizer Corp. (MBC)  had its
biggest one-day gain in a year after B&A Mineracao announced
Sept. 13 it bought a C$37.2 million ($38 million) stake to
become the largest shareholder.  The venture will vie with bigger miners from Rio de
Janeiro-based Vale to London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  that are
spending $18.9 billion on fertilizer  projects  in Brazil in the
next five years. While slowing growth and falling manufacturing
output in  China , Brazil’s biggest trading partner, have sent
prices for iron ore and other metal lower, demand for
fertilizers is forecast to keep rising as the Latin American
nation harvests bumper soybean and corn crops.  The fertilizers industry “isn’t as contaminated by the
global crisis and the slowing growth that Brazil is
experiencing,” MBAC President and Chief Operating Officer
Roberto Busato Belger said in a telephone interview from
Arraias, in the Brazilian state of Tocantins. “This sector has
some fundamentals that are still in place. It’s a sector that
attends to the issue of  food security  in the world, which has a
totally different rationale.”  Government Priority  Brazil’s government has said that boosting fertilizer
output is a priority to help reduce dependence on imported crop
nutrients. The country imports more than 90 percent of its
potash needs and 75 percent of its nitrogen-based fertilizers
supplies, according to industry association ANDA.  The world’s largest producer of coffee and sugar is
expected by analysts to overtake the U.S. as the world’s top
soybean grower in the 2012-2013 crop year. The consumption of
fertilizers in the country grew 4.8 percent in the first eight
months of the year,  data  from ANDA show.  Soybean futures soared to a record $17.89 a bushel on Sept.
4, while corn futures reached a record $8.49 on Aug. 10 amid a
drought in June and July in the U.S.  Iron ore , Brazil’s largest
export,  dropped  40 percent in the past year and reached a three-
year low on Sept. 5 as economic growth slowed in China, the
world’s biggest user of the material.  Food isn’t as sensitive as metals and other commodities to
weakening growth in China, said Jose Rezende, agribusiness
leader for the Americas at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Positive Outlook  “There is an expectation that in the coming years Brazil
will reduce its dependence on the external market,” he said in
a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “The outlook is extremely
positive.”  Sao Paulo-based B&A was set up to invest as much as $520
million in mines in  Africa  and  Latin America . B&A is looking at
investment projects including copper, iron ore, phosphate and
titanium, Chief Executive Officer Eduardo Ledsham, a former Vale
director, said July 12. Esteves’s  Banco BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11) , the
Brazilian investment bank that went public this year, and AGN
Agroindustrial, Projetos & Participacoes Ltda, a company
controlled by Agnelli, each hold a 50 percent stake in B&A.  B&A Mineracao said Sept. 13 that it bought an 11.5 percent
of Toronto-based MBAC, which has phosphate, potash and rare-
earth projects in Brazil. The acquisition follows the purchase
of 29.8 percent of Toronto-based  Rio Verde Minerals Development
Corp. (RVD) , which is developing a potash project in the Brazilian
state of Sergipe. B&A Mineracao also has a stake in copper firm
Cuprum Resources Corp.  Production Centers  “Fertilizers are linked to food and the outlook that,
happily, more people worldwide are eating better and eating
more,” Fabio Spina, a member of B&A Mineracao’s board and a
director at AGN, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Africa stands out, along with Brazil, as the major production
centers for meeting this need.”  BTG’s press office in Sao Paulo declined to comment.  Agnelli’s strategy to focus on fertilizers contrasts with
what Vale is  doing  under its new leadership. Vale CEO Murilo
Ferreira, who took over from Agnelli in May 2011, said Aug. 16
that he will postpone a $3 billion potash project in  Canada . A
month earlier, Vale said it was considering bringing in a
partner for its $5.9 billion potash project in  Argentina .  Anglo American, which in 2009 said it may sell its
fertilizers assets in Brazil, reversed its decision and is now
studying doubling its concentrate phosphate capacity in the
country to 2.7 million metric tons by 2017, Mauro Meinberg, the
company’s chief financial officer for phosphate and niobium,
said June 18.  ‘Natural Condition’  While Brazil’s output is set to increase, the country will
continue importing fertilizers to supply local demand, said
Mario Barbosa, a former head of fertilizer businesses at Vale
and at  Bunge Ltd. (BG)   “The country doesn’t have enough phosphate and potash
deposits to attend its needs,” he said in a telephone interview
from Sao Paulo. “That’s a natural condition.”  MBAC , which produces about 60,000 tons of phosphate rock a
year in Brazil, plans to start operations at Itafos Arraias in
November, where it expects to produce 500,000 tons of single
super phosphate by 2014, Chief Executive Officer Antenor Silva
said in an Aug. 13. interview. The company is also seeking a
partner to become Brazil’s first rare-earth producer by 2016, he
said at the time. The company has a market value of about
C$378.9 million.  MBAC, which jumped to a record after the B&A investment and
is up 16 percent this year,  climbed  1.3 percent to C$3.24 at the
close in Toronto today. Rio Verde  slumped  9.4 percent to 29
cents, after reaching the highest in almost four months on Sept.
21.  Fertilizantes Heringer SA (FHER3) , a Brazilian fertilizers company
based in Viana, in the state of Espirito Santo, rose 1.1 percent
in Sao Paulo to 15.46 reais, increasing its  gain  in 2012 to 39
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  