-- MetLife Gains as Insurer Bypasses FDIC for Bank Exit
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-09-24T14:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/metlife-gains-as-insurer-bypasses-fdic-for-bank-exit.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the insurer seeking
an exit from banking to limit U.S. oversight, advanced in New
York trading after bypassing the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
in its plan to sell deposits to  General Electric Co. (GE)   MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, climbed 1.6 percent
to $35.42 at 10:20 a.m., the biggest jump in the 81-company
Standard and Poor’s 500 Financials Index. The New York-based
insurer has climbed about 14 percent this year.  The insurer said Sept. 21 that a deal for Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE to buy about $7 billion in deposits was
amended so that the agreement will be subject to approval from
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, not the FDIC.
Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  is seeking to depart
banking to cut oversight from the Federal Reserve, which has
rejected his plans to increase the  dividend  and buy back shares.  The new arrangement with GE is “an unambiguous positive
for Met’s stock,”  Eric Berg , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets,
wrote in a research note published today. “Investors have been
waiting and waiting for the deal to go through.”  Under the revised accord, the deposits would be assumed by
GE Capital Retail Bank rather than GE Capital Bank, New York-
based MetLife said.  MetLife said in March that it would escape bank status by
the end of June. Kandarian later backed away from that
assessment, saying he couldn’t read regulators. MetLife had a
June 12 deadline to submit a fresh capital plan to the Fed, and
the regulator extended the deadline to Sept. 30.  Fed Oversight  “We expect MET will need to be granted another extension
from the Federal Reserve to avoid refiling its stress test,”
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. analysts led by  John Nadel  said in a
note today. “We continue to believe the Federal Reserve has
little interest in regulating MET as a bank holding company. Why
otherwise would the Fed have granted MET the original refiling
extension?”  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman, declined to comment,
saying she couldn’t discuss individual companies. MetLife’s
 Christopher Breslin  also declined to comment on the deadline.  The Fed said March 13 that MetLife would fall short of U.S.
capital standards in a severe economic downturn. MetLife was the
only insurer among 19 large financial institutions the Fed
evaluated through the so-called stress tests. At the time,
MetLife had requested approval for $2 billion in share
repurchases and a dividend increase to $1.10.  MetLife has kept its annual dividend at 74 cents a share
since 2007 and hasn’t announced a buyback since 2008.  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-largest U.S. life insurer, increased
its payout in 2009, 2010 and 2011. The Newark, New Jersey-based
company isn’t subject to the same Fed scrutiny.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  