-- EU Carbon Prices Drop as U.S. Senate Bars Airlines From Curbs
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-09-24T08:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/eu-carbon-prices-drop-as-u-s-senate-bars-airlines-from-curbs.html
European Union carbon-dioxide
permits dropped to a five-day low as  oil prices  declined and the
 U.S. Senate  passed a measure that would effectively shield the
country’s airlines from the EU emissions limits.  EU permits for delivery in December fell as much as 2
percent, the biggest decline since Sept. 19, and traded at 7.34
euros ($9.51) a metric ton, down 1.6 percent, on the ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange as of 8:40 a.m. in  London .  The Senate bill, which passed on Sept. 22 and must be
reconciled with similar legislation passed by the House last
year, would bar U.S. airlines from participating in the EU
emissions trading system, or the ETS. While Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood said the Obama administration has not taken
a position on the bill, in June he said the government
“strongly opposes” the EU plan.  The 27-nation EU decided in 2008 to include flights to and
from European airports in the ETS from 2012. International
airlines have to surrender EU or United Nations emission permits
against this year’s emissions by April 2013. Banning U.S.
airlines from complying with the ETS may mean that fewer
airlines buy permits, creating an excess of supply.  Brent crude  for November delivery lost 0.8 percent to
$110.55 a barrel on ICE Futures Europe as concern that European
debt-crisis talks will falter and threaten the economic recovery
outweighed speculation tension in the  Middle East  will disrupt
crude supplies.  Oil can affect carbon prices because it’s linked to
economic output and to cleaner-burning natural gas costs in
Europe.  United Nations credits for December fell 1.6 percent to
1.85 euros. The contract sank to a record low of 1.43 euros on
Sept. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  