-- Leu Falls to Lowest in a Month on Renewed Euro Area Discord
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-09-24T14:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/leu-falls-to-lowest-in-a-month-on-renewed-euro-area-discord.html
Romania ’s leu declined to the
lowest in more than a month as European leaders struggled to
overcome a crisis-fighting stalemate, lowering appetite for
riskier assets.  The currency depreciated 0.1 percent to 4.5172 per euro at
5 p.m. in Bucharest, the weakest on a closing basis since Aug.
13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on Romania’s
country’s 2018 euro-denominated bond rose eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 4.86 percent.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and President  Francois Hollande 
underlined Franco-German disagreement over the weekend as they
clashed on a timetable to introduce joint oversight of the
region’s banking sector, with Merkel rebuffing Hollande’s appeal
to activate it “the earlier, the better.” Romania plans to
hold parliamentary elections on Dec. 9. A power struggle between
President Traian Basescu and Prime Minister Victor Ponta led to
a presidential impeachment vote last month, which was
subsequently invalidated due to lower than required turnout.  “Any disappointment in the  euro zone  has always been quite
detrimental for leu assets and we expect this to particularly
remain the case into the December elections,” Societe Generale
SA economist Guillaume Salomon and  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale
SA (BRD)  economist Monica Croitoru wrote in a report to clients today.  Germany’s governing coalition showed growing exasperation
with  Spain , as a senior ally of Merkel said Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  must stop prevaricating and decide whether Spain
needs a full rescue.  Technicals  The leu declined as 4.52 lei per euro proved to be an
important resistance level, Florentina Cozmanca, a senior
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Romania SA, wrote in a note
today. “There is a lot of uncertainty related to external and
internal factors.”  Romania’s central bank lent 12 billion lei ($3.4 billion)
in one-week repurchase agreements auction today, providing
funding in line with bids from nine lenders, data published on
Bloomberg show. Funding was below bids throughout August,
supporting the leu by limiting currency supply.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  