-- EU Studying If U.S. Has Complied With WTO’s Boeing Ruling
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-09-24T09:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/eu-studying-if-u-s-has-complied-with-wto-s-boeing-ruling.html
The European Union is examining a
U.S. notice saying the Obama administration has complied with a
World Trade Organization ruling that found  Boeing Co. (BA)  received
illegal government subsidies.  “We will now immediately review their compliance package
to check whether the U.S. have taken the necessary steps to end
these subsidies and their adverse effects,”  John Clancy , the
EU’s trade spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement from
Brussels today.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office in  Washington  issued
a statement late yesterday -- the deadline to obey the rulings
and recommendations in the case -- saying it had worked
“extensively over the last six months” with  NASA , the U.S.
Department of Defense, the State of Washington and the City of
Wichita to ensure “full compliance” with the WTO’s findings.  WTO appellate judges concluded on March 12 that Boeing had
received illegal subsidies totaling at least $2.6 billion in the
form of U.S. government research and defense contracts. The
judges also affirmed the initial panel’s “adverse effects”
finding while partially reversing other rulings involving
subsidies in the form of tax breaks.  The Geneva-based WTO has also found that Airbus SAS, owned
by European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co., received billions of
euros in illegal government subsidies. While the 27-nation EU
says it has removed the subsidies and is now in compliance with
global trade rules, the U.S. has asked the WTO to approve
retaliatory sanctions of as much as $10 billion for the EU’s
failure to comply.  WTO members agreed on April 13 to set up a dispute panel to
probe the U.S. allegation that not only are the banned subsidies
still in place, but European governments have provided new
illegal aid to the planemaker since the trade arbiter issued its
ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  