-- EU to Triple Supply of Carbon Permits in November, BNEF Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-09-24T13:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/eu-to-triple-supply-of-carbon-permits-in-november-bnef-says.html
The daily supply of European Union
emission permits at primary auctions may rise to 2.7 million
metric tons in November from 0.9 million in October, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said in a research note.  The 27-nation EU is preparing to sell later this year 120
million allowances for the next stage of its emissions program
starting in 2013. German auctions will likely commence in
October and the U.K. in early November, according to New Energy
Finance. The remaining countries will probably start selling
Phase-3 permits via a common platform at the end of next month,
it said.  “To absorb that, we are likely to require some speculators
to buy the spot and sell the futures in anticipation of the
backloading price impact,” Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London , said in the note.
“However, if no progress is made on the political front, then
this demand may not exist, being bearish on prices.”  Phase-3 allowances will be sold on a spot basis, according
to EU regulations governing the auctioning of permits before the
start of the market’s third phase.  EU governments are considering a proposal by the bloc’s
regulatory arm to delay some auctions at the beginning of Phase
3 to curb oversupply in the system. The idea, known as
backloading, needs support from  member states  to be implemented.  EU permits for delivery in December fell as much as 2.3
percent today, and were 2.1 percent down at 7.30 euros ($9.42) a
metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 1:59 p.m. in
London.  UN Credits  Supply of United Nations emissions credits may exceed 100
million between now and the end of the year if the present
issuance rate increases by 50 percent, the report said. 191
million of the credits, known as Certified Emission Reductions,
or CERs, have been created this year.  The UN currently has more than 700 requests for issuance of
new CERs, representing about 120 million tons of credits, the
report said. Of this total about 84 million tons are of a type
that will become ineligible after March 2013 and New Energy
Finance expects a further 40 million tons of this kind to be
requested before the end of the year.  “If all of this Phase 3-ineligible volume is to be issued
in time then the issuance rate needs to be improved
significantly,” the report said. “If the issuance rate is
increased by 50 percent to nine issuances per day then we
estimate that over 100 million tons of CERs  will be issued
before the end of the year.”  December’s supply could exceed 50 million tons, the report
said, which would approach the current record monthly supply of
50 million tons set in January 2011, according to UN data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  