-- EU Yet to Agree Next Steps of CO2-Law Fix, Presidency Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-09-24T15:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/eu-yet-to-agree-on-next-steps-of-carbon-law-fix-presidency-says.html
The European Union has yet to
decide what procedural steps to take next in talks about a draft
change to the bloc’s carbon law after some governments voiced
uncertainty about the plan, an EU presidency official said.  A number of nations expressed reservations about an
amendment to the EU emissions law during initial discussions in
the past two weeks, according to the official, who declined to
be identified, citing department policy. Those  member states  are
still scrutinizing the proposal by the European Commission,
which aims to enable the EU to curb an excess of carbon permits
as of 2013, the official said.  At stake are prices in the bloc’s emissions-trading system,
which fell to a record low in April after the economic crisis
hurt industrial output, boosting the glut of permits to almost
half of the average annual pollution limit in the program.  Cyprus, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, is in
talks with the commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, and
governments to decide about the next steps, the official said.
The  amendment  may need more discussions at the level of
Brussels-based climate experts representing national
governments, two EU diplomats with knowledge of the matter said
last week.  Under Pressure  EU permits for delivery in December fell as much as 3
percent to 7.24 euros ($9.35) a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London  today. The contract has extended its
losses to 39 percent in the past year.  Prices in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade market will
remain under pressure in the coming weeks and may fall back to
about 6 to 7 euros a metric ton as supply of allowances is
expected to rise,  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at Barclays Plc,
said in a research note.  The draft carbon law change, which is the first element of
the EU plan to curtail oversupply on the bloc’s emissions market
and help prices rebound, requires support from the national
governments and the European Parliament to become binding.  In the second step, the commission wants to propose a
measure to delay sales of some emission allowances at the
beginning of the next trading period starting in 2013, a
practice known as backloading. Those permits will be returned to
the market later in the period, according to the plan.  The commission has yet to come up with a specific number of
permits to be postponed at auctions. Peter Vis, head of EU
Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard ’s political cabinet, said
on Sept. 18 that the commission is working on an impact
assessment of its supply-curbs proposal.  The official proposal on backloading could be presented
toward the end of November and possibly be voted on by
representatives of national governments in the EU Climate Change
Committee before of the end of this year, Sikorski said.  “Until then, the market with live with the uncertainty,”
he wrote in the research note e-mailed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  