-- Euro Drops to 1-Week Low Versus Dollar on German Data
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-24T21:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/euro-declines-on-prospects-crisis-discord-hurting-economy.html
The euro declined to a one-week low
against the dollar after a gauge of German business confidence
unexpectedly dropped in September, adding to concern the debt
crisis is hindering the region’s economy.  The 17-nation currency fell for a fifth day versus the yen
after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  clashed during the weekend on a timetable to
introduce joint oversight of euro-area banks. The Ifo institute
in Munich said its business climate index dropped for a fifth
straight month. The Australian dollar weakened on speculation
growth in  China , its biggest trading partner, is worsening.  “The market is concerned about further weakness from the
European core and furthering downgrading in the European
outlook,”  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in  New
York  at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., said in a telephone
interview. “There’s also a market correction in the euro after
having been overbought in recent weeks.”  The euro dropped 0.4 percent to $1.2931 at 5 p.m. New York
time, reaching the lowest level since Sept. 13. The shared
currency fell 0.8 percent to 100.67 yen, extending its daily
losing streak to the longest since the period ended July 24. The
yen rose 0.4 percent to 77.85 per dollar.  Test Levels  “The broad weight on risk assets and the focus on key
hurdles in the ongoing euro-zone saga has seen the single
currency make a credible test of the $1.2900 to 1.2910 support
zone,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank, wrote today in a note to clients. “With days
ahead of anything potentially positive out of  Europe , it is best
to stick with the trend. Below $1.29, the low $1.28 area looks
to be the next major area of support.”  Implied volatility, which signals the expected pace of
currency swings, for the currencies of Group of Seven nations
rose to 7.98 percent from 7.75 percent on Sept. 13, its lowest
level since October 2007, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
 index . Lower volatility makes investments in currencies with
higher benchmark lending rates more attractive because the risk
in such trades is that market moves will erase profit.  The euro may rise against the yen to 104.81, its strongest
level since May 4, if it doesn’t fall below a level of so-called
support, technical analysts  Karen Jones  and Axel Rudolph of
Commerzbank AG in  London  wrote in a report today.  Zloty Sinks  The Polish zloty weakened after a report that Zyta
Gilowska, a central banker who backed monetary tightening at
least twice in 2012, was hospitalized. Gilowska will miss a
meeting held on Oct. 2-3 by the country’s 10-member Monetary
Policy Council.  The currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 4.1516 against the
euro. The zloty fell more than all but two of 20 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The yen strengthened versus most of its major counterparts
as stocks slid. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as
0.6 percent.  Japan ’s currency tends to strengthen during periods
of financial turmoil because the country’s current-account
surplus means it isn’t reliant on foreign capital.  Japan’s economy has returned to a recovery path, according
to minutes of the central bank’s August meeting released today
in  Tokyo . The  Bank of Japan (8301)  unexpectedly increased its asset-
purchase fund to 55 trillion yen ($710 billion) at its meeting
last week.  Kiwi Falls  New Zealand ’s dollar declined on speculation that
disagreement among the euro region’s leaders is curbing
prospects for growth, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.
The so-called kiwi fell 0.8 percent to 82.29 U.S. cents, posting
its biggest drop since July 23.  Australia ’s dollar dropped against the majority of its 16
major peers as China’s Economic Information Daily said downward
pressure on the Asian nation’s economy was increasing. Europe’s
debt problems are still at a “high risk” phase and the global
economic recovery is “bumpy,” the newspaper cited Zhang Ping,
head of the National Development and Reform Commission, as
saying.  The so-called Aussie fell 0.3 percent to $1.0425, and
declined 0.7 percent to 81.16 yen.  From the end of 2008 through July, no major currency rose
as much as Australia’s dollar, thanks to booming shipments of
 iron ore  and other commodities to China. Since then, it’s the
worst performer as the engine of world growth slows.  Aussie Drop  The Aussie depreciated 1.5 percent in the past month, the
second-biggest decline among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Traders are
betting Australia’s central bank will cut  interest rates  to
boost growth, dragging down the currency even though the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of commodities has risen almost 20
percent from its low this year in June.  “Although most of today’s decline is being drive by
external concerns emanating from Europe, the implications for
the global growth outlook are Aussie dollar negative and driving
downward movement,” Eric Theoret, a currency strategist in
Toronto at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit, wrote
today in a note to clients.  The Ifo institute said its  business climate index , based on
a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 101.4 from 102.3 in
August. That’s the lowest reading since February 2010.
Economists predicted an increase to 102.5, a Bloomberg News
 survey  showed.  Merkel and Hollande, meeting on Sept. 22 to mark Franco-
German reconciliation after World War II, failed to mask their
differences on a planned banking union meant to contain the debt
crisis. “The earlier, the better,” Hollande told reporters in
the German town of Asperg. Merkel said there’s no point doing
something fast if it then doesn’t work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  