-- European Stocks Drop Amid Banking-Union Disagreement
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-24T15:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/european-stock-futures-drop-amid-euro-crisis-stalemate.html
European stocks  dropped as Germany
and France disagreed on when to introduce a banking union for
the euro area and a report added to concern about the strength
of  China’s economy .  Anglo American Plc slid 2.6 percent, contributing the most
to a decline by a gauge of mining companies.  CGGVeritas (GA)  tumbled
5.3 percent after agreeing to buy  Fugro NV (FUR) ’s seismic division
for 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion).  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  lost 2.6
percent as the company’s chief executive officer resigned.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.4 percent to 274.7 at the
close, its largest drop since Sept. 18. Metal producers, banks
and construction companies declined. The equity benchmark has
still  surged 17 percent  from this year’s low on June 4 as the
 European Central Bank  and the  Federal Reserve  approved unlimited
bond-buying programs.  “The weekend euro-zone news flow pointed to a difficult
Monday for risk assets,” Ian Williams, a strategist at Peel
Hunt LLP in London wrote in a note to clients today. The market
is “looking for clarity. With the bulk of anticipated central-
bank action now having taken place, the focus moves firmly back
to economic activity.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rejected French President
 Francois Hollande ’s appeal to activate oversight of the banking
union “the earlier, the better.” The deadlock over regulation
may delay into next year a key building block in resolving the
single currency’s debt crisis.  Speaking at a meeting on Sept. 22 near Ludwigsburg,
Germany, Merkel said that the proposed banking union “has to be
thorough, the quality has to be good and then we’ll see how long
it takes.”  Chinese Manufacturing  In China, manufacturers and retailers are less optimistic
about sales than they were three months ago and are cutting
jobs, according to the findings of a survey by New York-based
researcher CBB International LLC.  Previous economic reports showed that manufacturing, trade
and retail sales slowed in the third quarter. That pointed to a
 seventh straight deceleration  in quarterly growth and
potentially the weakest  annual expansion  for the world’s second-
largest economy in 22 years.  National benchmark indexes fell in every western-European
market except Denmark and Iceland. Germany’s DAX slipped 0.5
percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 retreated 0.2 percent.
France’s CAC 40 dropped 1 percent.  Business Confidence  Stocks extended their retreat today after  German business
confidence  unexpectedly fell for a fifth-straight month in
September to the lowest reading since February 2010.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 101.4
from 102.3 in August. Economists predicted an increase to 102.5.  Anglo American (AAL)  sank 2.6 percent to 1,887.5 pence as base
metals declined in London and after Bank of America Corp. and
Citigroup Inc. both lowered their recommendations for the shares
to neutral from buy.  Rio Tinto Group dropped 2 percent to 2,980 pence after
Citigroup downgraded the world’s third-largest mining company to
neutral from buy.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  slid 1.3 percent to 1,260
pence and  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  retreated 2.1 percent to 714 pence.  CGGVeritas slumped 5.3 percent to 24.44 euros after the
world’s largest surveyor of oilfields agreed to buy Fugro’s
seismic division to benefit from crude producers’ increased
spending on offshore exploration. CGG will finance the deal
through debt and a share sale. The company said that it will
complete the transaction by the end of the year.  Fugro climbed 2.1 percent to 53.48 euros.  TNT Express  TNT Express dropped 2.6 percent to 8.21 euros after the
delivery company’s CEO Marie-Christine Lombard resigned. Chief
Financial Officer Bernard Bot will temporarily replace her.  TNT said Lombard’s resignation to “pursue an external
career opportunity” would not affect United Parcel Service
Inc.’s attempt to buy the Netherlands-based company.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  lost 2.4 percent to 5.71 euros after the
Wall Street Journal reported that the French lender will
probably need to inject as much as 700 million euros into
Emporiki Bank SA before selling the business.  National Bank of Greece SA, EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA and
Alpha Bank AE said that they submitted revised offers for
Emporiki earlier this month.  Qinetiq Group Plc (QQ/)  rallied 6.5 percent to 182.9 pence for
the biggest advance on the Stoxx 600. The defense technology
company said its first-half performance was stronger than it had
forecast. The business, which was sold by the U.K. government in
2001, also said that it will at least meet estimates for the
full year.  Fiat SpA (F)  climbed 2.5 percent to 4.60 euros after Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  confirmed the carmaker’s
2012 financial targets. He spoke at an employers’ lobby
association meeting in Turin today.  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was 13
percent less than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  