-- Euro Crisis Melts Baltic Fortitude for 2014 Currency Switch
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-09-25T09:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/euro-crisis-melts-baltic-fortitude-for-currency-switch-in-2014.html
Talk of adopting the euro is thin
on the ground before Lithuanian elections next month as
politicians align with popular opposition to the switch.  The Baltic nation will abandon the litas “when the  euro
zone  is ready,” Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius said Aug. 28,
putting into question a 2014 target to follow  Estonia  into the
currency. While Latvian officials retain plans to join the euro
area that year, support among the population is at a record low.  Latvia  and  Lithuania , the only remaining eastern EU members
to have planned fast-track euro adoption, are among the fastest-
growing economies in the European Union after record budget cuts
in 2009-2010. They are losing their appetite for the euro, once
considered a tool to spur growth and increase confidence across
eastern  Europe , as the 17-nation currency union grapples for a
third year with a deepening debt crisis.  “It’s clear that the attractiveness of the euro area has
suffered from the euro crisis,” said  Christian Schulz , senior
economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “These rescue packages,
if you have to contribute to them, look expensive. For
politicians, there’s relatively little to gain from advocating
euro entry.”  Latvia’s  economy  is outpacing that of Estonia, which
adopted the euro in 2011, surging 5 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter, the EU’s fastest clip. Lithuanian  gross
domestic product  matched Estonia’s 2.2 percent growth rate.  Record Yields  The yield on Latvia’s dollar bond due 2021 fell to a
record-low 3.292 percent Sept. 14, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It was at 3.57 percent at 11:54 a.m. in Riga, the capital.
The yield on Lithuania’s 2022 bond was 3.65 percent today, the
lowest since it began trading this year. Estonia has no
outstanding bonds.  Opposition among Latvians to adopting the euro reached as
much as 59 percent last month, compared with 13 percent support
for the move, the lowest ever, according to an SKDS  poll  of
1,003 people that had a margin of error of 3 percentage points.
Fifty-one percent of Lithuanians were against joining the euro
area, according to an April survey by Eurobarometer, up from 47
percent in May 2008.  “It’s quite clear that if everything people hear about the
euro zone is crisis, crisis and more crisis, then even more
people will ask ‘so why join?” Latvia Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said Sept. 14 at a conference in Riga.  Latvia sticks by its 2014 adoption date, he  said . Latvia’s
leaders say the switch will remove devaluation risks, reduce
interest costs and boost trade.  Regional Resistance  Baltic opposition echoes regional apprehension toward the
euro. While euro-zone nations purchase more than half of the
exports of eastern European nations such as  Poland  and the  Czech
Republic , seven of the 10 ex-communist countries to join the EU
since 2004 have yet to adopt the currency.  Bulgaria has indefinitely delayed plans to scrap the lev,
Prime Minister Boyko Borisov told the Wall street Journal in a
Sept. 4 interview, while neighboring  Romania  will reassess its
2015 euro-adoption deadline after elections in December.  Poland, which three years ago shelved plans to join in
2013, deems the euro “completely unattractive,” according to
July remarks from Prime Minister Donald Tusk. Hungary won’t
adopt the currency before 2018, Premier  Viktor Orban  said in
March, while Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas wants a referendum
before joining no earlier than 2020.  Zloty Boost  Poland, the EU’s biggest eastern economy, has benefited
from a flexible zloty exchange rate, which has made its exports
more attractive, supporting growth in gross domestic product
that may reach 2.5 percent this year, according to the
government. The euro area will contract 0.4 percent in 2012, the
 European Central Bank  predicted Sept. 6.  In addition, those outside the currency zone aren’t
required to contribute to its 500 billion-euro ($650 billion)
rescue fund and 440 billion-euro forerunner, created to save
debt-ridden nations such as  Greece  and  Portugal  from bankruptcy.  Euro members Slovakia, Slovenia and Estonia could
contribute 5.8 billion, 3 billion and 1.3 billion euros to the
European Stability Mechanism, should its cash be allocated in
full, according to the fund’s  treaty . Slovakia and Estonia can
pay in less for the first 12 years because their GDP per capita
is below 75 percent of the EU average.  ‘Euro Club’  “Whereas three or five years ago, you could have said you
had to allude to wanting to become a part of the euro club
because clearly that’s very sensible, you can’t demonstrate that
at the moment,” said Jeremy Brewin, who helps manage $4.5
billion in emerging-market debt at Aviva Investors in London in
a Sept. 3 phone interview. “Wait and see is a strategy which
makes more political and economic sense.”  While Estonia’s government has agreed to stump up cash for
rescue packages, adopting the currency helped drive 7.6 percent
economic growth last year, the EU’s fastest rate, by boosting
fixed capital investments to a three-year high and trimming
borrowing costs, the central bank and government have said.  Banks’ funding costs have fallen to as much as 100 basis
points, or 1 percentage point, below those paid by lenders in
neighboring Latvia and Lithuania, Riho Unt, head of Stockholm-
based  SEB AB (SEBA) ’s local unit in Tallinn, said in May.  ‘Make Sense’  Investors speculate on Estonia’s creditworthiness using
credit-default swaps, which cost 101 basis points to insure
government debt against non-payment for five years, the second-
lowest among 15 eastern European nations tracked by Bloomberg.
Latvia’s cost 181 points and Lithuania’s cost 172.  While politically tricky, euro adoption “continues to make
sense” from an economic standpoint because the Baltic nations
would be entitled to bailouts in the event of a new crisis,
according to Berenberg’s Schulz.  Support among Estonians of the common currency has
increased by seven percentage points from last November to 71
percent in August, according to Eurobarometer.  The Baltic region suffered the EU’s steepest recessions
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008.
Governments slashed spending and raised taxes by as much as 15
percent of economic output during the next two years, triggering
a surge in unemployment and driving down public wages by as much
as 30 percent.  The measures sought to preserve fixed exchange rates to the
euro, a precursor to adopting the currency and a means of
lowering devaluation risks and borrowing costs. Lithuania failed
to adopt the single currency in 2006 because its inflation rate
was 0.1 percentage point higher than permitted.  ‘Strategic Goal’  The euro remains Lithuania’s “strategic goal,” according
to Kubilius, whose Homeland Union placed fourth with 7.7 percent
backing before October’s vote in an July 20-29 opinion poll by
Spyter Tyrimai for the Delfi online news service. He said Aug.
28 that he’d “like to see a clearer and more stable situation
in the euro zone at the time when we adopt the euro.”  Kubilius’s biggest rival, Algirdas Butkevicius, whose
 Social Democratic Party  leads with 17.9 percent support, calls
euro adoption in 2014 “unrealistic,” preferring to wait one or
two years more.  “What’s the rush now for us to pay for their bailouts when
it’s been obvious since at least 2004 that Greece had to take
measures to avoid bankruptcy?” he said in a Sept. 18 interview
in Vilnius. “It may be a bit sad that we could be the last
country in the Baltic region to adopt the euro but let’s see
first what happens next.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  