-- Mexico Inflation Rose Less Than Forecast in Early September
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-09-24T15:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/mexico-first-half-september-consumer-prices-rose-0-25-correct-.html
Mexico ’s  consumer prices  rose less
than economists expected in early September, while annual
inflation remained above the central bank’s target range,
signaling that a four-month speedup in price increases may soon
ease.  Prices rose 0.25 percent in the first two weeks of
September, the national statistics agency said on its website
today, less than all estimates from 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, whose median forecast was for an increase of 0.31
percent. Annual inflation rose to 4.73 percent from a 29-month
high of 4.57 percent at the end of August.  Mexico’s  annual inflation rate  has remained above the upper
limit of the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range
since June as a bird-flu outbreak and drought pushed up egg,
poultry and corn prices.  “We’re close to the ceiling” on inflation, said  Alonso Cervera , an economist at  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  “But it will
depend very much on farm prices.”  Cervera, who forecasts year-end inflation at 4.3 percent,
said the main surprise today was a drop in telephone service
prices.  Core prices, which exclude food and energy costs, gained
0.12 percent, less than all 13 estimates from analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Egg prices rose 5.2 percent and poultry
increased 2.8 percent in the first half of the month, while
landline phone service costs dropped 6.7 percent, the statistics
institute said today.  Lowest Level  Central bank minutes from the Sept. 7 meeting released last
week showed policy makers were unanimous in their decision to
keep the  benchmark interest rate  unchanged, saying the inflation
rate will drop and approach the 3 percent target as temporary
price pressures ease.  The central bank board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens,
kept the rate at 4.5 percent, the lowest level among major rate-
setting banks in  Latin America  after  Peru . The only Group of 20
nation to leave borrowing costs unchanged and not step up asset
purchases in the past three years will stay on hold until March
2014, a Sept. 20 survey by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  shows. In a statement
accompanying the decision, policy makers said they would remain
“alert” to inflation developments.  Lower Risks  Most central bank board members said “that while inflation
will remain above 4 percent in the coming months as effects of
temporary shocks to inflation disappear it will regain its trend
toward 3 percent,” according to the minutes. “The majority
said that mid-term risks to inflation have diminished,” the
minutes said.  Analysts at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit increased their year-end inflation
projections in the past two weeks, although they don’t see rates
rising this year.  Carstens has forecast that inflation will slow to less than
4 percent by year-end, and last month said the recent jump in
food prices alone doesn’t warrant tighter monetary policy. The
central bank won’t “hesitate” to raise interest rates should
the current pace of inflation persist, and the latest data
indicate the economy will grow close to 4 percent this year,
Carstens said Sept. 13.  Jobless Rate  Mexico’s unemployment rate climbed to 5.39 percent in
August, the highest in 11 months and more than economists
expected. The jobless rate had reached 5.02 percent in July.  Concern that Mexico’s peso would fuel faster inflation has
declined as the currency, which tumbled 11 percent in 2011, has
rallied 8 percent this year, the most among 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The currency fell 0.4 percent to 12.9066
per dollar at 9:46 a.m. local time.  Yields on inflation-linked bonds due in 2013, known as
Udibonos, rose four basis points to 0.18 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  After rising 4.07 percent in the first half of August, egg
prices surged 15.9 percent in the second half of the month,
compared with 15.2 percent for all of July, according to
statistics institute data. White bread costs increased 3.5
percent last month and annual  core inflation , which excludes
food and energy, reached 3.7 percent, the highest since July
2010.  Mexico lifted duties on all egg imports to help fight price
increases, according to a presidential decree published in the
nation’s official gazette earlier this month.  The central bank’s monetary policy meeting and the board’s
discussion reflected in the minutes took place before the
 Federal Reserve  announced a third round of asset purchases known
as quantitative easing Sept. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  