-- Fed Recovery Doubts Spur Investor Bid for Treasuries
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-09-24T17:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/fed-recovery-doubts-spur-investor-bid-for-treasuries.html
U.S. investors are buying
Treasuries at a faster pace than foreigners for the first time
since 2010, aiding the government in its efforts to borrow as
total public debt outstanding rises above $16 trillion.  Government debt securities held by domestic buyers,
excluding the  Federal Reserve , rose 10.7 percent in the first
seven months of this year to $3.61 trillion, compared with a 6.9
percent increase for countries from  China  to Germany, according
to the latest data available from the Treasury Department and
compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign purchases  grew 13 percent last
year, while U.S. holdings fell 4.6 percent.  Record-low yields are proving no deterrent to U.S. buyers
concerned that unprecedented stimulus by the Fed and Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke may neither stimulate the economy nor bring down
a  jobless rate  that has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009.
The government is dependent on demand for its debt as it seeks
to finance a  budget deficit  poised to exceed $1 trillion for the
fourth straight year.  Bonds have “stopped being a total-return market,” Tom Graff, who manages $3.6 billion of fixed-income assets at Brown
Advisory Inc. in Baltimore, said Sept. 7 in a telephone
interview. “The high degree of uncertainty has caused excess
cash to build up among household assets.” As long as
individuals are seeking safety rather than being “return-
oriented, then no particular yield is too low,” he said.  Falling Share  While investors outside the U.S. own 50.4 percent of
outstanding Treasuries, up from 49 percent in May 2011, their
share has declined from 55.7 percent in 2008. China, the biggest
foreign owner, has cut its holdings to $1.15 trillion from a
peak of $1.31 trillion in July 2011.  Foreign holdings of  U.S. debt  have been cited as a sign of
vulnerability by Republicans in this year’s election campaign.
Borrowing costs for European nations from Greece to Portugal and
Spain surged as nondomestic investors pulled back from their
debt markets as deficits soared.  “Does the America we want borrow a trillion dollars from
China? No,”  Mitt Romney  said Aug. 30 in accepting the
presidential nomination at the  Republican National Convention  in
Tampa,  Florida .  The amount of total U.S. public debt  outstanding  has risen
from less than $9 trillion in 2007 as the government borrows to
pay for  spending  programs designed to help the economy recover
from the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Debt, Rates  Even though the national debt has soared, borrowing costs
have tumbled as investors sought a haven from the turmoil.  Treasury 10-year yields fell 11 basis points last week, or
0.11 percentage point, to 1.75 percent. That’s down from more
than 5 percent in mid-2007. The price of the benchmark 1.625
percent note due August 2022 rose one point, or $10 per $1,000
face amount, to 98 27/32, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show.  The yield dropped three basis points to 1.72 percent as of
1:35 p.m. in  New York .  “There’s that hackneyed phrase that people are concerned
about return of principal, not return on principal,” Robert Tipp, the chief investment strategist for the public fixed-
income division of Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential Financial
Inc., said in a Sept. 19 telephone interview. The division
oversees about $350 billion.  Investors have put an average of $16.6 billion per month
from September 2011 through July into mutual funds that invest
in taxable bonds, according to data from the  Investment Company
Institute  released Sept. 12. That compares with an average
monthly outflow of $10.9 billion from stock funds.  Rate Risks  Households increased Treasuries holdings by a record 51
percent in the first half of the year to $878 billion from the
end of 2011, according to Fed  data  released Sept. 20. Mutual
funds raised their share by 9.3 percent to $415 billion, while
private pensions added 4 percent to $454 billion.  “One of the biggest risks out there is market risk that
 interest rates  will start rising,” Kathleen Gaffney, a  money
manager  at Loomis Sayles & Co., which oversees $171.4 billion,
said Sept. 17 in an interview in New York. “You get any kind of
traction going on in the economy and those rates are going to
move very sharply.”  Gaffney is a co-manager of the $22.4 billion  Loomis Sayles
Bond Fund (LSBDX) , which has beaten 97 percent of its peers this year
and doesn’t own Treasuries. An investment of $10 million in the
current 10-year note would incur a loss of $760,000 should the
yield rise to its average during the past five years of 3.07
percent by the end of 2013, Bloomberg data show.  Yield Forecasts  The securities will yield 1.75 percent at the end of this
year and may rise to 2 percent by mid-2013, according to the
median estimate of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The poll
for May showed yields climbing to 2.7 percent by the mid-2013.  Retail investors might be chasing last year’s returns, said
Robert Mecca of Robert A. Mecca & Associates LLC in  Hoffman
Estates , Illinois. A wealth adviser for about 30 years, Mecca
described his clients as ranging from ditch diggers to dentists.  U.S. government debt  returned 9.8 percent in 2011, the most
in three years, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks gained 2.1
percent including reinvested dividends. This year the
performance has reversed, with Treasuries returning 1.6 percent
and the  S&P 500  gaining 18 percent.  “It’s like driving a car by looking through the rearview
mirror,” Mecca said in a Sept. 18 telephone interview. “If
people are saying, ‘I really am a Treasury bond person, I don’t
like what’s going on the world,’ then we say, ‘OK, look into
some high-rated corporate bonds.’”  Fed Support  The Fed has supported the  bond market  by keeping  its target
rate  for overnight loans between banks between zero and 0.25
percent since December 2008 and purchasing $2.3 trillion of
securities in two rounds of a monetary policy known as
quantitative easing.  Frustrated by the slow pace of the recovery, the Fed
announced Sept. 13 that it would likely keep rates at a record
low and also said it would inject more money into the economy by
 purchasing  $40 billion of mortgage bonds per month in a third
round of QE until the jobs shows “sustained improvement.”  Expansion of America’s gross domestic product is forecast
to slow to 2.1 percent in 2013 from 2.2 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.1 percent in
August as Americans exited the workforce. The rate hasn’t been
less than 8 percent since January 2009.  Rising Purchases  Signs of a global slowdown mean foreign investors aren’t
abandoning the safety of U.S. government debt. International net
purchases of Treasuries rose to $50 billion in July from $32.4
billion the month before, the Treasury Department said Sept. 18.  Swiss Life Holding AG, Switzerland’s biggest life insurer,
said last month the company has reduced its German and French
government bond holdings in favor of Treasuries, as the dollar
has a “better risk-return profile” than the euro, according to
Chief Financial Officer Thomas Buess. China bought Treasuries in
July for the first time in three months as the nation’s trade
surplus with the U.S. widened by the most on record.  Bond yields may fall further as consumers continue to
reduce their debt loads, helping to curb inflation, Gary Shilling, president of A. Gary Shilling & Co. and a Bloomberg
View columnist, said in  Sept. 20 interview with  Tom Keene  and
Sara Eisen on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  Consumer debt payments fell to 11 percent of disposable
personal income as of March, from a peak of 14 percent in 2007,
 data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Central banks’ stimulus programs aren’t having “any effect
on inflation because there’s simply too much supply in the
world,” Shilling said. “Deleveraging in the private sector is
swamping everything that’s happening both on the monetary and
fiscal fronts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  