-- Floating Artists Meet Silk Worms in Hayward’s China Show
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-09-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/floating-artists-meet-silk-worms-in-hayward-s-china-show.html
The worst thing about the Hayward
Gallery’s latest show is its title.  “Art of Change: New Directions from  China ” is considerably
more fun than it sounds. “Zen and the Art of Lying in Mid Air,
Motionless” would get the idea over better.  This London exhibition is about the meeting of Western
avant-garde tendencies with the venerable traditions of Chinese
culture.  What results is a surprisingly smooth blend -- perhaps
because oriental ingredients have been part of the modern-art
mix since the days of  Van Gogh  and Gauguin, if not before. The
work of  Liang Shaoji  (born 1945) is a good case in point. When
he talks about it he sounds, well, extremely Chinese.  He is quoted in the catalog as saying what he is doing like
this: “Scholars and writers of antiquity had a predilection
towards a state ‘dilapidated mountain, drying water’, which I
now attempt to capture through contemporary means.”  When you see a work of his such as “Whirl” (2012) it isn’t
hard to grasp that here is an artist of exactly the same
generation as the British sculptor/walker  Richard Long  (born
1945), doing something similar.  The difference is that where Long uses stones, river clay
and words to make his art, Liang Shaoji tends to use silk worms
and their cocoons.  Actually, “Whirl,” which uses stones and silk to make a
circle on the floor, looks a lot like a Long. Other works are
more worm based, in fact created by the little creatures,
hardworking multitudes of which spin webs of silk over chains
and other structures.  Wackier Still  If this is an oriental take on the nature-based art of the
1970s,  Xu Zhen  (born 1977) is several degrees wackier. One sign
of this is that he ceased to be Xu Zhen in 2009 -- rather in the
manner of the artist formerly known as Prince -- and sank his
identity in a collective known as “Madeln Company.”  His ideas include constructing a miniature cleaner that
uses saliva as a dirt-removing fluid and lowering the peak of
Everest by a small amount.  The exhibition includes “In Just the Blink of an Eye”
(2005/2012) in which a performer reclines as if on a sofa on
nothing at all. It’s a compelling trick, as is staying there
motionless while gallery-goers try to work out how it’s done.  Yingmei Duan  (born 1969) is more of a performer in the
self-martyring manner of  Marina Abramovic . Earlier works
included one in which the audience splashed her with freezing
water and another involving her lying in the street dressed as a
beggar and covered with old cardboard boxes, leaves and lumps of
stone.  Wishing Trees  In recent years her work has taken on a cheerier note. In
“Happy Yingmei” (2011/2012) she waits in a room filled with the
branches of trees, handing out to each visitor a folded piece of
paper containing wishes for you to carry out. I can reveal that
mine was not too onerous -- to send her an e-mail.  Without describing each of the nine artists and 40 works
included, I hope I’ve said enough to suggest that this is an
entertainingly quirky show.  The lesson is that right now we are in the middle of an
unprecedented globalization of art. It is a process, like other
sorts of globalization, which is impossible to resist and of
which the consequences are hard to predict.  “Art of Change: New Directions From China” is at the
Hayward Gallery, Southbank Centre, Belvedere Road, SE1 8XX until
Dec. 9. Information:  http://china.southbankcentre.co.uk  or
+44-20-7960-4200.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Scott
Reyburn  on the art market and  Amanda Gordon ’s  Scene Last Night .  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 