-- Fortescue Loans Alleviate Liquidity Challenges, Moody’s Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-09-24T08:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/fortescue-s-loans-alleviate-liquidity-challenges-moody-s-says.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , the
biggest seller of junk-rated mining bonds, has eased its
liquidity challenges with $4.5 billion of new loans after iron-
ore prices slumped, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “The new facility will substantially alleviate Fortescue’s
liquidity pressures, which escalated rapidly owing to the
dramatic drop in  iron-ore  price in the past couple of months,”
Moody’s said in an e-mailed statement. A recovery in iron ore is
also improving the outlook for the company meeting its expansion
goals, it said.  Australia ’s third-biggest iron-ore producer said Sept. 18
the new facility, underwritten by Credit Suisse Group AG and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., extends the earliest repayment date of the
company’s debt to 2015. Fortescue started talks with banks to
seek changes to loan terms after iron-ore prices this month fell
to near a three-year low, forcing the company to cut spending on
an expansion.   Iron ore  has recovered 23 percent since falling to $86.70
a metric ton on Sept. 5, the lowest since October 2009, and last
traded at $106.40 a ton, according The Steel Index Ltd.  Perth-based Fortescue fell 0.3 percent to A$3.60 at the
close of trading in Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index
dropped 0.5 percent.  Assuming prices remain around $100 a ton for the next six
to nine months, Moody’s expects Fortescue to have enough funds
for mining operations and its revised expansion to produce 115
million tons annually by mid-2013, it said. The original
expansion plan was to produce 155 million tons, or about triple
of current production volumes.  Fortescue may sell a minority stake in its Chichester iron-
ore operation, valued at more than $2 billion, the Australian
Financial Review reported today, without saying where it got the
information. Canada’s  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  and commodity trader
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  may be potential buyers, the paper
said, citing unidentified sources.  Nathan Vass, a Perth-based spokesman for Fortescue,
declined to comment today on the report when contacted by phone,
reiterating the company’s Sept. 18 statement that it had
received “strong interest” by a range of parties for some of
its assets.  The company is currently evaluating those approaches,
according to the statement on Sept. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  