-- Forward ECB-Fed Money Market Rate Spread to Narrow, HSBC Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-24T15:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/forward-ecb-fed-money-market-rate-spread-to-narrow-hsbc-says.html
Investors should use the forward
markets to wager a derivative gauge of euro money market
benchmark lending costs will decline relative to those in U.S.
dollars, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  The spread of future euro money market rates measured by
overnight index swaps advanced above their U.S. dollar
counterparts after the  Federal Reserve  said on Sept. 13 it is
likely to hold its  benchmark rate  at a record low until mid-
2015. One-year so-called euro OIS rates are above those in
dollars priced two years in the future, while in the  spot market 
they are less than their euro counterpart.  “The evolution of the euro OIS rates above the U.S. in the
forward market is overdone,” said Subhrajit Banerjee, an
interest-rate strategist in  London  at HSBC Holdings Plc.
“Global markets have become more positive and have even begun
to price-in some rate-hike expectations from the ECB in two
years. We don’t see that as likely given the Fed’s guidance of
no rate hikes until mid-2015. Investors should fade this OIS
spread move.”  Central-bank actions this month, including European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi endorsement of an unlimited bond-
purchase program and the Fed’s new round of debt purchases,
improved investor sentiment and lifted OIS rates with longer
maturities more than with shorter ones. This so-called OIS curve
steepening has lagged in the U.S. through 2015 given the Fed’s
rate guidance, triggering the premium on euro forward rates.  Trade Recommendation  The euro OIS forward premium is likely to decline in the
months ahead, according to HSBC, whose economists forecast the
ECB will cut rates by at least the end of this year. They
recommend investors receive fixed in one-year euro OIS traded
two-years forward while simultaneously paying fixed on similar
U.S. OIS contracts.  U.S. OIS swaps are based on expectations of the federal
funds effective rate, while those in euros are based on the
European Banking Federation’s euro overnight index average, or
Eonia. The  effective federal funds rate,  a weighted average of
all daily traders, was 0.15 percent on Sept. 21 while Eonia was
0.095 percent.  The one-year euro OIS traded two years forward was 0.501
percent today, while the U.S. dollar forward rate was 0.367
percent, for a spread of 0.13 percentage points.  The Fed has kept its overnight benchmark lending rate
between banks locked at zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008. The ECB cut its main refinancing rate to a record low of
 0.75 percent  in July and left it unchanged at their most recent
meeting on Aug. 2  Overnight index swaps are over-the-counter traded
derivatives in which one party agrees to pay a fixed rate in
exchange for the average of a floating central-bank rate over
the life of the swap.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  