-- Foxconn Resumes Production at China Plant After Brawl
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-09-25T07:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/foxconn-to-resume-production-at-taiyuan-following-closure.html
Foxconn Technology Group said it
expects limited impact on production after resuming operations
today at a  China  factory where fighting between almost 2,000
workers left 40 hospitalized.  “Overall it probably won’t be significant because this
factory mainly does a lot of components, auto electronics,
consumer electronics and precision molding” and not finished
products, Louis Woo, a spokesman for the Taipei-based company,
said by phone today. “If we lose just one day, I don’t expect
it will impact any finished goods significantly and, with
overtime, we could make up any shortfall.”  The fighting highlights the tensions that can build up
between migrant workers from different provinces working at the
same factory campus. The Sept. 23 incident involved laborers
from Shandong province and  Henan province , with about 5,000
police being sent to the facility, the state-run Xinhua News
Agency reported. Some employees were arrested.  Foxconn Chairman Terry Gou agreed with a management
decision to shut production for a day to “give people time to
cool down” after the fight was brought under control about 3
a.m. yesterday, Woo said earlier.  iPhone 5 Unaffected  Production of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 is unlikely to be
affected because the facility doesn’t assemble the device, which
is made at factories in Zhengzhou, Henan province and Shenzhen,
in Guandong province, Fubon Financial Holding Co. analyst Jeff Pu said today.  The Taiyuan plant, which employs 79,000 people, is one of
about a dozen factories that Foxconn operates in China for
clients including  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , Nintendo Co. and Sony
Corp. Woo declined to say which products were made at the site.  In January 2011, clashes between rival groups left two
people injured in  Chengdu , central China, Foxconn said at the
time. That conflict and the most recent dispute were linked to
regional rivalries and not the work itself, Foxconn has said.  A local shop was damaged, gates of the factory were crashed
and police cars were smashed in the Sept. 23 incident in
Taiyuan, northern China, the China Business News reported
yesterday.  Shares of  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  the Taipei-listed
flagship of Foxconn Technology Group, declined 2.4 percent to
close at NT$93.50, compared with a 0.4 percent drop in the
benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  index. The stock has added 24 percent this year,
outpacing the Taiex’s 9.4 percent gain.  Primary Supplier  Foxconn employs more than 1.2 million workers in at least
18 countries, including China, Brazil,  Taiwan ,  Vietnam  and
Mexico. It is the primary supplier of Apple’s iPad and iPhone,
Sony’s PlayStation game console and TVs, Nintendo’s Wii,
Hewlett-Packard and Dell Inc. computers, and Cisco Systems Inc.
routers.  The manufacturer, founded by Gou in 1974, opened its China
facilities to auditors after Apple became the first technology
company to join the Washington-based Fair Labor Association
following criticism by rights groups. Suicides by at least 10
Foxconn employees in 2010 highlighted conditions at the
supplier.  Foxconn is ahead of schedule to improve working conditions
at its Apple facilities, the FLA said in August after earlier
finding serious violations of labor standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 