-- Foxconn Shuts Plant as Workers Injured, Arrested in Brawl
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-09-24T05:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/foxconn-shuts-china-plant-after-fight-brought-under-control-1-.html
Foxconn Technology Group shut a
factory at Taiyuan in China’s Shanxi province after a fight
broke out among as many as 2,000 workers which left 40 people
hospitalized and some employees arrested.  “We want to give people time to cool down,” Louis Woo,
spokesman for Taipei-based Foxconn said by phone. Chairman Terry Gou was informed of the incident at about 5 a.m. and agreed with
the decision to halt production. Woo declined to say whether
parts for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 are made at the factory, which
employs 79,000 people and makes electronics, components, and
precision molding for devices including mobile phones.  A fight between rival worker groups at a dormitory operated
by an outside company broke out at about 11 p.m. last night and
escalated before security and police brought the situation under
control by about 3 a.m., Woo said. Some workers were arrested,
he said without providing details.  “The impact on production should be minor and the lost
manufacturing could be made up with overtime,” said Vincent Chen, an analyst at Yuanta Financial Holding Co., the top-rated
analyst covering Foxconn flagship Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.
and who rates the stock hold, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “The  China  government could step in to ensure
continued operations if it’s just an issue between workers
rather than about conditions.”  Chen, based in Taipei, estimates Apple products have little
manufacturing exposure at the factory and is likely the location
for producing other devices such as Nintendo Co.’s Wii.  The cause of the fight was not immediately clear, while
Foxconn is assisting a police investigation of the matter, Woo
said. Union representatives will be sent to the site today to
discuss the situation with workers, he said.  Gou, who founded the maker of iPhones, Sony Corp.
PlayStations and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  computers in 1974, has
expanded manufacturing operations beyond its Shenzhen, south
China base to include inland China as well as  Brazil ,  Mexico  and
 Vietnam .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 