-- Free-For-All Moment in Fashion Says Carolina Herrera
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/free-for-all-moment-in-fashion-says-carolina-herrera.html
Carolina Herrera was camped out in
her temporary office, which sports Lalique crystal and plush
furniture, capped off by a giant Warhol portrait of her.  Still, she felt the need to apologize: “I moved the atelier
to the 16th floor, so I’m fixing it up to open for a showroom.”  Wearing a trim white shirt, black skirt, sling-back heels
and gold jewelry, and sitting on a striped silk chair, Herrera
welcomed me into the epicenter of her global fashion empire.  Tarmy: Has your aesthetic changed since you began designing
clothes?  Herrera: Everything in fashion has changed, in every way.
Sometimes you hear “Oh, that’s a ’70s show!”  It’s not a ’70s show -- it’s an inspiration that you get
from the ideas of the ’70s. Fashion has always been a repetition
of ideas, but what makes it new is the way you put it together.  Tarmy: How has your customer evolved?  Herrera: I started in the ’80s, and the ’80s was all about
opulence. I did big skirts, embroidery, things like that.  Suddenly, a moment came in fashion that was sort of
minimalist, and I found it very boring because fashion is about
details -- you cannot have something with nothing. You have to
give it to a very chic woman to make it happen, no?  No Respect  Tarmy: So how do women dress now?  Herrera: There is not a respect for a time or a moment:
Sometimes you see a woman who arrives for lunch in an evening
gown. Short, with embroidery. For lunch! You see that in  New
York .  You say, “What time is it?” There is no control. Everybody
wears whatever they like.  Tarmy: How much does it cost per year for a chic woman to
dress well?  Herrera: It all depends. Pricing is something very
personal. There are some girls who like to spend a lot of money
-- good for me! And some others who are really chic and elegant
and go to Zara and H&M.  Tarmy: What do you think of designer collaborations with
low-market brands?  Herrera: I think it’s fantastic. I remember when Halston,
who was the number one designer in this country, got a deal with
 J.C. Penney (JCP) , he was thrown out of  Bergdorf Goodman .  Now every designer wants to design for H&M or  Zara (IDEXY)  or
whomever.  Tarmy: Have you been approached to do a line?  Herrera: I did something with  Target (TGT) , but they are
accessories -- little bags and things like that.  Buying Clothes  Tarmy: If a woman is going to invest in clothing, what do
you think she should buy?  Herrera: Fashion is not an investment. If you wear a dress
and don’t get many compliments, you won’t wear it again. It’s
not like buying bonds.  Tarmy: Do you wear your dresses more than once?  Herrera: Yes, absolutely. If I like it, I wear it forever.
I’ve never understood why you wouldn’t repeat a dress if you
like it.  Tarmy: Do you ever wear other designers?  Herrera: Sometimes I do. Most of the time I wear my
clothes, because it’s easier.  And I have a feeling that if I’m seen wearing somebody
else’s clothing, they’ll say, “Why is she not wearing hers? It
must not be very good if she’s not wearing it.”  Tarmy: Do you like any young designers?  Herrera:  Prabal Gurung  is very talented and he’s adorable.
And I like  Proenza Schouler  -- they’re great.  There’s a whole group of designers who are very good.  Tarmy: It seems like most new, young designers are
American.  Herrera: Yes, or Europeans who come here to be successful.  Tarmy: Why is that?  Herrera: Because this is the capital of the world, my dear.
For me, fashion begins in New York.  Tarmy: Where does it end?  Herrera: Wherever they sell it.  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and  Greg Evans 
on  television .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 