-- Fujitsu Said to Hire UBS to Seek Semiconductor Unit Buyers
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-09-24T08:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/fujitsu-said-to-hire-ubs-to-seek-buyers-for-semiconductor-unit.html
Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) ,  Japan ’s biggest
provider of computer services, is seeking buyers for its
semiconductor business as part of a restructuring effort, people
familiar with the matter said.  The maker of the K supercomputer hired UBS AG as financial
adviser on the sale process, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the decision isn’t public. The business may
be worth as much as 200 billion yen ($2.6 billion), according to
Yoshihisa Toyosaki, a Tokyo-based analyst with Architect Grand
Design, a Japanese electronics research and consulting company.  Fujitsu has been hurt by slumping demand for semiconductors
used in flat-panel TVs and is restructuring businesses after
 competition  with Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. pushed
Japanese consumer electronics makers Sony Corp., Sharp Corp. and
Panasonic Corp., into losses.  “Fujitsu is trying to find buyers or partners for its
semiconductor division to focus on its core business of system
solutions,” said Yuichi Ishida, a Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co. “However, as the semiconductor
business has turned into a mature industry, it may be a bit
difficult to find buyers.”  ‘World-Class Technology’  Masahiro Yamane, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Fujitsu, said
no decision has been made and declined to elaborate further. UBS
representatives didn’t return calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Fujitsu fell 0.3 percent to 303 yen in Tokyo trading,
extending its decline this year to 24 percent. The Nikkei 225
Stock Average dropped 0.5 percent.  As many as 2,492 acquisitions of semiconductor assets, with
a combined value of $203 billion, have been announced since
2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average deal
size was $114 million with an average premium of 28 percent
offered by buyers, the data show.  “Fujitsu semiconductor has world-class technology and
assets for consumer electronics,” Toyosaki said. “Taking
everything, including patents, into consideration, the division
is worth 200 billion yen at least.”  Fujitsu reported a  first-quarter loss  in July that was
bigger than analysts predicted as a worsening economy in  Europe 
and a slowdown in the U.S. eroded sales in its solutions
business.  The net loss of 23.8 billion yen for the three months ended
June 30 exceeded the average 12.4 billion-yen loss projected by
five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company’s operating
loss, or revenue minus the cost of goods sold and administrative
expenses, totaled 25 billion yen, and sales fell 2.9 percent to
957.4 billion yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ; 