-- Fund Manager’s Son Pleads Not Guilty in Montana Death
-- B y   A m y   L i n n   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2012-09-24T17:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/fund-manager-s-son-to-be-arraigned-for-yellowstone-club-death.html
James Sinclair Welch, the son of a
 New York  hedge-fund manager, pleaded not guilty to charges that
he killed a passenger in an all-terrain vehicle while driving
intoxicated at Montana’s exclusive Yellowstone Club.  Welch, 19, was arrested after the Aug. 2 incident on a
charge of negligent vehicular homicide under the influence of
alcohol and was arraigned today before Madison County District
Court Judge Loren Tucker in state court in Virginia City.  “There are two sides to every story,” Welch’s attorney,
John E. Smith, said before the hearing.  Welch is the son of Leighton Welch, founder of Welch
Capital Partners LLC. The New York hedge fund had $350 million
in assets at the end of December, according to a  filing  with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The family lives in
Bronxville, New York.  Leighton Welch and his wife, Bea, appeared in the courtroom
with their son and his lawyer and made no comment. James Welch,
wearing khaki pants and a blue-and-white checkered shirt,
responded to the judge’s questions in a quiet voice.  During a late-night ride with his former prep-school
roommate, Welch made a turn, causing Parker Regan, 19, to fall
out of the vehicle, according to an affidavit filed by a Montana
highway patrolman. Regan died after responders tried to
administer first aid.  Exclusive Club  The Yellowstone Club is a ski-and-golf club west of
Bozeman. Members include  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Bill Gates ,
Tour de France champion  Greg LeMond  and hedge fund manager Cliff Asness of AQR Capital Management LLC.  Regan was visiting the club with the Welch family, his
father, R. Christopher Regan, said in an Aug. 3 interview. Welch
and Regan were roommates at  Suffield Academy , a boarding school
in Suffield,  Connecticut , where Regan was an honor student,
according to the school’s website. Christopher Regan, in an
e-mail today, declined to comment on the hearing.  Welch was driving a 2012 Polaris  Ranger Crew , a four-wheel-
drive vehicle. He told police he was making a left turn on
Andesite Ridge Road when Regan “fell out,” according to the
affidavit by  Montana  Highway Patrolman Joshua Brown.  After the accident, Welch refused to submit to a breath
test, according to Brown’s report. Welch smelled of alcohol, his
eyes were watery and bloodshot and his clothes were bloody,
according to the report. An examination of the area showed that
Welch had been driving on the wrong side of the road, Brown
wrote.  Bail Conditions  Welch posted $50,000 bail and was released from jail
Aug. 3. As a condition of bail, Welch will live at home and wear
an ankle monitor, Smith said today in court.  “He has been doing everything for several weeks that is
required of him,” Smith told Tucker. “He has been involved in
a very intensive chemical dependence trauma counseling program.
He’s been very traumatized by these events as well.”  Welch told the judge that he was participating in the
program daily. “Hopefully I’ll be going to Richmond University
in the fall,” he said.  “You strike me as a reasonably intelligent young man,”
Tucker said to Welch. The judge warned him to obey the rules,
including not drinking alcohol or taking drugs and obeying a
9 p.m. curfew unless he is at work or attending the program, or
“you probably will be in jail.”  Blood Tests  Madison County Attorney Chris Christensen, who appeared in
court for the state, said his office is still investigating and
waiting for results of Welch’s blood tests.  “I’m hoping to get the results within 90 days,” he said.  In a separate incident, Welch pleaded guilty April 17 to
“driving while ability impaired,” a traffic violation, in
Roscoe, New York, and completed the state’s Drinking Driver
Program, Smith said.  Membership at the Yellowstone Club is limited primarily to
those who own one of the houses or condominiums scattered among
15 ski lifts and an 18-hole golf course. Prices range from
$2.5 million for a condominium to $18 million for a ranch with
350 acres. Members pay a $300,000 initiation fee that they get
back if they sell their property. Dues are $30,000 a year.  Leighton Welch is the son of James O. Welch Jr., according
to his 1987 wedding announcement in the New York Times. The
James O. Welch Co., founded by Leighton’s grandfather, made
Junior Mints and other candy before being sold to the National
Biscuit Co., according to the elder James’s obituary in the
Times in 1985.  The case is Montana v. Welch, DC-29-2012017, Fifth Judicial
District Court, Madison County (Virginia City, Montana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Linn in Virginia City, Montana
at  amylinnwrite@gmail.com ;
Anthony Effinger in  Portland  at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  