-- Futures Jump in Russia as Government Moots Oil Tax Cuts
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-09-24T22:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/futures-jump-as-government-moots-oil-tax-cuts-russia-overnight.html
Russian  stock futures  climbed and
contracts for OAO Rosneft rose as the government said that it
may cut levies for some  oil fields  as soon as next month,
boosting revenue for crude producers.  Futures expiring in December on the RTS Index in Moscow
added 0.6 percent to 151,370 in New York yesterday. Futures due
in December for state-run Rosneft, the nation’s biggest oil
company, advanced 0.4 percent. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) ,
the biggest exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares,
gained 0.3 percent to 29.81. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity
Index (RUS14BN)  of the most traded Russian shares in New York slipped to
the lowest level since Sept. 12.  Russia , the world’s largest energy exporter, will consider
easing extraction tax charges for hard-to-recover and depleted
oil fields, Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  said after
the market closed in Moscow yesterday. The nation will also
continue reduced tax rates for some fields in eastern Siberia
until 2022, Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said in Moscow
yesterday.  “Taxes are one of the major factors and if the government
is really going to lower taxes paid by oil producers, it’s very
positive for them and for Russian equity markets overall,” Ilya Kravets, who helps manage $100 million of investments at ED
Capital, including crude producers  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY)  and  OAO
Surgutneftegas (SGTPY) , said by phone in New York yesterday. “It’s very
good news for Russian oil producers.”  Rosneft futures gained to 212.50 rubles, or $6.82 per share
in New York yesterday. Rosneft fell 1.1 percent to 209.54
rubles, or $6.73, in Moscow yesterday.  Lukoil Gains  American depositary receipts of Lukoil, the country’s
biggest independent oil producer, erased an earlier decline of
as much as 1.3 percent in the U.S. to gain 0.3 percent to $62.82
yesterday, settling at a 0.5 percent premium versus the
company’s Moscow-listed shares. Lukoil rose 0.1 percent to
1,948.40 rubles, or $62.54, in Moscow yesterday. One share
equals one ADR.  OAO RusHydro (RSHYY) , Russia’s biggest producer of renewable
energy, climbed 1.1 percent to $2.70 in New York yesterday. The
ADRs closed at a 1.8 percent discount versus the company’s
Moscow-listed stock. The  stock  fell 1.1 percent to 85.67 kopeks,
or 2.7 U.S. cents, in Moscow yesterday.  The Russian government, which owns a 58 percent stake in
RusHydro, may delay a decision on additional share sales by the
company until the first quarter of 2013, Dvorkovich said.  ‘Appreciated the Delay’  “The market appreciated the delay,” Sergey Beiden, an
analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp. in Moscow, said by phone
yesterday. “There might be a chance for some other mechanism of
capital injection, rather than a share sale.”  The RTS Volatility Index retreated 3.2 percent to 30.63.
The  Bloomberg Russia-US index  slipped 0.5 percent to 100.12 as
oil retreated and European leaders disagreed on ways to address
the region’s debt crisis. Crude, Russia’s biggest export earner,
touched its lowest level since August in intraday trading in New
York.  “The market realized global economic growth is slowing,
with the European debt situation causing some very negative
concerns,”  Alexander Morozov , chief economist for Russia at
HSBC Holdings Plc, said by phone from Moscow yesterday. “Oil is
falling, pushing Russian equities further down.”  Oil Slumps  The government is extending tax breaks for offshore and
hard-to-recover resources to stimulate output and meet President
 Vladimir Putin ’s goal of more than 10 million barrels a day for
at least a decade. Production climbed to a post-Soviet high of
10.38 million barrels a day in August, according to preliminary
data from the Energy Ministry.  Oil for November delivery declined 1 percent to $91.93 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday and is down
7 percent for the year.  Brent oil for November settlement decreased 1.5 percent to
$109.76 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, lost 1.6
percent to $108.36 per barrel yesterday.       To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  