-- G-20 Agree More Government Action Needed for World Recovery
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-09-24T22:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/g-20-agree-more-government-action-needed-for-world-recovery-1-.html
Group of 20 officials meeting in
 Mexico  City agreed that the latest monetary easing by developed
nations will buy time for the global economic recovery and that
governments must do more to boost growth, Mexican central bank
Deputy Governor Manuel Ramos Francia said.  Ramos Francia spoke at a news conference following the end
of a two-day meeting of deputy finance ministers and central
bank officials from G-20 nations in Mexico City. Mexico is
presiding over the group this year.  “Time can be bought through monetary easing, but the risks
are still present,” Ramos Francia said. “For  Europe  to
effectively heal, for example, other types of policies need to
be implemented.”  The meetings took place after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said Sept. 6 that the bank was ready to
buy unlimited quantities of short-dated government bonds of
nations signed up for rescues.  The U.S. Federal Reserve on Sept. 13 said that it would
make additional purchases of debt in a third round of so-called
quantitative easing, while the  Bank of Japan  unexpectedly
increased its asset-purchase fund to 55 trillion yen ($707
billion) at its meeting last week.  Commodity Prices  The G-20 nations called for better transparency in
 commodities markets  and for measures to boost production,
transportation and trade of raw materials to reduce price
volatilitiy, said Mexico’s deputy finance minister,  Gerardo Rodriguez , who co-chaired the Sept. 23 and 24 meetings.  Increasing raw material production “was the central part
of our discussions today,” Rodriguez said.  Rodriguez said the deputies discussed boosting  emerging
markets ’ International Monetary Fund quotas, which determine
access to financing, financial obligation and voting rights. A
concrete decision will probably come by the end of the year or
the start of 2013, he said.  The nations agreed that emerging markets should
“gradually” increase their presence in the IMF based on
measurements including economic output, Rodriguez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  