-- GE Prepares for Mining Deals Copying Energy M&A Strategy
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-09-24T20:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/ge-prepares-for-mining-deals-copying-energy-m-a-strategy.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is preparing
to buy more mining-equipment and services companies as it
creates a new unit using the blueprint for doubling oil and gas
revenue in four years.  The division should reach $5 billion in sales “within a
few years,” said Lorenzo Simonelli, chief executive officer of
GE Transportation, of which the business will be a part. GE’s
current mining offerings generated about $2 billion last year,
according to the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company.  GE CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  bulked up his energy portfolio with
more than $11 billion in purchases in a six-month spree that
ended in March 2011. Now he’s betting on rising demand for
commodities from copper to coal even as miners such as  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest, delay spending on projects
and China’s fast-growing economy shows signs of faltering.  “It is a good time to be looking at acquisitions in a
value sense,” GE Mining CEO Geoff Knox said in a telephone
interview. “We have to be targeted in buying into spaces that
leverage what we already do. We want to use our current
knowledge and add it to the product line we’re acquiring and
make it smarter and more appealing.”  GE Mining will be based in  Brisbane ,  Australia , home to
2012 acquisition  Industrea Ltd. (IDL)  The unit was unveiled today at
the MINExpo industry exhibition in  Las Vegas , where the
participants include  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s biggest maker
of mining and construction equipment.  Revenue, Acquisitions  Simonelli didn’t give a specific year by which he expects
GE Mining to reach $5 billion in revenue. GE Transportation, the
largest maker of locomotives, had $4.9 billion in sales in 2011.  Immelt’s creation of GE Mining comes as acquisitions in the
industry accelerate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Buyers have announced at least $4.15 billion of takeovers of
mining equipment and services companies in 2012, 52 percent more
than a year earlier, the data show.  Mining and construction equipment makers around the globe
with a market value of $1 billion or more trade at a median 12.6
times earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a 13.9 multiple for the MSCI All Country World
Index, which tracks 2,245 companies in developed and  emerging
markets .  GE slid 0.8 percent to $22.36 at the close in  New York  as
broader U.S. indexes declined.  That pared  the stock’s gain for
the year to 25 percent, outpacing the 16 percent advance for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  GE Targets?  Joy Global Inc. (JOY) , a mining-equipment manufacturer, looks
“increasingly likely” to be a GE acquisition target, Larry De Maria, a New York-based analyst at William Blair & Co., said in
a note to clients today. Milwaukee-based Joy Global rose 1.3
percent to $60.17.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , another mining-industry supplier, also may
be an attractive takeover candidate, according to a research
note from Oriel Securities Ltd. The shares of Glasgow-based Weir
fell 1.7 percent to 1,741 pence in  London .  Telephone and e-mail messages left for comment with Sandy
McKenzie, a Joy Global spokeswoman, and with Weir’s corporate
headquarters weren’t immediately returned.  GE already offers products and services to mining
companies, including water desalination systems and electrical
turbines derived from  jet engines , of which GE Aviation is the
largest manufacturer. GE Mining will seek to expand its existing
lines as well as make acquisitions, Simonelli said.  Emerging Focus  Two purchases on the same day in May signaled the emerging
focus on mining. The deal to buy Industrea for about A$470
million ($466 million at the time) in cash added mining
equipment, technology and services businesses in two pivotal
markets: China, the largest iron-ore consumer, and Australia,
No. 1 in exports of that mineral as well as coal.  GE also agreed to acquire a maker of underground-mining
equipment, Glen Lyn, Virginia-based Fairchild International. It
didn’t disclose terms.  Buying oil-and-gas services companies and equipment makers,
including Dresser Inc. for $3 billion in October 2010 and the
well-support division of  John Wood Group Plc (WG/)  four months later
for $2.8 billion, helped GE build a unit that it says will have
$15 billion of revenue this year.  “We’re looking at acquisitions in a way that’s measured,
as well as integrating the ones we already have,” Simonelli
said by telephone. “It’s a good comparison with GE Oil & Gas,
which has become a large enterprise over the past few years with
organic and inorganic plays. When you look at the mining space,
we are following a similar playbook.”  The division’s profile received a boost in July when GE
announced plans to split up the energy business, leaving three
executives including oil and gas chief Dan Heintzelman to report
directly to Immelt. The company said GE Energy CEO  John Krenicki 
would retire after the reorganization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  