-- German Coalition Party Seeks End of Much-Copied Renewable System
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-09-24T16:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/german-coalition-party-seeks-end-of-much-copied-renewable-system.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
junior coalition partner plans to end a system of clean-energy
subsidies that’s emulated around the world as costs rise.  The Free Democratic Party wants to replace feed-in tariffs,
which secure above-market power rates for 20 years, with fixed
levels of generation from renewables, said Patrick Doering, the
party’s general-secretary. Such a regime would allow utilities
to pick the most cost-efficient generation technology, he said.  The system, which the party seeks to introduce by 2020, is
similar to ones in countries including the U.S., U.K. and  Italy .  “We need to introduce more market forces into this
system” as the subsidy consumers are paying for renewables may
jump about 40 percent next year, Doering said today in Berlin.  Germany , planning to halt nuclear generation by 2022, is
debating how to reform its EEG clean-energy law that has helped
raise the share of renewable power it uses to a quarter of the
total. While Economy Minister Philip Roesler, of the FDP, plans
to reform EEG before next year’s federal elections, Environment
Minister Peter Altmaier, responsible for the legislation, last
month said the country must take time to discuss any changes.  The FDP’s plan is “inefficient and expensive,” Joachim
Lohse, the environment minister for Bremen, told reporters in
Berlin today. It’s “a myth” that expanding renewables weighs
on power prices and threatens supply, said Franz Untersteller,
the environment minister in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg.  While EEG needs reforming, the country should cut benefits
for large industrial users that are exempt from paying for the
renewable expansion instead of trying to slow growth, they said.  The FDP is seeking short-term measures to counter rising
costs next year, said Stefan Birkner, environment minister in
the state of  Lower Saxony . They include lowering taxes and
allowing the grid regulator to shut large clean-energy producers
if they threaten the stability of the regional power network.  The party is also proposing a cap on subsidies if
technologies reach their targets before 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  