-- German Stocks Drop as Business Sentiment Misses Estimates
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-09-24T15:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/german-stocks-drop-as-business-sentiment-misses-estimates.html
German stocks  fell, erasing last
week’s gain, as business sentiment missed estimates, optimism
among Chinese manufacturers declined, and Germany and France
clashed over the timing of oversight of the region’s banks.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  slid 3.7 percent after Nomura Holdings Inc.
cut its recommendation on the shares.  Continental AG (CON) , Germany’s
biggest tiremaker, fell 2.5 percent as it traded in the DAX
Index for the first day since replacing Metro AG.  The DAX dropped 0.5 percent to 7,413.16 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , erasing last week’s 0.5 percent gain.
Still, the benchmark has  rallied 24 percent  from this year’s low
on June 5 as European Central Bank policy makers approved an
unlimited bond-buying program and the  Federal Reserve  started a
third round of asset purchases. The broader HDAX Index fell 0.6
percent today.  “The Ifo reading was weak, and that’s influencing
sentiment across  Europe ,” said Henrik Henriksen, the chief
strategist at PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen where he helps
oversee $55 billion. “ Germany  has been the engine pulling
Europe and if that economy is also weakening it will have
repercussions across the continent.”  German business confidence unexpectedly fell for a fifth
straight month in September as the sovereign-debt crisis clouded
the economic outlook.  Less Optimistic  The Ifo institute in Munich said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 101.4
from 102.3 in August. That’s the lowest reading since February
2010. Economists predicted an increase to 102.5, according to
the median of 37 forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey .  In  China , manufacturers and retailers are less optimistic
about sales than they were three months ago and are cutting
jobs, according to the findings of a survey by New York-based
researcher CBB International LLC.  The findings build on economic data indicating that
manufacturing, trade and retail sales slowed in the third
quarter. They point to a  seventh straight deceleration  in
quarterly growth and potentially the weakest  annual expansion 
for the world’s second-largest economy in 22 years.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rejected French President
 Francois Hollande ’s appeal to activate oversight of the banking
union “the earlier, the better.” Deadlock over regulation may
delay a key building block in resolving the single currency’s
debt crisis.  Speaking at a meeting on Sept. 22 near Ludwigsburg,
Germany, Merkel said that the proposed banking union “has to be
thorough, the quality has to be good and then we’ll see how long
it takes.”  Banks Retreat  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-largest lender, fell 3.7
percent to 1.52 euros. Nomura cut its recommendation on the
shares to reduce, the equivalent of sell, from neutral. Deutsche
Bank AG, the country’s largest lender, declined 0.9 percent to
32.79 euros.  Continental dropped 2.5 percent to 81.49 euros on its first
day back in the  DAX (DAX)  index after being reinstated following a 45-
month absence.  A gauge of carmakers on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
retreated 0.6 percent.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest
maker of luxury cars, lost 0.3 percent to 40.10 euros, after
earlier falling as much as 1.5 percent.  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, fell 0.3 percent
to 59.64 euros, paring an earlier loss of as much as 1.5
percent.  Rhoen-Klinikum AG slid 0.9 percent to 15 euros after Sana
Kliniken AG denied speculation that it planned to file a
takeover offer for the German hospital operator that was the
target of an unsuccessful bid by Fresenius SE.  The conditions that led to the Fresenius bid’s failure are
unchanged, making an offer by Sana futile, the Ismaning,
Germany-based company said in an e-mail today. Fresenius rose
1.3 percent to 88.46 euros  MorphoSys AG (MOR)  jumped 8.9 percent to 24.28 euros after
Commerzbank raised its target price for the German biotechnology
company’s shares to 30 euros from 27 euros apiece.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  