-- German Bunds Rise on Euro-Area Discord; Spanish Bonds Advance
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-09-24T15:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/german-government-bonds-advance-amid-renewed-euro-area-discord.html
German bonds rose, with 10-year
yields dropping to the lowest in more than a week, as discord
among European leaders over ways to bring an end to the debt
crisis boosted demand for the region’s safest assets.  Benchmark bunds extended their rally from last week as
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande  clashed two days ago over a timetable for starting
joint oversight of  Europe ’s banks. Spanish bonds gained amid
speculation the government will request a bailout to fix its
finances, ending weeks of deliberation. The spread between Dutch
10- and 30-year bonds widened after the government revised some
rules for pension funds’ liabilities.  “Any time anyone with different priorities starts to get
together and really drill down to what needs to be done, you end
up with these differences of opinion,” said  John Wraith , a
fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
 London . “The bund remains the intra-euro-zone safe-haven asset
of choice.”  Germany’s  10-year yield  fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.56 percent at 4:30 p.m. London time after
declining to 1.55 percent, the lowest level since Sept. 13. The
1.5 percent bond due in September 2022 rose 0.36, or 3.60 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,292) face amount, to 99.48. The yield dropped
11 basis points last week.  The benchmark yield will decline to 1.50 percent by year-
end, Wraith said, citing Merrill Lynch’s forecast.  Merkel, Hollande  Merkel and Hollande differed on a planned banking union
meant to contain the sovereign debt crisis at a meeting near
Ludwigsburg,  Germany . The sooner it’s achieved, the better,
Hollande said, while Merkel said it’s more important to ensure
the plan is thorough.  Bunds also gained after an industry report showed German
business confidence unexpectedly declined in September as the
debt crisis damped the region’s economic growth.  The Ifo Institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 101.4,
the lowest since February 2010, from 102.3 in August. Economists
predicted an increase to 102.5, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Spanish 10-year bonds advanced for a second day amid
speculation the government of Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will
finally decide to request a bailout.  Rajoy must stop prevaricating and decide whether his nation
needs a full rescue, Michael Meister, chief whip and finance
spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Berlin.  ‘Some Expectation’  “There’s still some expectation in the market that  Spain 
may seek a bailout at one point, and some investors seem to be
positioning themselves in a thin market ahead of what they see
as a likely scenario,” said  Richard McGuire , a fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International.  Spain’s 10-year  yield  dropped eight basis points to 5.69
percent after earlier rising as much as eight basis points to
5.85 percent.  Italy’s 10-year yield was little changed at 5.05 percent.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Dutch 30-year
bonds instead of 10-year securities widened for a fourth day
after the government and central bank said pension funds can
change the way they calculate liabilities over 20 to 60 years.  The spread expanded two basis points to 73 basis points
after reaching 75 basis points, the most since Sept. 14.  Further Steepening  “The steepening should continue, as the rule change
removes the pressure to hedge very long-term liabilities,” said
 Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European rates strategy at Societe
Generale SA in Paris.  A yield curve is a graph that charts the rates of bonds of
a similar type with different maturities. It steepens when
yields on shorter-dated debt fall, those on longer-dated bonds
rise, or when both occur at the same time.  Germany and France both sold bills today and Belgium
auctioned bonds.  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by  Finland , according to measures of 10-
year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread between two-year
and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  German bonds returned 2.4 percent this year through Sept.
21, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities
gained 1.6 percent, while Italy’s rose 15.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  