-- Gevo Shifting From Isobutanol to Ethanol at Minnesota Plant
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-09-25T01:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/gevo-shifting-production-to-ethanol-at-minnesota-biofuel-plant.html
Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , a U.S. biotechnology
company backed by French oil company  Total SA (FP)  and specialty-
chemicals maker  Lanxess AG (LXS) , will shift to ethanol at its
Luverne, Minnesota, plant and stop producing isobutanol, the
more complex product the facility has been making since May.  The company is working on “certain specific parts of our
technology” to boost isobutanol production rates, Englewood,
Colorado-based Gevo said today in a statement.  The company doesn’t expect the Luverne plant to reach “our
desired year-end run rate” until next year, according to the
statement. Gevo said in May it would be producing about a
million gallons a month before the end of 2012.  “Our throughput, the rate of production in the plant, is
not on a track I like,” Chief Executive Officer Patrick Gruber
said today on a conference call. “It occurred to us that by
temporarily running the plant in ethanol mode we could maximize
 cash flow  versus trying to force isobutanol right now at these
low production rates,” he said.  The plant initially produced ethanol. Gevo retrofitted the
facility with systems that make either ethanol or isobutanol, a
four-carbon alcohol that’s blended with gasoline or used to make
plastics, fibers, paints, jet fuel and other products typically
derived from petroleum.  “Scale-up of industrial biotech almost always entails a
longer-than-expected process of optimization before production
rates reach target levels,”  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst with
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston, said today by e-
mail. “This is by no means unique to Gevo.”  The plant adjustments may be completed and isobutanol
production may resume “in the several month kind of time
frame,” Gruber estimated on the call. “These really are
growing pains that are typical of new fermentation type
technologies,” he said.  The shares fell 3.9 percent to $3.18 as of 8:56 p.m. in New
York after the close of regular trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  