-- Goldman’s Not-So-Golden Glow in the Summer of ’98
-- B y   R o b e n   F a r z a d
-- 2012-09-24T22:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/goldman-s-not-so-golden-glow-in-the-summer-of-98.html
After it  emerged  this month that
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  was breaking with 25 years of tradition and no
longer extending two-year contracts to college-recruited
investment bankers, my mind was immediately transported to the
heady summer of 1998.  On the bottom tip of  Manhattan , where Goldman’s footprint
sprawled across several buildings, I was one of hundreds of
newly hired two-year analysts who roamed the concrete canyons
with company-issued ThinkPads and insignia satchels. We were the
spawn of a booming stock-market and mergers-and-acquisitions
scene that stoked Goldman, then Wall Street’s last big
partnership, to  splurge  on undergraduate hires.  Whether you were  Merrill , the Morgans, Bear, Lehman or even
some Jersey City boiler room, you had to staff up big or miss
out on the seemingly endless fees and commissions up for grabs.
My senior year of college accordingly saw banks -- big, small
and never-before-heard-of -- ply us with sushi, fondue and
microbrewery rent-outs.  Dynamic. Culture. Team. Growth. Value. Vision. Down enough
shrimp-tempura rolls and you could almost stomach the
McKinseyglish.  Obviously things haven’t been like that in a while. Post-
2008, Goldman became an intensely scrutinized operation in a
hirer’s job market.  Wall Street  is still  busy  firing thousands.
People with far more experience than a fresh undergraduate will
gladly work for a pittance. Slow trading and deal making -- and
Goldman’s stagnant share price -- sent morale into the dumps.  Growing Apart  A stint with Goldman was no longer the apotheosis of Wall
Street status. But what chiefly made Goldman’s move inevitable
was the loss of what it chiefly marketed to fresh college hires:
its peerless reputation.  Most cover letters to the firm were motivated by a
generally accepted professional compact. Goldman University was
that finishing school you could parlay into anything from an MBA
to JD to hedge-fund gig. Stick it out long enough, and resist
having an affair with an underling, and you had a shot at Wall
Street’s holy grail: the title of partner at Goldman Sachs.  The training program crammed the ideals of self-sacrifice
and delayed gratification down our throats. Human resources
assigned us mentors and treated us to a daily procession of
executives who had “chiefs of staff.” These suits invariably
held forth on Goldman’s charitable giving and lionized  Robert Rubin , the former senior partner who as  Treasury secretary  in
the Clinton administration single-handedly saved civilization
from economic collapse.  Of course, none of us knew that  Jon Corzine  and  Henry Paulson , the co-chief executive officers at the time, were each
plotting to get the other guy fired. Or that the firm’s partners
were champing at the bit to cash in and check out with Goldman’s
coming IPO. Or that  Rubin  would come to  symbolize  everything
that went wrong with the U.S. financial system.  Our handlers stayed on message: Seek group accomplishment
over individual accolades and compensation; fail and learn as a
team; be “long-term greedy” in the company-hallowed words of Gus Levy, Goldman’s 1970s senior partner. You left feeling kind of
inspired.  Only after you came off the sugar-high of the training
program -- with its booze cruises and paintball outings -- would
you get slapped by the reality of your real job description:
endless days and nights at the office tweaking spreadsheets and
pitch books. A pal who went to work for Goldman’s financials
investment-banking group told me he fainted getting out of a
taxi after three successive all-nighters, just two weeks into
the job. He found escape by cramming for the GMAT over a Red
Bull on the morning train downtown.  Reading List  Several booms, busts, scandals and government inquests
later, Goldman is now a bad word. Anyone who aspires to work
there will have obviously read everything, starting with that
long Rolling Stone polemic in 2010  calling  the bank a “great
vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity, relentlessly
jamming its blood funnel into anything that smells like money.”
They will have pored over regulator complaints on how Goldman
put a major client’s interest above several others. And they
memorized the disillusioned  confessional  by Goldman ex  Greg
Smith  in the  New York  Times.  Aggrandizing Goldman for fawning 22-year-olds was much,
much easier in 1998. Ditto boasting that you worked for Goldman.  These days, as the bank contorts to try to win back its
good name, its website could be mistaken for a  charity portal .
We help women. We rebuild  New Orleans . “10,000 Small
Businesses.” It is a reputational identity crisis that throws
off neither the time nor the cred for the cultural
indoctrination of the undergrad. Instead, Goldman must now
compete with exclusive, higher-paying  hedge funds  for quants.
Traders run the place and chip in the bulk of the house’s bottom
line. Cold-eyed. Eat what you kill. You know what you’re getting
into, kid.  Goldman is still the premier draw among Wall Street
investment banks for college grads and MBAs, drawing standing
rooms on its less-frequent campus visits. But any serious
recruit who bothers to read up on the ticker “GS” knows that
Goldman, public since 1999, isn’t even trading at liquidation
value. In the first half of this year, the firm posted its worst
revenue in seven years, weighed down by moribund investment-
banking numbers. At the end of June, Goldman’s employee
headcount was down 9 percent from a year earlier. Management
vows to cut even more.  In the process, Goldman no longer has much to sell to -- or
profit from -- liberal artsies who will churn out pitch books as
a ticket to something else.  (Roben Farzad is a contributor to Bloomberg Businessweek
and other publications. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Libor and criminal charges 
and on a needed delay for  Arctic oil drilling ; Susan P. Crawford
on  Apple’s war with Google ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  “Muslim rage” in
Pakistan ; William Pesek on  Myanmar’s economic development ;
 Ramesh Ponnuru  on  QE3 FAQs ;  Jeff Rubin  on  oil’s inadequate
replacements .  To contact the writer of this article:
Roben Farzad at  robenfwd@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 