-- Gundlach Offers $1.7 Million in Rewards for Stolen Works
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-09-24T23:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/gundlach-offers-1-7-million-in-rewards-for-stolen-works.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , the chief
executive officer of DoubleLine Capital LP whose home was
burglarized this month, offered as much as $1.7 million for
information leading to the recovery of stolen artwork.  The reward includes $1 million for the recovery of a
painting by Piet Mondrian, provided it isn’t damaged, and
$500,000 for a Jasper Johns work and two pieces by Joseph
Cornell, Gundlach said today at a news conference. The rewards
are on top of the $200,000 Gundlach had offered last week for
information leading to the recovery of various items.  The name of Gundlach’s firm, DoubleLine, partly stems from
his love for artwork by Mondrian, whose paintings feature a grid
of vertical and horizontal lines and three primary colors. At
least 10 paintings, a red 2010 Porsche Carrera 4S and five
watches, including one Breitling, were taken from Gundlach’s
Santa Monica home, with the total loss estimated at more than
$10 million, according to police.  “I think he’s doing the right thing by making it very
public,” Anthony Amore, co-author of “Stealing Rembrandts”
and president of  Boston  Security Associates, a firm that focuses
on art security and recovery, said in a telephone interview.
“You have to make these things so recognizable that everyone
knows it’s a hot item.”  The largest private reward ever offered is $5 million by
the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston for 13 paintings
stolen in 1990, Amore said. Rewards offered should be phrased in
a way that makes it clear the thieves aren’t eligible for the
money because it sets a bad precedent, he said.  ‘Green Target’  Gundlach today declined to comment on how the crime
occurred and whether his art is insured.  The painting by Dutch artist Mondrian is titled
“Composition (A) en Rouge et Blanc” and the piece by American
artist Johns is called “Green Target.”  High value artwork such as the Mondrian or Johns generally
are either recovered within months or after a generation, Amore
said. If the thieves can’t sell them because they’re too
recognizable, they’ll hide them and won’t be discovered until
after they die, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  