-- Li & Fung Unit Serving Wal-Mart to Be Profitable in 2012
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   W o n g   a n d   F r a n k   L o n g i d
-- 2012-09-24T01:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/li-fung-unit-serving-wal-mart-to-be-profitable-in-2012.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494) ’s unit supplying
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  will be profitable this year after the
world’s largest retailer ended an option to buy the subsidiary,
which led the  Hong Kong  company’s shares to fall last week.  Wal-Mart last week terminated an option agreed to 2010 to
purchase Direct Sourcing Group Pte. The Li & Fung unit has been
supplying Wal-Mart with at least $2 billion of goods annually,
 Bruce Rockowitz , chief executive officer of the largest supplier
of clothes and toys to retailers said in a Sept. 21 telephone
interview.  “The size of the business and profitability of the
business is growing, and better now than ever,” Rockowitz said.
The subsidiary broke even in the first half, will make a profit
in the second and be “very profitable” in 2013, he said.  Direct Sourcing Group was set up two years ago when the
outsourcer’s relationship with Wal-Mart was new, Rockowitz said.
Li & Fung’s relationship with Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-
Mart is “better than ever,” he said. The amended agreement
released to Hong Kong’s stock exchange on Sept. 20 triggered a
2.6 percent  share-price  decline, the most in two weeks, the
following day.  “They thought they needed a call option -- just in case it
doesn’t go well they can buy it back,” Rockowitz said. “They
were comfortable after the first year that they don’t need it
anymore.  Higher Margin  ‘‘We have a good relationship and there are still
opportunities for business,’’  Scott Price , head of Wal-Mart’s
Asia operations, said in a Sept. 21 interview.  Li & Fung’s share-price decline on Sept. 21 extended its
slide this year to 15 percent,  compared  with a 12 percent climb
for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The stock last year slumped
36 percent after more than tripling in the decade through 2010.  The new agreement allows for Li & Fung to provide higher-
margin design and replenishment services to the world’s largest
retailer, Rockowitz said.  ‘‘This is positive not only for revenue streams but also
for margins as distribution is traditionally a higher-margin
business,” Vineet Sharma, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Hong
Kong, said in a note to clients dated Sept. 20.  Sam's Club  Li & Fung said it will continue to be a primary supplier
for Sam’s Club in the U.S. through Direct Sourcing Group and
provide buying-agency services to Wal-Mart’s U.S. operations and
in some of its international markets. The accord is for five
years with an option for a two-year extension and beyond, with
no break-out clause, Rockowitz said.  Rockowitz said a Wall Street Journal report that said Wal-
Mart canceled “much of a deal” for Li & Fung to supply its
international stores and will move to buy more goods directly
from factories was “not true.” The newspaper cited people
close the company it didn’t identify.  “Over the last two years, both sides really learned to
work with each other,” he said. “What Li & Fung should focus
on is to help Wal-Mart.”  The Hong Kong company reported in August first-half core
operating  profit  fell 22 percent to $221 million as U.S.
consumers curb spending amid a slower economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Wong in Hong Kong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid in Hong Kong at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  