-- Libor Scandal Shows Need for EU Market-Abuse Law: Barnier
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-24T16:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/libor-scandal-shows-need-for-eu-market-abuse-law-barnier.html
European Union lawmakers should
enact tougher punishments for market abusers, including jail
time, by the end of the year in response to the Libor scandal,
the bloc’s financial-services chief said.  A culture of banks rigging  interest-rate  benchmarks shows
the importance of an agreement on tougher market-abuse rules,
 Michel Barnier  told a panel of EU lawmakers in Brussels today.
EU regulators are also investigating possible breaches in cartel
rules from both banks and brokers in the setting of Libor,
 Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, said in his
testimony to the European Parliament.  “The only thing that’s not possible is self-regulation or
the status quo,” Barnier said.  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark interest rate for more
than $500 trillion of securities, was shaken following  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ’s admission in June that it submitted false rates. The
revelations provoked renewed calls for tougher oversight of the
financial system and pushed regulatory and criminal probes of
interbank lending rates to the top of the political agenda.  The parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee is
preparing to vote on Oct. 8 to boost the bloc’s sanctions
against market abuse, including jail sentences for bank staff
found guilty of collusion to fix interbank lending rates.
Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($469.8 million) by
regulators in the U.S. and U.K after admitting it submitted
false information on London and euro interbank offered rates.  Hefty Fines  The cartel probes will end as soon as possible, Almunia
said, and will result in hefty fines if antitrust violations are
proven. “We can imagine in this case we are not talking about
10 euros -- it is a big amount.”  “I’m referring to banks, but also in some cases to
brokers,” he said. Fines may be increased to take into account
the “gravity” of the behavior in the cases, he said.  Gary Gensler , the chairman of the CFTC said in prepared
remarks for today’s Libor hearing, that it was “time for a new
or revised benchmark -- a healthy benchmark anchored in actual,
observable market transactions.”  Martin Wheatley, managing director of the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, is scheduled to release a report this week
on an overhaul of Libor.  Dan Doctoroff , chief executive officer of Bloomberg LP,
also spoke at the EU parliament event today. Doctoroff proposed
a new benchmark using data from a variety of financial
transactions, including credit default swaps, and so would
“better reflect participating banks’ real cost of credit.”  The company, the parent of  Bloomberg News , would carry out
the work on a pro-bono basis, Doctoroff said.  Rate Manipulation  Barnier’s plans would also set financial penalties for
attempted rate manipulation. The European Commission is also
seeking views on possible rules to overhaul Libor, Euribor and
other market benchmarks.  EU regulators are weighing options such as forcing  banks  to
provide real transaction data rather than estimates and
increasing the number of lenders involved in the rate setting.  While there are alternative benchmarks available, “none
represent a silver bullet,” Joanna Cound, head of government
affairs for Blackrock Inc., said at the hearing. “We believe
that a greater diversity of benchmarks is appropriate.”  Swaps Probe  A commission investigation into the pricing of credit-
default swaps will also conclude as soon as possible, Almunia
Said today.  Scrutiny of credit-default swaps intensified after  Greece ’s
rating was cut to junk status by  Standard & Poor’s  in 2010. The
downgrade added urgency to European plans to bail out the debt-
plagued nation.  Credit-default swaps are derivatives that pay the buyer
face value if a borrower -- a country or a company -- defaults.
In exchange, the swap seller gets the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent. Traders in naked credit-default swaps buy
insurance on bonds they don’t own.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
$10 million of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels via 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net 
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  