-- Libor Gives Prosecutors Chance to Change Banking Culture
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-24T23:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/libor-gives-prosecutors-chance-to-change-banking-culture.html
A defining feature of the 2008
financial crisis has been the dearth of criminal prosecutions.
Rightly or wrongly, people have gotten the impression that the
sheriff is asleep. The global Libor scandal has the potential to
change that.  The investigation into the  London  interbank offered rate
has already uncovered a wealth of evidence. From the facts
provided by Barclays Plc in its  settlements  with U.S. and U.K.
authorities, we know that its employees, and probably those of
many other banks, submitted estimates of borrowing costs that
they knew to be false. Those estimates were used to calculate a
suite of benchmark interest rates that influence the value of
hundreds of trillions of dollars in financial contracts
worldwide.  The misbehavior went on from 2005 to 2009, possibly longer.
Sometimes the employees lied at the behest of traders, who
wanted to manipulate Libor to benefit their own positions.
Sometimes -- specifically during the financial crisis -- they
submitted artificially low rates on orders from managers, who
wanted to conceal their banks’ funding troubles.  The  order  describing the Barclays settlement with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission offers a glimpse of the
instant messages, e-mails and other exhibits prosecutors have at
their disposal.  Big Position  “We got a big position in 3m libor for the next 3 days,”
wrote a  New York  trader to a rate submitter in London, in
reference to three-month Libor. “Can we please keep the Libor
fixing at 5.39.” In response to another trader’s request for a
low Libor quote, a submitter wrote: “Done … for you big boy.”
And here’s how a Libor submitter responded to a supervisor who
ordered him to keep quotes low during the crisis: “I will be
contributing rates which are nowhere near the clearing rates for
unsecured cash and therefore will not be posting honest prices.”  There are various ways the traders’ efforts at manipulation
for profit may have broken the law. Consider  wire fraud , a U.S.
statute that prohibits the use of any interstate or
international communication in furtherance of an effort to
deceive for personal gain. There’s also  bank fraud , which
applies to deceptions perpetrated against financial institutions
-- the traders’ counterparties in many cases. Both statutes
carry sentences of as much as 30 years in prison.  It’s important that prosecutors examine the entire chain of
command. Given the length of time the misbehavior went on, it’s
hard to imagine that executives were completely unaware.
Reporting by  Bloomberg News  suggests that senior managers of at
least one institution, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, condoned and
participated in the submission of false rates. If executives
knew what traders were doing and encouraged it -- for example,
by paying them bonuses -- that could be conspiracy to commit
fraud, a crime that carries a prison term of as much as five
years.  As regards the more systematic underreporting of Libor
during the financial crisis, one could explore whether
executives violated  securities-fraud  laws. It’s a crime to
knowingly provide, or cause to be provided, false information
that affects an investor’s assessment of the value of a
security. A misreported cost of borrowing, for instance, can
influence a bank’s stock price: Financial institutions depend
heavily on borrowed money, so the  interest rate  they pay is an
important indicator of their soundness and profitability.  State Options  At the state level, New York’s  Martin Act  offers
prosecutors an easier standard. It’s similar to federal
securities-fraud law, with the crucial difference that state
prosecutors don’t need to prove fraudulent intent or the
victim’s reliance on the false information. Former New York
Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  employed the Martin Act to great
effect in his battles against  Wall Street , though it hasn’t been
used much to pursue criminal cases.  Some have argued that Libor manipulation  isn’t a big deal 
in the grand scheme of things. True, it didn’t cause the
financial crisis, and in some cases might even have helped
homeowners by lowering mortgage payments. But the ease with
which some in the financial community undermined one of the
world’s most important financial benchmarks is of a piece with
the actions that contributed to the crisis, and that erode
trust in finance more broadly.  For markets to function effectively, such behavior cannot
stand. The culture needs to change. Prosecutors have the power
to make that clear.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a needed delay for  Arctic oil
drilling ; Susan P. Crawford on  Apple’s war with Google ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  “Muslim rage” in Pakistan ; William Pesek on
 Myanmar’s economic development ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  QE3 FAQs ;
Roben Farzad on the breakup between  Goldman Sachs and ambitious
youth ;  Jeff Rubin  on  oil’s inadequate replacements .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 