-- Iceland Taps Hollywood Stars for Next Chapter in Recovery Saga
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-09-24T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/iceland-taps-hollywood-stars-for-next-chapter-in-recovery-saga.html
Iceland has won praise from Nobel
laureate  Paul Krugman  and the  International Monetary Fund  for
its ability to dig itself out of financial ruin. Now, the island
is turning to Hollywood for the next chapter in its recovery.  The North Atlantic island has since last year become a
backdrop for some of Hollywood’s biggest blockbusters, including
 Ridley Scott ’s “Prometheus” and  Darren Aronofsky ’s “Noah,”
starring  Russell Crowe .  Moviemaking is providing a new source of revenue to the $13
billion economy as Iceland seeks to attract international
investors and phase out  capital controls . The focus on film and
arts is also helping the government shift focus from banking,
which brought the economy to its knees in 2008, to more
traditional industries such as tourism and fishing.  The  film industry  “is having a considerable positive
financial impact on Iceland’s economy,” said Helga Margret
Reykdal, general manager of Truenorth ehf, a Reykjavik-based
movie production company. “Our projects alone will bring a
total revenue stream of close to 3 billion kronur ($24 million),
which then has a multiplying effect within the economy.”  The island, home to 320,000 inhabitants, has more than
7,000 companies classified as working in the creative arts,
according to a 2011 report from the Industry Ministry. Agust
Einarsson, an economics professor at Iceland’s Bifrost
University, estimates that about 25 percent of the workforce is
involved in the “creative industries,” accounting for about 4
percent of national output.  Biggest Industry  “I wouldn’t be surprised if creative industries will
become the largest contributor to  Iceland ’s gross domestic
product within the next 15 to 20 years,” Einarsson said by
phone. “Within that time, we could see that creative industries
could account for as much as 30 percent of national output.”  Iceland’s video-game companies are also thriving and have
increased their sales six-fold from 2005 to 2009, according to
Arion Banki hf. In 2011, the 10 companies inside the Icelandic
Gaming Industry Association grossed 50 million euros ($65
million), Arion estimates.  “Small communities like Iceland offer unique opportunities
for those working in the creative arts,” said Hilmar Veigar Petursson, chief executive officer of CCP hf, which produces EVE
Online, a science fiction internet game started in 2003 that has
400,000 users. “People are more likely to mix and match with
others that aren’t necessarily in their social class or may have
completely different backgrounds.”  ‘Gone Mad’  Local movie production company Truenorth is enjoying its
best year on record, with productions including  Ben Stiller ’s
“The Secret Life of Walter Mitty,” and Joseph Kosinski’s
“Oblivion,” which stars  Tom Cruise .  “The interesting thing about our movie projects like the
ones that have been assigned to Truenorth is that their economic
effect is similar to debt-free individual consumption gone
mad,” said Reykdal. “At the same time we’re building props and
movie sets, we’re buying services from hotels and other service
providers, such as tourism companies.”  The government is also supporting the industry by
reimbursing 20 percent of all film and television production
costs in the country. Professor Einarsson estimates the
government gets back 5 kronur in  tax revenue  for every 1 krona
it pays to subsidize movie making.  Tax Threat  The government of Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir
predicted this month the  budget deficit  will almost disappear
next year as it raises taxes on hotels and tourism and as
economic growth replenishes state coffers. Iceland, whose 2008
banking collapse sent the krona plunging 80 percent against the
euro offshore, will grow 2.4 percent this year, the IMF said in
April. The 17-member  euro zone  will contract 0.3 percent, the
Washington-based fund estimates.  Iceland’s budget will show a deficit of 0.1 percent of
gross domestic product in 2013, the  Finance Ministry  said on
Sept. 11.  The krona’s decline has also played a key role in helping
rebuild through the creative arts, according to Magnus Scheving,
creator and chief executive officer of LazyTown Entertainment,
producer of the Lazytown television show that has been sold to
180 countries worldwide. He warns that government plans to raise
tourism taxes and the central bank’s efforts to strengthen the
krona may harm the appeal of Iceland as a creative arts
location.  “Politicians and political parties are the greatest threat
to creative arts in Iceland,” he said. “Also, if the krona is
allowed to appreciate much more it will lead to the collapse of
this sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 