-- Life Partners Battles Texas Over Sales Claims
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   K e l l e y   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-09-24T23:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/life-partners-battles-texas-over-sales-claims.html
Life Partners Inc. (LPHI) , a company that
buys out life insurance policy interests, deceives its own
investors about how soon those policies will pay off, lawyers
for  Texas  Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said.  Abbott sued the Waco, Texas-based company and parent Life
Partners Holdings Inc. last month, claiming their actions are
tantamount to a used car dealer who rolls back vehicle odometers
to increase their value.  “The companies rely upon one life expectancy at purchase
and then provide investors with a significantly shorter and
artificial life expectancy in order to generate contrived and
inflated revenues,” according to the complaint filed in state
court in Austin.  At a hearing today, the attorney general sought a court
order ending practices he claims violate the Texas Securities
Act. Judge Stephen Yelenosky heard more than three hours of
testimony before adjourning until tomorrow.  Life Partners’ lawyers have asked the court to throw out
the case, arguing prior rulings prove the state’s securities
laws don’t apply to their clients.  The company  has more than 29,000 investors in the U.S.,
according to Abbott. As of Dec. 31, 2010, Life Partners held
3,879 policies, of which 3,152 were beyond the  life expectancy 
estimates given to the investors, according to the complaint.  Investors, Advisers  Courtroom spectators included Life Partners investors and
financial advisers, some of whom wore blue short-sleeve shirts
bearing the company’s name.  Supporters held signs outside the courthouse stating “AG
For Sale,” “LPI Helps Seniors,” and “Abbott: Friend of
Lobbyist.”  Chief Executive Officer Brian Pardo and General Counsel
Scott Peden are also defendants in the case. They’ve denied the
attorney general’s claims. Peden will testify tomorrow, company
lawyer Elizabeth Yingling told the court.  “The very issue sought to be adjudicated by plaintiff
herein has already been determined as to LPI not once but twice,
by two different appellate courts,” according to the Life
Partners filing, citing a 2005 Texas appeals court decision and
a 1996 ruling by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington .  “It is not only logical and lawful, but perfectly fair,
for LPI to have relied upon those decisions in the continued
operation of its business,” attorneys for the company said in
the Sept. 19 filing.  No Order  Travis County District Court Judge  Orlinda Naranjo  in
Austin on Aug. 17 issued an order barring Life Partners from
dissipating assets or destroying records. She rejected the
state’s request to bar Life Partners from engaging in fraud or
selling unregistered securities, telling the lawyers those
issues went to the heart of the dispute.  She didn’t rule on the attorney general’s request to
appoint a receiver for the companies, which Abbott has said are
running out of money.  The case was reassigned today to Yelenosky. He heard
testimony from former Life Partners Chief Financial Officer
 David Martin , who left the company in July after four years in
that role.  He testified that at the second quarter of fiscal year 2011
Life Partners had $33 million in revenue. By end of last
February revenue was $5 million.  Imminent Danger  Still, under questioning by Yingling, Martin said that when
he left, he wasn’t concerned that the business was in imminent
danger of failing.  “I felt like they could exist for much longer than 12
months,” he said. Martin also said he wasn’t worried about its
finances for fiscal 2014.  The ex-CFO told the court he had no reason to believe any
fraudulent activity was taking place.  Kevin Stephens, a forensic accountant with  Navigant
Consulting Inc. (NCI)  in Washington, also testified for the state,
telling the court that Life Partners’ operating income had been
decreasing for the past five quarters.  The company is using cash on hand, $12.7 million at the
start of its fiscal year, to pay dividends and cover operating
losses, Stephens said.  Most of those dividends have gone to Pardo Family Holdings
Ltd., domiciled in Gibraltar, Stephens said. SEC filings also
reflect payments to Brian Pardo, his daughter and son-in-law for
salary, bonuses and other compensation.  The case is Texas v. Life Partners Holdings Inc., D-1-
GV-12-001128, District Court of Travis County, Texas, 201st
Judicial District (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Kelley Shannon in Austin at 
 kelley@kelleyshannon.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  