-- IMF’s Lagarde Urges Europe to Implement Crisis Plans
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-09-24T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/imf-s-lagarde-urges-europe-to-implement-crisis-plans.html
International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  urged European policy makers
to implement their plans to save the euro, including the
formation of a banking union, as the  fund  prepares to lower its
global growth forecasts.  Uncertainty over the ability of policy makers around the
world to deliver on their promises is weighing down on the
global economy, Lagarde said in prepared remarks for a speech in
 Washington  today. While the euro region is where action is the
most urgently needed, the U.S. also poses a “major risk”
through the fiscal tightening that may take place next year, she
said.  In the euro region, “markets have been buoyed,” Lagarde
said. “Now they want to see coordinated implementation --
multiple players playing one game.”  “This will require euro area leaders to deliver on their
June 29 commitments -- establishing a single supervisory
mechanism and enabling the direct recapitalization of banks.”  Lagarde’s remarks reflect concerns that Europe may yet
again miss a chance to halt its debt crisis even after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to buy  government
bonds  in exchange for strict conditions. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande  disagree on
a timetable for starting joint oversight of Europe’s banking
sector, while Spain is resisting asking for aid and Greece has
been unable to meet its bailout conditions.  Regain Control  Draghi has said his plan to regain control of  interest
rates  in the euro area and save the euro will need IMF help to
draft and monitor conditions attached to it. The fund has co-
financed aid packages to Greece, Ireland and Portugal and is
helping keep track of a rescue of Spain’s banks.  The IMF still expects a “gradual recovery,” though it now
sees global growth “a bit weaker” than it had forecast in
July, Lagarde said. The fund then expected growth of 3.5 percent
this year and 3.9 percent in 2013.  In the U.S., implementing fiscal cuts that would be part of
a current law if no agreement is reached on how to reduce the
country’s debt would reduce growth by as much as 2 percent, she
said.  “We all recognize that political calendars impact the
timing of key decisions,” Lagarde said. “But the current
uncertainty presents a serious threat for the  United States  and,
as the world’s largest economy, for the global economy.”  Emerging markets  are now also feeling a slowdown, which for
some may call for additional stimulus measures or a halt to
fiscal and monetary tightening, Lagarde said. The IMF is ready
to offer precautionary financial support, she said at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  