-- IMF Lagarde Sees Greek Finance Gap Beyond Fiscal Measures
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-09-24T19:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/imf-lagarde-sees-greek-finance-gap-beyond-fiscal-measures.html
Greece  faces a financing gap that
won’t be solved by budget measures being discussed because a
weak economy and delayed privatizations have worsened its fiscal
situation, International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said.  Lagarde said efforts being discussed by the Greek
government and the so-called troika to find 11.5 billion euros
in savings won’t be enough to put back on track Greece’s 130
billion-euro (168 billion) bailout jointly funded by the IMF,
the European Commission and  European Central Bank .  A “financing gap” has emerged because of “the
macroeconomic situation, the major delay in privatization and
therefore shortfall in proceeds from the privatization” as well
as “limited revenue collection,” Lagarde said at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington . “The Greek
debt will have to be addressed as part of the equation.”  Greece and representatives of the country’s international
lenders last week agreed to take a week-long break from
inconclusive talks to carve out a budget package that’s key to
receiving aid funds. Lagarde’s comments today suggest an
agreement may have to go beyond these measures.  The IMF has indicated that any additional financing for
Greece will have to come from  Europe . In a March report on
Greece, IMF economists said the country may need more aid from
Europe or further debt restructuring if the current loan program
went off track.  Debt Goal  A goal of reducing Greece’s debt to 120 percent of its
gross domestic product by 2020 “is still clearly the horizon
that is set in order to measure the efforts to be undertaken by
then,” Lagarde said.  Lagarde said the  Greek economy  also requires structural
reforms to help prepare it for growth. “We need some structural
reforms that are in the interest of Greece and the Greek
population so that those who can work, who want to access
markets, can actually do so,” she said.  Earlier, Lagarde said the IMF favors giving program-
receiving countries that are making “huge efforts” on debt
reduction the time and flexibility to do succeed.  “The last thing we want is for programs to be off track
and off track and off track again,” she said during a speech in
Washington. She said the IMF has recommended slowing the pace of
fiscal adjustment for Portugal and  Spain .  “We have our views about Greece,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  