-- Indian Stock Exchange CEO Sees Market Reforms Boosting Equities
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-09-24T20:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/indian-stock-exchange-ceo-sees-market-reforms-boosting-equities.html
India ’s stock market will benefit
from government reforms to attract capital and boost economic
growth, said Ravi Narain, chief executive officer of the
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.  India’s equity market is “very much driven by government
reforms and what the growth story is,” Narain said yesterday at
a conference in  New York . Regulators are working to “facilitate
foreign investor participation” and “we’ll see the impact of
that,” he said.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of stocks has gained 5
percent over the past month, extending its rally this year to 21
percent, as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  opened the retail and
aviation industries to foreign investors and cut fuel subsidies
to reduce government’s deficit. Overseas investors have bought a
net $14 billion in Indian equities as of Sept. 21, after
withdrawing $512 million last year, according to the nation’s
market regulator.  Shares on the  benchmark index  traded at about 15 times
estimated earnings, below the average of 16 over the past five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This compares
with an average multiple of 11 for emerging-market stocks.  The  Bank of New York Mellon India ADR Index  lost 0.1
percent to 1,039.14 in New York yesterday, falling for the first
time in three days.  Indian stocks’ valuations are attractive because the shares
in the benchmark are more diversified than their peers in
 developing countries , according to Kathryn Koch, a senior
strategist at Goldman Sachs Asset Management.  ‘No Better Investment’  “Longer term, I don’t think there’re any better investment
opportunities out there than India,” Koch said at the
conference.  India has the greatest growth potential among the so-called
BRIC countries, which include  Brazil , Russia, India and  China ,
because it has the most favorable demographics and a young
working population, she said.  India’s gross domestic product rose 5.5 percent in the
three months through June from a year earlier, rebounding from a
three-year low of 5.3 percent during the previous period. That
compared with second-quarter growth rates of 0.49 percent in
Brazil, 4 percent in Russia and 7.6 percent in China.  The Sensex Index fell the most in three weeks on Sept. 20
after Singh’s largest ally said it was exiting the coalition
over the announced reforms. Trinamool Congress ministers will be
pulled from the federal cabinet on Sept. 21, party leader  Mamata
Banerjee  said on Sept. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  