-- India’s IL&FS Said to Plan Singapore IPO for Wind Power
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-09-24T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/india-s-il-fs-said-to-plan-singapore-ipo-for-wind-power.html
Infrastructure Leasing & Financial
Services Ltd., an Indian company whose  shareholders  include
 Japan ’s  Orix Corp. (8591)  and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, is
planning an initial public offering of its wind power unit in
 Singapore , said three people with knowledge of the matter.  The company may file an initial application in the fourth
quarter and is seeking to do the share sale in 2013, said two of
the people, who asked not to be named as the details are
private. IL&FS may seek to raise about $250 million through the
IPO, the people said.  Arun Saha, joint managing director and chief executive
officer of IL&FS, didn’t respond to requests for comment on the
proposed sale. Indian companies including  Fortis Healthcare
India Ltd. (FORH)  and  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  have already chosen
Singapore for their share sales.  Fortis plans to raise S$500 million ($407 million) from a
Singapore IPO this year, two people with knowledge of the matter
told Bloomberg in March. Fortis had sought to list as a business
trust that would be backed by the assets of its Indian
hospitals, one person said.  IL&FS is involved in developing 8,000 megawatts of power
and 5,000 kilometers of transmission lines with investments of
450 billion rupees ($8.4 billion), according to its website. It
has wind energy projects in the states of  Tamil Nadu  and
Rajasthan.  Deutsche Bank AG,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  are among the banks chosen to manage the share sale, the
people said. Officials at Deutsche Bank, Nomura and JPMorgan
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  