-- Indian Bond Yields Decline to Six-Week Low on Easing Speculation
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-09-24T11:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/indian-bond-yields-decline-to-six-week-low-on-easing-speculation.html
India ’s 10-year bonds rose, pushing
yields to a six-week low, after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
pledged more action to spur growth, stoking speculation policy
makers will cut borrowing costs.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will cut its  repurchase rate  by
25 basis points to 7.75 percent by year-end, J. Moses Harding,
executive vice president at  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB) , predicts. The
central bank last lowered the benchmark by 50 basis points in
April, the only decrease since 2009. Singh, who allowed overseas
retailers and foreign airlines to invest in India this month,
said in a prime-time speech to the nation on Sept. 21 that the
government will unveil more measures to revive the economy.  “The central bank may loosen its monetary policy further
in the coming months to spur the economy,” said Mumbai-based
Harding. “From a strategic point of view, these are good levels
to buy bonds.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.16 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. That’s
the lowest level since Aug. 9.  Asia ’s third-largest economy  expanded  5.5 percent in the
three months through June, according to the latest government
figures, compared with the 5.3 percent gain in the previous
quarter that was the smallest since 2009.  “The time has come for hard decisions,” Singh said in the
15-minute speech from his office that was broadcast by state
television. “We need to do more, and we will do more.”  RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao reduced the cash reserve
 ratio , or the proportion of deposits lenders must set aside as
reserve, to 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent last week in the first
decrease since March.  Cheaper Oil  Bonds are also supported by optimism that a drop in crude
 oil prices  will help rein in inflation, according to IndusInd’s
Harding. India’s benchmark price index rose 7.55 percent last
month, compared with 2 percent in  China , 5.2 percent in  Brazil 
and 5.9 percent in  Russia .  Brent crude  has dropped 4 percent since Aug. 31, after
rising in each of the previous two months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. India imports about 80 percent of its oil.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell four basis
points to 7.68 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  