-- India’s NTPC Markets Dollar Debt as Yields Fall to Two-Year Low
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   H e n r y   S a n d e r s o n
-- 2012-09-24T05:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/india-s-ntpc-markets-dollar-debt-as-yields-fall-to-two-year-low.html
NTPC Ltd. (NTPC)  is marketing a sale of
dollar-denominated bonds in the first such offering by an Indian
non-financial company since February. Yields on notes in the
U.S. currency in Asia fell to an almost two-year low.  The New Delhi-based generator, which supplies power to
state electricity boards across  India , is offering 10-year
securities at about 325 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, a person familiar with the matter said, asking not
to be identified because the terms aren’t set. Average  yields  on
dollar debt dropped to 4.13 percent last week, the lowest since
November 2010, JPMorgan Chase & Co indexes show. Bond risk was
little changed.  Issuers in the Asia-Pacific region are weighing cheaper
borrowing costs with uncertainty about China’s growth and the
 European debt crisis , after the U.S. Federal Reserve loosened
monetary policy earlier this month. Fixed-income assets should
perform well as so-called quantitative easing steps increase
liquidity, according to BOCI Securities Ltd.  “The global backdrop has improved to some degree,” said
 Steve Wang , the Hong Kong-based head of fixed-income research at
BOCI Securities. “U.S. dollar yields are close to their lowest-
ever levels so this remains very attractive to issuers.”  Investor Meetings  China South City Holdings Ltd. (1668)  is considering a sale of
five-year bonds and is meeting investors in Hong Kong today and
Singapore tomorrow, a person familiar with the matter said.
 China Hongqiao Group Ltd. (1378)  and  China Resources Cement Holdings
Ltd. (1313)  also plan to hold talks with credit investors in Asia and
Europe this week, other people said.  The last Indian non-financial company to sell dollar bonds
was Reliance Industries Ltd., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It issued $1.5 billion of 5.4 percent notes due 2022
via two sales in February. The bonds were yielding 4.45 percent
as of 12:40 p.m. in  Hong Kong , ING Groep NV prices on Bloomberg
show.  The Markit iTraxx Asia Series 18 index of 40 investment-
grade borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 133.5 as of
9:21 a.m. in Hong Kong Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices
show. The index has risen from a 14-month low of 112.6 basis
points on Sept. 19, according to CMA prices.  Australia, Japan  The Markit iTraxx Australia Series 18 index was also little
changed at 153 as of 10:40 a.m. in Sydney, according to Credit
Agricole SA. The benchmark has ranged between 135.3 and 186 this
quarter, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index advanced 0.5 basis points to
212 basis points as of 9:39 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG
prices show. The measure is set for its highest close since
214.9 on May 21, according to CMA pricing on Series 17 of the
index.  New versions of the benchmarks are created every six months
when companies are added or dropped depending on their ratings,
the cost of protecting their debt and the ease of trading their
swaps. The maturity date of the new indexes, which started
trading Sept. 20, is December 2017, compared with June 2017 on
the Series 17 versions.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  