-- Iraq to Pay Kurdistan Oil Producers Next Week, Hawrami Says
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-09-24T10:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/iraq-to-pay-oil-producers-in-kurdistan-next-week-hawrami-says.html
Iraq’s government will start making
payments to international oil companies working in the northern
Kurdish region next week, said  Ashti Hawrami , natural resources
minister in the Kurdistan Regional Government.  The federal government will initially pay two thirds of 1
trillion dinars ($858.3 million) and will complete the payment
later, he said today at a conference in Istanbul, without being
more specific on the time frame.  Iraq’s central government reached an accord earlier this
month to end the dispute over payments related to international
oil companies operating in the country’s semi-autonomous
northern Kurdish area. The disagreement, which had prompted the
Kurds to halt crude exports for about four months this year, had
escalated after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Total SA (FP) ,
committed to doing business in the region.  The Kurdistan Regional Government plans to complete oil and
gas export pipelines direct to  Turkey  in the next two years that
will end the Kurds’ reliance on the central government’s
infrastructure. Those links are due to be operational by early
2014, Hawrami said. The oil pipeline will have a capacity of 1
million barrels a day, he said.  The Kurdish region’s oil exports are due to reach 1 million
barrels a day by 2015 and gas export capacity through Turkey may
rise to as much as 15 billion cubic meters a year, he said,
without specifying by when.  Kurdish authorities are in talks with a number of
international oil companies for future energy contracts, he
said, without giving more details.  Iraq’s Kurdish area is exporting 140,000 barrels of crude a
day and will raise daily shipments to 200,000 barrels next year,
Nechirvan Idris Barzani, the KRG prime minister, said in a
statement published by the official KRG website Sept. 20. Iraq
holds the fifth-biggest crude reserves, according to data from
 BP Plc (BP/)  that include  Canadian oil sands .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net 
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  