-- Itau Buys $5.17 Billion Redecard Shares in Tender Offer
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-09-24T20:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/itau-buys-5-17-billion-redecard-shares-in-tender-offer.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,  Latin
America ’s biggest bank by market value, purchased 299 million
shares of Redecard SA for 10.5 billion reais ($5.17 billion) as
it completed its plan to take the credit-card processor private.  Redecard will stop trading on the BM&FBovespa as a result
of the tender offer by Sao Paulo-based Itau, according to a
statement from the exchange.  Itau was Redecard’s largest shareholder, with a 50 percent
stake, when it offered in February to buy the rest of the
company and delist it. The transaction leaves  Cielo SA (CIEL3)  as
 Brazil ’s only publicly traded card-processing company. The two
companies are facing stronger competition after a Brazil
central-bank ruling in 2010 ended their exclusive right to
process certain transactions.  Itau “will absorb Redecard, and that will create synergies
and they will be able to cut costs,” said  Pedro Galdi , chief
strategist at brokerage SLW Corretora in  Sao Paulo . “It was a
long process, like a soap opera, but now Itau has reached its
goal.”  The bank paid 35 reais per share, or about 9 percent more
than the stock price at the time the offer was announced.
Redecard shares gained 1 percent to $35 at 5:09 p.m. in Sao
Paulo. They reached a five-month high last week as the looming
deadline for Itau to purchase all outstanding shares prompted
investors to buy the card-payment processor’s stock.  Itau needed to buy at least two-thirds of Redecard’s shares
to delist the company, according to an Aug. 23 prospectus.  Lazard’s Challenge  Lazard Asset Management LLC, which owned about 10 percent
of  Redecard, (RDCD3)  asked in April for a new appraisal of Itau’s bid,
saying it undervalued the company. Credit Suisse Group AG was
hired, and said in June that Itau’s offer was in line with its
evaluation.  Redecard was created as a spinoff of Credicard in 1996 by
Citigroup Inc., Banco Itau Holding Financeira SA and Uniao de
Bancos Brasileiros SA, known as Unibanco, to process credit-card
payments and merchant-acquiring businesses, according to its
website. Barueri, Brazil-based Redecard raised 4.07 billion
reais in an initial public offering in July 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  