-- TiVo Gains After Reaching Settlement Pact With Verizon
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-09-24T20:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/tivo-gets-at-least-250-4-million-from-verizon-settlement.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the pioneer of digital-
video-recording technology, gained the most in almost three
weeks after  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  agreed to pay at least
$250.4 million to settle patent litigation.  TiVo shares  rose 4 percent to $9.94 at the close in New
York, the biggest advance since Sept. 4. The stock has risen 11
percent this year.  The agreement requires Verizon to make an initial cash
payment of $100 million, followed by $150.4 million more, paid
in quarterly installments through July 2018, TiVo said today in
a statement. Verizon also will pay monthly license fees for
every Verizon DVR subscriber beyond a predetermined level.  “We are pleased to reach an agreement with Verizon which
underscores the significant value our distribution partners
derive from TiVo’s technological innovations and our
shareholders derive from our investments in protecting TiVo’s
intellectual property,” Tom Rogers, chief executive officer of
Alviso, California-based TiVo, said in the statement.  TiVo, which developed the first commercially available DVR,
has struggled to capitalize on the invention over its 15-year
life. The company has lost money in eight of the past 10 years.  Video Distribution?  The Verizon deal translates to $1.48 per diluted share for
TiVo, according to  Tony Wible , an analyst with Janney Capital
Markets. The agreement also removes $10 million to $15 million
in annual legal expenses, helping investors focus on the
progress of the main business, he said in a report.  Another potential benefit for TiVo: the possibility of
video distribution to TiVo DVRs. As part of the settlement, the
companies are exploring video services through Verizon’s joint
venture with Redbox.  Verizon and Redbox have been testing a streaming video
rental service called Redbox Instant that is expected to deliver
video in select markets by Christmas.  Separately, Verizon also settled today with CloudTV
developer ActiveVideo Networks Inc. of  San Jose ,  California , for
$260 million, according to a  statement .  ActiveVideo makes virtual set-top box applications that
allow users to stream video to televisions and other devices.
Verizon and ActiveVideo agreed to cross-license certain patents
and to not sue each other for an unspecified number of years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  