-- J&J Hid Risks Risperdal Makes Boys’ Breasts Grow: Lawyer
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-24T20:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/j-j-hid-risks-risperdal-makes-boys-breasts-grow-lawyer.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  officials knew
the antipsychotic drug Risperdal could cause boys to grow female
breasts and hid those risks from doctors and patients, a lawyer
for a  Texas  teen-ager suing the company told a jury.  J&J executives knew Risperdal could cause increased hormone
levels that prompted female breast development in males and
trained salespeople to downplay or hide that fact in marketing
calls on doctors, Bob Hilliard, a lawyer for Andrew Bentley,
told a state-court jury in Philadelphia in the first case over
the claims to go to trial.  “A drug that was never meant for kids was illegally
marketed to kids,” Hilliard said in opening statements today.
“Johnson & Johnson knew about this side effect, did not warn
about it and actually covered up evidence about it.”  Bentley’s case is one of about 420 lawsuits against J&J and
its Janssen unit that allege personal injuries caused by
Risperdal, the company said in a regulatory filing last month.
The teen was able to bring his case in  Pennsylvania  because J&J
has operations in the state.  The 17-year-old Houston resident claims he took Risperdal
to treat problems related to  Asperger’s Syndrome  during times
when federal regulators hadn’t approved the drug for use in
children, according to court filings. His lawyers argue J&J
illegally marketed the pills to rack up more than $1 billion in
sales.  Normal Development  J&J’s lawyer countered today that Bentley’s breast
development was normal for a teen going through puberty and
Risperdal played no role in it.  Bentley’s breast growth “was totally consistent with” the
idea that the teen developed breasts as part of puberty, Laura
Smith, one of the company’s attorneys, told the jury. She said
that the company denied illegally marketing the drug.  J&J and Janssen’s marketing of Risperdal has also been the
subject of government investigations and lawsuits.  The U.S. has been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations the company marketed the drug
for unapproved uses, J&J executives said in a regulatory filing.  J&J officials reached an agreement with the U.S. Justice
Department to pay as much as $2.2 billion to resolve probes of
its sales of drugs, including Risperdal, according to people
familiar with the matter,  Bloomberg News  reported earlier this
year.  The company last month agreed to pay $181 million to
resolve claims by 36 states that it improperly marketed and
advertised Risperdal and Invega, another antipsychotic.  Risperdal Fines  In April, a judge in  Arkansas  ordered the drugmaker to pay
$1.2 billion in fines over Risperdal marketing. That verdict
came three months after J&J decided to end a trial in Texas over
the drug’s sales with a $158 million settlement. The Texas case
included claims that the company marketed the drug for children
while lacking approval by regulators for such use.  In June 2011, a judge in  South Carolina  ordered J&J to pay
$327 million in penalties for deceptively marketing the
medicine. The company on Aug. 31 lost a bid to have a Louisiana
appeals court throw out an award of almost $258 million that a
jury ordered it to pay over Risperdal marketing in that state.  The drug’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. It generated
$3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of J&J’s revenue,
according to company filings. Sales of the drug fell to $527
million in 2010, according to earnings reports.  The case is A.B., a minor v. Janssen Pharmaceuticals,
00649, Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas, January Term 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield. Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  