-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Little Changed on Europe
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-24T23:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/japan-australian-stock-futures-little-changed-on-europe.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  were little changed as an impasse among European leaders
in efforts to resolve the debt crisis and weaker German business
confidence curbed the outlook for Asian exporters.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s
second-biggest construction-equipment maker, lost 0.9 percent as
Caterpillar Inc. cut its 2015 profit forecast. Shares of Apple
Inc. suppliers may be active after the smartphone and computer
maker reported debut sales for the iPhone 5 that fell short of
some analysts’ estimates as supply constraints delayed
shipments. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining
company, slid 0.4 percent as metals prices dropped.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,985 in Chicago yesterday compared with
8,990 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at  8,990
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index were little changed today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.1 percent in Wellington.  “We expect the  euro zone  to muddle through it tortuous
crisis-management process for a very long time,” said Benjamin Yeo, Singapore-based head of investment strategy at Barclays
Plc’s wealth-management, which handles about $285 billion. “The
region’s headwinds will remain a strong headwind for the global
economy.”  Europe Impasse  Germany’s governing coalition showed growing exasperation
with Spain, with a senior ally of Chancellor Angela Merkel
saying Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  must stop
prevaricating and decide whether Spain needs a full rescue.
Meister’s comments underscore Europe’s crisis-fighting stalemate
amid discord over a banking union, Greece’s ongoing debate on
how to meet bailout commitments and foot-dragging by Spain on
possible aid.  “He must spell out what the situation is,” Michael
Meister, finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic
Union , said in an interview in Berlin yesterday. The fact he’s
not doing so shows “Rajoy evidently has a communication
problem. If he needs help, he must say so.”  Germany’s Ifo institute in Munich yesterday said its
business climate index dropped for a fifth straight month.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
today. The measures yesterday fell for a third day, its longest
decline in seven weeks, as European leaders clashed on ways to
stem the debt crisis and data from China and Germany signaled
the slowdown is deepening.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index climbed 5 percent this quarter
through yesterday as central banks from Europe, the U.S., Japan
and China took action to stimulate economic growth. The gauge’s
8.1 percent advance this year compares with a 16 percent gain on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a 12 percent jump on the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)  The Asian benchmark traded at 12.7 times
estimated earnings compared with 14.1 for the S&P 500 and 12.1
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
retreated 1 percent yesterday.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. fell 0.3 percent to 91.59 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  