-- Japanese Stocks Drop on Europe Crisis Deadlock, China
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-09-24T06:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/japanese-stocks-drop-as-europe-crisis-deadlock-threatens-outlook.html
Japanese  stocks  fell, with the
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  close to erasing its gain this quarter,
on concern that the outlook for exporters is dimming amid slower
growth in  China  and squabbling by European policy makers.  Brother Industries Ltd. (6448) , an office-equipment maker that
gets almost 30 percent of sales from  Europe , dropped 2.5
percent.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , a construction machinery maker that gets
14 percent of its sales from China, lost 1.6 percent after a
private report showed a drop in optimism in the world’s second
largest economy. Renesas Electronics Corp. surged by its daily
limit on speculation a Japanese state-backed fund may counter a
KKR & Co. offer in a bid for the chipmaker.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.5 percent to 9,069.29
at the 3 p.m. close in  Tokyo . Volume on the gauge was nearly 10
percent less than the 30-day average. The broader  Topix Index (TPX) 
lost 0.4 percent to 753.68.  “There’s a sense of irritation about progress in Europe,”
said Koichi Kurose, chief economist in Tokyo at Resona Bank
Ltd., which oversees about $77 billion. “Economic data in
 Japan , Europe and China shows economies remain in bad shape.
Investors are finding it difficult to change their positions.
They don’t know yet whether the recent stimulus will work. On
the other hand, if the economy gets worse, there’s an
expectation for more stimulus, which will provide a boost to the
market.”  The country’s benchmark equity gauge retreated last week
even after the  Bank of Japan  unexpectedly expanded its stimulus
program to keep the rising yen from undermining a recovery. The
declines have pared the measure’s increase for the  period  since
June 30 to 0.7 percent.  BOJ Minutes  Bank of Japan board members said at their Aug. 8-9 meeting
in Tokyo that the Japanese economy was picking up gradually,
according to minutes released today.  Last week, the Nikkei 225 dropped 0.5 percent, halting a
two-week advance, as an escalating territorial dispute between
Japan and China and signs of a deeper economic slump
overshadowed unexpected stimulus measures by the Bank of Japan.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.2 percent
today on expectations U.S. consumer spending in the U.S.
stagnated in August after adjusting for inflation, showing the
economic expansion is struggling to gain momentum, analysts said
before a report due Sept. 28.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  underlined Franco-German disagreement over the
weekend as they clashed on a timetable to introduce joint
oversight of the region’s banking sector, with Merkel rebuffing
Hollande’s appeal to activate it “the earlier, the better.”  Brother Industries sank 2.5 percent to 786 yen.  Ricoh Co. (7752) ,
an office-equipment and camera maker that obtains more than 20
percent of its revenue in Europe, lost 2.2 percent to 709 yen.  China Reports  China’s  manufacturers  and retailers are less optimistic
about sales than they were three months ago and more companies
are cutting jobs, according to a survey modeled on the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s  Beige Book .  The China Beige Book, through interviews of more than 2,000
company executives and bankers from Aug. 9 to Sept. 3, found
limits to monetary easing after interest-rate cuts in June and
July, with banks loosening credit while fewer companies are
borrowing, according to a summary from CBB International LLC,
the New York-based researcher that conducted the survey.  Komatsu slipped 1.6 percent to 1,567 yen.  Fanuc Corp. (6954) , a
producer of robotics for Chinese factories, declined 1.3 percent
to 13,450 yen.  ‘Worsening Relations’  Exporters to China also declined amid worsening relations
between Japan and the nation in a dispute over control of a
group of islands. Three Chinese patrol vessels were spotted
close to the islands, known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in
Chinese, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura told reporters
today in Tokyo. At least six of 10 Chinese patrol vessels in the
area entered Japanese waters last week.  “There’s concern about worsening relations between China
and Japan,” Resona Bank’s Kurose said. “Psychologically,
investors are sensitive about companies that rely on China. The
impact from the relations is limited to exporters to China.”  Canon Inc. (7751) , which gets 80 percent of its revenue abroad,
slid 3.9 percent to 2,689 yen after the company said on Sept. 22
it halted its factory in China’s Zhuhai from Sept. 21 amid
concern caused by protests over the disputed islands.  Among other companies that fell,  Sumitomo Bakelite Co. (4203) 
tumbled 5.7 percent to 297 yen after cutting its first-half net
income forecast 30 percent to 2.3 billion yen ($29 million). The
resin maker reduced its planned dividend to 5 yen from 7.5 yen
in the six months ended Sept. 30, citing rising materials costs
and stagnant demand in electronics industry. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. lowered the target price on Sumitomo Bakelite to 400 yen
from 430 yen.  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  gained the most among the Topix’s
1,674 members, rising by its daily limit of 80 yen, or 31
percent, to 336 yen as a Japanese state-backed fund may join two
of the nation’s largest manufacturers in a bid for the
unprofitable chipmaker, countering an offer from KKR & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  