-- Jets Face Rest of NFL Season Without All-Pro Cornerback Revis
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-25T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/jets-pro-bowl-cornerback-revis-tears-knee-ligament-in-victory.html
The  New York Jets  will play the
rest of the National Football League season without All-Pro
cornerback Darrelle Revis, who requires surgery to repair a torn
knee ligament.  The loss of Revis, 27, who was selected as an All-Pro in
three of his first five NFL seasons, is a blow to a defense that
relied on his one-on-one coverage against top receivers.  Antonio Cromartie  will become the No. 1 cornerback, with former first-
round draft pick Kyle Wilson moving into the starting lineup,
Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said at a news conference yesterday.  “We’ve got the best in the league in Darrelle and we also
have a No. 1 corner in Cromartie,” Ryan said. “We drafted Kyle
Wilson to be a No. 2 corner and that’s what he’s going to
play.”  The new defensive lineup’s first test will be against the
visiting San Francisco 49ers on Sept. 30 in a meeting of teams
with 2-1 records, followed by an Oct. 8 home game against the
Houston Texans, who are 3-0 and have All-Pro receiver  Andre Johnson .  “Maybe we play some opponents differently,” Ryan said.
“We’ll find a way.”  Wilson said he’ll continue to communicate with Revis
regularly and doesn’t feel any pressure in replacing him.  “I always pick that guy’s brain,” Wilson told reporters.
“Our communication will still be the same but, overall, I just
have to continue to do my job, go out there, have fun and make
plays.”  Torn ACL  Revis injured the anterior cruciate ligament in his left
knee during the third quarter of the Jets’ 23-20 overtime
victory in Miami two days ago as he tried to change direction
and make a tackle.  A scan yesterday revealed the torn ACL. Revis has a chance
to be healthy by the start of training camp in July, according
to Ronald Grelsamer, associate professor of orthopedic surgery
at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in  New York . Grelsamer has no
direct knowledge of Revis’s injury.  “The party line is, you’re out for a year,” Grelsamer
said in a telephone interview. “A person might be back at six
months. Even if you take that accelerated protocol, six months
doesn’t help him for this year.”  It might be two to three weeks before the surgery is
performed, which would give Revis a chance to make the knee
healthier, Ryan said.  Without Revis, the 49ers become a slightly bigger favorite
of Las Vegas oddsmakers, who moved the Jets to four-point
underdogs from 3 1/2 points. The Jets’ odds of winning the  Super
Bowl  remain at 30-1, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super
Book, and Ryan said the loss of the cornerback doesn’t mark the
end of his team’s season.  Ryan credited the Jets’ ability to rally for the win in
Miami after Revis’s injury.  “Is it a major blow when you lose a great player like
 Darrelle Revis ? Of course, it absolutely is,” Ryan said. “But
this is a football team and we showed that. There’s plenty of
times to get down in that game but we kept fighting and
believing in each other, and that’s what it’s going to take.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  