-- Terry Quits International Soccer on Eve of Personal Hearing
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-24T12:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/john-terry-quits-international-soccer-on-eve-of-personal-hearing.html
Chelsea captain  John Terry 
announced his retirement from international soccer less than 24
hours before a Football Association hearing into allegations he
racially abused an opponent during a Premier League game.  Terry, 31, said in a statement late yesterday that English
soccer’s governing body had forced his decision after he’d been
acquitted in a London court of racially abusing Queens Park
Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand during the Oct. 23 match.  “I feel the F.A., in pursuing charges against me where I
have already been cleared in a court of law, have made my
position with the national team untenable,” Terry said in  the
statement  released by his management company.  Two weeks after Terry received a not guilty verdict at a
London magistrates’ court on July 13, he was  charged by the F.A. 
for using alleged “abusive and/or insulting words and/or
behavior” that “included a reference to the ethnic origin
and/or color and/or race of  Anton Ferdinand .”  Terry denied the charge and requested a personal hearing,
which started today.  England manager Roy Hodgson today thanked Terry for his
commitment to the national team and said he’s “of course
disappointed to lose a player of John’s international experience
and exceptional ability.”  ‘Good Relationship’  “I have enjoyed a good relationship with John during my
time as England manager and I reluctantly accept his decision,”
Hodgson said in an F.A. statement. “I can also confirm that he
had the courtesy to call me prior to the announcement of his
retirement from the England team. I’d like to wish John well for
the future with Chelsea.”  Terry made his England debut in 2003 and played 78 times
for the national team, scoring six goals.  The defender was appointed as  David Beckham ’s successor as
England captain in 2006 and was stripped of the position in
February 2010 following allegations of marital infidelity with
the ex-girlfriend of former teammate  Wayne Bridge .  Terry was reappointed as skipper in March 2011 and held the
position until Feb. 3, when the F.A. removed him from the role
until the racism charge was resolved.  “Representing and captaining my country is what I dreamed
of as a boy and it has been a truly great honor,” Terry added
in the statement. “I have always given my all and it breaks my
heart to make this decision.”  Terry most recently represented his country in the 5-0
World Cup qualifying victory against Moldova on Sept. 7. England
faces a pair of qualifying games on Oct. 12 and 16 against  San
Marino  and  Poland , respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  