-- Judge Dismisses N.Y. Lawsuit Over Delaware Basin Fracking
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-09-24T18:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/judge-dismisses-n-y-lawsuit-over-delaware-basin-fracking.html
New York  state can’t pursue a
lawsuit seeking a full environmental review of hydraulic
fracturing, a federal judge ruled in a case that might have held
up natural gas development in the  Delaware  River Basin.  U.S. District Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis granted a request
by the Environmental Protection Agency and other U.S. agencies
to throw out the case, finding that the development plans are in
the early stages and the threat of harm is speculative.  “The court has no way of judging reliably how probable it
is that the regulation will be enacted and thus no way of
judging whether risk that natural gas development may create are
more than conjecture,” Garaufis said in his ruling.  The lawsuit, brought by New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman, pitted arguments for environmental conservation
against those for a domestic energy source and new jobs.  The  New York City  Council and environmental groups have
sided with the state, warning of breathing problems for city
residents and risks to fish in the Chesapeake Bay. Organizations
representing companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  sided with
the federal government, arguing that the lawsuit is based on
“speculative fears.”  River Compact  Schneiderman sued the Delaware River Basin Commission , the
EPA and other federal agencies in May 2011 to force a fuller
assessment of the environmental impact that gas development
could have on the state’s water supply.  The river commission, created in 1961, is a compact among
New York, Delaware,  New Jersey , Pennsylvania and the federal
government. It is responsible for water quality in the Delaware
River Basin, which supplies drinking water to the four states.  “Everyone in this room drinks New York City water,”
Garaufis said during a July 24 hearing. “I’m dealing with a
real serious issue that may occur here with regards to the
drinking water of 15 million people.”  Schneiderman said in the lawsuit that the commission’s
proposed regulations would allow the natural gas-extraction
process known as fracking at 15,000 to 18,000 gas wells without
a full environmental review. If the regulations are issued, a
moratorium on fracking in New York, already in effect for more
than 18 months, will be lifted.  State Findings  New York says it has shown that fracking generates millions
of gallons of wastewater contaminated with toxic metals and
radioactive substances, and that companies using the process in
 Pennsylvania  have violated the law 1,600 times, harming the
state’s water.  “It was very clear to us that the judge understood that
this was a very serious issue and we are absolutely the right
organizations and individuals to be pursuing this litigation on
behalf of the public,” said  Maya van Rossum , leader of the
Delaware Riverkeeper Network, which was also a plaintiff in the
case.  The Marcellus Shale beneath parts of New York,  Ohio , West
 Virginia , Pennsylvania,  Maryland  and Virginia, has an estimated
400 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, one of the largest such
formations in the world, according to the trade groups, which
represent companies with natural gas-leases in New York State.  The lawsuit might have shut down gas development in the
river basin “for many years to come,” the trade associations
said in court papers.  In Pennsylvania, natural gas and related industries have
generated 72,000 jobs, 3,143 well permits and more than
$1 billion in  tax revenue  since 2009, the trade groups said.  New York City has spent almost $1.5 billion to protect the
drinking water that flows from the watershed, Schneiderman said
in his complaint. The money has gone to buying land to serve as
a buffer for pollutants, upgrading sewage plants and regulating
human activity.  The case is New York v. U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers, 11-
cv-02599, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 