-- K&L Gates, Ropes & Gray, Orrick, Akin: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-24T10:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/k-l-gates-ropes-gray-orrick-akin-business-of-law.html
Harvard University  named two
members to its board, including Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP’s Theodore V. Wells Jr., as part of the expansion
begun in 2010 under President Drew Faust.  The other new member of the board, often called the Harvard
Corporation, is Jessica Tuchman Mathews. They will join Jan. 1,
the university, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, said
yesterday in a  statement .  Faust proposed expanding the Corporation’s size after the
university’s finances were hit hard by the financial crisis that
began in 2008. Faust said then that she wanted to add people
with different types of experience to the board, which oversees
major projects such as the plans to build a new science center
in Allston, a Boston neighborhood near Harvard’s main campus.  The new members will “expand our capacity and contribute
important and distinctive perspectives to our work,” Faust and
 Robert Reischauer , senior fellow of the Corporation, said in the
statement.  Wells and Matthews are the fifth and sixth new members
elected since the board approved the plan to expand to 13
fellows from seven.  Wells, co-chair of the litigation department at Paul, Weiss
in New York, is a graduate of  Harvard Law School  and  Harvard
Business School . He is chairman emeritus of the board of
directors of the  NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund . He
has served on a pro bono basis as general counsel to both the
New Jersey NAACP and the New Jersey Democratic Party, according
to the statement.  Mathews has served for 15 years as president of the
 Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , and is an alumna and
past trustee of Radcliffe College, according to the statement.
She was a founding vice president and director of research of
the World Resources Institute, which focuses on environmental
and natural resource management. She was a senior fellow on the
 Council on Foreign Relations  from 1994 to 1997, and now serves
on the boards of the Union of Concerned Scientists and the
Nuclear Threat Initiative.  K&L Gates Chairman Issues Memo Refuting Speculation About Firm  The chairman and global managing partner of K&L Gates LLP,
Peter J. Kalis, issued a firm memo Sept. 21 refuting reports
that the firm is suffering from morale problems and losing
partners at an alarming rate. The legal blog Above The Law first
 reported  on it.  At the beginning of last week, Crain’s  Chicago  Business
 reported  that lawyers from Bell Boyd & Lloyd, which merged with
K&L Gates in 2009, are leaving the firm’s Chicago office in
significant numbers. When the two firms merged three years ago,
Bell Boyd had 218 lawyers. K&L Gates’s Chicago office now has
only 128 lawyers, Crain’s reported. Law360 also reported on the
departures and a morale problems on the part of attorneys at the
firm, ATL reported.  Kalis’s memo, obtained by  Bloomberg News , focused on
comparing the firm’s finances and management to a Wells Fargo
survey that called the outlook for the law firm industry grim.
The memo stated that while the Walls Fargo report said profits
fell during the first two quarters of 2011, “At K&L Gates, our
profits increased during that time period by approximately 20%
as compared to the same time period in 2011.”  The memo also noted that the firm doesn’t have the same
practices that led to Dewey & LeBouef LLP’s closing earlier this
year. “We distribute only our earned profits to our partners
and do not engage in the Deweyesque charade of paying partners
out of debt,” according to the memo.  As for the departures in Chicago, Kalis says the headcount
has meant a more efficient office. “Although most of the
departures occurred early in the year, its billings are up over
10% through August 31. And the corrosive effect of the
disaffected has been externalized from the firm -- a group that,
incidentally, left behind $2.3 Million in bad accounts when they
departed,” Kalis wrote. “Chicago is doing quite well, thank
you.”  Romney Forgoes Full Charity Tax Break for 2011 Rate Above 13%  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  chose to pay
more in taxes than he needed to, forgoing about $250,000 in
deductions to keep his  tax rate  above 13 percent.  Romney claimed  tax deductions  for $2.25 million of the $4
million he made in charitable contributions in 2011, his
campaign said Sept. 21 before releasing his  tax returns . The
decision to pay more in taxes than necessary was political.
Romney had told reporters that he hadn’t paid an effective rate
of less than 13 percent over the past decade, in an effort to
deflect Democratic attacks.  “It’s almost like he’s conceding, ‘Hey, no one’s going to
want to see me go less than that 13 percent rate so I’m going to
massage my deductions and actually forsake some of them to
placate the American public,’” said Tony Nitti, a partner at
WithumSmith & Brown PC in Aspen, Colorado, who prepares returns
for high-income taxpayers. “I don’t know if it will placate
anybody. The people who have issues with his tax rate are still
going to have issues with his tax rate.”  Romney’s return is at odds with a July 29 statement in
which the former private-equity executive said he didn’t think
he would be qualified to be president if he paid more taxes than
he owed.  “He has been clear that no American need pay more than he
or she owes under the law,”  Michele Davis , a campaign
spokeswoman, said in a statement. “At the same time, he was in
the unique position of having made a commitment to the public
that his tax rate would be above 13 percent. He directed his
preparers to ensure that he is consistent with that statement.”  Romney won’t file an amended return seeking a refund for
the foregone charitable tax deduction, Davis said in an e-mailed
response to a question.  The campaign of President  Barack Obama  and Romney’s chief
tax-return antagonist, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
weren’t satisfied with Romney’s disclosure.  “ Governor Romney  is showing us what he does when the
public is looking,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said in a
statement. “The true test of his character would be to show
what he did when everyone was not looking at his taxes.”  Romney, 65, and his wife, Ann, paid $1.9 million in taxes
on $13.7 million of income in 2011 for a 14.1 percent rate.  The Romneys make most of their income from investing an
estimated $250 million fortune, and much of that income is taxed
at a top rate of 15 percent rather than the top rate of 35
percent for wages. In 2011, Romney reported no income from
wages, $6.8 million from  capital gains  and $3 million from
taxable interest.  The Romneys donated more than 29 percent of their income to
charity, including more than $1.1 million in cash to the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  The investment tax breaks could have kept Romney’s
effective tax rate below 13 percent, which last month he said
was at least what he had paid over the past decade. To stay
above that level for 2011, Romney didn’t claim all of the
deductions for charitable contributions that he could, according
to a blog post by Brad Malt, a partner at Ropes & Gray LLP in
Boston who manages Romney’s investments.  Romney is a former Massachusetts governor and co-founder of
Bain Capital LLC, the Boston-based private equity firm. His
returns, which include three trusts, reflect the wealth, income
and estate-planning profile of a small fraction of U.S.
taxpayers with investments around the world.  For more, click here.  U.K. Finance Watchdog Asks Lawmakers for More Enforcement Powers  The  U.K. financial watchdog  asked lawmakers for more
enforcement powers, including an extension of the statute of
limitations on probes and the ability to temporarily ban senior
managers from their jobs while they are under investigation.  The three-year limit on investigations can make pursuing
cases “more difficult,” the Financial Services Authority said
in a written submission the Parliamentary Commission on Banking
Standards made public on a  government website  Sept. 21. The
regulator also requested the ability to “remove incumbent
senior managers where they continue to pose a risk” to an
investigation.  The FSA is aware it was seeking “a significant extension
to our current powers,” according to the statement, and
“appropriate safeguards would need to be considered.”  “A banking sector which functions well for consumers and
the economy as a whole cannot be achieved unless employees below
the level of senior management also act with honesty and
integrity,” the agency said.  The regulator will be split into the Prudential Regulation
Authority, which will become a unit of the  Bank of England , and
the Financial Conduct Authority, in 2013.  For more, click here.  General Counsel  Chesapeake Lawyer Demoted in First Shake-Up by New Directors  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  demoted the lead counsel who
defended Chief Executive Officer Aubrey McClendon’s use of
private stakes in company-operated natural-gas wells to obtain
more than $800 million in personal loans.  In the first executive reshuffling since Chesapeake
stripped McClendon of the chairman’s role and replaced more than
half its directors in June, General Counsel Henry J. Hood was
replaced as head of Chesapeake’s legal department by James R.
Webb, the Oklahoma City-based company said in a statement Sept.
21.  Webb, a partner at the McAfee & Taft law firm, has been
working for Chesapeake on a contract basis as chief legal
counsel for the past four months, according to the statement.
Hood will retain oversight of the company’s land and regulatory
departments, Chesapeake said.  “This does seem like a demotion for Henry Hood,”  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research Corp. in New York, said in
an e-mailed statement Sept. 21. “Based on what we see here,
he’s seen his responsibilities scaled back.”  Hood issued a statement on April 18 that said Chesapeake
directors were “fully aware” of the existence of the personal
loans McClendon obtained to finance his share of expenses for
private stakes in thousands of company wells.  On April 26, Chesapeake backtracked, saying in a statement
that although the board was “generally aware” of the CEO’s
loans, it hadn’t vetted the arrangements.  The directors announced an internal review of McClendon’s
personal transactions the same day. Jim Gipson, a Chesapeake
spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mail or voicemail left at his
office outside of regular business hours Sept. 21.  Moves  Orrick Hires Five Lawyers for Frankfurt Real Estate Practice  Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP announced that Martin
Meissner has joined the firm as a partner in its real estate
group, along with a team of four lawyers, two of counsel and two
associates. Meissner was head of Si mmons & Simmons LLP’s  German
financial markets group and its Frankfurt office, the firm said.  Meissner focuses his practice on real estate project
development and transactions. He advises clients on the sale and
purchase of commercial real estate portfolios and individual
properties, as well as construction and planning during the
project development process. He also has broad experience with
sale and lease back transactions and private public
partnerships.  Orrick’s real estate practice has over 70 lawyers across
four offices throughout the U.S., Europe and Asia. Lawyers
represent clients in all phases of real estate investment,
financing, development and operations with an emphasis on joint
ventures, acquisitions and dispositions of large real estate
portfolios, and complex financings and distressed debt
transactions.  Orrick has more than 1,100 lawyers in 25 offices worldwide.  Akin Gump Hires Corporate Partner in Beijing to Head Office  William L. Rosoff has joined  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld
LLP as an international corporate transactions partner in the
firm’s Beijing office. He was previously at Cozen & O’Connor.  Rosoff will serve as partner in charge of the office,
replacing Spencer Griffith, who will maintain his China trade
practice from Akin Gump’s Washington office.  Rosoff’s practice focuses on mergers and acquisitions, as
well as general corporate, infrastructure and China-related
matters.  Akin Gump opened a Hong Kong office earlier this year and
Roskoff will work with that office and oversee the firm’s
corporate and mergers and acquisitions practice in the region.
The firm represents Chinese companies seeking to expand overseas
as well as foreign companies entering or expanding their
investments or operations in China.  Akin Gump has more than 850 attorneys in offices throughout
the U.S., Europe, Asia and the  Middle East .  K&L Gates Hires Two Charlotte Real Estate Finance Partners  K&L Gates LLP hired four lawyers in London and two in
Charlotte last week.  In London, partners Matthew G.J. Duncan, Theresa D.
Kradjian, and Paul J. Matthews join the firm from Sidley Austin
LLP, while Sean J.W. Crosky arrives from Norton Rose LLP.  In Charlotte, Stacy G. Ackermann and Nachael L. Bright join
the office as partners in the firm’s real-estate investment,
development and finance practice. Both join the firm from  Alston
& Bird LLP .  Duncan represents clients such as lenders, investment and
commercial banks, funds, issuers, borrowers, trustees, insurers,
and others in finance matters, with a focus on residential
mortgage-backed securities, covered bonds, and the establishment
of new lending platforms.  Kradjian advises on a range of asset-backed and residential
mortgage-backed financings.  Matthews concentrates on derivatives, advising on
innovating and developing the role of swaps and  repurchase
agreements  in cross-border finance transactions.  Crosky advises such clients on a variety of securitization,
loan, restructuring, and finance transactions, including those
involving derivatives and other tax-structured products.  In Charlotte, Ackermann and Bright focus on commercial
mortgage-backed securities, syndicated lending, structured
finance, and loan servicing-related matters.  Ackermann represents lenders, servicers, and investors in
many aspects of financial and credit market transactions, with
particular emphasis on loan servicing and workouts.  Bright concentrates her practice in capital markets
transactions, representing institutional lenders, finance
companies, and loan portfolio servicers on a variety of secured
and unsecured financial transactions.  The firm has nearly 2,000 lawyers in 41 offices in North
America, Europe, Asia, South America and the Middle East.  Silicon Valley Intellectual Property Lawyer Joins McDermott  McDermott Will & Emery LLP announced that Mashhood Rassam
joined the firm’s  intellectual property  litigation practice
group, as a partner in the Silicon Valley office. He was
previously at Fenwick & West LLP.  Rassam focuses his practice on patent litigation. He has
has experience litigating patents in federal courts across the
county, including in the Federal Circuit, the Eastern District
of Texas, the District of Delaware, the Northern and Central
Districts of California, and the District of Oregon.  McDermott has more than 1,000 lawyers with 17 offices
worldwide. Bird & Bird Hires Corporate Partner in Frankfurt  Bird & Bird LLP hired a 10th new partner to its
international corporate group this year, Ingo Meyer, who joins
the Frankfurt office.  Meyer specializes in corporate acquisitions as well as
disposals and advises private equity funds. Meyer brings two
lawyers with him, an of counsel and associate.  Bird & Bird has over 900 lawyers in 23 offices across
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Cooley LLP Hires Reston, Virginia, Business Partner  Cooley LLP announced that Geoff Willard has joined the
Reston, Virginia, office as a partner in the business
department. Willard, who practiced with Cooley previously from
2000 through 2005, returns to the firm from VLP Law Group LLP
where he headed that firm’s corporate, securities and mergers
and acquisitions group firm said.  Willard has experience representing emerging growth
companies, their investors, managers, and boards in a wide range
of corporate, securities, and commercial transactional matters.
His practice focuses on mergers and acquisitions, equity and
debt financings, joint ventures and strategic alliances and
other corporate matters, both domestic and cross-border.  The firm has 11 U.S. offices and an office in Shanghai.  Former Wal-Mart Intellectual Property Head Hired by Rimon  Rimon PC hired Wade Savoy, a former Assistant General
Counsel of Intellectual Property at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , as a
partner in its new New Orleans office.  Savoy was head of Wal-Mart’s intellectual property group
where he helped to grow the practice to more than a dozen
attorneys and staff. During his tenure, he oversaw an
international portfolio of over 10,000 trademark applications
and registrations, including many brands that gross billions of
dollars each year. He also analyzed claims of infringement and
developed and conducted the first mandatory intellectual
property training program.  Savoy heads and opens the New Orleans office for Rimon,
which is the 11th office opened by the firm.  Litigation  Banker Breakups Seen Spurring Revisions of U.K. Divorce Laws  Wealthy Britons going through a divorce may benefit from a
review of U.K. court standards that some lawyers argue promote
unfairly generous rulings in favor of less well-off spouses.  An inquiry by the Law Commission, an advisory body
sponsored by the Ministry of Justice, is the first step toward
reversing a trend that’s made Britain the “divorce capital of
the world,” said Louise Spitz, an attorney with Manches LLP in
London. The commission may submit a draft statute to Parliament
next year.  A lack of judicial standards and the arbitrary nature of
divorce cases stem from a 12-year-old court ruling, lawyers
said. The commission’s review also comes six months after an
appeals court ruling in the high-profile case of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  equity analyst Peter Lawrence. He won a decision cutting
by 9 percent to 1.37 million pounds ($2.22 million) a payout to
his civil partner of 11 years, former “Priscilla Queen of the
Desert” star Donald Gallagher.  “ English courts  have the reputation of being very generous
to the divorcing partner with less money, often with capital
assets being divided equally and the wealthier spouse having to
pay long-term maintenance,” Spitz said. “The system is very
unpredictable and varies from one court to another.”  Divorce judges may have an easier time resolving cases if
the law included a clear definition of “needs” in relation to
a spouse’s living requirements, the commission said in a Sept.
11 statement.  The review of U.K. divorce law was triggered in part by the
case of German heiress Katrin Radmacher and ex-JPMorgan
investment banker Nicolas Granatino, lawyers said. In October
2010, the U.K. Supreme Court ruled for the first time that a
U.S.-style pre-nuptial agreement on asset-division, reached
before marriage, should be decisive.  In London, it’s common for big divorce payouts to go to
partners with less money even if that spouse is relatively
young, the relationship was brief and there aren’t children,
Gallagher’s lawyer, Katie O’Callaghan, said.  “People actively try to get divorced in this country
because if they are the financially weak party, they can expect
a bigger payment,” said O’Callaghan, who declined to comment on
how the review might affect her client’s case, which may still
be appealed. Sarah Higgins, Lawrence’s lawyer with Charles
Russell LLP in London, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  