-- Kemira Tests Non-Toxic Lether Treatment to Win BMW Order
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-09-24T09:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/kemira-tests-non-toxic-lether-treatment-to-win-bmw-order.html
Kemira Oyj (KRA1V)  is poised to introduce a
non-toxic chemical process for treating leather, betting that
luxury-car makers such as  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  will pay
extra for improving their environmental credentials.  Europe’s largest maker of water-treatment additives is in
talks with major tanneries about adopting the technology, which
is based on aluminum silica and organic acid, Chief Executive
Officer Wolfgang Buechele said in an interview in London.
Acceptance of the new product would give the Helsinki-based
company access to a 500 million-euro ($655 million) global
market in both consumer and industrial leather treatments.  “We haven’t started talking to the carmakers as we want to
have a proof of concept,” Buechele said. The product will be
officially introduced in Bologna,  Italy , next month, he said.  Leather-chemical makers in Europe have struggled against
heightened competition with Asian manufacturers as well as a
slowdown in demand as consumers buy fewer shoes and bags. Among
Europe’s largest suppliers is TFL Holding GmbH, which is in the
hands of creditors and has been seeking a buyer for a year.  BASF
SE (BAS)  abandoned a plan to exit the industry, opting to restructure
its operation to improve efficiency first.  Clariant Competition  Kemira joins Muttenz, Switzerland-based specialty-chemical
maker  Clariant AG (CLN)  in tapping a growing consumer desire for less-
polluting manufacturing processes. The Kemira product, called
Tanfor-T, is based on aluminum-silica and organic acid
ingredients, replacing chromium salts, according to the company.
While chromium is a nutrient, excess exposure to industrial
versions of the metal can cause illnesses ranging from skin or
lung irritation to  kidney failure  and cancer, according to the
U.S.  National Institutes of Health .  Tanfor-T is part of the Finnish company’s effort to build
its ChemSolutions unit. Buechele, a former executive at
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF and private-equity firm
Blackstone Group LP, is seeking to focus the unit on its most
profitable products and has earmarked it for potential disposal
should a sizable acquisition opportunity arise.  Any non-chromium-based solutions will go head to head with
 Lanxess AG (LXS) , which has the cost advantage of owning its chrome
mine in  South Africa , acquired from Dow Chemical Co. Leverkusen,
Germany-based Lanxess is building a plant in Changzhou,  China .  Clariant has entered talks with car manufacturers and is
“quite optimistic” about the prospects for its non-chromium
leather technology, Kai Rolker, a spokesman, said Sept. 20. Even
with interest from carmakers such as Munich-based BMW,
Clariant’s technology has been slow to gain customers because of
the high costs for tanners to adapt machinery, Jaideep Pandya,
an analyst at Berenberg Bank, said in a note.  Kemira’s process “does not target high adoption costs,”
Buechele, 53, said in the Sept. 18 interview. “That’s why we
believe our market penetration will see a different speed of
development than maybe Clariant will see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  