-- HKEX to Issue $500 Million of Bonds to Finance LME Deal
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2012-09-25T03:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/hkex-to-issue-400-million-of-bonds-to-finance-lme-deal.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd. (388) , the second-biggest bourse by market value, expanded a
convertible bond issue by 25 percent on higher demand, helping
to fund its purchase of the London Metal Exchange.  The exchange will sell $500 million of the bonds, up from
the $400 million planned, according to a  statement  today from
the bourse operator. The notes, which will mature in 2017 and
pay an annual coupon of 0.5 percent, has an initial conversion
price of HK$160.00 per share.  The $2.2 billion bid for the LME values the largest trading
venue for industrial metals at 181 times earnings, making it the
most expensive bourse acquisition exceeding $1 billion on
record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hong Kong 
Exchanges, which wants to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio not
exceeding 50 percent, plans to refinance its borrowings for the
acquisition through debt and bond issues.  “They’re still going to have to issue additional equity
beyond the convertible” if they want to maintain the debt-to-
equity ratio, said  Sam Hilton , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods  Asia  Ltd. “The math suggests that more
than half of the balance of financing needed will need to be
done via equity.”  Hong Kong Exchanges fell 2.5 percent to HK$115.90 at 11:28
a.m. local time, worse than the 0.16 percent decline in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Additional Financing   The exchange still has about $1.4 billion to finance for
the deal, Hilton estimated. Scott Sapp, a spokesman for Hong
Kong Exchanges, didn’t immediately respond to requests for
information on additional financing needed.  “With the improvement in  market sentiment  in recent weeks,
we saw a window to raise capital at a significant premium to our
current share price,” Chief Executive Officer Charles Li said
in the statement. “This convertible bond offering has allowed
us to raise a substantial proportion of the longer-term capital
required to fund our acquisition of the LME at favorable
terms.”  The bourse signed a 543 million pound ($881 million) loan
in June to help fund its LME purchase. The exchange arranged at
least 1.1 billion pounds in short- and long-term bank facilities
for the acquisition, which is seen as a way for the LME to
expand into  China , the world’s largest buyer of metals.  Yields on notes in the U.S. currency in Asia dropped to
4.13 percent last week, the lowest since November 2010, JPMorgan
Chase & Co indexes show.  Convertible Bonds  Converting all of the bonds into stock will create about
24.2 million shares, or about 2.2% of the issued share capital
of the company, according to the statement.  “The convertible bond is probably better than straight
equity since they can issue at a premium to the current share
price,” Hilton said. “But not as good as debt, since it still
involves dilution.”  Proceeds from the issue will help reduce the amount of
committed borrowings, the exchange said yesterday in a statement
announcing the original $400 million sale. The company plans to
keep a “prudent” debt-to-equity ratio not exceeding 40 percent
to 50 percent, it said.  Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and UBS AG are the lead
managers for the sale of the notes, according to the statement
today.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority is reviewing the LME
deal, and Hong Kong Exchanges will be entitled to redeem the
bonds in the event it doesn’t get approval for the purchase
within six months of the issue, according to the filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  