-- Koffmann Named Top Chef, Dinner by Blumenthal Gets Prize
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-09-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/koffmann-named-top-chef-dinner-by-blumenthal-gets-prize.html
Pierre Koffmann, the French
culinary master who held three Michelin stars at La Tante Claire
in London, was last night named AA Chefs’ Chef of the Year.  Koffmann, who came out of retirement in 2010 to open
Koffmann’s at the Berkeley Hotel, was chosen by fellow chefs
whose restaurants hold rosettes in the AA Restaurant Guide.  “This is a great honor,” Koffmann said in an interview
before the awards at a dinner at the London Hilton,  Park Lane .  Among awards for London restaurants: Hibiscus was promoted
to the maximum five rosettes; Pollen Street Social and Seven
Park Place went to four rosettes; Rib Room, Alyn Williams,
Thirty Six and CUT won three. L’Etranger took the AA Wine Award.  Restaurant of the Year winners were: Church Green British
Grill, Lymm (England); Rogano, Glasgow (Scotland);  Sosban ,
Llanelli (Wales). Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal  was top in London.  There were two awards of new five red stars, the top honor
for hotels: 45 Park Lane and Dukes.  Koffmann, 64, who was born in Tarbes, France, visited the
U.K. in 1970 for a rugby match and found work with brothers
Michel and  Albert Roux  at Le Gavroche. He became head chef at
the Waterside Inn and opened La Tante Claire in 1977. His
proteges include  Gordon Ramsay  and Jason Atherton.  (This month, he republished his 1990 memoirs, “ Memories of
Gascony .” I wrote the foreword for the new edition.)  Previous winners of the chef’s prize include Chris and Jeff
Galvin (2011), Martin Wishart (2010),  Marcus Wareing  (2009),
 Philip Howard  (2008) and Michael Caines (2007).  The lifetime achievement award went to the restaurateur
Antonio Carluccio.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Scott
Reyburn  on the art market and  Amanda Gordon ’s  Scene Last Night .  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 