-- Korea Consumer Confidence Holds at 7-Month Low as Growth Slows
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-09-24T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/korea-consumer-confidence-holds-at-7-month-low-as-growth-slows.html
South Korean  consumer confidence 
held at a 7-month low even after the government and central bank
moved to stimulate domestic demand with more spending and lower
borrowing costs.  The  sentiment index  was at 99 in September, unchanged from
August, the  Bank of Korea  said in an e-mailed statement today. A
reading below 100 indicates pessimists outnumber optimists.  The European debt crisis and a global slowdown have crimped
demand for South Korea’s exports, weakening an economic
recovery. The Bank of Korea may follow its surprise rate cut in
July with further easing in October, said Wai Ho Leong, a senior
regional economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore.  “It is quite unlikely that the July cut on its own is
sufficient,” Leong said before the data were released. “The
picture of a sustainable rebound will not be apparent to policy
makers until November.”  The  International Monetary Fund  reduced its growth estimate
for the nation to 3 percent this year on Sept. 21.  The Bank of Korea cut its benchmark  interest rate  to 3
percent in July, then paused for the next two months. The
 finance ministry  announced 5.9 trillion won ($5.3 billion) of
spending and tax relief this month, adding to 8.5 trillion won
of support measures in June.  The expected inflation rate over the next year was 3.4
percent, the slowest since December 2010, the bank said.
 Consumer inflation  moderated to a 12-year low of 1.2 percent in
August.  The consumer confidence index is based on survey responses
from 1,984 households in 56 cities. It was conducted by mail and
telephone between Sept. 11 and Sept. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  