-- Kuwait Court Rules Against Government on Election Law Change
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-09-25T10:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/kuwait-court-to-rule-on-vote-law-as-challenge-to-monarchy-grows.html
Kuwait’s top court threw out a
request by the government to change voting laws, in a victory
for opposition campaigners who are demanding that the ruling
family hand more powers to elected politicians.  The  Constitutional Court , which drew criticism in June by
dissolving the opposition-dominated parliament, ruled today
against a government bid to amend the electoral law, the state-
run Kuwait News Agency reported. The opposition said the measure
was gerrymandering by an administration that was defeated at the
polls in February. Thousands rallied late yesterday in front of
the parliament, calling for its powers to be expanded.  Kuwait’s steps toward democracy have led to repeated
clashes between the parliament and governments chosen by the
ruling Al-Sabah family. The economy, the third-biggest producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, has
trailed Gulf peers as investment projects got derailed by
political disputes. Street protests last year, amplified by the
wave of unrest across the Arab world, drove out a government
headed by the emir’s nephew amid increasing calls for power to
be transferred from the monarchy to elected bodies.  “It looks to me like the shaping of some kind of perfect
storm,” said Christopher Davidson, who specializes in the study
of the  Persian Gulf  at Durham University in the U.K. “Kuwait is
the only Gulf monarchy where we witnessed a popular movement
unseating a key member of the ruling family. If they can do
that, they can do more.”  Parliament Boycott  The opposition won a majority in the elections in February,
only for the court to annul the vote in a June ruling and
reinstate the previous parliament. Since then, opposition
lawmakers have refused to attend and called on premier Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Sabah, like his predecessor Sheikh Nasser a
member of the ruling family, to quit.  “The opposition has gained more weight with this
verdict,” said Ayed Al-Manna, a political analyst at  Kuwait ’s
Public Authority for Applied Education. He predicted that the
verdict will lead to the dissolution of parliament followed by
elections in which the opposition will probably extend gains.  Many opposition figures, including lawmaker Waleed Al-
Tabtabai, demand a constitutional monarchy. “It’s high time
that people regained sovereignty,” he told a Sept. 10
opposition rally, according to Al-Jarida newspaper. “We, the
nation, have decided that Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak will be the
last prime minister from the descendants of Mubarak.”
Addressing the dynasty, he said: “You rule, and we govern.”  Stocks Lag  The recurring rows have held back Kuwait’s $112 billion
development plan to modernize and diversify an oil-reliant
economy.  While growth rebounded to 8.2 percent in 2011, it was the
slowest among the six Gulf Cooperation Council countries over
the previous five years. Kuwait’s  benchmark  stock index has
fallen 25 percent in dollar terms since the start of 2009, while
the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the main regional stocks gained
17 percent.  “Two players are harming the economy: the government by
not doing anything and the parliament by putting obstacles in
the government’s way,” said Ali Al-Baghli, a former oil
minister who’s now chairman of National International Co.
Holding, an  investment company . The government has failed to
reinvest Kuwait’s record budget surplus in the economy, he said.  The court verdict could give new momentum to the opposition
in Kuwait, which like other Gulf states is vulnerable to popular
movements after the Arab revolts last year, Davidson said,
speaking before the ruling.  Gulf Triggers  “Each Gulf state is waiting for its trigger,” he said.
“We’ve had a bit of a lull, in terms of protests, and I think
they’ll be back. It’s just a question of what will bring them
back.”  Bahrain’s government cracked down last year on protests led
by the Shiite Muslim majority, leaving dozens dead and the
economy growing at the slowest pace in more than a decade. There
were also demonstrations for higher  living standards  in Oman,
and among the Shiite minority in Saudi Arabia. The kingdom, the
world’s biggest oil exporter, announced an extra $60 billion in
social spending last year to ward off unrest.  Kuwait’s opposition includes Islamists, liberals and
independents, as well as youth groups that draw inspiration from
last year’s Arab uprisings. Some groups demand a constitutional
monarchy and an elected government, while others say their focus
is fighting corruption.  Political Deadlock  The country has had 10 Cabinets since February 2006 and the
legislature has been dissolved five times. Banks have scaled
back lending amid the political deadlock. Private-sector
borrowing in Kuwait grew at the slowest pace in at least 17
years in 2011. Loans to private businesses rose 4.6 percent in
July, about one-third the pace of  Saudi Arabia .  Kuwait is ranked above the other five GCC countries in the
 Economist Intelligence Unit ’s 2011 Democracy Index. Those
monarchies have drawn a connection between Kuwait’s step toward
democracy and its economic stagnation, Davidson said.  Still, the political opening may “end up being Kuwait’s
saving grace,” he said. “There’s that tiny bit of room for
maneuver that the other monarchies just don’t have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  