-- N.Y. Psychotherapy Institute Administrator Pleads Guilty
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-09-24T22:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/n-y-psychotherapy-institute-administrator-pleads-guilty.html
A former administrator of a
psychotherapy institute in  New York  pleaded guilty in state
court to stealing more than $2.5 million from the organization,
 Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance’s office said.  Jeffrey Bernstein, 62, the former director of
administration for the  Albert Ellis Institute  on East 65th
Street in Manhattan, pleaded guilty today to first-degree grand
larceny before Supreme Court Justice Gregory Carro, the district
attorney’s office said.  “Mr. Bernstein is extremely remorseful for his conduct and
is hopeful to make a sizable restitution payment to the victims
of his offenses in the very near future,” his attorney,  Michael Bachner , said in a telephone interview.  Bernstein was  indicted  in February on one count of first-
degree grand larceny and two counts of first-degree  money
laundering , according to a statement from Vance’s office. He was
accused of stealing the money by making almost 80 unauthorized
wire transfers to three business accounts that he controlled.  Bernstein used the stolen money to pay business and
personal expenses, including loan repayments, legal and
accounting fees, credit card bills, car expenses, insurance and
condominium fees, according to Vance’s office.  The institute is a not-for-profit psychotherapy
organization founded in 1959 by its late namesake, Dr. Albert
Ellis. It is “committed to promoting emotional well-being
through the research and application of effective, short-term
therapy with long-term results,” according to its website.  JPMorgan Sued  The institute sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in federal court in
Manhattan over the theft in August 2011, saying the bank let it
happen. JPMorgan has asked for the complaint to be dismissed,
saying that the institute had given Bernstein the authority to
make the transfers and transactions.  Bernstein was first elected to the institute’s board of
trustees in March 2006 and was chosen as president of the board
in July 2006, the institute said in the lawsuit.  He was named acting director of administration in January
2010 and appointed to the permanent post the following month,
according to the lawsuit. Bernstein resigned from all offices he
held at the institute after the fraud was discovered in February
2011.  “Although Jeffrey Bernstein’s actions have been
detrimental to the institute, we have continued to carry out our
mission of training psychotherapists and providing affordable
mental  health services  for the community,” Kristene Doyle,
director of the Albert Ellis Institute, said in a statement.  Bernstein, who is being held in lieu of bail at Rikers
Island, faces as many as 10 years in prison when he is sentenced
on Oct. 10.  The case is Albert Ellis Institute v. JPMorgan Chase Bank
NA, 11-cv-5504, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is New York v. Bernstein,
00045/2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  