-- New SARS Family Virus Detected in Qatari Man, WHO Says
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-24T09:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/new-virus-from-sars-family-identified-in-qatari-man-who-says.html
A new virus related to those that
cause severe acute respiratory syndrome was identified in a 49-
year-old Qatari man, prompting further research into the
potentially fatal pathogen.  The so-called coronavirus was detected after the man was
diagnosed with acute respiratory syndrome and kidney failure,
the  World Health Organization  said in a  statement  yesterday. He
had traveled to  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar before being transferred
to the U.K. by air ambulance on Sept. 11, the WHO said.  The man is receiving intensive care at a London hospital,
the U.K.’s  Health Protection Agency  said in an e-mailed
statement today. There’s no evidence of illness among people
with whom he had contact, and many of them are probably past the
incubation period, the HPA said. The agency, which conducted lab
testing on the Qatari case, found a 99.5 percent match to a
virus that killed a man in Saudi Arabia earlier this year.  “As we are aware of only two cases worldwide and there is
no evidence of ongoing transmission, at present there is no
specific action for the public or returning travellers to
take,” John Watson, head of the HPA’s respiratory diseases
department, said in the statement.  Severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS,  sickened 8,098 
people worldwide from November 2002 to July 2003, according to
the Geneva-based WHO.  “WHO is currently in the process of obtaining further
information to determine the public health implications of these
two confirmed cases,” the organization said in the statement.
“With respect to these findings, WHO does not recommend any
travel restrictions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net 
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  