-- Next BOE Chief Must Be Independent of Banks, Cable Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-09-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/next-boe-chief-must-not-be-captive-to-banking-system-cable-says.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and Business Secretary Vince Cable called for the next
 Bank of England  governor to be independent of the banking
system, with Cable hinting no bankers had applied for the job.  “Clearly you want someone who understands banking but is
not captured by banking,” Clegg said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television yesterday at his Liberal Democrat party’s
conference in Brighton. The person needs to have “a suppleness
of mind, capable of challenging orthodoxies at a time when many,
many orthodoxies on how you run monetary and fiscal policy are
being challenged by the very exceptional circumstances that we
face,” he added.  Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
this month formally began his search to replace  Mervyn King , who
steps down in June. Osborne’s Liberal Democrat coalition
partners will have a say in the appointment, which will be
announced by the end of this year.  In an interview yesterday, Cable said King’s successor must
be someone “understanding the banking system but independent of
it and able to speak frankly where necessary.” Asked if a
banker could do the job, he said: “I don’t know that there are
any applying.”  Former Bank of England Deputy Governor  John Gieve  said on
Sept. 12 that it would be “very difficult” for the government
to select a banker who had worked recently in light of recent
scandals tarnishing  London ’s financial center.  Cable said that the chances of Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker 
-- currently one of the favorites to replace King -- haven’t
been hurt by recent questioning on the extent of his knowledge
of the rigging of interbank rates by Barclays Plc.  No ‘Detriment’  “I’m not saying I prefer him or prefer anybody else, but I
didn’t see anything in the recent comments which reflected to
his detriment,” Cable said.  Other prospective candidates include Financial Services
Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  and the former head of the U.K.
civil service,  Gus O’Donnell , who was once on the same soccer
team as Cable when they both taught economics at Glasgow
University.  The business secretary said King had done a good job in
difficult circumstances.  “I’m not one of his critics, I have a lot of respect for
him,” Cable said. “He’s been a very helpful influence, going
beyond monetary policy in the narrow sense.”  King’s comments last week that it might be acceptable for
the government to miss its debt-reduction targets show
confidence in the fiscal plan, Cable said.  ‘Helpful’ Remarks  “It’s helpful,” Cable said. “What he’s actually saying
is that from the point of view of the governor of the central
bank, it’s important to have confidence that the government has
basic fiscal discipline and that we’re sticking to our deficit-
reduction plans.”  The uncertain economic outlook has prompted speculation
that Osborne will miss one of the two pillars of the
government’s fiscal policy -- a commitment to see net debt fall
as a share of the economy from 2015. King told Channel 4
television on Sept. 20 that it would be acceptable to miss the
target “because the economy’s grown slowly” as that “was
always part of the plan.”  “As long as we’re seen to be credible in that area, it has
the confidence of our lenders and it has the confidence of the
central bank,” Cable said. “The central bank is crucial,
because we rely on them to provide much of the stimulus, through
monetary policy, either orthodox or unorthodox.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Brighton, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in Brighton, England, at
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  