-- Nine Questions About the Fed’s New QE Answered
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-09-24T22:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/nine-questions-about-the-fed-s-new-qe-answered.html
The  Federal Reserve  has announced a
third round of quantitative easing, a set of asset purchases
designed to increase the  money supply . It said it would keep
easing until job growth accelerates, and continue a “highly
accommodative” monetary policy “for a considerable time after
the economic recovery strengthens.”  Stocks jumped on the news, but conservatives gave it  a   much 
 more   hostile   reception . For those trying to make up their minds,
here are a few questions one often hears about what the Fed is
doing, along with my answers:  1) What’s the rationale for QE3? One argument for it starts
with the two goals that Congress has set for the Fed: to keep
unemployment low and prices stable. The Fed defines stable
prices as a steady 2 percent inflation rate.  Core inflation ,
headline inflation and market expectations of inflation are all
below 2 percent. Right now unemployment is high. Looser Fed
policy would bring us closer to both targets.  2) Hasn’t the Fed already been keeping money extremely
loose? It says it has been “highly accommodative,” and it has
been if you use interest rates or the size of the monetary base
to measure monetary policy. But those are the wrong measures, as
the great monetary economist  Milton Friedman  pointed out. A
better measure is provided by the growth rate of total spending
in the economy. Before the boom, Fed policy kept that number
fairly steady at 5 percent a year. During the crisis of 2008 and
2009, however, the Fed let nominal spending drop at the fastest
rate since 1938. The Fed was tight during the crash, and its
tightness may even have caused the crash. Nominal spending
hasn’t recovered since.  3) Will looser money hurt savers? The reason Friedman said
interest rates are a bad gauge of monetary policy is that tight
money can depress the economy and thus lower returns on
investment. The weak economy, not excessive money creation, has
been keeping  interest rates  low. If the Fed’s action increases
economic growth, then it will help savers. Long-term interest
rates rose after its announcement.  4) Is QE3 a favor to  Wall Street ? Looser money is boosting
stocks because it is raising expectations of economic growth and
thus of future profits. That’s a good thing. In the 1970s, when
we really did have loose money, easing by the Fed didn’t help
stocks because market participants didn’t expect it to
strengthen the economy. The market reaction is a sign that this
time loosening was warranted.  5) Won’t QE3 hurt consumers by raising prices, especially
for food and gas? There are two ways the Fed’s move might
increase consumer prices. The first is by boosting the price
level generally. But that effect should raise wages, too,
leaving the real price of goods unchanged. The second is by
strengthening the economy and thus encouraging people to consume
more. One small example: More economic activity leads to more
business trips, which leads to higher demand for gas. In that
case, the real price of gas would increase, but as a side effect
of healthy economic developments.  6) Is the Fed trying to encourage consumption? Not
especially. It is trying to increase the economy’s total level
of spending, but it can’t control how that spending gets divided
between consumption and investment.  7) Is the Fed engaged in central planning? No. It isn’t
deciding how much of each product the economy should make and at
what price each should be sold -- which is what real central
planning involves. Instead, it is reducing the drag that tight-
money policy has placed on economic growth.  8) Aren’t our deeper economic problems structural, and
beyond the reach of the Fed? Maybe so! We probably need reforms
of everything from our  patent law  to our  tax code  to raise the
economy’s long-term potential growth rate. Fed policy over the
past few years, though, has kept the economy under the potential
growth rate we could reach even with these structural problems.  9) Are there any dangers to QE3? Sure. The Fed shouldn’t
get into the habit of thinking that it can painlessly boost real
economic growth or employment by expanding the  money supply . It
is only under the unusual circumstances we face today --
spending levels that the Fed has allowed to fall far below trend
-- that this policy makes sense. It would have been better for
the Fed to say it would purchase assets until those spending
levels rose back toward the pre-crisis trend. The more credible
its commitment, the fewer purchases it would have to make.  In this case, though, second-best is not half bad. The
stock market got it right, not the critics.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Libor and criminal charges 
and on a needed delay for  Arctic oil drilling ; Susan P. Crawford
on  Apple’s war with Google ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  “Muslim rage” in
Pakistan ; William Pesek on  Myanmar’s economic development ; Roben
Farzad on the breakup between  Goldman Sachs and ambitious youth ;
 Jeff Rubin  on  oil’s inadequate replacements .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  