-- Obama Says Attack on Consulate in Libya More Than ‘a Mob Action’
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-09-24T21:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/obama-says-attack-on-consulate-in-libya-more-than-a-mob-action-.html
President  Barack Obama  said it’s
clear that the Sept. 11 assault in Benghazi, Libya, that killed
U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three others “wasn’t just a
mob action” while declining to call it an act of terrorism
before an investigation is complete.  “We don’t have all the information yet and we’re still
gathering it,” Obama said in an interview for “The View,” a
daytime talk show on ABC Television. “There’s no doubt that the
kind of weapons that were used, that the ongoing assault, that
it wasn’t just a mob action.”  The program is scheduled for broadcast tomorrow, when the
president also is set to address the  United Nations General
Assembly  and an audience at the  Clinton Global Initiative .  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has escalated
his criticism of Obama over foreign policy since a wave of
protests and violence over a film made in the U.S. that Muslims
regard as blasphemous. The four U.S. deaths in Libya have become
a flashpoint in the campaign.  Obama’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , said Sept. 20 that it was
“self-evident” that the attack on the consulate was a
terrorist act. Matthew Olsen, director of the National
Counterterrorism Center, said the U.S. is looking into
indications that some of those involved may have had links to
al-Qaeda, while the initial investigation suggests it was
planned ahead of time.  Romney’s Criticism  Campaigning today in Pueblo, Colorado, Romney said Obama
has put the U.S. “at the mercy” of events in the  Middle East 
rather than trying to shape them.  Romney also is scheduled to speak tomorrow at the
conference hosted by former President  Bill Clinton .  The interview on “The View,” which also included first
lady  Michelle Obama , marked Obama’s second appearance as
president on the daytime program, which is aimed largely at
women, a group that is part of his campaign strategy to win re-
election.  The show averages 3.3 million viewers and is the fourth-
most-watched daytime TV program, according to data from Nielsen.
It ranks fifth among women ages 25 to 54. When Obama last was on
“The View,” broadcast July 29, 2010, the audience for the
program almost doubled to 6.6 million viewers, Nielsen data
show.  In a Pew Research Center poll conducted Sept. 12-16, Obama
had a 56 percent to 38 percent advantage among likely women
voters. Romney led among men, 48 percent to 46 percent. The
survey had an error margin of plus or minus 2.4 percentage
points.  Economic Argument  Obama also used the used the venue to argue the case for
his re-election and defend his handling of the economy.  “Governor Romney is a good man and means well, but the
policies that he is putting forward are precisely the policies
that got us into this mess,” he said.  Presidential candidates in recent elections increasingly
have sought to reach voters through non-news programs, from
daytime fare like “The View” to late-night comedy and talk
shows such as “Late Night with  David Letterman ” on CBS and
“The Tonight Show with  Jay Leno ” on NBC.  Romney and his wife,  Ann Romney , appeared earlier this
month on ABC’s syndicated daytime talk show “Live! With Kelly &
Michael.” Ann Romney is scheduled to be a guest on Leno’s
program tomorrow night.  In New York tonight, Obama is the host for a closed-door
reception for visiting heads of state.  UN Meeting  He has no scheduled one-on-one meetings with world leaders
tonight or tomorrow. That’s in contrast to last year, when he
had more than a dozen private sessions with the leaders of
Israel, the  Palestinian Authority , France, the U.K. and other
nations.  “He will see a number of leaders, I’m sure, tonight; he
will see more tomorrow,” Carney said.  Carney said the president, in his speech tomorrow, will
restate that “Iran must not be allowed to develop a nuclear
weapon” and address “recent unrest in the Muslim world and the
broader context of the democratic transitions in the Arab
world” following attacks on U.S. embassies in Libya and Egypt.  “He will also send a clear message that the United States
will never retreat from the world,” Carney said. “The United
States will bring justice to those who harm Americans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in  New York  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in New York at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  