-- Oil Fluctuates in New York as U.S. Crude Stockpiles Seen Rising
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-09-25T06:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-as-u-s-stockpiles-seen-increasing.html
Oil fluctuated in  New York  after
falling for a fifth time in six days before a report that may
show inventories climbed in the U.S., the biggest crude user.  Futures pared earlier gains of as much as 0.5 percent after
sliding 1 percent yesterday. U.S. crude supplies probably rose  2
million barrels  last week for the longest run of increases since
May, according to a Bloomberg survey before an Energy Department
report tomorrow. The  American Petroleum Institute  will release
separate inventory data today.  “There’s ample supply in the market,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a
commodity newsletter in Sydney. “The market is becoming
lethargic as pessimism engulfs people’s views. I’m not really
comfortable being long.”  Oil for November delivery rose 10 cents to $92.03 a barrel
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
2:48 p.m. Singapore time. It earlier gained as much as 45 cents
to $92.38. The contract fell to $91.93 yesterday, the lowest
close since Sept. 20. Prices are down 6.9 percent this year.  Brent crude  for November settlement fell 11 cents to
$109.70 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $17.66, from $17.88 yesterday.  “The upside will be limited because still we have the
pressure” of traders selling contracts to close bets on rising
prices, said  Ken Hasegawa , a sales manager at Newedge Group in
 Tokyo  who predicts West Texas Intermediate crude has support at
$91 a barrel.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. oil supplies probably rose for a third week in the
seven days ended Sept. 21 as output rebounded after Hurricane
Isaac, according to the median estimate of nine analysts in the
Bloomberg survey. Inventories probably climbed to 369.6 million
barrels, which would leave them at the highest level since the
week ended Aug. 3. Seven of the respondents forecast a gain and
two projected a decline.  Supplies surged 2.4 percent in the week ended Sept. 14, the
biggest increase since March, as production and imports jumped
after Isaac. The hurricane shut most  Gulf of Mexico  platforms
and ports as it made final landfall in  Louisiana  on Aug. 29.
Crude stockpiles have dropped during September in nine of the
past 10 years as refiners started maintenance programs.  Gasoline stockpiles probably climbed  500,000 barrels  last
week, according to the survey. Distillate supplies, a category
that includes heating oil and diesel, likely rose 900,000
barrels.  Gasoline Prices  The industry-funded API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Motor-fuel prices at U.S. pumps decreased for the first
time in 12 weeks. The national average for regular gasoline fell
5.2 cents to $3.826 a gallon from a week earlier, the Energy
Information Administration said in a report on the agency’s
website. The price was up from $3.509 a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  