-- Oil Drops From 1-Week High in New York on Europe Debt Woe
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-09-24T12:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/oil-drops-from-1-week-high-in-new-york-on-europe-debt-woe.html
Oil dropped from the highest close
in almost a week as renewed discord among European leaders on
measures to stem the region’s debt crisis outweighed concern
that tensions in the  Middle East  may disrupt crude supplies.  New York futures fell as much as 1.7 percent after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande 
disagreed over closer integration of Europe’s banking system at
the weekend. Iran, OPEC’s third-largest oil producer, will
defend itself if attacked by Israel, according to excerpts of a
CNN interview with Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
scheduled for broadcast today.  “European leaders are spending more time bickering amongst
themselves than solving their massive problems,”  Michael Hewson , a London-based analyst at CMC Markets, said by phone.
“Unless there’s a shocker out of the Middle East, I don’t see
anything but downward pressures on oil.”  Oil for November delivery declined as much as $1.55 to
$91.34 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $91.94 at 1:27 p.m.  London  time. It rose 47
cents to $92.63 on Sept. 21, the highest close since Sept. 18.
Front-month prices fell 6.2 percent last week, the biggest
weekly decline since June, and are down 7 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement decreased $1.26 to
$110.16 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark grade’s  premium  to West Texas
Intermediate was at $18.22, down from $18.53 on Sept. 21.  European Talks  The disagreement between the French and German leaders was
the only point of public discord. Integration should happen
“the earlier, the better,” Hollande told reporters in the
German town of Asperg on Sept. 22. Merkel said that there’s no
point doing something fast if it then doesn’t work.  “The market wants to see proof that Europe is climbing out
of the doldrums,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive
officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney.
“The market has become a lot more pessimistic.”  Oil in New York rose above $100 this month for the first
time since May amid speculation European steps to tame the
crisis and monetary easing by central banks would boost the
global economy. The  European Central Bank  said Sept. 6 it would
purchase bonds while the U.S. Federal Reserve said Sept. 14 it
would start buying mortgage securities.  Prices have also gained since U.S. and European Union
sanctions on Iran’s energy exports took full effect in July.  Preemptive Strike  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  have indicated that, as Iran proceeds with
its nuclear work and negotiations stall, Israel may have no
choice but to launch a preemptive strike in self-defense.  Israel “will be destroyed” if it initiates action, Major
General Mohammad Ali Jafari, the commander-in-chief of Iran’s
Revolutionary Guard Corps, said Sept. 22, according to the
state-run Mehr news agency.  “The current drop in prices cannot be sustained unless
sanctions on Iran are lifted, quantitative easing plans are
shelved, and geopolitical tension in the Persian Gulf
subsides,” Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer
Securities, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Hedge funds  increased bullish oil bets for a fifth week in
the seven days ended Sept. 18 on speculation that the Fed’s
latest round of economic stimulus will boost hiring and bolster
demand. Money managers added to net-long positions, or wagers on
rising prices, by 5.6 percent, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on
Sept. 21. It was the highest level since May 1.  In London, funds and other money managers reduced bullish
bets on  Brent crude  by 7,514 contracts last week from their
highest level in more than four months, according to  data  from
ICE Futures Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  