-- Monti Should Seek Aid to Straitjacket Successor: Euro Credit
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-09-24T09:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/monti-should-seek-aid-to-straitjacket-successor-euro-credit.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
should seek European aid for the same reason his Spanish peer
 Mariano Rajoy  is resisting a rescue -- the economic straitjacket
that would accompany a bailout, executives and investors say.  Italy’s 10-year yield has dropped 122 basis points since
ECB President  Mario Draghi  first said on Aug. 2 the bank may buy
bonds of cash-strapped nations, easing pressure on Monti. Still,
as Monti is not running in elections due by April, he is better
positioned than Rajoy to weather any political fallout from
requesting support to further lower borrowing costs.  “The ECB position has prompted a relief rally but if you
want to capitalize on the good mood, you have to be forward-
looking, do more than what the market is expecting.” said
Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $160 million at Glendevon King
Asset Management in  London . “Tapping the European rescue fund
now would be a smart strategy for Italy, because committing to
specific targets and reforms would help reduce the political
risk after elections.”  Polls suggest Italy’s elections may lead to a hung
parliament or produce a government lacking commitment to Monti’s
budget policies. Even with the economy mired in a  fourth
recession  since 2001, Italy is on track to bring its deficit
within the European Union limit this year and start trimming the
EU’s second-biggest debt in 2013.  Yield Difference  The difference in yield between Spanish three-year debt,
the maximum maturity the ECB will target in its bond-buying
program, and similar Italian bonds has widened by 25 basis
points to 79 since Sept. 7, one day after Draghi’s gave details
of the bond buying plan. The wider spread suggests investors
perceive Italy as more creditworthy than  Spain . Italian three-
year debt yielded 237 basis points more than Spanish securities
at the beginning of the year.  Draghi’s new bond-buying program will work in tandem with
debt-purchase by the EU’s bailout funds and impose conditions on
any government making a request. The ECB under its Securities
Markets Program bought about 220 billion euros ($285 billion) of
Greek, Irish, Portuguese, Italian and Spanish debt in 2010 and
2011 without accompanying economic sanctions.  Italy, then run by  Silvio Berlusconi , repaid that
benevolence by backtracking on pledged budget reforms.
Berlusconi, who resigned last year after Italy’s 10-year yields
topped 7 percent, said on Sept. 17 that if he were to lead the
next government, he would retract Monti’s tax on primary
residences, one of the government’s key revenue-raising
measures. The  Democratic Party , which leads in opinion polls,
led the charge to dilute Monti’s labor market overhaul.  Elections  “We might as well say right now that we are committed to
these things and sign an accord that binds not only the current
government and parliament but also those that come after the
elections in the spring,” Giorgio Squinzi, head of employers’
lobby Confindustria said on Sept. 13.  Both Monti and Rajoy, who came to power 10 months ago after
winning Spain’s biggest parliamentary majority in almost three
decades, have reiterated that their countries are not currently
planning to seek aid. Rajoy, who has already requested a 100
billion-euro rescue of Spain’s banks, endures higher borrowing
costs than Monti, and has seen his popularity slump after
imposing the deepest budget cuts in more than 30 years. The two
countries making a joint bond-buying request might help buffer
the political fallout.  Splitting Costs  “Spain is also at risk and a coordinated intervention with
Italy would split the political costs of the initiative,” said
 Luigi Zingales , a finance professor at the University of
Chicago’s Booth School of Business. “Second, this would prompt
a relief rally by convincing investors that the anti-spread
mechanism is working and, last but not least, Monti would do a
favor to the next government.”  Italian bonds have gained more than Spanish equivalents
since Draghi revealed details of his plans on Sept. 6 as
investors views on the two economies began to diverge. Spain is
seeking to trim its deficit this year to 6.3 percent of GDP,
almost three times the Italian rate, while efforts to achieve
 that goal  are undermined by the EU’s highest jobless rate of 25
percent, more than double that of  Italy . On the debt front,
Italy’s total borrowing of 120.7 percent of GDP dwarfs Spain’s
at 68.5, though Italy’s debt is poised to peak this year, while
Spain’s is projected to jump by more than 10 percentage points.  Bets on Euro  “Investors are finally starting to realize that Italy is
in much better shape that Spain and the only reason why it was
hit so hard by the economic crisis is that is has been used as a
speculative vehicle by those betting against the euro,” said
Mario Spreafico, who manages 1.5 billion euros as chief
investment officer at Schroders Private Banking for Italy in
Milan. “Even if Spain makes a request for a sovereign bailout,
I don’t expect Italy to follow.”  Still, it was Monti who championed the plan for the EU to
buy bonds, saying the EU needed to act to ensure that nations
taming their finances would be rewarded with affordable funding
costs. Even though the yield difference between Italy’s 10-year
debt and comparable German bunds is currently near a six-month
low, the spread of 330 basis points is almost four times the
average difference since the euro came into circulation in 2001.  For Monti, triggering the bond buying may be the best way
to prevent Italy’s borrowing costs from jeopardizing his efforts
to balance the budget and trim a 1.97 trillion-euro debt. With
six months left in his term, a bailout would also be his
political legacy.  “Monti will rather pay up in credit markets than do
something which would be seen as admission of failure,” said
Georg Grodzki, head of credit research at Legal & General
Investment Management Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net 
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at l or  totaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  