-- Loomis CEO Will Meet Profit Goal With Cash-Handling Revenue
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2012-09-24T17:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/loomis-ceo-wants-to-meet-profit-goal-with-cash-handling-revenue.html
Loomis AB (LOOMB) , the cash-handling unit
spun off from  Securitas AB (SECUB) , will reach its 2014 profitability
target by cutting costs and increasing sales in its existing
business, Chief Executive Officer Lars Blecko said.  Loomis won’t need help from planned acquisitions to reach
its goal of a 10 percent margin on earnings before interest, tax
and amortization, Blecko said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Stockholm. Loomis plans to enter two new
countries a year by using some of the 2 billion kronor ($300
million) it has available for acquisitions, he said.  Loomis last year reported organic sales growth for the
 first time  since its December 2008 listing as an independent
company. Sales, excluding acquisitions, will grow again this
year even if the rate may be as low as 0.1 percent compared with
2011’s 1 percent, Blecko said. The debt crisis isn’t really
hurting Loomis’ business and the company is still confident in
reaching the 10 percent margin target set two years ago, he
said.  “We haven’t revised the target,” Blecko, who was born in
1957, said. “The plan is to add about half a percentage point
each year.”  Loomis last year had an Ebita margin of 8.3 percent and it
reached 8.5 percent for the 12 months through the second
quarter. The third and fourth quarters are the company’s best
because consumers use more cash over vacations and Christmas.  Eastern Europe  Loomis  rose as much as  2 percent in Stockholm trading, the
biggest intra-day gain since Sept. 7. The stock advanced 1.1
percent to close at 90.5 kronor in the Swedish capital.  Blecko said he favors acquisitions in eastern  Europe  and
 South America , excluding  Brazil , where a law prohibits 100
percent ownership of security companies by foreigners.  The company could also enter a big western European market
such as Germany, Italy and  Poland  where it currently has no
business, he said.  The company last year entered  Turkey  and in April added
Argentinian company Vigencia. The company also operates in
Austria, the  Czech Republic , Denmark, Finland, France, Norway,
Portugal, Slovenia, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the
U.K. and the U.S.  “There isn’t a huge amount of objects out there, you have
to keep a lot of discussions going” Blecko said also citing
high prices. “The 10 percent is our most important target, if
we make two acquisitions or not is very subordinate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  