-- Morgan Stanley Said No Longer Bookrunner of Asiacell IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-09-24T16:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/morgan-stanley-said-to-drop-out-of-asiacell-s-iraqi-ipo.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  is no longer a
bookrunner for the initial public offering of Asiacell, the
Iraqi telecom operator majority-owned by  Qatar Telecom QSC (QTEL) , said
three people with knowledge of the discussions.  While Morgan Stanley is still an adviser on the deal, the
 U.S. bank  will not manage Asiacell’s share sale because it
doesn’t have a client base inside Iraq, where most of the demand
for this IPO is expected, said one of the people.  New York-based Morgan Stanley was originally hired with
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  as managers for the IPO, which may happen as
early as next month, said two of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans are private. The IPO of  Asiacell ,
Iraq’s first mobile phone operator, could raise as much as $1
billion with the sale of a 25 percent stake in the company,
making it the biggest ever in the country, the people said.  Rabee Securities, a Baghdad-based brokerage, is also
managing Asiacell’s IPO.  Doubled Stake  Doha-based  Qatar Telecom , known as Qtel, agreed this year
to double its stake in the Iraqi mobile operator Asiacell to 60
percent for $1.47 billion. Qtel, which owns stakes in companies
from Tunisia to Indonesia, has sought to grow outside its home
market, where it faces rising competition from  Vodafone Qatar. (VFQS)   A London-based official at Morgan Stanley declined to
comment, as did a Qtel spokesman.  The IPO, if successful, could double the market
capitalization of the Iraq Stock Exchange, which is about $4
billion, according to the Baghdad-based bourse.  Asiacell has about 9.5 million users, Qtel’s Chief
Executive Officer Nasser Marafih said in June.  Zain Iraq, Asiacell’s main competitor and a unit of
Kuwait’s  Mobile Telecommunication Co. (ZAIN) , plans to go public in
Iraq this year as well, the parent company’s former chief
executive officer, Emad Makiya, said in April. Makiya stepped
down last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  