-- Swiss Stocks Fall From 18-Month High on Debt-Crisis Fears
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-09-24T15:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/most-swiss-stocks-fall-on-debt-crisis-concern-ubs-drops.html
Swiss stocks  declined from an 18-
month high as German business confidence unexpectedly dropped
and concern grew that efforts by euro-area leaders to tackle the
region’s debt crisis are stalling.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse AG led the retreat, falling at
least 1 percent. DKSH Holding Ltd. slid 2.4 percent as UBS
managed the sale of shares on behalf of members of senior
management. Transocean Ltd. gained for a fourth day, advancing
3.1 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  slipped 0.1 percent to 6,597.22 at
the close of trading in Zurich, after earlier dropping as much
as 0.5 percent. The equity benchmark closed at the highest level
since March 1 last week after European Central Bank policy
makers agreed to implement an unlimited bond-buying program and
the  Federal Reserve  unveiled a third round of asset purchases.
The broader Swiss Performance Index lost 0.2 percent today.  “The week started quietly on the economic front, with only
German Ifo sentiment data out, and that showing continued
nervousness in the euro zone’s strongest pillar,” Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG in  London , wrote in e-mailed
comments.  Business confidence in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy,
unexpectedly fell for a fifth straight month in September. The
Ifo institute in Munich said its  business climate index , based
on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 101.4 from 102.3 in
August. That’s the lowest reading since February 2010.
Economists predicted an increase to 102.5, according to the
median of 37 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Merkel, Hollande  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  clashed over the weekend on when to start
joint oversight of the euro area’s banking industry. Merkel
rebuffed Hollande’s appeal to activate oversight of the banking
union “the earlier, the better.” Deadlock over regulation may
delay a key building block in resolving the single currency’s
debt crisis.  In  China , manufacturers and retailers are less optimistic
about sales than they were three months ago and are cutting
jobs, according to a survey by New York-based researcher CBB
International LLC. The findings build on data indicating that
manufacturing, trade and retail sales slowed in the third
quarter, pointing to a seventh straight deceleration in growth
and potentially the weakest annual expansion in 22 years.  UBS and Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s two largest banks,
declined 1.1 percent to 12.03 Swiss francs and 2 percent to
21.17 francs, respectively.  Adecco, Richemont  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest supplier of temporary
workers, slid 1.2 percent to 47.60 francs.  Geberit AG (GEBN) , the Swiss maker of toilets and bathroom piping
systems, dropped 1.3 percent to 206.10 francs.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the maker of Chloe bags and
Dunhill briefcases, slid 1.2 percent to 58.95 francs, declining
for a third day.  Aryzta AG (ARYN) , a supplier of bakery products to restaurants,
retreated 3 percent to 46.25 francs. The company forecast
revenue growth of 5 percent to 10 percent in fiscal 2013,
compared with 8.5 percent expansion this year, and said “we
have no great expectation of any recovery in consumer
behavior.”  DKSH, a Swiss company that helps clients expand in Asian
markets, declined 2.4 percent to 56.3 francs, the biggest drop
in three months. UBS is selling about 523,000 shares on behalf
of members of senior management, according to the terms of the
deal obtained by  Bloomberg News . The shares have still climbed
10 percent since the company’s initial public offering in March.  Transocean, the owner of the oil rig that exploded in the
 Gulf of Mexico  in April 2010, increased 3.1 percent to 44.75
francs for the longest winning streak in two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  