-- Total to Sell $20 Billion of Assets as It Raises Output Goal
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-09-24T16:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/total-to-sell-20-billion-of-assets-as-it-raises-production-goal.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest
oil company, plans to sell as much as $20 billion in assets to
raise cash for oil and gas projects.  Total said it would try to sell $15 billion to $20 billion
of assets between 2012 and 2014 to cement “active  portfolio
management ,” according to a statement. Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie said the outlook for cash flow gave the
company scope to increase dividends and invest in output.  Total has increased the pace of acquisitions and asset
sales in recent years to shuffle its portfolio and raise
production. The French explorer is following  BP Plc (BP/)  which has a
target to sell $38 billion of assets by the end of 2013 and has
completed about $32 billion so far. Total completed $15 billion
of asset sales in 2010 and 2011, including in European refining
capacity and shares in drugs maker Sanofi.  The French explorer has also pledged to step up and make
“bolder” the search for oil and gas. This strategy has seen
Total move into so-called frontier nations including French
Guiana and  Kenya , while continuing to invest in large production
projects in Kazakhstan, Canada and  Australia .  Output Target  Total said today it expects to increase output an average
of 3 percent a year from 2011 to 2015, compared with an earlier
goal of 2.5 percent a year, according to a statement. Paris-
based Total gave a longer-term target for the first time, saying
production will reach about 3 million barrels of oil equivalent
a day in 2017. This compares with 2.35 million barrels of oil
equivalent last year.  “The production targets are a stretch,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in London. “It’s
aggressive for a company with this portfolio and I wouldn’t be
surprised to see them undershoot.”  Production fell 2 percent in the second quarter to 2.26
million barrels a day after a U.K. North Sea gas leak prompted
the shutdown of the Elgin and Franklin platforms in March, while
production in Nigeria and Yemen was also disrupted. Total said
today it expects the field to start again by the end of the
year.  “For the 3 million barrel a day target by 2017, you should
note that 70 percent of the projects are either in production or
in development,” said Patrick de la Chevardiere, Total’s chief
financial officer, at an investor day in  London . The company’s
newer projects are more profitable than the rest of its
portfolio, he said.  Bold Exploration  “Total’s bold exploration program is focused on high-risk,
high-reward prospects, and new acreage has added to the
potential for giant discoveries,” the company said. Total
announced today it had acquired a 40 percent stake in the
offshore Rovuma Basin in  Mozambique  from Petronas.  Total’s exploration permits in  Angola ’s Kwanza basin,  Ivory
Coast , Uruguay’s Block 14 and French Guiana are at the heart of
the “mirror concept” of the Atlantic Ocean where geologists
speculate reserves on either side of the South American and
African coasts mirror each other, Total said today.  The French company plans to drill wells or prepare seismic
studies on these permits next year and in 2014, according to
today’s presentation. Another promising area is the foothills of
 Iraq , it said.  Beefed Up  “They’ve really beefed up their exploration and are taking
more risk than in the past,” said Iain Reid, an analyst at
Jefferies Group Inc. in London. “The Mozambique acreage looks
promising.”  The company, which plans to accelerate free  cash flow 
growth between 2015 and 2017, said the restructuring of its
refining and chemicals division that’s under way will add $650
million a year to net results by 2015. Refining profits are
about $60 a ton at present, de la Chevardiere said.  The Iraqi government hasn’t taken action against Total
after the company agreed to take exploration acreage in the
country’s Kurdistan region, de la Chevardiere said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  