-- Pakistan Disowns Minister’s Bounty for Anti-Islam Film Maker
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2012-09-24T05:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/pakistan-disowns-minister-s-bounty-for-anti-islam-film-maker-1-.html
The government of Pakistani
President Asif Ali Zardari and its key coalition partner
repudiated a minister’s offer of a bounty for the killing of the
maker of an anti-Islam film that triggered deadly riots.  Federal Railway Minister Ghulam Ahmed Bilour, a
businessman, on Sept. 22 told reporters in Pakistan that he
would pay $100,000 to have the U.S.-based movie producer killed,
according local media including the Dawn newspaper.  These are his “personal views and had nothing to do with
the official policy of the government,” the country’s foreign
ministry said today in a statement. The threat isn’t in keeping
with the party’s policy of non-violence, Zahid Khan, a spokesman
for Bilour’s  Awami National Party  or ANP, said in a phone
interview from  Peshawar  yesterday.  Bilour is a senior leader of the ethnic Pashtun party,
whose lawmakers provide crucial support for the federal
administration led by Zardari’s  Pakistan Peoples Party . The ANP
also heads the coalition government in the northwestern province
of Khyber Pakhtunkhawa which straddles tribal regions home to
Taliban and al-Qaeda linked militants.  The California man associated with the online movie clip
has been questioned by U.S. authorities. Nakoula Basseley
Nakoula is also being sued by an actress who says she was misled
into participating in the film.  Church Attack  Bilour didn’t answer calls made to his mobile phone today.
The State Department condemned the bounty offer, calling it
“inflammatory and inappropriate,” according to a report on the
website of the British Broadcasting Corp.  The American-made film has sparked deadly violence across
the Muslim world, including in  Pakistan  where 21 people were
killed in violence on Sept. 21. Pakistan’s government declared
the day a national holiday so that people could join protests
which it said should be peaceful.  Enraged mobs torched several movie theaters, banks, food
outlets and damaged or destroyed downtown shops in several
cities. In the northwestern town of Mardan, a group of
protesters ransacked and later burned a church, an act Zardari
described as “unfortunate and reprehensible.”  A 14-minute trailer for the film posted on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
YouTube website shows a fictional attack by Muslims on a
Christian family, followed by an account of the origins of Islam
depicting Mohammed as a womanizer.  Anti-American sentiment has been running high in Pakistan
after years of U.S. drone missile attacks, the raid that killed
 Osama bin Laden  in a Pakistani town last year and other
confrontations.  Pakistani television channels have aired an advertisement
last week by the State Department with President  Barack Obama 
and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  disavowing the film.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  