-- Pechora LNG Gets ‘Positive’ Gazprom Review After Shtokman Delays
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-09-24T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/pechora-lng-gets-positive-gazprom-review-after-shtokman-delays.html
Pechora LNG expects plans with OAO
Gazprom to tap Arctic deposits and produce liquefied natural gas
to move forward as the Russian export monopoly’s Shtokman gas
project suffers further delays.  Pechora LNG, which holds rights to a deposit blasted with a
nuclear explosive during the Soviet era, could generate an
internal rate of return of as high as 28 percent, Maxim Barsky,
head of the project, said today from Naryan-Mar,  Russia , citing
a study carried out by a Gazprom research center.  “It was very positive,” said Barsky, who was once set to
become chief executive officer of TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest
oil company. Barsky is a minority shareholder in the Pechora
project, controlled by businessman Dmitry Bosov’s Alltech.  Gazprom’s Shtokman Development AG venture with  Total SA (FP)  and
 Statoil ASA (STL)  lapsed over cost concerns this year. The companies
are reviewing how to proceed on Shtokman, where more reserves
than world uses in a year lie untapped 600 kilometers off the
Barents Sea coast. Its Sakhalin-2 project with  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  remains Russia’s only producer of LNG, gas cooled to a
liquid for shipment by tanker.  Pechora LNG plans to start output of LNG in 2018, RIA
Novosti reported today, citing Bosov in Naryan-Mar.  Gazprom’s press service declined to immediately comment
when called by  Bloomberg News .  Nuclear Detonation  The study looked at LNG output of 2 million metric tons to
8 million tons using fuel from Pechora LNG’s fields, Gazprom
fields and undistributed deposits in the region.  Nenets Regional Governor Igor Fedorov has lobbied to
develop the project, forming a working group with Pechora LNG
and Gazprom’s export arm, according to Pechora LNG’s website.
Gazprom holds a monopoly on Russian gas exports.  The group commissioned the study from OAO Giprospetsgaz,
Gazprom’s St. Petersburg-based research institute, to make sure
Pechora LNG’s research met the state exporter’s internal
standards, Barsky said.  Soviet authorities in 1980 detonated a civil nuclear device
at one of Pechora LNG’s two fields, Kumzhinskoye, after a well
explosion, known as a blow-out, seeking to extinguish the blaze.
Radiation at the field does not currently exceed norms, Pechora
LNG said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  