-- Petra Sees ‘Green Shoots’ in Diamond Market After Slump
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-09-24T15:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/petra-sees-green-shoots-in-diamond-market-after-slump-2-.html
Petra Diamonds Ltd. (PDL) , a producer of
the gems in southern  Africa , said there are signs of a recovery
in demand after  prices  of unpolished stones slumped this year.  “The market is not that bad,” Chief Executive Officer
Johan Dippenaar said in a telephone interview. “There are
definitely some green shoots out there. We see good attendance
at our tenders.”  Petra sells through auctions, or tenders, in Johannesburg
and Antwerp. Unpolished, or rough, diamond prices have fallen
about 19 percent this year, according to PolishedPrices.com, as
Asian buying slowed and the euro crisis eroded consumption of
the gems. Prices rose more than 20 percent in each of the past
three years as producers struggled to keep pace with demand.  “If people realize  Europe  is not going to be a real
doomsday scenario, confidence will return slowly but surely,”
Dippenaar said today after the company reported a loss.  Petra held its first tender for the 2013 financial year
earlier this month. Diamonds from the Koffiefontein and
Williamson mines sold for more than it forecast, while prices
for stones from its Cullinan and Finsch operations met company
guidance.  The company, which produced about 2.2 million carats in its
last financial year, said it expects output to increase about 30
percent to 2.85 million carats this year.  Petra climbed 7.6 percent to 118 pence by the close in
London, the biggest gain among members of the 21-company FTSE
350 Mining Index.  Labor Unrest  The company gets most of its revenue in  South Africa , where
labor strikes have halted platinum and gold mines owned by
 Lonmin Plc (LMI)  and Gold Fields Ltd. Petra doesn’t see the unrest
threatening its own operations because it has a smaller
workforce, stable union membership and a different proportion of
skilled workers, the company said.  “It’s always a concern when you see people revert to
methods outside the laid-down legal procedures,” Dippenaar
said. “I don’t want to say ‘Oh no, it can’t happen with us,’
because I don’t want to paint a target on our backs.”  The company today reported a fiscal full-year loss of $2.4
million, following profit of $53.2 million, on currency losses
of $38.6 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  