-- Pig Slaughter Shrinks Supply to 1975 Low in Drought: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-09-25T20:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/pork-supply-shrinks-to-lowest-since-1975-on-drought-commodities.html
U.S. hog farmers are slaughtering
animals at the fastest pace since 2009 as a surge in feed costs
spurs the biggest losses in 14 years, signaling smaller herds
next year and a rebound in pork prices.  The 73.3 million hogs processed in eight months through
August were the most in three years, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show. Pork supply will drop to the lowest per-
capita since 1975 next year, the USDA estimates. Hog futures
that fell more than any other commodity since June 30 may surge
41 percent in 12 months to as high as $1.055 a pound, based on
the median of 12 analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Crop damage from the worst U.S. drought since 1956 sent
corn-feed prices surging to a record last month and may mean
losses of about $44 a head for hog farmers in the fourth
quarter, the most since 1998,  Purdue University  estimates. Two
producers in Canada filed bankruptcy petitions this month. While
the acceleration in slaughtering is boosting supply now, buyers
including CKE Inc., the owner of Hardee’s and Carl’s Jr. fast-
food chains, expect higher prices in 2013 as herds shrink and
U.S. exports rise.  “We’re going to see more consolidation in the industry,”
said  Mark Greenwood , who oversees $1.4 billion of loans and
leases to the hog business as a vice president at AgStar
Financial Services Inc. in Mankato, Minnesota. “It’s only going
to get worse on the higher feed prices.”  Worst Commodity  Futures on the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange fell 21 percent
since June 30, the biggest drop among 24 commodities tracked by
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (MXWD) , which rose 9.9 percent.
The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained 7.3 percent
this quarter and Treasuries returned 0.2 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  A pig eats 10 bushels of corn to reach a slaughter weight
of about 270 pounds (122 kilograms), the  University of Missouri 
at Columbia estimates. Corn futures rose 47 percent since mid-
June after the USDA predicted the drought will cut domestic
output by 13 percent. Prices reached a record $8.49 a bushel in
Chicago on Aug. 10.  Producers may receive about $56 per hundredweight for hogs
in the fourth quarter, and the cost of production is estimated
at about $72.29 per hundredweight, said Chris Hurt, an
agricultural economist at Purdue University in  West Lafayette ,
 Indiana . That means farmers may earn about $151.20 for a 270-
pound hog that cost about $195.18 to produce.  Slaughter Rush  Hog farmers will see “huge amounts of red ink” in the
fourth quarter, said  Jim Robb , the director of the Livestock
Marketing Information Center, which is funded by the industry,
universities and government. Fewer sows will be kept for
breeding, cutting output and tightening pork supply, he said.
That will raise both wholesale and retail prices to records by
the second half of 2013, Robb said.  Prices for now are retreating, with wholesale pork costs
tracked by the USDA tumbling as much as 25 percent since June 25
to the lowest in almost two years on Sept. 19. Hog slaughtering
climbed 2.8 percent in first eight months of the year, the most
since 2009, when farmers sought to shrink herds amid weaker
demand following the global recession and the outbreak of the
H1N1 virus, known as swine flu.  The 12 percent drop in corn prices from a record last
month, and the prospect of bigger harvests next year, may
encourage some hog farmers to slow their herd reduction.
Slaughter rates in the five weeks through Sept. 1 rose less than
5 percent from a year earlier. That may leave enough sows to
accelerate production once feed costs have come down enough,
Rachel J. Johnson, a USDA economist, wrote in a Sept. 18 report.  Cheap Hogs  Meatpackers processed an estimated 79.735 million hogs in
this year through Sept. 22, 2 percent more than a year earlier,
government data show. Animals sold at slaughterhouses fell to
63.58 cents a pound on Sept. 14, the lowest since Nov. 26, 2010.
Prices retreated 9 percent this year.  Lean-hog futures for July delivery are trading at 97.3
cents a pound, compared with 74.65 cents for this December, a
sign traders are already anticipating fewer supplies next year.
Per-capita pork supplies will shrink to 45.2 pounds next year,
the lowest since 1975, the USDA estimates.  U.S. hog producers are retaining fewer gilts, or young
females that haven’t had a litter yet, reducing the number
available to replace older sows, said  Rich Nelson , the chief
strategist at Allendale Inc. in McHenry,  Illinois , who has
tracked the market for about 15 years.  Cheaper Meat  Even with higher prices, pork will remain cheaper than
beef, said John Nalivka, the president of Sterling Marketing
Inc., an agricultural economic research and advisory company in
 Vale ,  Oregon .  Wholesale pork  fell 8 percent to 78.34 cents a
pound this year, as beef declined 1 percent to $1.9269 a pound,
USDA data show.  “If you got sticker shock on pork, you’ll have a heart
attack when you look at beef,” C. Larry Pope, the chief
executive officer of  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the world’s biggest
pork processor, said on a conference call with analysts Sept. 4.  The price gap between hog and cattle futures was the widest
in more than 26 years on Sept. 12, signaling consumers may
switch to pork over beef. Rising U.S. pork exports may also spur
a rebound in prices, according to Purdue’s Hurt.  U.S. exporters shipped 3.14 billion pounds (1.43 million
metric tons) in the first seven months of this year, 11 percent
more than a year earlier, USDA data show. Exports will expand to
5.35 billion pounds next year, from an estimated 5.346 billion
in 2012, the government forecasts.  Food Costs  Rising pork prices will boost costs for restaurants and
grocery stores. Consumers may pay as much as 3 percent more for
pork this year and as much as 3.5 percent more in 2013, the
government projects.  CKE, based in Carpinteria,  California , has lower pork costs
now because of the higher slaughter rate, according to CEO
 Andrew Puzder . Pork and beef prices probably will rise next year
and the chain may offer more chicken instead, he said.  Cracker Barrel Old Country Store Inc. (CBRL) ’s meat costs are
rising because of feed prices, CEO Sandra Cochran said by phone.
The chain, which operates more than 600 restaurants across 42
states, will probably pay about 5 percent to 6 percent more for
its food commodities in its fiscal year ending in July, Chief
Financial Officer Lawrence Hyatt said on a conference call with
analysts Sept. 19. The chain, based in Lebanon,  Tennessee , is
raising menu prices about 2 percent in fiscal 2013.  Bob Evans Farms Inc., the Columbus, Ohio-based restaurant
chain, has seen a drop in sow costs as herds are liquidated, and
expects prices to stay low until the culling stops, CFO Paul DeSantis said on a conference call with analysts Aug. 15. Once
that is over, “prices tend to increase very rapidly,” he said.  Pork Development  Big Sky Farms, the second-largest hog producer in  Canada ,
went into receivership this month partly because of rising feed
costs, said Neil Ketilson, the general manager of the
Saskatchewan Pork Development Board. The company produces more
than 1 million pigs a year, according to its  website . Puratone
Corp. sought protection from creditors on Sept. 12. The
Niverville, Manitoba-based company markets more than 500,000
hogs per year, according to its  website .  Brad Hennen, a hog producer in southwest Minnesota, is
reducing the size of his business because costlier feed and
declining prices for weaned pigs. While he generally markets as
many as 15,000 pigs annually, he expects to sell no more than
6,000 this year.  “It could easily get worse than that,” said Hennen, who
has been raising hogs since 1987 and is based about 3.5 miles
northeast of Ghent,  Minnesota . “What can I do now to minimize
my losses and still have a business for when the cash starts
flowing again?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  