-- Port Authority Rating Cut One Level by Moody’s on Debt Load
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-09-24T22:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/port-authority-rating-lowered-one-level-by-moody-s-on-debt-load.html
The  Port Authority  of  New York  and
 New Jersey ’s  credit rating  was cut one level by Moody’s
Investors Service, which said the agency needs $2 billion in
additional funds through 2016, primarily for the World Trade
Center, and faces “significant growth” in capital needs.  Moody’s lowered the ratings for the agency that runs the
New York City region’s three major airports, two  Hudson River 
tunnels, four bridges and six marine-cargo terminals to Aa3, its
fourth-highest rating, from Aa2. The action, which affected
$18.2 billion in bonds, comes as the authority prepares to issue
$2 billion in taxable debt this week.  “The increasingly back-loaded amortization of debt with
this issue, while providing more debt capacity and stable
financial metrics in the near and medium term, increases longer-
term risks,” Moody’s said in a news release. The company gives
the authority’s credit a stable outlook.  The agency may add $17 billion to it $26.9 billion 10-year
capital plan as it seeks to maintain aging infrastructure,
Moody’s said. Those projects may require toll and fare increases
that aren’t sustainable, the rating company said.  Last year, the Port Authority raised the cost of crossing
the Hudson River by car to $12 from $8. The agency, which said
the increases were needed to fund the 10-year capital plan while
maintaining its credit rating, plans to raise tolls by $1 in
December of this year and in 2014 and 2015.  “The Port Authority’s fiscal health remains strong,” Lisa
MacSpadden, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “The agency is
committed to continuing its extensive reform initiatives to cut
costs, find additional sources of non-toll revenue, and move
forward with its core mission of building and maintaining the
region’s extensive transportation network.”  Standard & Poor’s and  Fitch Ratings  assign a AA- grade to
the authority’s bonds, comparable with Moody’s assessment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  