-- Prada Confident for Future as First-Half Earnings Gain 56%
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-09-24T14:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/prada-confident-for-future-as-first-half-earnings-gain-56-1-.html
Prada SpA, (1913)  the Italian maker of
$3,290 leather handbags, said it anticipates industry-leading
revenue growth for the year even as market conditions worsen.  The  luxury-goods  maker is confident of achieving same-store
sales growth for the year of 15 percent, Chief Executive Officer
Patrizio Bertelli said today on a conference call after Milan-
based Prada reported a 19 percent gain in the first half that
fuelled a 56 percent profit increase.  “The numbers are still holding” including in the first
three weeks of September, Bertelli said on the call. Still,
“it’s just common sense to be very cautious right now.”  Luxury-goods companies have reported divergent sales trends
since the end of August.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s largest
maker of luxury goods, said Sept. 11 that same-store sales have
fallen in recent weeks.  Hermes International SCA (RMS)  last month
raised its 2012 organic sales growth target to about 12 percent.  “We are aware of the negative market trend but, counting
on the strength of our brands and our ability to pursue our
objectives, we look forward with confidence to the near future
without altering our strategy based on achieving our long-term
growth targets,” Bertelli said in a statement.  Earnings before interest and tax rose to 394.9 million
euros ($510 million) in the six months ended July 31 from 253.4
million euros a year earlier, Prada said today. The average of
five analysts’ estimates was for EBIT was 393.6 million euros.
First-half sales increased 36 percent to 1.55 billion euros.  ‘Incredible’ Sales  The gain in first-half same-store sales was “incredible,”
Rahul Sharma, founder and managing director of Neev Capital,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “What you have
had for this sector over the last couple of years is that the
rising tide has floated all boats.” As economic growth slows,
“now you are seeing specific brands doing far better than other
brands for company specific reasons,” he said.  Prada does well because it renews as much as 70 percent of
its assortment each year, meaning there is always something
exciting for luxury-goods shoppers to buy and not see another
person carrying, Sharma said.  “Consumers globally need to be enticed to buy,” Bertelli
said on the call.  Prada rose 1.2 percent to HK$59.95 in Hong Kong trading
today. The earnings were released after markets closed. Luxury
stocks in  Europe  fell after the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  