-- Premiums for Abu Dhabi’s Murban at Seven-Year High: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-09-24T11:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/premiums-for-abu-dhabi-s-murban-at-seven-year-high-asia-crude.html
Premiums for Murban,  Abu Dhabi ’s
flagship export crude, rose to the highest level since 2005 amid
rising profits for refiners.  Murban, a frequently traded Middle East grade that is
popular with Asian refiners, rose 18 cents to 91 cents above its
own official selling price, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A cargo of the grade fetched a premium last week as
high as 95 cents a barrel, said three people who participate in
the market, asking not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak to the media.  Refining margins in Singapore, the average  profit  from
processing a barrel of Dubai crude into fuels such as diesel and
gasoline priced in the regional trading hub, averaged $4.61
during the last five days, the third day of gains and the
highest level since Sept. 5, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 30-day average is $5.03 a barrel.  When refined, Murban crude yields nearly 40 percent middle
distillates such as diesel, or gasoil. The profit from producing
the fuel in  Singapore  rose 9 cents today to $19.62 a barrel, up
20 percent from a year earlier, according to a data from PVM Oil
Associates Ltd., a London-based broker.  Japan ’s kerosene stockpiles were at 2.92 million kiloliters
in the week ending Sept. 15, about 10 percent less than the same
time last year, according to data from the country’s Petroleum
Association.  African Imports  Asian refiners will import 1.6 million barrels a day of
African crude in October, near the lowest level this year,
according to a survey of seven traders and an analysis of
loading plans obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Refiners bought 52 cargoes from  Angola ,  Nigeria , the
Republic of Congo,  Equatorial Guinea  and Gabon, the survey
showed. This compares with 51 shipments for loading this month,
and near the 1.41 million barrels shipped in July.  Libya ’s state-run National Oil Corp. increased its official
selling price of benchmark Es Sider crude for October to a
discount of 20 cents from 70 cents a barrel less than Dated
Brent in September, according to a price list obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Marubeni Corp. sold about 600,000 barrels of Libya’s
Mellitah crude to Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd., a
unit of  India ’s biggest energy explorer, said two traders who
asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  Total SA sold 2 million barrels of Nigerian crude for
November loading to Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest
refiner, said three traders who asked not to be identified
because the information is confidential. Total sold the Indian
company 1 million barrels each of Qua Iboe and EA crude, they
said.  PV Offers  PV Oil Co.,  Vietnam ’s state-owned oil-marketing company,
offered to sell as much as 600,000 barrels of its Bach Ho crude
for November, said three people who participate in the market,
asking not to be identified because the information is
confidential. Bids are due tomorrow.  The Bach Ho for November will be heavier than earlier
shipments. The crude will have a gravity of 35.4 to 36.5 degrees
API, according to one of the people who received the tender. The
grade was earlier assessed to be lighter, at 40.8 degrees,
according to New York-based Energy Intelligence Group.  Dubai Timespreads  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when near-term shipments are
more expensive than later deliveries, fell 16 cents. Spot prices
were $1.44 a barrel  more  than levels for cargoes two months
later, according to data from PVM.  The November Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps, which measures
the European oil’s premium to the Mideast marker, fell 8 cents
to $3.52 a barrel, according to PVM data. The December EFS lost
9 cent to $3.33.  Oman oil for November rose 8 cents to settle at $108.15 a
barrel at 12:30 p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  No Dubai partial cargoes were traded today, according to a
survey of people who monitor the Platts pricing window.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  