-- Princeton Replaces Tilghman as Ivy League Searches New Leaders
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/princeton-replaces-tilghman-as-ivy-league-searches-new-leaders.html
Princeton University President
Shirley Tilghman’s retirement next June along with departures of
the heads at  Yale University  and  Dartmouth College  mark a
generational shift in leadership in the Ivy League.  The presidents are leaving in an era when applications
across the eight private colleges are at their highest and
admission rates are the most selective ever. They dealt with
 losses  in their endowment values in 2009 following the global
financial crisis, a Congressional inquiry over endowment
spending and increased pressure on fundraising.  Now, the successors to Tilghman, Richard C. Levin at Yale
and Jim Yong Kim at Dartmouth, as well as Brown’s newly
installed President Christina Hull Paxson face new challenges
over the cost of private colleges, surging student-loan debt and
technological innovation that is changing the landscape for
higher education.  “It’s a big moment,” said  John Isaacson , an executive
recruiter who has led searches for presidents at universities,
including the current one at Dartmouth. “There is more
opportunity to lead the world in eminent scholarship. These are
the institutions that donors will turn to to solve the world’s
large problems.”  The decrease in state funding at public universities will
create a wider dichotomy with well-endowed schools like those in
the Ivy League, Isaacson said.  Over the next decade, as colleges look for cost-efficient
ways to deliver instruction, ventures in online courseware will
mature, reshaping how universities view teaching. New leaders
will need to guide their faculty through it and spend more time
understanding how to meld it with traditional teaching methods,
Isaacson said.  Online Courses  In recent months, top universities have announced steps
into the world of free online courses.  Harvard University  and
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  created EdX to put
their courses on the Internet. Princeton,  Stanford University ,
the  University of Michigan  and the  University of Pennsylvania  in
April said they would offer classes through Coursera.  Coursera, founded last year by two Stanford computer-
science professors, puts university classes online, with the aim
of educating millions of people globally for free. Princeton’s
participation is “a grand experiment that may fail,” Tilghman
said in a Sept. 12 interview at Bloomberg LP in  New York .  “I honestly don’t know how this is going to turn out, and
not just for Princeton but for higher education in general,”
Tilghman said. “But I’m thrilled that were doing it.”  Innovative Thinking  The pressure to move into online courses was partly
responsible for the ouster and reinstatement of University of
Virginia President  Teresa Sullivan  in June. Sullivan was forced
out when some board members thought she wasn’t moving fast
enough to join the online movement and was reappointed after
protests from faculty and students. The Charlottesville-based
university later said it was joining Coursera.  “The pressures of price and affordability are not new, but
we need some innovative thinking about how we do our work, how
we charge for our services and how we can control the rise in
tuition and fees,” said Nannerl O. Keohane, former Duke
University president and a member of the Harvard Corp., Harvard
University’s governing body. “We also need new models for
figuring out how we share financing with others who benefit from
higher education in so many ways, including taxpayers and
governments at all levels, as well as parents and generous
donors.”  Attributes that will be in the minds of any search
committee include the readiness to think in creative ways about
online learning; the need for collaboration among institutions
to save money and pool expertise; and the challenges of a global
environment for higher education, said Keohane, now a visiting
professor of public affairs at Princeton.  Cost Increases  While interest in an  Ivy League  education has never been
stronger, families and government leaders continue to question
the increasing cost of private higher education. Educational
debt has topped $1 trillion, which includes federal and private
loans taken out by students and their parents.  Princeton’s endowment of $17.1 billion and Yale’s fund at
$19.4 billion, valued as of June 2011, are among the largest in
higher education. Harvard, with a $32 billion endowment, is the
world’s richest college. The schools offer generous financial
aid and have price tags  approaching $60,000 annually , including
 tuition and fees,  room and board, travel and other expenses.  Tilghman, 66, has led the Princeton, New Jersey-based
university since 2001 after serving as a faculty member for 15
years. She said Sept. 22 that she will step down at the end of
the current academic year in June 2013. [bn:PRSN=2376427]   Levin [], 65, said last month he will retire after leading  New
Haven , Connecticut-based Yale for 20 years, and Dartmouth is
searching for a new president after Kim left the Hanover, New
Hampshire-based school on July 1 to run the  World Bank .  Prominent Women  Tilghman appointed several women to prominent positions at
 Princeton  and two have become presidents of Ivy League
institutions. Economist Paxson, 52, became president of  Brown
University  in Providence,  Rhode Island , on July 1. She replaced
 Ruth Simmons , who led the school for more than a decade. Paxson
was appointed by Tilghman to run the Woodrow Wilson School of
Public and International Affairs at Princeton.  Tilghman’s former provost,  Amy Gutmann , became president of
the University of Pennsylvania in 2004.  The job searches aren’t confined to the Ivy League, with
open presidencies and chancellorships at major research schools
including the  University of California, Berkeley ,  Carnegie
Mellon University  in Pittsburgh and the  University of Wisconsin .  Difficult Jobs  “There are a relatively small number of people who have
the scholarly credentials and administrative experience to lead
these great institutions,” said  Lawrence Bacow , who led  Tufts
University  in Medford,  Massachusetts , for a decade before
retiring last year.  “These are always difficult jobs but especially now when
state and federal support for higher education is in jeopardy,”
said Bacow, now president-in-residence at Harvard’s Graduate
School of Education and a member of the Harvard Corp.  The leaders who will fill the Ivy vacancies are likely to
focus on issues related to technology, business models, cost
containment and globalization, said  Richard Chait , emeritus
professor of education at the Harvard Graduate School of
Education.  “In every era, there are always going to be challenges and
problems,” Chait said. “You can think back to an era in the
’60s when there was student unrest and demands for greater
participation, racial integration of school and demands for
relevance in the curriculum. Every generation will have these
issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  