-- Rajaratnam Case Cooperator Goel Gets Two Years Probation
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/rajaratnam-case-cooperator-goel-gets-two-years-probation.html
Rajiv Goel, the former Wharton
classmate of Raj Rajaratnam who testified against the Galleon
Group LLC co-founder, was sentenced to probation for his role in
the biggest hedge fund  insider-trading  scandal in U.S. history.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones declined to impose a
prison term on Goel, 54, yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court.
She said Goel, who had faced as long as 25 years in prison, was
crucial to the prosecution of the  fund manager , now serving an
11-year prison term following his conviction last year. Like two
other key witnesses against Rajaratnam who cooperated with the
U.S., Goel was ordered to serve two years of probation.  “Mr. Goel, you showed good sense in deciding to
cooperate,” Jones said just before she announced her sentence.
“There is no excuse, but in this case, because of your
cooperation I did think you showed your character in the extent
of your cooperation, I think you did go beyond and for that you
deserve a departure of probation.”  Goel, a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  treasury group managing director
who was arrested with Rajaratnam in October 2009, pleaded guilty
in February 2010 to conspiracy and securities fraud. Goel
testified over four days at Rajaratnam’s trial about their 25-
year friendship, which began when they attended the Wharton
School of the  University of Pennsylvania . He said he conspired
with Rajaratnam from 2007 to 2009 and passed him illegal tips
about Intel.  ‘Cajole and Seduce’  Just before sentencing was imposed yesterday, Goel vowed to
work to make amends for the wrongdoing.  “I am deeply ashamed for the mistakes that I have made,”
Goel said. “I apologize to all that have been hurt by my
actions and in particular my wife and children who have been
devastated by the trauma and grief that my actions have caused
them. I had a serious lapse of judgment and good sense. I deeply
apologize, once again, and hope that I am given another chance
to repair the harm that I have caused.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , who prosecuted the
case, told the judge that Goel was one of the first defendants
to agree to cooperate with the U.S. in their case against the
fund manager. The information Goel provided to the government
had served as the basis of six of 14 crimes prosecutors filed
against Rajaratnam, he said.  Goel fell prey to Rajaratnam’s manipulation, Brodsky said.
“Mr. Rajaratnam was able to cajole and seduce insiders to get
information he wanted; he abused his friendship,” Brodksy said.
“Mr. Goel did everything he could after he was arrested to make
up for that.”  Honorable Life  David Zornow, Geol’s defense lawyer, told the judge
yesterday that his client led an unblemished, honorable life
until Rajaratnam determined he could coerce him.  “I am firmly convinced that the conduct here was
aberrational and stems from the unique relationship, with a guy
who frankly, played Mr. Goel like a fiddle,” Zornow said.  The fund manager plied Goel with friendship, gifts and
loans to make him feel beholden to him, the defense lawyer said.  “He was a master manipulator,” Zornow said. “He was a
clever seducer and in Mr. Goel he found the perfect target. ‘‘He
ingratiated himself over the years and was softening Mr. Goel
up.’’  Jones yesterday noted that two other cooperators who
testified against Rajaratnam at trial,  Anil Kumar  and Adam Smith, had also received sentences of probation.  ‘‘This type of testimony and cooperation is essential and
uniquely important in cases of insider trading,’’ she said.
‘‘These cases can be difficult to make unless there is someone
on the inside who can explain what is going on,’’  ‘Closest Friends’  Goel, who worked at Intel’s treasury group, testified he
told Rajaratnam about Intel’s earnings in 2007 and about a $1
billion transaction in 2008.  He told jurors that his friendship with Rajaratnam grew
closer in the years after they graduated from Wharton in 1983.
The families vacationed together, said Goel, a native of  Mumbai .  After returning to the U.S. from  India  and landing a job at
Intel in 2000, Goel said, he repeatedly turned to Rajaratnam for
financial assistance. Rajaratnam loaned Goel $100,000 to buy a
home in 2005 and another $500,000 the next year when he needed
support for his ailing father, Goel said.  Goel put the $500,000 in a Swiss bank and used a portion to
fix his California home. He testified that he didn’t report the
gift to the  Internal Revenue Service .  ‘Emotional Aspect’  ‘‘Although Goel did not express it or complain about it, he
had to overcome the emotional aspect of providing assistance and
trial testimony that helped demonstrate his close friend was
guilty of multiple counts of  securities fraud ,” Brodsky wrote
in the memo.  Goel also provided the government with information about
secret Swiss bank accounts that prosecutors used at trial. That
information would have been impossible to obtain with Goel
because of secrecy laws in  Switzerland , prosecutors said.  In court yesterday, Brodsky said that that Goel “has
continued to cooperate” in the government’s investigations.  Two other government witnesses who testified against
Rajaratnam were spared prison terms.  Anil Kumar, the former McKinsey & Co. partner who was
another Rajaratnam classmate and friend from Wharton, also faced
a possible 25-year term. U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin  in
Manhattan sentenced Kumar in July to two years’ probation,
citing his “extraordinary” cooperation.  Other Probations  Adam Smith , a former Galleon portfolio manager who worked
for Rajaratnam and testified at his trial, also received a term
of two years’ probation.  Another ex-Galleon trader, David Slaine, who wore a wire to
record dozens of conversations with insider-trading suspects,
also was rewarded for his cooperation, though he didn’t testify
at Rajaratnam’s trial. Slaine, who was called to testify against
fellow Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer , was given three years’
probation.  Jones ordered Goel to pay a $10,000 fine and forfeit
$266,649 immediately.  Goel left court accompanied by his family and his wife Alka
and declined to comment.  “It’s been a long three-year ordeal for Mr. Goel and he is
looking forward to rebuilding his life and dedicating himself to
the principles of integrity and that he grew up with,” Zornow
said in an interview after court.  The case is U.S. v. Goel, 1:10-cr-00090, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 