-- Rajaratnam Classmate to Discover If He’ll Go to Prison
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-24T19:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/rajaratnam-classmate-to-discover-if-he-ll-go-to-prison.html
Rajiv Goel, a former Wharton
classmate and friend of Raj Rajaratnam who testified against the
 fund manager  at his  insider-trading  trial, is due to learn
whether he’ll be imprisoned or spared like other cooperators.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in Manhattan opened a
hearing today on the sentencing of Goel, 54, in a case that is
part of the largest crackdown on insider trading at  hedge funds .
The government and Goel’s lawyer described in court filings his
assistance in the prosecution of Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder who was convicted last year by a jury and is
serving an 11-year prison term.  “Goel substantially helped the government secure a
conviction in one of the most significant and high-profile
insider-trading cases in U.S. history,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Reed Brodsky said in a memo this month to Jones.  Goel, a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  treasury group managing director
who was arrested with Rajaratnam in October 2009, pleaded guilty
in February 2010 to conspiracy and securities fraud. Goel
testified over four days at Rajaratnam’s trial about their 25-
year friendship, which began when they attended the Wharton
School of the  University of Pennsylvania . He said he conspired
with Rajaratnam from 2007 to 2009 and passed him illegal tips
about Intel.  Goel even provided the government with information about
secret Swiss bank accounts that prosecutors used at trial. That
information would have been impossible to obtain with Goel
because of secrecy laws in  Switzerland , prosecutors said.  ‘Closest Friends’  “Goel testified against one of his closest friends who had
provided him with substantial financial assistance over many
years,” Brodsky wrote. “Although Goel did not express it or
complain about it, he had to overcome the emotional aspect of
providing assistance and trial testimony that helped demonstrate
his close friend was guilty of multiple counts of  securities
fraud .”  Goel faces as long as 25 years in prison. Two other
government witnesses who testified against Rajaratnam were
spared prison terms by federal judges in Manhattan.  Anil Kumar , the former McKinsey & Co. partner who was
another Rajaratnam classmate and friend from Wharton, also faced
a possible 25-year prison term. U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin 
sentenced Kumar in July to two years’ probation, citing his
“extraordinary” cooperation.  Adam Smith , a former Galleon portfolio manager who worked
for Rajaratnam and testified at his trial, also received a term
of two years’ probation.  Zvi Goffer  Another former Galleon trader, David Slaine, who wore a
wire to record dozens of conversations with insider-trading
suspects, also was rewarded for his cooperation, though he
didn’t testify at Rajaratnam’s trial. Slaine, who was called to
testify against fellow Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer , was given
three years’ probation.  Goel’s lawyer, David Zornow, urged Jones to impose a term
of probation, saying Goel’s reputation was ruined as a result of
his involvement in the case and that he has been unable to find
work since he lost his job at Intel after his 2009 arrest.  “Goel was not even close to Rajaratnam’s criminal
league,” and was instead “corrupted and manipulated” by the
fund manager into committing crimes in part because of “a
weakness for getting drawn into long conversations,” Zornow
said in his memo to the court.  The defense attorney also said Goel “had lived a life free
of crime until he started providing Rajaratnam with inside
information.”  SEC Payment  Goel agreed to pay the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission more than $254,000 to settle a civil lawsuit in which
Galleon and Rajaratnam were among the defendants.  Goel, who worked at Intel’s treasury group, testified he
told Rajaratnam about Intel’s earnings in 2007 and about a
$1 billion transaction in 2008.  He told jurors that his friendship with Rajaratnam grew
closer in the years after they graduated from the Wharton
business school in 1983. The families vacationed together, said
Goel, a native of  Mumbai .  After returning to the U.S. from  India  and landing a job at
Intel in 2000, Goel said, he repeatedly turned to Rajaratnam for
financial assistance. Rajaratnam loaned Goel $100,000 to buy a
home in 2005 and another $500,000 the next year when he needed
support for his ailing father, Goel said.  Goel put the $500,000 in a Swiss bank and used a portion to
fix his California home. He testified that he didn’t report the
gift to the  Internal Revenue Service .  The case is U.S. v. Goel, 1:10-cr-00090, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 