-- Rambus Rises on Ruling in Patent Lawsuit: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-09-24T21:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/rambus-rises-on-ruling-in-patent-lawsuit-san-francisco-mover.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS) , a designer of computer
memory chips, rose the most since November as investors bet the
company will collect royalties because of a judge’s ruling in a
U.S. chip-patent case with  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)   Shares of the Sunnyvale, California-based company climbed
18 percent to $5.80 at the close of  New York  trading. The stock
has slumped 23 percent this year.  “When the news came late Friday, you got rekindled
interest in Rambus,” Hamed Khorsand , an analyst at BWS
Financial in  Woodland Hills ,  California , said in a telephone
interview. “Where there was zero value, now investors have some
hope.” Khorsand has a hold on Rambus and a target price of $5 a
share.  The ruling by U.S. District Judge Ronald M. Whyte in  San
Jose , California, makes it probable that other companies that
use Rambus’s technology will have to pay royalties, said
Philippe Zera, an analyst at Algorithm Capital in  Santa Clara ,
California.  “Hynix uses Rambus technology but doesn’t pay for it and
this ruling increases the likelihood that they may strike some
kind of deal and turn into a licenser,” Zera said in a
telephone interview. “It further validates Rambus technology
and could enhance the chance to settle other litigation and turn
the infringers into licensers.”  Both Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix and Rambus welcomed the
decision.  ‘Substantially Limits’  The ruling “substantially limits any royalties on Rambus’s
patents,” SK Hynix said in a statement.  Rambus is hopeful the decision “will lead to putting this
matter behind us completely and allow us to reach reasonable
agreements,” the company’s general counsel, Thomas Lavelle,
said in a statement.  “The ruling was expected, but it was a surprise for the
short sellers and today we have a short squeeze,” Zera said.  Zera suspended coverage of Rambus in 2011, although said
“a price target of $10 a share is possible.”  Rambus “is among a handful of companies where litigation
has an enormous impact on the company fortunes,” Zera said.
“They have great technology that’s essential for high
definition television and wireless communication. Their
technology is superior.”  Rambus “has been a sleeper since the price-fixing trial
and the investor interest has dwindled away since that, and
because other disappointments on the legal side,” Khorsand
said.  Jury Trial  In November, Rambus lost a $3.95 billion  jury trial  over
its allegations that Micron Technology Inc. and Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. conspired to prevent its memory chips from
becoming an industry standard.  SK Telecom Co. completed acquiring a 21 percent stake in
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. in February, becoming the biggest
shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  upheld Whyte’s denial of Hynix’s bid to throw out a
2006 verdict finding the company infringed Rambus patents or
grant a new trial. It vacated the financial damages judgment,
throwing out a $397 million judgment against Hynix, because of
the document spoliation.  Rambus’s cases against Hynix, and another related case
against Boise, Idaho-based  Micron (MU) , are over the companies’ use
of interfaces that are part of dynamic random access memory that
acts as the main memory in computers. DRAM is built to industry
standards and is interchangeable by product. Hynix and Micron
claimed Rambus got rid of papers that would have proved Rambus
misled the board that sets that standard.  Striking Evidence  In his ruling Sept. 21, Whyte decided to strike from the
record in the case any evidence supporting a Rambus royalty that
is “in excess of a reasonable and non-discriminatory” amount,
according to the filing. Whyte ordered both companies to file
their proposals on the rate amount to the court.  “There is a possibility that Rambus did not destroy any
evidence that would have been beneficial to SK Hynix’s
litigation position,” Whyte wrote in his decision. “However,
because Rambus is the party that destroyed documents by the box
and bag without keeping any record of what was destroyed, Rambus
must suffer the consequences of that uncertainty.”  The case is Hynix Semiconductor Inc. v. Rambus Inc., 00-cv-
20905, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Samantha Zee in  San Francisco  at 
 szee@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in San Francisco at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  