-- Treasuries Rise 6th Day on Europe Concern, Slowdown Signs
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-09-24T21:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/treasuries-hold-gain-before-report-on-durable-goods.html
Treasuries rose for a sixth day as
European leaders clashed on ways to curb the region’s debt
crisis and economists said data on durable-goods orders and
 consumer spending  this week will show a sluggish U.S. recovery.  Ten-year notes extended their daily rally to the longest in
more than a year after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Francois Hollande  disagreed over the weekend on
a timetable to introduce joint oversight of the region’s banking
sector. U.S. investors are buying Treasuries at a faster pace
than foreigners for the first time since 2010, government
figures show. The U.S. will sell $99 billion in notes this week.  “It’s a combination of slower U.S. growth expectations
coupled with the ongoing European saga and its implications for
global financial markets,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“All of this has created a bullish underpinning for the
Treasury market.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  dropped four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.71 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.70
percent, the lowest since Sept. 12. The price of the 1.625
percent note due in August 2022 rose 3/8, or $3.75 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 7/32. The six-day rally is the longest since
the period ending May 6, 2011.  Thirty-year  bond  yields decreased five basis points to 2.90
percent, falling below their 200-day moving average of 2.94
percent. They touched 3.12 percent Sept. 17, a four-month high.  Volume Drops  About $165 billion in Treasuries changed hands today
through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker, the
lowest amount since Aug. 27. Daily volume reached $464 billion
on Sept. 13, the most since August 2011, and has averaged $241
billion this year.  Treasury  one-month bill  rates fell to 0.005 percent,
matching the low on Aug. 6. They touched a 2012 high of 0.122
percent on Aug. 29 and a low for the year of negative 0.01
percent on Jan. 3. The 10-year average is 1.61 percent.  U.S. government securities were at the most expensive level
in two weeks. The 10-year term premium, a model created by
economists at the  Federal Reserve  that includes expectations for
interest rates, growth and inflation, was negative 0.91 percent,
the most costly since Sept. 10. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value. The average this year is negative 0.74 percent.  ‘Risk-Off’  “The news out of  Europe  has brought in better buying for
the risk-off trade,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S.
government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based
brokerage for institutional investors.  Germany ’s Ifo institute said its business-climate index,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 101.4 from
102.3 in August. That’s the lowest reading since February 2010.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  must decide whether
his nation needs a full rescue, Michael Meister, chief whip and
finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said
in an interview in Berlin. Rajoy has shown reluctance to seek a
bailout after the  European Central Bank  unveiled a bond-purchase
plan, linked to conditions for recipient states, on Sept. 6.  Merkel rebuffed Hollande’s appeal this weekend for joint
oversight of euro region banking “the earlier, the better.”  “As bad as things have been here, they are much worse in
Europe,” said  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. interest-rate
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets  in New
York, one of 21 primary dealers that with the Fed, in an
interview on  Bloomberg Radio  with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“While yields here are still very low, there’s still this
safety bid around the world.”  ‘Roughly Sideways’  Ten-year note yields will “chop around roughly sideways
between 1.60 and 1.85 percent,” Cloherty said.  Deutsche Bank AG expects the 10-year yield will rise to as
high as 2 percent by year-end, according to a note by analysts
led by Dominic Konstam, global head of  interest-rates  research
in New York at the firm, a primary dealer.  “The market is priced for the worst in Europe, the U.S.
fiscal situation and growth, but Europe is resolving itself
slowly, the worst of the fiscal situation is already priced and
central banks are catching up in their fight against the global
slowdown,” Konstam said in a telephone interview. “There is a
lot of pessimism around, but it’s clear that the risk-on trade
is the right trade and that Treasuries will lose some of their
safe-haven appeal.”  Ten-year yields will increase to 1.79 percent by Dec. 31,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
financial companies, with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  Durable Goods  U.S. durable-goods  orders , a measure of demand for
equipment and machinery, dropped 5 percent in August after
rising 4.1 percent the previous month, according to a Bloomberg
News survey before the Sept. 27 report from the Commerce
Department. Household purchases gained 0.5 percent last month
after a 0.4 percent increase in July, a separate survey showed
before the figures are released on Sept. 28.  A gauge of traders’ outlook for consumer-price increases
declined to the lowest since its closing the day before the Fed
announced its latest stimulus efforts. The gap in yield between
10-year notes and similar-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, known as the break-even rate, narrowed to 2.45
percentage points today, the lowest since its Sept. 12 close. It
touched 2.73 percentage points on Sept. 17, the most since May
2006. The gap has averaged 2.21 percentage points this year.  Note Auctions  The Treasury is scheduled to sell $35 billion of two-year
notes tomorrow, the same amount of five-year debt the next day
and $29 billion of seven-year securities Sept. 27.  “The market would like to see a little bit of a concession
going into the auctions,” Rogan of Guggenheim said. “You’ll
see pretty good demand.”  Treasuries returned 1.7 percent this year as of Sept. 21,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index gained 28 percent, including reinvested
dividends, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed said on Sept. 13 it will buy $40 billion of
mortgage-backed bonds a month to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs until the economic recovery is well established.  U.S. policy makers pledged to keep their target  interest
rate  for overnight loans between banks at virtually zero until
at least the middle of 2015.  The central bank is also swapping shorter-term Treasuries
in its holdings with those due in six to 30 years to cap
borrowing costs. It purchased $1.8 billion of debt today
maturing from February 2036 to May 2042 as part of the program,
according to Fed Bank of  New York ’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  