-- RIM Investors Will Be Waiting AWhile for BB10 Sales Boost
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-24T20:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/rim-investors-will-be-waiting-awhile-for-bb10-boost.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  investors,
who anticipate a glimpse of the delayed BlackBerry 10 operating
system this week, will have to wait at least five months before
seeing a rebound in sales.  RIM Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins takes the stage
tomorrow in San Jose,  California , to showcase BB10. Two days
later the Waterloo, Ontario-based company will probably report
that sales fell 41 percent in its latest quarter from a year
earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey of 35 analysts.  Sales are predicted to start climbing sequentially in
February, according to analysts’ estimates. However, given that
revenue has missed those estimates for the  past six quarters ,
RIM’s recent track record on product delays and the debut of
Apple Inc.’s latest phone, a recovery is not likely before next
summer, said  Stuart Jeffrey , an analyst at Nomura Securities.  “There are some people who believe new products drive
handset stocks and there’s new product coming, so therefore
they’ll get an uplift,” Jeffrey said by phone from New York.
“If people are holding on for that, they’re going to have to
wait a long time.”  RIM is trying to get its first two BB10 models into stores
early next year to stop customers from abandoning it for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices built on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software. In the meantime, the BlackBerry faithful is holding
off on buying current models because they’re waiting for BB10.  Sales Tumble  Revenue dropped 43 percent in the most recently reported
quarter. The shrinking sales have cut RIM’s share of the
smartphone market it once dominated to 4.8 percent, according to
research firm IDC. Android climbed to 68 percent last quarter,
while Apple slipped to 17 percent.  RIM sales will probably fall to $2.27 billion in the
current quarter before rebounding to $2.56 billion in the
February period, the average analyst estimate  shows.  Nomura’s
Jeffrey is less optimistic. He sees sales falling to $2.05
billion this quarter and to $1.98 billion next quarter.  RIM shares are  down more than 95 percent  from its mid-2008
high and have plunged 70 percent in the past 12 months. The
stock fell 2.3 percent to $6.31 at 4 p.m. in  New York  today.  “We remain focused on the successful launch of BlackBerry
10,” RIM said in an e-mailed comment, reiterating that the
release is planned for the first quarter of next year. “The
delivery of high quality, fully-featured BlackBerry 10
smartphones will be an attractive offering to our customers.”  Little Effect  The impact of BlackBerry 10 will be minimal in the February
quarter because the new phones will be pitched to mainly high-
end users in limited number of markets like the U.K. and the
U.S., and the likelihood that BB10 won’t hit stores till after
the quarter ends, Jeffrey said.  “They’ve had quite a few delays so to assume it will be
out immediately in January might still be a little optimistic,”
he said.  BB10 has been postponed at least twice, pushing back its
release date by more than a year. While Chief Marketing Officer
Frank Boulben said in July that RIM plans to introduce some
models in January, Heins declined to confirm that timing,
sticking to the calendar first-quarter planning. To underscore
the point, Heins said in June that the next few quarters will be
“very challenging.”  “It has been perfectly telegraphed that this quarter and
next quarter will be horrible for RIM,” said Kevin Stadtler,
principal of  Stadtler Capital Management  in  Fort Worth ,  Texas ,
which owns 30,000 RIM shares.  Customer Base  Beyond February, Stadtler sees RIM’s results improving as
businesses begin upgrading their supply of BlackBerrys issued to
employees. Investors shouldn’t overlook RIM’s fundamentals,
namely its 78 million subscribers worldwide, no debt and more
than $2 billion in cash, he said.  “The window is still open for RIM to be the third
ecosystem,” behind Apple and Android, Stadtler said by phone.  Fighting RIM for that title is  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which
struck a partnership with ailing  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  after the Finnish
smartphone maker decided to swap its aging Symbian platform in
February 2011 for Microsoft’s Windows Phone.  The collaboration has yielded models like the Lumia 820 and
920, which reviewers praised for its design and features but
which generates less publicity than Apple and Android. Nokia
shares tumbled 13 percent when the Lumia was unveiled on Sept.
5, after almost doubling in the previous six weeks.  Microsoft Partnership?  Microsoft may try to bolster its position by teaming up
with RIM, Stadtler said.  “Nokia hasn’t been the partner that Microsoft
envisioned,” he said. “RIM could be.”  Peter Wootton, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment, as did Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia.  Heins is leading a strategic review of the company and is
considering licensing BB10 or forging a partnership with another
technology company. He hasn’t ruled out a sale of the company,
though says that isn’t the focus of the review.  For now, RIM plans to use this week’s  San Jose  conference
to generate some buzz for the new lineup among developers of
games, music and news applications.  Cupertino, California-based Apple, which began selling the
iPhone on Sept. 21, is expected by analysts to sell as many as
10 million phones on its weekend debut. RIM shipped 7.8 million
BlackBerrys in its June quarter.  On the day Apple fans lined up to be the first to buy the
iPhone 5, RIM was racing to fix a service disruption in  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and  Africa . Though it was resolved within hours,
the event marked the second year in a row that an outage
coincided with Apple’s release of a new device.  Pierre Ferragu , a Sanford C. Bernstein analyst who rates
RIM the equivalent of a hold, said it may be too late for the
BlackBerry to recover.  “Research In Motion has lost the ecosystem war,” he said
in a research note last week. “It is unreasonable to believe
BB10 can save the boat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  