-- Ringgit Leads Losses in Asian Currencies on Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-09-24T08:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/ringgit-leads-losses-in-asian-currencies-on-europe-debt-concern.html
Asian currencies fell, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit, on concern discord among European leaders
will stall efforts to contain their region’s debt crisis,
aggravating a worldwide economic slowdown.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index snapped a three-
day gain on concern demand for emerging-market assets will
weaken after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Francois Hollande  clashed over the weekend on a
timetable to introduce joint oversight of Europe’s banks. A
Chinese  manufacturing  survey last week signaled an 11th monthly
contraction while another report showed a gauge of euro-area
services and production fell to a 39-month low. Data due
tomorrow may show Thailand’s exports fell the most this year.  “Weak manufacturing data from Europe and China signal
demand for local exports will remain poor,” said Thammarat
Kittisiripat, an economist in Bangkok at  TMB Bank Pcl. (TMB)  “It’s
hard to see a strong rebound before the first half of next year,
as Europe continues to struggle with its debt problem and a
gradual recovery can only be expected in  China .”  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most
active currencies excluding the yen, declined 0.2 percent, the
most since Aug. 2, to 116.74 as of 4:33 p.m. in  Hong Kong . The
ringgit slid 0.7 percent to 3.0711 per dollar, Indonesia’s
rupiah dropped 0.2 percent to 9,573 and the Thai baht weakened
0.4 percent to 30.95, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Malaysia Budget  The ringgit fell the most in a week ahead of Malaysia’s
2013 budget due on Sept. 28. The government wants to cut the
 budget deficit  to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2015
from about 4.7 percent this year, Second Finance Minister Ahmad
Husni Mohamad said Sept. 11.  “The issues in Europe will mean that we might see bouts of
 risk aversion ,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , an economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Singapore. “Asian countries are
pretty much in the limelight on how they are handling subsidies
and fiscal issues, and the Malaysian number will be equally
important in this respect.”  The baht depreciated before a government report tomorrow
that may show overseas shipments shrank 5.8 percent in August
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. That would be the biggest drop
since December. Export growth in 2012 may be lower than
previously forecast, according to the minutes of the Bank of
Thailand’s Sept. 5 meeting published on Sept. 19.  Dollar Demand  South Korea’s won fell as stronger demand for foreign
exchange from importers outweighed capital inflows spurred by
monetary easing in the U.S. and Japan. The currency lost 0.1
percent to 1,120.55 per dollar.  The  Federal Reserve  announced on Sept. 13 that it will
start open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage debt per
month, while the  Bank of Japan (8301)  unexpectedly expanded its asset-
buying fund last week. Policy makers must control volatile
capital flows as quantitative-easing measures have a negative
spillover in developing countries, Bank of Korea Governor Kim
Choong Soo said Sept. 14.  “There are some importers seeking dollars to pay their
bills,” said Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based currency trader for
Hana Bank. “Also, market players are wary of possible
intervention in case the won attempts to break through the 1,115
level. Given global monetary stimulus, the won is likely to
maintain strong upward momentum.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso weakened 0.3 percent to
41.775 per dollar and China’s  yuan  slid 0.06 percent to 6.3093.
Taiwan’s dollar declined 0.1 percent to NT$29.479 while the
Vietnamese dong was little changed at 20,868.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  