-- Romney Duels With Obama Over Mideast Before Speeches
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-09-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/romney-sharpens-tone-saying-obama-at-mercy-of-mideast-events.html
A day before separate appearances
at a global philanthropic conference,  Mitt Romney  shifted his
focus to criticism of  Barack Obama ’s foreign policy, accusing
the president of dismissing violent  Middle East  conflicts as
“bumps in the road.”  With both men scheduled to address the  Clinton Global
Initiative  in  New York  today, the Republican presidential
challenger sought to reverse his slide in the polls by
questioning Obama’s handling of developments in the region,
including the deaths of the U.S. ambassador and three other
Americans in Libya earlier this month.  “These are not bumps in the road; these are human lives,”
Romney said yesterday in Pueblo,  Colorado . “This is time for a
president who will shape events in the Middle East.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  called the attacks
“desperate” and “offensive” attempts by Romney and
Republicans to gain a political advantage in a race that is
tilting away from them.  Trailing in polls of battleground states, Romney is seeking
to reenergize his White House bid by intensifying the pace of
his public campaign and the tenor of his attacks against Obama.
After a week spent largely fundraising, senior adviser  Ed Gillespie  said the campaign intends to draw sharper contrasts
between Romney’s policies and those of Obama.  Benghazi Assault  While polls show Obama leading Romney on foreign policy
issues, Republicans see an opportunity to cut into that
advantage, pointing to surveys showing that voters have grown
less satisfied since the Sept. 11 assault in Benghazi that
killed U.S. Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens and three
colleagues.  A survey conducted by the Wall Street Journal/NBC News from
Sept. 12-15 found that 49 percent approved of Obama’s job
performance on international affairs, while 46 percent
disapproved -- a five-point percentage drop since the month
before.  Romney’s attacks were amplified by the full force of his
party yesterday, with the National Republican Senatorial
Committee challenging Democratic candidates in competitive races
to “share their view” on Obama’s foreign-policy remarks. In a
conference call with reporters, House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said Obama is putting  Israel  “on par” with other allies
in the region, a position he finds “very, very concerning.”  Carter Comparison  Speaking at a campaign stop in Lima,  Ohio  yesterday, vice
presidential candidate  Paul Ryan  compared Obama’s handling of
events in the Middle East to the 1979 taking of American
hostages in  Iran  during  Jimmy Carter ’s presidency.  Republicans were reacting to comments made by Obama in an
interview with CBS’s “60 Minutes,” broadcast Sept. 23, in
which the president said it was clear there would be “bumps in
the road” for Arab countries transitioning to democracy.  “I was pretty certain, and continue to be pretty certain,
that there are going to be bumps in the road because, in a lot
of these places the one organizing principle has been Islam,”
Obama said. “There are strains of extremism and anti-
Americanism and anti-Western sentiments. And you know can be
tapped into by demagogues.”  The fresh assault on Obama’s foreign-policy positions
occurred as the president traveled to New York to attend the
 United Nations General Assembly . In his speech before world
leaders this morning, Obama plans to stress his commitment to
preventing Iran from getting a nuclear weapon.  Schedule Criticized  The president will also condemn an anti-Islam video made in
the U.S. that sparked protests across the Muslim world as well
as the violence that followed, Carney said. While at the UN,
Obama has no announced one-on-one meetings with world leaders, a
schedule that’s drawn criticism from Republicans.  Obama said yesterday that the attack in Libya “wasn’t just
a mob action,” while declining to call it an act of terrorism
before an investigation is complete.  “We don’t have all the information yet and we’re still
gathering it” Obama said in an interview in New York for “The
View,” a daytime talk show on ABC, scheduled for broadcast
today. “There’s no doubt that the kind of weapons that were
used, that the ongoing assault, that it wasn’t just a mob
action.”  Romney, too, traveled to New York last night to deliver his
separate speech today before former President  Bill Clinton ’s CGI
advocating for more open-trade policies and freer markets
abroad.  Three-Day Swing  After his speech, Romney will embark on a two-day bus tour
in Ohio with running-mate Ryan and hold events in  Virginia  later
in the week. His intensified public schedule came after
complaints from fellow Republicans that Romney was spending too
much time fundraising.  “I’m going to make sure that people understand that this
is a different direction for the nation,” Romney said yesterday
in an interview with ABC News. “If they want the status quo,
they can re-elect the person who has been leading us over the
last four years.”  The change in tone isn’t the first time Romney’s campaign
has promised a reset. Last week, Gillespie said the campaign
would shift its message to give “more specifics” about his
plans, after Romney’s initial statement on the killings in  Libya 
received bipartisan condemnation.  Aides have dismissed the criticism, saying that Romney’s
remarks were consistent with his view on foreign policy and the
positions he described in his 2010 book, “No Apology.”  Longstanding Allies  Romney, they said, thinks that Obama and his team have
focused on trying to forge relationships with countries that
pose a threat to the U.S., such as Iran, at the expense of
longstanding allies, including Israel.  “Um, bumps in the road?” Romney told more than 1,500
people gathered for an outdoor rally in Pueblo yesterday. “We
had an ambassador assassinated, we had a Muslim Brotherhood
member elected to the presidency of Egypt, 20,000 people have
been killed in  Syria , we have tumult in Pakistan, and, of
course, Iran is that much closer to having the capacity to build
a nuclear weapon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Pueblo, Colorado at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  