-- Romney Plan Giving State-Local Bondholders Anxiety: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/romney-plan-giving-state-local-bondholders-anxiety-muni-credit.html
Tax proposals from Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  would help drive municipal
yields to the highest level since March by ending the debt’s tax
advantage at lower income levels, Morgan Stanley estimates.  Romney, who trailed President  Barack Obama  in some national
polls this month, recommends ending federal taxes on interest,
dividends and capital gains for those earning less than $200,000
annually. The shift would make issuers in the $3.7 trillion muni
market compete on an equal footing with company and federal debt
at those income levels, pushing up local yields.  If Romney, 65, also curbs munis’ exemption for wealthier
investors,  10-year local yields  would rise 0.49 percentage point
to levels not seen in six months, Michael Zezas at Morgan
Stanley wrote in a Sept. 4 report. The former Massachusetts
governor hasn’t proposed that step, though he has called for
lower tax rates and ending unspecified breaks.  “There is a blend of factors in Romney’s plan that
potentially impact munis’ tax value in a negative way,” Zezas,
Morgan Stanley’s head muni strategist in  New York , said in an
interview.  State and local debt tends to yield less than other fixed-
income investments because of its tax-free income. Excluding
interest on munis from federal taxation may cost the U.S.
government $306 billion from 2013 to 2017, according to Morgan
Stanley’s report.  Added Competition  Ending munis’ tax exemption was one suggestion in the
Bowles-Simpson report released in 2010, which listed options for
reducing the nation’s deficit.  Amanda Henneberg, a spokeswoman for Romney’s campaign,
didn’t have an immediate comment when contacted via e-mail.  If investments such as corporate bonds were tax-free for
some individuals, yields on munis would need to increase to
attract buyers, said Clark Wagner, fixed-income director at
First Investors Management Co. in New York, which handles $1.5
billion of municipals.  “It definitely would cause a sell-off in the municipal
 bond market ,” Wagner said.  Taxpayers making less than $200,000 a year declared 51
percent of all tax-exempt income in 2009, according to Matt Fabian, managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors. He cited Internal Revenue Service
data. The 18-month recession that ended in 2009 pushed some
earners below the $200,000 level, Fabian said.  ‘Massive Blow’  Eliminating the tax advantage on munis would create “a
potentially massive blow to aggregate municipal-bond demand,”
Fabian wrote in a Sept. 4 report. Yields and prices move in the
opposite direction.  “Muni bonds would have to compete,” Fabian said in an
interview. “Muni prices would have to fall.”  If Romney were to also limit munis’ tax exemption for
higher earners, yields on top-rated tax-frees due in 10 years
would rise about 0.49 percentage point, to 2.28 percent by the
end of 2012, Zezas wrote. That would be the highest level since
March, Meghan Robson, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in an
e-mail. The projection also assumes Treasury yields rise by
year-end.  Benchmark munis due in 30 years yielded  2.89 percent  Sept.
21, data compiled by Bloomberg show. For bondholders in the
highest tax bracket, that’s equivalent to 4.45 percent. In
comparison, 30-year corporates rated AA yield  3.72 percent ,
according to Moody’s Investors Service data. Treasuries of that
maturity yielded about 2.94 percent on Sept. 21.  Obama Proposals  Proposals from Obama, 51, also include tax changes for muni
investors, such as capping the value of itemized  tax deductions 
at 28 percent, down from 35 percent. At the same time, he wants
to raise the top tax rate on ordinary income to 39.6 percent
from 35 percent. The proposal to put a ceiling on deductions
hasn’t gained traction in Congress.  In trading last week, yields on benchmark tax-free debt due
in 10 years were little changed at about  1.78 percent , according
to a Bloomberg Valuation index. The  interest rate  set a record
low of 1.63 percent in July.  A national poll conducted Sept. 12-16 by NBC News and the
Wall Street Journal gave Obama a five-point lead among likely
voters, 50 percent to 45 percent. Still, a Gallup poll covering
the Sept. 14-20 period showed the candidates tied at 47 percent.  Potential yield increases for munis would lead localities
to pay more when borrowing to help finance roads, public schools
and water systems. States closed a cumulative $500 billion of
budget deficits in the past four years.  “The proposals from both candidates are very different
from the status quo,” Zezas said. “And therefore the election
has a potential to be a catalyst for the market having to price
in greater uncertainty around the tax status of munis,
regardless of who wins.”  Following are pending sales:  PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY, which finances
reconstruction of the  World Trade Center site , plans to sell $2
billion of taxable revenue bonds as soon as this week, with
maturities as long as 50 years, according to a preliminary
notice of the sale. (Updated Sept. 24)  MASSACHUSETTS plans to issue $1.6 billion of general-
obligation bonds via competitive sale as soon as this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt will finance
capital projects. (Updated Sept. 24)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  