-- Royal Bank of Scotland Cuts 300 More Jobs at Investment Bank
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-09-24T15:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/royal-bank-of-scotland-cuts-300-more-jobs-at-investment-bank.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, said it will cut 300
more jobs at its investment banking unit and is “on track”
with its plan to exit businesses.  RBS (RBS)  will eliminate 3,800 jobs at the division by the fourth
quarter of next year, compared with an earlier target of 3,500,
according to slides based on a  presentation  delivered by John Hourican, chief of markets and international banking, to
analysts today. About 3,000 of the cuts will have completed this
year, RBS said.  “Cost cutting is really the only thing that the bank can
fully control,” said Sandy Chen, an analyst at Cenkos
Securities in  London  who recommends selling RBS. “In the
relative absence of new revenue, you’d probably look to cost
cutting.”  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  has reduced assets
by more than 800 billion pounds ($1.3 trillion), eliminated
36,000 jobs and scaled back RBS’s securities and Irish units
since he took over from  Fred Goodwin  when the bank was rescued
in 2008. The bank in January said it would close or sell its
unprofitable cash equities, mergers advisory and equity capital
markets divisions.  The bank’s control of costs is “ongoing,” said Chris Kyle, chief financial officer of markets and international
banking, at the presentation. “We will almost certainly hit
this year’s number” in terms of the guidance, he said.  ‘More Optimistic’  “The third quarter, we’ve seen a little more optimistic
outlook than I was looking for,” said Peter Nielsen, CEO for
the investment bank’s markets business. “It was a busier August
than I’ve seen in a number of years.”  Direct Line, the insurance unit of Edinburgh-based RBS,
said this month it will cut almost 900 jobs as part of targeted
annual savings of 100 million pounds before its initial public
offering in October. RBS said in June it would eliminate 618
branch-based financial advisers as regulators force lenders to
charge clients for the service.  RBS officials declined to say where the extra cuts at the
investment bank would be made.  The bank in January divided  investment banking  into
markets, which will focus on fixed income, and international
banking, to oversee debt financing, risk management and payment
services.  RBS fell 1.6 percent to 271.50 pence in London, valuing the
bank at 30.8 billion pounds.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  