-- S.Korea’s Park Apologizes to People Hurt by Father’s Rule
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-09-24T03:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/s-korea-s-park-apologizes-to-people-hurt-by-father-s-rule.html
South Korea ruling party
presidential nominee Park Geun Hye apologized to the victims of
her father Park Chung Hee’s 18-year dictatorship, saying it
delayed the country’s democratic development.  “I understand that the end does not justify the means, and
this should be a lasting value for democracy,” Park said today
at a press conference in Seoul. “I apologize to the families of
victims hurt from the dictatorial rule in this regard. I will
try my very best to heal those scars.”  Park, 60, is leading in the polls for the Dec. 19 election
to succeed  Lee Myung Bak  and become the country’s first female
leader. She must overcome a challenge from independent software
mogul Ahn Cheol Soo as well as the main opposition candidate to
persuade voters she is best suited to cope with growing income
disparity and rising youth unemployment.  “She obviously made this apology to put an end to the
controversy, but the sincerity of this ‘sorry’ will be
questioned,” said Kim Meen Geon, a political science professor
at Kyung Hee University in Seoul. “This will be held as the
biggest weak point for Park throughout the election campaign,
especially because it’s being made as her popularity in polls is
declining.”  Park had 37.5 percent support in a Sept. 17-21 Realmeter
poll, down 3.5 percentage points from a week earlier, and
compared with 27.2 percent for Ahn, the founder of  Ahnlab Inc. (053800) ,
and 22.6 percent for Moon Jae In, the main opposition candidate.
The survey of 3,750 people had a margin of error of plus or
minus 1.6 percentage points.  Military Coup  Park Chung Hee took power in a military coup in 1961 and
ruled until 1979, forging growth in automaking, steel and
shipping by backing the family-run multinational businesses
called chaebols. His never-married, eldest daughter became
acting first lady at 22 after her mother was killed in a bungled
North Korean attempt to assassinate her father.  The late dictator altered the constitution to increase his
power and used torture, censorship and public executions to
crack down on dissidents and political opponents.  Moon, a lawmaker and human rights lawyer, was jailed in
1975 for taking part in demonstrations against the Park regime.
He’s campaigning under the slogan “People First,” calling for
an expanded welfare state and stronger regulation against
chaebols.  Ahn, also a critic of chaebols, has called for a “new
economic model” and innovation that merges welfare and growth.
In his latest book, he advocates banning conglomerates’ cross-
shareholding and limiting their investments in subsidiaries.  Park has listed her top priorities as overcoming the wealth
gap, creating jobs and strengthening the welfare system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  