-- Saleh Resists Retirement in Yemen, Threatening Transition
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-09-25T07:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/saleh-resists-retirement-in-yemen-putting-transition-at-risk.html
Yemen’s former President Ali Abdullah Saleh isn’t settling into a quiet retirement.  Hosting loyalists during Ramadan, inviting tribal leaders
for meetings and slamming the “failures” of the transitional
government, he’s still an active player in Yemeni politics, in
contrast to the other Arab leaders ousted last year and now
exiled, jailed or dead. Months after Saleh stepped down in the
face of mass protests, his son and nephew hold top army jobs.  “I went through the same security check I used to go
through when I paid my felicitations to Saleh when he was
president,” Fuad Ali, 36, a leader of the ruling General
People’s Congress, in southern Taiz province, said after he met
Saleh during Ramadan. “He continues to behave just like when he
was in power.”  Saleh’s political encore may undermine the Saudi Arabia-
and U.S.-backed plan for stabilizing Yemen, which has been used
by al-Qaeda as a base for attacks on both countries, and
reviving the poorest Middle Eastern economy. The rift in the
army between supporters of the ex-president and his successor,
Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi, risks a revival of last year’s violence,
when street protests escalated into a near-civil war on the
doorstep of the world’s biggest oil exporter.  “He is trying to keep his family, friends and allies in
power,” said Khalid al-Dakhil, a professor of political science
at King Saud University in  Riyadh . “He has a huge social,
economic and political network all over Yemen and wants to prove
that he isn’t out of the picture. He is very clever.”  Seeking Donors  Yemen’s economy shrank 10.5 percent last year, according to
the  International Monetary Fund , more than anywhere in the world
bar  Libya , where a civil war halted oil output. Crude production
in Yemen also slowed, with repeated attacks on the Marib oil
pipeline, and the country suffered regular power shortages as
its budget plunged into deficit.  To prevent the slump from continuing, a Saudi-U.S. axis is
leading a push for aid to help reconstruction, with $6.4 billion
already pledged and donors due to meet again in  New York  on
Sept. 27. The U.S. has more than doubled its aid to Yemen this
year to $345 million, said Rajiv Shah, administrator of the U.S.
Agency for International Development.  “Without security, you won’t have development, you won’t
have private investment and you won’t tackle a 40 percent youth
unemployment rate,” Shah told reporters at the last donor
meeting in Riyadh on Sept. 4.  Full Immunity  Under a Saudi-brokered deal, Saleh received full immunity
from prosecution, while aides and family members are also exempt
except for charges of terrorism. Hadi, who like his predecessor
is a member of the General People’s Congress, was elected
unopposed in February to head a transitional government for two
years.  In an interview with Asharq al-Awsat newspaper in  London ,
Hadi urged Yemenis to put away their differences and engage in
national unity talks, saying they’ve spent decades in a state of
“endless wars and fights.”  He said progress is being made in Yemen at a steady, though
sometimes slow, pace because of the sensitivity of the domestic
situation. “It’s like a car driving on a sandy trail, where the
driver has to get out from time to time to clear the sand off
the tires,” he said.  Hadi said he was optimistic about Yemen’s future and that
Yemenis have overcome many obstacles, including the risk of
civil war.  Fighting Terrorism  Yemen, bordering  Saudi Arabia  and Oman at the southern tip
of the Arabian Peninsula, is struggling to suppress al-Qaeda
militants and separatist movements, including a rebel group in
the north that has clashed with Saudi troops. Yemen has been
used to mount attacks on the U.S. including an attempt to blow
up a Detroit-bound plane in 2009.  Saleh has denounced Hadi’s handling of the transition. In a
speech in Sana’a on Sept. 3, with thousands of supporters there
to mark the 30th anniversary of the General People’s Congress,
Saleh launched his fiercest criticism of the government.  “What have you done so far?” he asked in his first speech
at a public venue since an assassination attempt in June last
year. “Have you managed to arrest those responsible for blowing
up the oil pipelines, or those responsible for cutting off
electricity from residential areas?”  Military Challenge  Saleh’s direct influence on the government persists in the
security forces. His son Ahmed commands the Republican Guard and
nephew Yahya heads the Central Security Services, a military
force that protects embassies. The U.S. Embassy in Sana’a was
attacked by protesters condemning an anti-Islamic film earlier
this month.  In August, forces loyal to Ahmed attacked the  Defense
Ministry , prompting the deployment of government troops to
protect the building and the nearby central bank. Four months
earlier, Saleh supporters in the security forces fanned out in
the southern part of the capital after Hadi removed some of
their commanders.  Hadi has chosen to avoid direct confrontation with Saleh’s
more powerful relatives, said Sam Wilkin, an analyst at  Control
Risks  in Dubai.  ‘Open Rebellion’  “Yahya and Ahmed are the only close relations of Saleh who
still have important military commands,” Wilkin said by phone.
“Hadi realizes that if he backs them into a corner, and leaves
them with nothing to lose, he might push them into open
rebellion, and that would be very destabilizing.”  Saleh loyalists who have lost their posts include Mohammed
Saleh al-Ahmar as head of the  air force  and Tariq Mohammed
Saleh, Saleh’s nephew, as commander of Presidential Guard.  Saleh, who moves around Sana’a in convoys larger and
better-equipped than Hadi’s, retains elements of the
Presidential Guard and special forces as his personal guard. He
uses al-Yemen al-Youm satellite television as a platform for his
battle against the transitional government.  It’s a contrast with the fate of the other Arab leaders
ousted in last year’s revolts. Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
lives in exile in a Saudi palace in  Jeddah  on the  Red Sea , and
was sentenced by a Tunisian court to life in prison for
complicity in the deaths of protesters.  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  is
in jail appealing a life sentence on similar charges, and
Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi was pulled out of a drainage pipe and
executed by rebels.  “Saleh’s network is one of the most extensive in the
region,”  Eman Alkadi , an analyst at Eurasia Group, said by
phone from New York. “The patronage system he has put in place
is extremely strong. There isn’t anything that happens in the
country without Saleh being involved one way or another.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  