-- Samsung, Apple, Disney, Leadscope: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-24T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/samsung-apple-disney-leadscope-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. lost a court ruling
against  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in  Germany  regarding claims the
South Korean company’s Galaxy devices infringed patents on the
iPhone maker’s touch-screen technology.  The Mannheim Regional Court ruled that Samsung didn’t
violate Apple’s patents on features related to touch-screen
technology, Jason Kim, a Seoul-based spokesman for the Suwon,
South Korea-based company said in an e-mailed statement Sept.
21. Joachim Bock, a court spokesman, confirmed the ruling.  Samsung and Apple, the world’s two biggest smartphone
makers, have traded victories in their patent disputes fought
over four continents since the Cupertino, California-based
company last year accused Asia’s biggest electronics maker of
“slavishly copying” its devices. The companies, competing for
dominance of the global smartphone market estimated by Bloomberg
Industries at $219 billion last year, are fighting patent
battles even as Apple remains Samsung’s biggest customer.  “We welcome today’s ruling, which affirms our position
that our products do not infringe Apple’s  intellectual
property ,” Samsung said in a Sept. 21 statement. “We will
continue to further develop and introduce products that enhance
the lives of German consumers.”  The Mannheim judges also rejected a bid by Apple regarding
the same patent against  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility Holdings
unit.  Alan Hely, a spokesman for Apple in  London , declined to
comment on the court ruling.  Next to Munich and Dusseldorf, Mannheim is one of the three
prime court venues in Germany where lawyers for Apple, Samsung,
Motorola Mobility and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  meet regularly in the
current court fights.  A federal jury in  San Jose ,  California , on Aug. 24 found
the South Korean company copied the iPhone and iPad and awarded
Apple more than $1 billion in damages. A week later in  Japan ,
Apple lost a suit as a Tokyo judge ruled that Samsung
smartphones and a tablet didn’t infringe on an Apple invention
for synchronizing music and video data with servers.  Apple accounts for about 9 percent of Samsung’s revenue,
making it the company’s largest customer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Friday’s cases are LG Mannheim 7 O 337/11 (Apple v. Samsung)
and 7 O 528/11 (Apple v. Motorola Mobility).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Copied 68-Year-Old Swiss Clock Design, Railway Says  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iOS 6 operating system infringes a
trademarked design for clocks in Swiss rail stations, according
to state-owned railway operator  SBB .  The updated software, introduced this month by Apple,
includes a clock icon with black and red hands that uses an  SBB 
design created in 1944, Reto Kormann, a spokesman for the Swiss
rail operator, said by telephone Sept. 21.  SBB, which has allowed companies such as watchmaker
 Mondaine Watch Ltd.  to use the design under a license, said that
it’s in discussions with Cupertino, California-based Apple about
a license or a settlement that would allow the phonemaker to use
the image, and expects to resolve the issue in the next few
days, Kormann said.  “The money isn’t in the front of our interests because we
are proud that Apple took an SBB design,” Kormann said. “If we
have a cooperation agreement between two good brands, that’s a
win-win.”  The disputed design appears only on the iPad and isn’t on
the iPhone, said Adam Howorth, a spokesman for Apple in London.
He had no further comment immediately.  Separately, Apple has been embroiled in patent battles with
smartphone maker Samsung Electronics Co. in courts across four
continents after Apple accused the South Korean company of
copying its devices last year. Apple lost a ruling against
Samsung in Germany regarding claims that Galaxy devices
infringed on Apple’s touch-screen technology, according to a
court spokesman Sept. 21.  A federal jury in San Jose, California, on Aug. 24 found
Samsung copied the iPhone and iPad and awarded Apple more than
$1 billion in damages. A week later in Japan, Apple lost a suit
as a Tokyo judge ruled that Samsung smartphones and a tablet
didn’t infringe on an Apple invention for synchronizing music
and video data with servers.  The iPhone 5, which also uses the iOS 6 operating system,
went on sale Friday and was expected to sell more than 10
million devices in its opening weekend, Piper Jaffray Cos.
analyst  Gene Munster  has predicted.  Peoples Federal Savings and People’s United Settle Dispute  Peoples Federal Savings Bank of Brighton,  Massachusetts ,
and People’s United Bank of Bridgeport, Connecticut, settled a
trademark dispute, according to a court filing.  The Massachusetts-based bank sued People’s United in
federal court in  Boston  in June 2012. Established in 1888 as the
Elm Hill Cooperative Bank, Peoples Federal Savings said it’s
used the mark “Peoples” to identify its banking services since
1973. Other marks the bank uses include “Peoplescash,”
“Peoples Federal,” and “Peoples Federal Savings Bank,”
according to court papers.  Peoples Federal said after Connecticut-based People’s
United began to expand to Massachusetts in 2009, the public
became confused by the similarity of the two financial
institutions’ names. It accused the Connecticut bank of
“willful, wanton, reckless” disregard of Peoples Federal’s
rights.  It asked the court to bar People’s United’s use of any mark
confusingly similar to Peoples in Massachusetts, and for awards
of money damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  According to a Sept. 7 court filing, the parties resolved
their dispute and the case was dismissed. No details of the
settlement were disclosed in the filing. According to the
People’s United website, the Connecticut bank still operates 10
branches in Massachusetts. Neither bank’s website makes mention
of the settlement.  The case is Peoples Federal Savings Bank v. People’s  United
Bank , 1:10-cv-11002-NMG, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Italy, Switzerland Named to 2012 Congressional Piracy Watch List  Italy, Switzerland, Russia, Ukraine and China top a  watch
list  of nations with high levels of copyright piracy released by
the Congressional Anti-Piracy Caucus.  The caucus says piracy has reached “alarming levels” in
these nations, which also lack adequate legal protections for
copyright. Industries most affected by piracy are film, home
video, television programming, music, books, video games and
software. These industries collectively are the second-largest
exporting segment of the  U.S. economy , according to the caucus’
report.  This year marks the first time Switzerland and Italy were
listed. Switzerland’s copyright law is inadequate, the report
claims, making it “ a home for rogue sites whose clear purpose
is to facilitate and enable massive unauthorized making
available of pirated material.”  Italy’s inclusion is due to a lack of “sufficient
legislative framework for addressing the problem, or clear
leadership in developing one,” the caucus said.  The report cites ongoing problems in Ukraine, China and
Russia, including the presence of hubs for peer-to-peer networks
that facilitate the unauthorized sharing of content. China’s bar
on the sale of imported game consoles and the wide availability
of circumvention devices, prevents the development of a healthy,
legal market for video game products,” according to the caucus.  Canada and Spain were hailed for enacting “stronger legal
frameworks” for copyright protection, the caucus said.  ‘Santa Paws’ Infringement Case Against Disney Dismissed  The Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  defeated a copyright-infringement case
brought by the authors of a children’s story about  Santa Claus 
and his dog.  The three writers, two from Missouri and one from
Tennessee, filed suit in federal court in  St. Louis  in December,
claiming two Disney Videos infringed the copyright to their 1991
book, “Santa Paws: The Story of Santa’s Dog.”  In their complaint they cited what they said were numerous
similarities between their book and Disney’s “Santa Buddies:
The Legend of Santa Paws’” and “The Search for Santa Paws.”  They said a literary agent they employed had presented
their work to Disney, and that the agent told them in 1996 that
the studio was interested in producing a film based on the book.  In her Sept. 20 ruling, U.S. District Judge Catherine D.
Perry granted Disney’s request to dismiss the suit. She said the
videos weren’t “substantially similar” to elements in the
authors’ book that came under copyright law’s protections.  She said of the perceived similarities between the works
that the idea of magic in a Christmas story isn’t original, and
neither is the use of ice for magical purposes in a story set at
the  North Pole . The idea of Christmas spirit -- and the lack
thereof -- “being embodied by some sort of object is not an
original idea,” she said, nor is the idea of naming Santa’s dog
“Paws” or “Santa Paws.”  Judge Perry said that no reasonable viewer of the videos or
reader of the screenplays on which they were based “would
recognize them as a ‘dramatization or picturization’ of
plaintiffs short story.”  The case is Ray K. Harter Jr. v. Disney Enterprises Inc.,
4:11-cv-02207-CDP, U.S. District Judge, Eastern District of
Missouri (St. Louis).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Leadscope to Receive $10 Million of $26.5 Million Jury Award  Leadscope Inc., a provider of software for scientific
research, will receive more than $10 million from the  American
Chemical Society  in the wake of an Ohio  Supreme Court  ruling
related to a trade secrets case.  The ACS, one of the largest professional scientific
societies in the world, sued Columbus, Ohio-based Leadscope for
trade secret misappropriation in 2002, claiming the company’s
key technology was developed at the society’s Chemical Abstract
Service.  According to court papers, Leadscope founders had been
employed by the service, where they worked to develop a software
tool aimed at improving the ability of researchers to access
information available in the society’s database.  After ACS suspended the software project in 1997, the
Leadscope founders quit and started their own business. There
they developed the software product that was at issue in the
litigation.  Initially the society sued Leadscope in Ohio federal court
in May 2002. Leadscope responded to that suit, seeking dismissal
on the grounds that the court lacked jurisdiction. ACS then
refilled the complaint in Ohio state court in July 2002.  The state court jury rejected the trade-secret claims and
awarded Leadscope $26.5 million on its counterclaims of unfair
competition and defamation. ACS then appealed.  The Ohio high court found that the jury properly determined
that Leadscope had been harmed by the ACS actions and was
entitled to compensation. Leadscope’s defamation claim did not
hold up, nor did the $15 million of the jury award that was
related to that claim.  The case is American Chemical Society V. Leadscope Inc.,
2010-1335, Supreme Court of Ohio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 