-- Schaeffler Sells 10% Continental Stake for $2 Billion
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-09-25T12:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/schaeffler-to-sell-10-continental-stake-for-2-1-billion.html
Schaeffler AG, a German industrial
bearings maker, sold a 10.4 percent stake in  Continental AG (CON)  for
1.6 billion euros ($2 billion) to reduce debt after a failed
takeover of the tire producer.  M.M. Warburg and Bankhaus Metzler disposed of the 20.8
million Continental shares they were holding on Schaeffler’s
behalf for 77.50 euros apiece, the Herzogenaurach-based company
said today in a  statement . That was 4.9 percent less than
Continental’s 81.49-euro closing price yesterday.  Family-owned Schaeffler gained control of Continental,
 Europe ’s second-biggest car-parts supplier, in 2008 at the
height of the financial crisis. The takeover bid backfired when
more investors than Schaeffler expected accepted the offer as
markets collapsed, leaving it with more than 90 percent of the
shares and more than 10 billion euros in debt. Cash from the
stake sale will cut debt at the Schaeffler Holding parent
company by 31 percent to 3.5 billion euros, it said today.  “This share sale makes sense, because Schaeffler is still
highly indebted,”  Tim Schuldt , an analyst with Frankfurt-based
Equinet Bank AG, said today by phone. “The dividend yield is
less than their cash costs on the loans, which means that they
actually have to insert cash to service the debt.”  Stock Declines  Continental  fell  as much as 4.9 percent to 77.47 euros, the
biggest intraday drop since July 23, and was trading down 4.6
percent at 2:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock, which re-entered
 Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  yesterday, has  gained  62 percent
this year, valuing the company at 15.6 billion euros.  Schaeffler’s bonds rose to a record and were the top three
gainers in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch high-yield index.
The manufacturer’s 400 million-euro 8.75 percent notes due 2019
gained 1.2 cents to 113.47 cents on the euro, pushing the yield
down to 6.3 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The German bearing maker refinanced debt in February with
about 8 billion euros of loans, including a 1.4 billion-euro
loan sold to institutional investors, and 2 billion euros of
high-yield bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
June, the company added three banks to its loan facility,
raising the total to 11. Schaeffler’s stock isn’t traded.  Banks’ Holdings  Schaeffler’s direct stake in Hanover, Germany-based
Continental was limited to just less than 50 percent under a
four-year agreement between the two manufacturers in August 2008
intended to settle the takeover dispute. Banks held the excess
Continental stock that investors had sold to Schaeffler.  The share sale and the end of any contractual agreements
between the two banks and Schaeffler will reduce “complexity in
the participation structure,” Schaeffler Chief Financial
Officer Klaus Rosenfeld said in today’s statement.  The amount of Continental’s freely traded stock increases
to 50.1 percent from 39.7 percent. The Schaeffler family agreed
to keep its current 49.9 percent holding in the auto-parts maker
for the next six months, remaining its biggest shareholder, the
company said.  “Our participation in Continental is of long-term and
strategic nature for the Schaeffler family,” owners Maria- Elisabeth Schaeffler and Georg Schaeffler said in the statement.  Cooperation Work  The companies are involved in more than 30 joint industrial
projects at different stages of development, including turbo
chargers and an electronic parking brake, said Hannes Boekhoff,
a Continental spokesman. The manufacturers have also teamed up
in purchasing, which led to savings of 350 million euros to 400
million euros in the three years through 2011.  “Our successful cooperation in a variety of topics and
projects continues as before,” Boekhoff said by phone.  Continental, which is also Europe’s second-largest
tiremaker, raised its 2012 revenue and profit forecasts in
August after second-quarter earnings jumped because of lower
raw-material costs. The growth, and a 1.1 billion-euro share
sale in 2010, helped Continental reduce debt to 6.88 billion
euros in June from a peak of 10.9 billion euros in 2007
following the acquisition of the VDO car-parts business from
 Siemens AG. (SIE)   Chief Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart said this month
that he expects Continental to continue to grow faster than
global car markets by 4 to 5 percentage points next year.
Degenhart forecast an increase in worldwide light-vehicle
production of as much as 3 percent in 2013, as expansion in
 North America  and Asia offsets stagnation in Europe.  Schaeffler Forecast  Schaeffler reiterated its full-year forecast on Aug. 28 as
demand outside Europe helped sales rise. The company is
targeting sales growth of more than 5 percent to about 11.2
billion euros this year. Earnings before interest and taxes
should exceed 13 percent of sales.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managed the share sale as global
coordinator, while  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Commerzbank AG were
bookrunners.  The stock disposal leaves room for “speculation of further
placements in future,” Michael Punzet, a Frankfurt-based DZ
Bank analyst, wrote in a note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  