-- Senators in Both Parties Vow to Craft Debt-Reduction Plan
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-09-24T19:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/senators-in-both-parties-vow-to-craft-debt-reduction-plan.html
A bipartisan group of U.S. senators
says they will work together to craft a deficit-reduction plan
intended to avert $1.2 trillion in across-the-board cuts to
defense and domestic programs set to start in January.  “Sequestration will endanger the lives of America’s
service members, threaten our national security, and impact
vital domestic programs and services,” the six senators,
including top lawmakers on the Senate Armed Services Committee,
said in a letter to the chamber’s leaders released today.  Debate in Congress on a debt-reduction deal hasn’t advanced
for more than a year because of conflicts on whether tax
increases and entitlement cuts should be included. The  senators
said  “real compromise” is needed and “all ideas should be put
on the table” to stop the across-the-board cuts known as
sequestration.  “We do not believe that Congress and the president can
afford to wait until January to begin to develop a short-term or
long-term sequestration alternative,” said the senators, led by
Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat, and Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, the panel’s top
Republican.  The letter to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  also was signed by  Senator
Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a New Hampshire Republican, Senator Jeanne Shaheen, a
New Hampshire Democrat, and Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse , a Rhode
Island Democrat.  Report on Cuts  The White House Office of Management and Budget said in a
report to Congress this month that it would have to cut $109
billion from the budget in fiscal 2013, split evenly between
defense and non-defense programs. It includes a cut of $11
billion, or 2 percent, to Medicare that would affect health-care
providers.  The planned cuts stem from last year’s clash over raising
the U.S. debt limit. The measure increasing the limit included
$1.2 trillion in reductions to federal programs over a decade --
with about $500 billion from defense -- if a bipartisan plan to
cut spending and boost taxes isn’t reached. A so-called
supercommittee assigned to reach an accord collapsed last year
without a deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  