-- Sevan Drilling Declines on Brazil Oil-Rig Fault: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2012-09-24T10:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/sevan-drilling-declines-on-brazil-oil-rig-fault-oslo-mover.html
Sevan Drilling ASA (SEVDR) , a Norwegian
operator of deepwater drilling rigs, fell the most in almost a
year in Oslo trading after reporting a valve fault at its
Brazilian operations.  Sevan slumped as much as 11 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since Oct. 4, and traded down 8.2 percent at 5.86 kroner
as of 12:27 p.m. local time. It was the third-biggest loser on
the Oslo Stock Exchange’s  All-Share Index. (OSEAX)   Sevan had “problems” while testing the control system of
a blowout preventer on its Sevan Brasil vessel, and will bring
the valve to the surface to investigate and make repairs, it
said today in a statement. The equipment is used to cope with
erratic pressure and flow when pumping from an underwater field.  “There should be at least seven days of downtime even if
no issues are discovered,” Pareto Securities ASA said in a note
to clients. While this shouldn’t affect third-quarter earnings,
there may be “downside” to fourth-quarter numbers, it said.  Sevan Drilling supplies rigs for use in deep water,
increasingly the focus of global exploration as companies extend
the search for oil to benefit from rising energy prices.  Sevan
Brasil , an ultra-deepwater rig that started its first well in
late August, is contracted to  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  on a six-
year deal at $405,000 a day.  Sevan Drilling has gained 16 percent this year in Oslo. The
shares lost as much as 4.6 percent on Aug. 14 after the Arendal-
based company said it temporarily breached one of its bank loan
covenants, citing costs associated with the mobilization of the
Sevan Brasil rig.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  