-- Sharp’s Two Main Banks Said to Plan Approval of Revival Package
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-24T14:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/sharp-s-two-main-banks-said-to-plan-approval-of-revival-package.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ’s two main banks plan
to approve a revival package submitted today by the Japanese
electronics maker and will contribute to a total of about 360
billion yen ($4.6 billion) in loans, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306)  plan to approve the package by Sept. 30, the people
said, asking not to be identified before an announcement.  Resona
Holdings Inc. (8308)  and Nippon Life Insurance Co. may join in
providing the loans,  Kyodo News  reported earlier today, without
citing anyone.  Sharp, which is renegotiating a stake sale to Foxconn
Technology Group, is proposing job cuts and payroll deductions
in its revival plan, Kyodo said. Heihachiro Ochiai, a spokesman
for Sharp, declined to comment. Masako Shiono, a spokeswoman at
Mizuho, and Hironori Imafuku, a spokesman at Mitsubishi UFJ,
declined to comment.  Sharp President Takashi Okuda is cutting 5,000 jobs and has
put up properties as collateral to raise funds as the company
projects a second consecutive annual loss. The maker of Aquos
TVs has turned to lenders for financial support as commercial
papers come due and after  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service cut its credit ratings to junk.  The electronics maker has been renegotiating terms for a
proposed stake sale to Taipei-based Foxconn after widening its
full-year loss forecast eightfold in August, triggering a slide
in its share price. Foxconn agreed in March to invest 67 billion
yen for a 9.9 percent stake in Sharp at 550 yen a share.  Sharp’s Debt  The company had 706 billion yen of short-term debt maturing
within 12 months and 314 billion yen in long-term debts at the
end of June, according to its latest quarterly financial
statement. Sharp’s cash and near-cash stood at 218 billion yen
at the time.  Sharp  fell  2.8 percent to 206 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trade in  Tokyo . The shares have declined 69 percent this year,
making it the biggest loser among more than 1,600 companies in
the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)   Sharp plans to return to profit next fiscal year with the
help of job cuts and cost reductions, Okuda said Sept. 14. The
company is trimming its workforce and planning to reduce wages,
managers’ salaries and bonuses to lower costs by 14 billion yen,
it said earlier this month. The cuts are in addition to a 100
billion-yen reduction in fixed costs Sharp announced in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net 
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  