-- Solyndra Wins Court Approval to Sell Manufacturing Plant
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-09-24T17:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/solyndra-wins-court-approval-of-manufacturing-facility-auction.html
Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker
that received a $535 million U.S. Energy Department loan
guarantee before going bankrupt, won court approval to hold an
auction for its Fremont, California, manufacturing plant.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath granted the company
approval of procedures that will govern the auction at a hearing
today in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Solyndra has an initial offer from a unit of Dublin-based
 Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  to buy the property for $90.3 million,
setting the floor for other potential buyers to beat at the
auction, according to court documents.  The solar-panel maker tentatively scheduled a Nov. 15
hearing to seek court approval to sell the plant, built partly
using the government funds.  “There is an issue on the timing of when the sale would
take place,” Joshua M. Fried, an attorney for Solyndra, told
Walrath. Some of the people Seagate needs to complete the sale
may not be available at that time, he said. If the chosen
timeframe doesn’t work for Seagate, “then we will have to hold
the sale hearing a couple weeks later,” Fried said.  Asset Sales  Solyndra has been liquidating its assets since February
after failing to negotiate a deal with a buyer willing to
restart operations, according to court papers. So far it has
generated about $14.1 million from sales of assets such as
solar-panel tubes, manufacturing equipment, appliances and
memorabilia and apparel emblazoned with its logo.  Solyndra was forced to shut down operations and fire most
of its 1,100 workers on Aug. 31, 2011. The solar-panel maker
listed $854.1 million in assets and $867.1 million in debt in
court papers filed Oct. 31.  The company’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised Solyndra during a May 2010
tour of its facilities. It was the first company to receive a
loan guarantee under Obama’s stimulus program.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  