-- South Carolina Voter-ID Judges Question November Enforcement
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-24T21:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/south-carolina-voter-id-judges-question-november-enforcement-1-.html
South Carolina ’s requirement that
voters show photo identification in order to cast a ballot faced
sharp questioning from federal judges who asked whether it could
be enforced in the November general election.  A special panel of three federal judges in Washington heard
arguments today on whether South Carolina’s measure requiring
residents to show federal- or state-issued photo ID at polling
stations significantly burdens minority voters in violation of
the Voting Rights Act of 1965.  The judges, who must sign off on the measure, appeared
skeptical that the state would have enough time to get the law
in place for use on Nov. 6, noting that many state-imposed
deadlines for implementation expired last year.  “Are you urging us to pre-clear it for 2012 assuming we
can get an opinion out in a week or a little over a week?” U.S.
District Judge  John Bates  asked a lawyer for the state during
more than two hours of argument.  “We are, your honor,” H. Christopher Bartolomucci, a
lawyer for South Carolina, told the judges. “Obviously, we’d be
satisfied with a ruling of pre-clearance after this election.”  South Carolina is among at least four states awaiting
decisions on the legality of new voter identification
requirements passed by Republican-controlled legislatures.  Activist Groups  At issue are proposed changes in procedures that Republican
lawmakers say are necessary to prevent fraud. Democrats and
liberal activist groups argue the steps are aimed at limiting
votes for President  Barack Obama  and other Democratic candidates
for local and federal offices.  South Carolina is one of 16 jurisdictions with a history of
voting rights violations that need either approval from the
Justice Department or a special panel of federal judges in
 Washington  to change election procedures under Section 5 of the
Voting Rights Act.  Last month, photo requirements in  Texas  were rejected by a
different three-judge panel in Washington which said it
“imposes strict, unforgiving burdens on the poor and racial
minorities” in violation of Section 5. That ruling, which was
referred to by the judges and parties during today’s argument,
cited the distance -- up to 100 miles each way -- some voters
had to travel along with fees for the required identification as
harming minorities.  Voter’s Photo  South Carolina’s law requires residents to present one of
five approved state- or federal-issued photo IDs. It did away
with a non-photo voter registration card in favor of one bearing
the voter’s photo that would be issued free of charge to all
residents.  South Carolina’s voter ID law was the first to be rejected
by the Obama administration under the Voting Rights Act. The
state responded to the  Justice Department ’s refusal to clear the
plan by filing a lawsuit in February.  The department argues that South Carolina didn’t produce
any evidence of in-person voter fraud in the state. Rather,
legislators ignored information from election officials showing
that of the 178,175 voters who lack state photos, about 36
percent, or 63,756, were non-white.  A study by the department’s expert, Charles Stewart, found
that black voters in South Carolina are more than twice as
likely as white voters not to possess one of the acceptable
forms of identification.  Provisional Ballot  During today’s argument, Bartolomucci said South Carolina’s
ID law differed from Texas in that photo identification cards
would be available free of charge in at least two places per
county.  Voters who can’t come up with the required information may
cast a provisional ballot citing a so-called reasonable
impediment, he said.  South Carolina said that if the court rules in its favor
before Nov. 6, it will immediately enforce the identification
requirements.  For this year, citizens arriving at the polls without the
required identification would fill out an affidavit and then
cast a provisional ballot that would be valid unless election
officials find the affidavit to be false, according to
Bartolomucci.  Training Workers  “There is no set of circumstances where this could be
implemented in the 2012 elections,” Matthew Colangelo, a
Justice Department lawyer, told the judges in his closing
argument.  He cited a court filing in April from Marci Andino, head of
the State Election Commission, stating that she would need at
least 90 days to train poll workers on how to enforce the law.  Garrard Beeney, a lawyer at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP who
represents intervening groups challenging the law, told the
judges that South Carolina’s requirements set up a system where
20,000 poll workers would decide whether to accept a ballot from
a person citing a reasonable impediment.  “Under the benchmark system I push my finger on a machine
and I’m not subject to challenge -- my vote is going to be
counted,” Beeney said.  With the new law, “my vote is subject to challenge without
me ever knowing about it,” he said.  “It’s a two-tier system that’s not equal or likely to lead
to the same result,” Beeney said.  Two Lines  U.S. Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  asked Bartolomucci
whether the law creates two classes of voters, which in turn
sets up two distinct lines at the polls.  One line would include voters who have identification who
would be allowed to cast a traditional ballot. The other line
for those without identification would be disproportionately
black, Kavanaugh said. Those voters would be casting provisional
ballots and must take additional steps, such as swearing out an
affidavit, said Kavanaugh, who was appointed to the bench by
President  George W. Bush .  Bates, also a Bush appointee, asked whether those voters
swearing out an affidavit and casting provisional ballots would
be questioned by poll managers about whether they’re intoxicated
or on drugs, per South Carolina’s requirement for notaries
publics.  The pool of people being asked ‘Are you drunk?’ would be
disproportionately black, he said.  The third judge on the panel is U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, who was appointed by President  Bill Clinton .  The case is South Carolina v. U.S., 12-cv-00203, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 