-- S. Korea Plans Smallest Deficit in Six Years as Growth Slows
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-09-25T03:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/south-korea-plans-smallest-deficit-since-global-financial-crisis.html
South Korea ’s government plans to
cut its fiscal deficit next year to the smallest in six years as
policy makers preserve firepower amid a slowing global economy
and rising welfare costs.  Total spending will increase 5.3 percent to 342.5 trillion
won ($306 billion), the  Ministry of Strategy and Finance  said in
its budget proposal for 2013 released today. The deficit will
shrink to 4.8 trillion won, or 0.3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2013, down from 14.3 trillion won, or 1.1 percent
this year, according to its calculations.  “We need to secure fiscal room to respond preemptively to
long-term challenges,” Vice Finance Minister Kim Dong Yeon said
in remarks embargoed for today’s budget-statement release. “The
budget draft aims to improve fiscal health as the South Korean
economy is very much vulnerable to changes in global economic
conditions.”  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s plan calls for the smallest
deficit since the budget swung to a shortfall in 2008, the year
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse sparked a global
crisis. Meeting the target will depend on how  Asia ’s fourth-
largest economy recovers as European turmoil and slowing growth
cut demand for exports that fell 6.2 percent from a year earlier
in August.  Fiscal Balance  “The government’s plan to achieve fiscal balance next year
or the year after may be delayed as tax collection slows with
waning growth,” said Kang Joong Koo, an economist at the LG
Economic Research Institute. “Balancing the budget should be a
medium-term goal but it’s questionable whether that should be
rushed when the economy needs more fiscal support.”  The  finance ministry  announced 5.9 trillion won of spending
and tax relief this month, adding to 8.5 trillion won of support
measures in June.  Standard & Poor’s ,  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s
Investors Service all cited South Korea’s strong position to
weather shocks when they upgraded the country during a three-
week period starting last month.  The won advanced 0.2 percent to 1,118.15 per dollar at
11:15 a.m. in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The benchmark Kospi index fell 0.3 percent.  South Korea’s government plans to sell 79.9 trillion won of
bonds in 2013, compared with 79.8 trillion won this year,
according to a financial ministry official who declined to be
identified as the official report is yet to be released. Of the
total, 57.5 trillion won will be used for buybacks and
redemption payments.  December Elections  The finance ministry will present the budget draft to
lawmakers by Oct. 2 for parliamentary approval. The ruling New
Frontier Party is seeking to hold onto the presidency in
December elections, with Lee’s single five-year term ending in
February.  Spending on welfare will rise 4.8 percent to a record 97.1
trillion won. Education spending will increase 7.9 percent to
49.1 trillion won.  South Korea expects to collect 37.4 trillion won of revenue
next year outside of tax collection from asset sales, including
selling stakes in the  Industrial Bank of Korea (024110) , Korea
 Development Bank  and Incheon International Airport Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  