-- Spanish Bad Bank Risks Investor Conflict With Stressed Lenders
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-09-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/spanish-bad-bank-risks-investor-conflict-with-stressed-lenders.html
Spain  must ensure a so-called bad
bank meets investor demands for yield without undermining the
balance sheets of lenders as the government seeks a panacea for
the country’s  real estate crisis .  “If the new investors do not believe they are going to get
a good return on their investment, they will not want to get
involved,” said  Vanessa Gelado , director of Drago Capital, a
Madrid-based real estate fund that’s considering investing in
the bad bank. “It’s a very difficult equilibrium to achieve.”  The terms of Spain’s 100 billion-euro ($129 billion) bank
 bailout  oblige Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to set up an asset
management firm to house foreclosed homes and real estate loans
from banks that received state aid. The government wants private
investors to own the majority of the bank so the debt doesn’t
contaminate national accounts as it tries to rein in the euro
region’s third-biggest budget  deficit .  The strategy pits investor demands for low valuations on
assets transferred to the bad bank with the needs of some
lenders to support real estate prices to avoid further losses,
said  Luis Garicano , a professor at the  London School of
Economics .  “It’s a very difficult balance to achieve, or maybe it’s
impossible,” said Garicano in a phone interview. “If you’re
the government, you’re trying to attract investors, but at the
same time you don’t want to underpay for the assets or you risk
undermining the banks and maybe having to recapitalize them
unnecessarily.”  Great Opportunity  Spain will set up the bad bank this month and determine
which assets will be transferred and at what price. Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos has said the bad bank will try to sell
the assets it acquires from banks over 10 to 15 years. It will
be operational by early December, according to his department.  The bad bank will help the economy by removing toxic assets
that consume capital from the balance sheets of lenders, said
Gelado of Drago, which has 2.75 billion euros under management.  “If the bad bank is done properly, it could be a great
opportunity to remove these assets from the balance sheets of
the banks and help them start lending again,” Gelado said.  Basic details about the bad bank, such as its  capital
structure , remain unclear as the government awaits the results
of a stress test of 14 Spanish banking groups by  Oliver Wyman 
Ltd. that is due to be published on Sept. 28.  Asset Transfers  The state aid that weaker banks may eventually need will be
depend on how much they can improve their capital situation by
transferring assets to the bad bank and taking other steps such
as selling businesses, the economy ministry said Sept. 14. The
 Bank of Spain  will determine values for assets to be transferred
to the “bad bank” using “commonly accepted methodologies”
that will allow for a “realistic estimation,” according to a
government decree last month.  The government may ask Spanish lenders to become
shareholders in the “bad bank,” said Drago’s Gelado.  “There is a risk of a conflict of interest if you involve
the banks in the shareholding of the bad bank,” she said.
“It’s in their interest to price the assets as high as
possible, but the opposite is true for investors.”  Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, said in a Sept. 20 speech in Madrid that he
thought Oliver Wyman’s stress test may reveal capital needs of
70 billion to 80 billion euros, including 19 billion euros
already injected into the system. While Spain’s second-biggest
lender was “open to all options” on the bad bank, it would
prefer not to take a stake in the short term, he said.  Investor Caution  The government’s desire to have private investors
controlling the bad bank means it will have to “find a way to
make this an attractive investment, something we consider very
complicated unless valuations are realistic or investors are
granted guarantees,” Jaime Becerril, an analyst at JPMorgan
Cazenove, said in a Sept. 21 report.  Investors will be wary of whether assets have been properly
valued and will be particularly cautious about land and
property, said Fernando Acuna Ruiz, managing partner of Madrid-
based Taurus Iberica Asset Management.  “They also want to know who their partners are going to be
and they want their own valuations done of the assets,” he
said. “They are not going to trust valuations given by banks.”  Rajoy had resisted setting up a bad bank to clear soured
real estate assets from the books of failing lenders until
July’s memorandum of understanding for Spain’s bank bailout
forced him to set one up.  Optimal Returns  Until then, his government’s strategy had been to make
banks speed up recognition of losses on real estate by boosting
provisioning levels for land to 80 percent and to 65 percent for
unfinished developments.  Private investment funds would typically want returns of 20
percent, presenting a dilemma for a government wary of setting
low property transfer values that are read across for the banks,
said Emilio Miravet, head of real estate finance at  Catella (CATB) 
Property Spain SA, an arm of Swedish financial advisory and
investment firm Catella AB.  If the “bad bank” were to require an additional charge of
as much as 20 percent on finished real estate above the average
26 percent required under existing provisioning requirements,
that could add costs of 2.43 billion euros for  Banco Popular (POP) 
Espanol SA and 2.98 billion euros for CaixaBank, Morgan Stanley
analysts Alvaro Serrano and Sara Minelli wrote in a Sept. 12
report.  The 45 percent average provisioning levels for real estate
required by Spain compare with the average discounts of 58
percent when assets were transferred to Ireland’s version of the
bad bank, the National Asset Management Agency.  “If you want to attract a private investor, you have to
offer a really attractive rate of return, which could mean
setting the transfer price really low at the expense of the
taxpayers,” Miravet said. “So you want to minimize the expense
of the taxpayer whilst attracting private investors -- these are
two completely contradictory goals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  