-- Sprint’s Stock Outperforms Apple as CEO Sees 2014 Profit
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-09-24T20:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/sprint-s-stock-outperforms-apple-as-ceo-sees-2014-profit.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  shares have
outperformed  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  this year, along with all but one other
stock in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Can this be real?  “I tell the team here, ‘You’re not going to see any
“mission accomplished” signs anywhere on this campus,’” Chief
Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  said in interview from his office in
 Overland Park ,  Kansas . “This is a long process.”  In his five years running Sprint, Hesse has worked to fix
the mess he was handed after the $36 billion purchase of Nextel
failed and 7.7 million monthly subscribers fled the carrier.
Though he has had his own struggles, such as a turbulent joint
venture with  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and a foray into dead-end WiMax
technology, he predicts that Sprint is on track to return to
profit growth in 2014, following seven years of losses.  Some analysts agree -- with reservations.  “One thing that keeps people skeptical is that we’ve seen
these head fakes before,” said  Phil Cusick , an analyst with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . “There’s no one on Wall
Street who has been around for a while that hasn’t lost money on
Sprint.”  Sprint’s challenges remain daunting. It’s a distant third
to  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T Inc. in customers, and the bigger
rivals have more extensive LTE networks, letting them offer
speedier service to customers across the nation. Even if Sprint
turns the corner in 2014, it will have suffered almost $50
billion in losses over a seven-year stretch, including estimated
losses for 2012 and 2013.  Stock Rally  Despite all that, Cusick has a buy rating on the stock.
With Sprint shares up more than 140 percent this year,  Wall
Street  has shown increasing faith in the comeback. A year ago,
investors were concerned the company would crack under the
pressure of a $7 billion network-upgrade plan and a costly
bargain to get the iPhone -- a deal that requires Sprint to buy
$15.5 billion worth of devices from Apple Inc.  Since then, Sprint has gotten bigger benefits than expected
from the iPhone, both by helping it attract customers away from
other carriers and by boosting the size of users’ phone bills.
Sprint also delivered on its promise to introduce a speedy LTE
network in at least six cities this summer. LTE, short for long-
term evolution, is being added to 100 more towns and cities.  “A year ago, management was talking about all the things
they needed to do -- it was hard to listen to them, they had so
little credibility,” said Scott Dinsdale at Montpelier,
Vermont-based KDP Investment Advisors Inc., which owns Sprint
bonds. “You just held your nose and held the bonds. Now they’ve
gotten to the point where you can see light at the end of the
tunnel.”  Sprint shares rose 0.9 percent to $5.70 at the close today
in New York. In the S&P 500 this year, the stock is second only
to  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based
homebuilder.  Pin-Drop Clarity  Sprint gained renown as an upstart  long-distance competitor 
in the 1980s, when it touted a fiber-optic network with pin-drop
clarity. After shifting its focus to the wireless market, the
company pursued the Nextel Communications Inc.  acquisition  in
2005. Gary Forsee, then CEO, saw the deal as a way to compete
with the industry’s big two -- AT&T and Verizon. Instead,
network glitches and customer-service complaints put Sprint
further behind.  Nextel’s network had 16.1 million customers when it was
acquired. That number had plunged to 4.4 million as of June. In
2007, less than three years after the Nextel deal, Forsee was
forced out by the board and Hesse was hired.  Forsee, who served as  president  of the  University of
Missouri  for three years after leaving Sprint, declined to
comment.  Three Stages  Hesse, a lanky 58-year-old who prefers to work in jeans,
said he’s orchestrating Sprint’s turnaround in three stages. The
past four years have been a recovery period. This year and next,
he said, are the investment phase. That’s when Sprint dismantles
the outdated Nextel network and installs LTE technology.  “Right now, we are spending money like crazy revamping the
network,” he said. Adding to the costs are the heavy iPhone
subsidies -- an expense to acquire lots of customers that will
“pay off longer term,” he said.  Stage three will be Sprint’s growth phase, when these
improvements begin to flow to the company’s bottom line. Sprint
will see profit-margin expansion and earnings growth in 2014,
Hesse said.  Sprint’s shares have beat the  S&P 500  by about 125 percent
this year. Before 2012, the stock had  underperformed  the index
by 86 percent since the beginning of 2007.  Lower Headcount  The transformation has hinged in part on slimming down the
company. When Hesse took over in December 2007, Sprint had
60,000  employees . Today it has a third fewer, at about 40,000.  The diminished ranks are evident at its leafy headquarters,
a $1 billion complex of brick and marble-columned buildings that
looks like a college campus in July. Built during the late-1990s
Internet boom to hold 14,500 employees, it houses 6,500.  A return to profitability in 2014 is no sure thing.
Analysts predict that Sprint will be right around the break-even
point that year, though they do see the company solidly in the
black by 2015, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  “There’s still a considerable amount of risk in Sprint
since they are not quite halfway through the network
migration,” Dinsdale said. “They are chronic in their
disappointments.”  When Sprint acquired Nextel, it promised seamless
“interoperability” between the two networks. Instead, the deal
saddled Sprint with incompatible technology that forced Hesse to
cut the losses and shut it down. Sprint ended up writing off
about $30 billion, or 80 percent of the purchase price.  Retaining Users  Now Sprint has to coax those customers onto its main
network. Initially the company had been converting about 25
percent of defecting Nextel customers into Sprint users. By last
quarter, after focusing more intently on courting those
subscribers, the company’s recapture rate rose to 60 percent.  Higher retention will help slow the loss of customers,
though the company will continue to post user losses until the
Nextel network is shut down next year, Hesse said. Sprint also
may eventually drop “Nextel” from its corporate name, he said.  Then there’s Clearwire. Without enough money to build its
own national fourth-generation network, Sprint contributed some
of its airwaves to a joint venture with Clearwire in May 2008.
Comcast Corp., Time Warner Cable Inc., Google Inc. and  Intel
Corp . also invested in the business, which planned to use WiMax
technology to build a fast, national wireless service. The
venture has yet to break even, and it stopped its WiMax
expansion last year to focus instead on LTE.  Skepticism Remains  Next month will be the anniversary of Sprint’s stormy 2011
analysts’ day, when it refused to share information about the
iPhone purchase agreement and the impact on finances. Sprint
further irked investors by saying it would have to raise more
money to fund its network-upgrade plan. The shares fell the most
in three years, dropping 26 percent over a two-day period.  The company later agreed to share more data about the
iPhone, and the Apple deal is now seen as a smart move. Sprint
may look even smarter a year from now, when the LTE network is
more complete and the full impact of the company’s deal with
Apple is known, KDP’s Dinsdale said.  “It was a huge transaction -- it was transformational,”
Dinsdale said. “But it needed to be done and they had the guts
to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  