-- Star Scientific, Reynolds End Patent Suit, Filing Shows
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-09-24T16:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/star-scientific-reynolds-end-patent-suit-filing-shows-1-.html
Star Scientific Inc. (STSI)  and  R.J.
Reynolds  Tobacco Co. said they have settled their patent-
infringement dispute over a way to reduce carcinogens in
cigarettes.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed in documents filed today
in federal court in Greenbelt,  Maryland , seeking dismissal of
lawsuits. The companies said the agreement “is not an
acknowledgment of liability of any party.”  A federal appeals court last year left two Star patents
intact while upholding a jury verdict that R.J. Reynolds, a unit
of  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , didn’t infringe them during the 2001
and 2002 tobacco-growing seasons. A separate Star lawsuit
accused Reynolds of infringing the patents during later growing
seasons.  Reynolds said in the filings that it reserves the right to
rely on the non-infringement finding in any future legal
actions.  Reynolds was asking the U.S. Supreme Court to invalidate
the two Star patents. The justices had been scheduled to
consider that bid at their private conference today. Instead,
the two companies on Sept. 21 submitted a joint request that the
appeal be dismissed, and the request was granted.  Bacterial Activity  Reynolds had argued in its appeal that the Star patents
aren’t specific enough. The patents cover a curing process that
prevents “bacterial activity” in tobacco leaves, resulting in
the lowest levels of cancer-causing nitrosamines, according to
Star.  Star said Reynolds used the technology without permission
because the larger company was unable to achieve similar
nitrosamines reductions on its own. Reynolds denied the claim.  R.J. Reynolds makes Camel, Winston and Salem brand
cigarettes and is based in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina . Star
Scientific is based in  Glen Allen , Virginia.  The case is Star Scientific Inc. v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
Co., 01cv1504, 02cv2504, and 09cv1411, all U.S. District Court
for the District of Maryland (Greenbelt). The Supreme Court case
is R.J. Reynolds v. Star Scientific, 11-1182.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  