-- Strike at Chicago Symphony Threatens Carnegie Hall Gala
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/strike-at-chicago-symphony-threatens-carnegie-hall-gala.html
Musicians of the  Chicago  Symphony
Orchestra went on strike this weekend, hours before their first
Saturday night concert of the 2012-13 season.  The action, involving one of the country’s most acclaimed
orchestras, comes at a time when management-labor disputes
threaten classical seasons in several cities. The strike also
imperils Carnegie Hall’s gala next month in New York.  The Chicago Symphony Orchestra Association said it was
informed less than two hours before its program of Dvorak and
Respighi was scheduled to begin that the  Chicago Federation of
Musicians, Local 10-208  had called a strike.  Average annual pay, including overtime, for the contract
that ended last week was $173,000, the association said.
Musicians play 160 concerts a year and receive 12 weeks of paid
time off.  The union said that the association knew for days that the
program was in jeopardy.  Stephen Lester , a double-bass player and chairman of the
negotiating committee, said the strike was called over health-
care costs. After a decade in which musicians’ health expenses
were little changed, their contributions would skyrocket under
the proposed new contract, he said. He declined to provide
figures.  Pay Decrease  “Our take-home pay would be less than it was,” he said.
“There is a political climate among some board members that
this is a time to take a hard line against unionized
musicians.”  The scheduled New York concert puts pressure on both sides.  Led by star music director Riccardo Muti, the CSO is to
play Carnegie Hall’s season opener on Oct. 3, a prime fundraiser
with tickets as high as $5,000.  “I’d hope our musicians would not jeopardize the
relationship we have with  Carnegie Hall ,” CSO Association
President  Deborah Rutter  said in an interview.  Synneve Carlino, a Carnegie Hall spokesman, declined to say
whether the hall is preparing contingency entertainment, but
noted that CSO’s three-night engagement remains on schedule.  “We’re aware of the news from Chicago and join everyone in
hoping there will soon be a resolution,” she said in an e-mail.  Rutter called the association’s $18,000-per-musician
health-care plan above average for employers and the
contributions sought below average.  Top Pay  The association offered a minimum weekly base salary of
$2,795 for this season, up $10 from the minimum in the contract
that ended last week, it said in a statement. Pay would be up 4
percent by the third year, for a salary at the top end of U.S.
orchestras.  The orchestra had a $1.3 million operating deficit in the
year ending June 2012, said Rachelle Roe, an association
spokesman. The prior season’s deficit was $927,000 according to
the CSO’s annual report.  “The economy is extremely challenging,” Rutter said.
“Ours is a resource-heavy activity, meaning people. We just
don’t have much flexibility in how we employ our musicians.”  The union didn’t agree to negotiate until July, and then
was available for four half-day sessions before demanding a
recess, the association said in its statement.  Heartbreaking Experience  “The committee and our counsel felt there was plenty of
time to come to a deal,” Lester responded. “We love to play
music. It was a heartbreaking experience to have to turn our
audience away.”  Musicians are locked out at the  Atlanta Symphony Orchestra 
and the  Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra . Contracts expire this
month at the  St. Paul Chamber Orchestra  and  Minnesota Orchestra ,
with no deal yet at either Twin Cities institution.  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on art and  Greg
Evans  on television.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 