-- Sudan, South Sudan Presidents to Continue Discussions
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-09-24T20:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/sudan-south-sudan-presidents-to-continue-discussions.html
Sudan  and  South Sudan ’s presidents
will continue talks tomorrow in a bid to end more than a year of
disputes over oil transit fees and security that brought the
neighboring countries to the brink of war in April.  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir and South Sudan’s leader
Salva Kiir were not able to agree on a resolution over the
disputed region of Abyei or on the borders of a demilitarized
buffer zone, El-Obeid Al-Morawah, a spokesman for Sudan’s
Foreign Ministry told reporters in the Ethiopian capital,  Addis
Ababa , today.  “There was progress today,” he said. “Only two issues
remain, 14 miles and Abyei, and they will continue discussing
them tomorrow.”  The meeting between the presidents follows negotiations led
by the African Union-appointed mediator, former South African
President  Thabo Mbeki . A deal would allow South Sudan to resume
350,000 barrels a day in oil production it shut down in January.  South Sudan gained control of about 75 percent of the
formerly united country’s 490,000 barrels a day of crude output
when it declared independence from Sudan in July 2011. China
National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and
 India ’s ONGC Videsh Ltd. operate most of the  oil wells  in the
two countries.  Gained Independence  South Sudan gained independence after a referendum based on
a 2005 peace accord. The agreement was intended to end a civil
war that lasted for almost 50 years -- except for a cease-fire
from 1972 to 1983 -- between the Muslim north and the south,
where Christianity and traditional religions dominate. About 2
million people died in the second phase of the conflict.  The countries almost resumed their conflict in April as
talks in Addis Ababa collapsed. Sudanese fighter jets launched
strikes inside South Sudanese territory, while the southern army
occupied and then withdrew from Heglig, a contested area that
accounts for half of Sudan’s oil output.  Concern about a new war has prompted the  United Nations
Security Council  to threaten sanctions against both countries if
they don’t resolve all outstanding problems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Karl Maier at 
 kmaier2@bloomberg.net  