-- Swan Says Australia’s Budget Remains on Track for 2013 Surplus
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-24T01:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/swan-says-australia-s-budget-remains-on-track-for-2013-surplus.html
Australia’s  budget deficit  was
little changed from a previous forecast in the year through
June, and the government remains committed to delivering a
surplus this fiscal year, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  The shortfall was A$43.7 billion ($45.6 billion) in the 12
months to June 30, compared with the A$44.4 billion projected in
the May budget, Swan said in a statement. The A$661 million
difference from the prior forecast was the smallest variation
between estimate and outcome for a decade, and was attributed to
lower government payments and higher tax revenue.  Falling prices for  iron ore  and coking coal have eroded the
nation’s terms of trade -- a measure of windfall gains from
exports that reached a record high last year -- and are
complicating the government’s bid for a swing to surplus. It is
betting tighter budgets will put the onus on the central bank to
further reduce the highest benchmark rate among major developed
nations and win a political dividend in an economy where 90
percent of mortgages have floating rates.  “While the decline in commodity prices in recent months
will inevitably make it more difficult to return the budget to
surplus in 2012-13, the government remains committed to doing
so,” Swan said in the statement in Canberra today. “Returning
the budget to surplus is Australia’s best defense at a time of
ongoing global turbulence.”  A risk to the government’s plan is slower growth heading
into an election year with polls showing the opposition Liberal-
National coalition would win. The Australian dollar has been the
best-performing major currency against the  U.S. dollar  during
the past three years, rising about 21 percent, and hurting non-
resource industries including tourism, retail and manufacturing.  Currency Strength  “Because of factors like the high Australian dollar, a
cautious consumer, subdued asset prices and the investment boom,
we don’t expect taxes to return to pre-crisis levels,” Swan
told reporters in Canberra after releasing the document,
referring to the period before the 2009 global recession.  The 2011-2012 deficit is equivalent to 3 percent of gross
domestic product, Swan said. That compares with a U.S. deficit
equivalent to 7.9 percent of the economy, Japan’s shortfall of
10.1 percent and the U.K.’s gap of 8.3 percent of GDP, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Australia’s fiscal position is much healthier than most
other developed economies,” Swan said. “Our 2011 deficit is
less than half the average budget deficit recorded for the major
advanced economies in 2011.”  Uneven Growth  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and Swan have struggled to
protect the ruling Labor Party’s electorate from the two-speed
economy -- a phrase used to distinguish resource-rich regions in
the north and west that are powering growth and hiring workers,
from struggling tourism, manufacturing and retail industries of
the south and east.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered
the benchmark  interest rate  by a total of 75 basis points in May
and June before keeping borrowing costs unchanged at the past
three meetings.  Australia’s economy grew about 4 percent in the first half
of 2012 from a year earlier on the strength of resource-industry
investment and  consumer spending . Still, a plunge in the price
of iron ore, the nation’s biggest export, and an elevated
currency prompted mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to put off projects and cut jobs
in the past month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  