-- U.K. Liberal Democrats Will Resist Deep Welfare Cuts After 2015
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-09-25T13:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/u-k-minister-tells-tax-dodgers-that-we-are-coming-to-get-you-.html
Chief Secretary to the Treasury
Danny Alexander said his Liberal Democrat party will resist
pressure from its Conservative coalition partners to solely use
cuts in welfare to narrow Britain’s budget deficit.  Alexander told supporters at the party’s annual conference
in Brighton,  England , today that he will fight any efforts to
put the burden on the poor when looking for 16 billion pounds
($26 billion) of savings in the fiscal year that begins in 2015.
Rich tax dodgers will be pursued, he said.  “We simply will not allow the books to be balanced in a
way that hits the poorest hardest,” Alexander said. “At
220 billion pounds, welfare is a third of all public spending
and, despite our painful reforms, is still rising. We will have
a look at it. But that cannot, must not and will not be the only
place we look.”  Alexander and other Liberal Democrat ministers are seeking
to reassure supporters that their party’s ideals haven’t been
watered down after two years in coalition with Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s Tories. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and
Alexander will “negotiate hard” to make sure their party’s
values shape policy.  Last year, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
Britain faces two extra years of austerity as he sought to shore
up his deficit-reduction plans. Some Conservatives want welfare
to take the brunt of the cuts.  Osborne faces a similar choice again this year as the
economy’s inability to expand threatens to derail his deficit-
reduction plans for a second year running.  No Sacrifice  Liberal Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable yesterday
raised the prospect of sharing power with the  Labour Party ,
which wants to ease the pace of budget cuts. Alexander said
today he will not “sacrifice this party’s independence by
binding us to detailed spending plans deep into the next
parliament.”  Instead, he pledged to raise 4 billion pounds this year by
clamping down on tax dodgers.  A 950 million-pound program started two years ago is on
course to yield as much as 7 billion pounds a year by 2015,
Alexander said. A separate effort to track down tax avoiders
with money in Liechtenstein has yielded three times as much
revenue as previously expected.  “We have this message to the small minority of wealthy
people who don’t play by the rules: we are coming to get you and
you will pay your fair share,” Alexander said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Brighton, England, at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  