-- U.K. to Accelerate Extradition Proceedings for Islamist Cleric
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-09-24T23:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/u-k-to-accelerate-extradition-proceedings-for-islamist-cleric.html
The U.K. will speed up extradition
proceedings against Islamist cleric Abu Hamza al-Masri and four
other accused terrorists to the U.S. after a European court
blocked an appeal against an April ruling against the suspects.  “We will work to ensure that the individuals are handed
over to the U.S. authorities as quickly as possible,” the
British  Home Office  in  London  said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The  European Court of Human Rights  in Strasbourg ruled on
April 10 that Hamza, 55, jailed in Britain for inciting murder
and racial hatred, can be extradited to the U.S. because prison
conditions there wouldn’t violate his rights. The court rejected
allegations by the cleric and the four others that conditions at
a maximum-security federal prison in Florence,  Colorado , would
constitute inhuman and degrading treatment.  The U.S. seeks to prosecute Hamza on charges he supported
the Taliban with money and troops, set up a terrorist training
camp in Bly,  Oregon , in 2000 and aided a kidnapping plot that
left four hostages dead in Yemen in 1998.  The potential for a life sentence and solitary confinement
in the so-called supermax prison is justified in cases where
inmates are a “significant security risk,” the Strasbourg
court ruled in April. The U.S. facility also has amenities that
go beyond what’s provided in most prisons in  Europe , it said.  Hamza, the former head of the Finsbury Park mosque in north
London, was sentenced by a U.K. court in 2006 to seven years in
prison for encouraging his followers to kill Jews and other non-
Muslims in sermons between 1997 and 2000. An appeals court
rejected his claims the jury was swayed by the media’s
demonization of the cleric and unrelated acts of terrorism, such
as the 2005 bombings on London’s public transport system.  Hamza, who was born in  Egypt  and granted British
citizenship in 1986, is known for the hook-shaped prosthetic he
wears in place of his hand. He argued in the U.K. case that he
preaches religious tenets set forth in the Koran and was only
prosecuted to avoid political embarrassment after the U.S.
government filed terrorism charges against him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  