-- U.K. May Issue More Flood Warnings After Rain, Agency Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-09-24T12:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/u-k-may-issue-more-flood-warnings-after-rain-agency-says-1-.html
Areas of  England  and  Wales  should
be prepared for flooding as heavy rain may persist in the next
24 hours, the U.K. Environment Agency said.  Yorkshire, Lancashire, the Midlands and north and east
Wales are at risk for river and surface  flooding , the government
agency said today in a statement on its website. As much as 100
millimeters (3.9 inches) of rain may fall in the next 24 hours,
it said, citing the Met Office. The agency has issued 14 flood
warnings and 46 alerts in Devon and Somerset, and 4 flood
warnings and 14 alerts in the Midlands.  “We are already seeing travel disruption due to the wet
weather and could well see flooding across the country this
week,” Alison Baptiste, flood risk manager at the Environment
Agency, said in the statement. “We strongly urge people to sign
up to flood warnings, keep a close eye on local  weather
forecasts  and be prepared for the possibility of flooding. We
also ask that people stay safe by staying away swollen rivers
and not attempting to drive through floodwater.”  The southern half of the U.K. had 30 millimeters to 50
millimeters of rain yesterday, the Met Office said today in a
separate  statement . Areas of eastern  Scotland , northeast England
and southeast England may have “strong to gale force winds,”
with gusts reaching as high as 70 miles per hour (113 kilometers
per hour) near the coasts, it said.  The low pressure system, which moved north from the Bay of
Biscay during the weekend, may remain over the U.K. until the
middle of the week, the  Met Office  said.  June, July and August were the  wettest  in the U.K. since
1912, the Met Office said Sept. 4. Rains have swamped fields and
pastures across the country, delaying the harvest and eroding
crop quality, the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board
has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  