-- Iran’s Oil Company ‘Agent’ of Revolutionary Guard Corps
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-24T20:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/u-s-is-said-to-link-iran-s-oil-company-to-revolutionary-guard.html
The Obama administration told
Congress today that Iran’s state-owned oil company is linked to
a military unit sanctioned for weapons proliferation, terrorism
and human-rights abuses.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  was required by
Congress to prepare the report, which determined that the
National Iranian Oil Co., known as NIOC, is “an agent or
affiliate” of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps,
according to two letters to lawmakers from the Treasury
Department. The finding exposes foreign financial institutions
that deal with the company to U.S. sanctions.  The Treasury didn’t find sufficient proof to sanction the
National Iranian Tanker Co., or NITC, the main carrier for
Iranian crude, for ties to the Revolutionary Guard, according to
the letters.  Even with the finding of the oil company’s links to the
Revolutionary Guard, current law allows for continued purchases
of Iranian crude by nations granted exemptions from sanctions
for making “significant” reductions in such imports. U.S.
companies and individuals are already barred from almost any
business with  Iran .  Under a law signed Aug. 10, Congress gave the Obama
administration until today to determine whether the oil and
tanker companies were controlled by the elite unit. Lawmakers
are seeking to deny funding to the Guard, known as the IRGC, as
part of an array of sanctions intended to pressure Iranian
Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei to halt his country’s suspected
pursuit of nuclear-weapons capability.  Exemptions Granted  “Treasury has reviewed classified reporting and
unclassified information in support of these determinations,”
Adam Szubin, director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control
wrote today to Congress. “As Iran’s most powerful economic
actor, the IRGC dominates many sectors of the economy, including
energy, construction, and banking.” he wrote.  “Recently, the IRGC has been coordinating a new campaign
to sell Iranian oil, in order to evade international
sanctions,” he wrote.  Under today’s finding, any foreign financial institution
“determined to knowingly facilitate significant transactions or
provide significant financial services” for Iran’s  oil company 
can be blocked from the U.S. banking system, according to the
letters. That means joint ventures, investments, real estate
deals or sales of any kind to Iran’s oil company would be
prohibited, further squeezing oil exports that are Iran’s main
source of revenue.  Truth Revealed  Representative Howard Berman, a California Democrat who was
one of the sponsors of the measure requiring today’s report,
said the finding “reveals the truth: that Iran’s oil company is
a key element of the IRGC, the most hardline and dangerous
agency of the Iranian regime. Oil transactions with NIOC
directly support the IRGC’s role in Iran’s nuclear weapons
program and its support for terrorism.”  Senator Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat who was also a
sponsor of the measure, praised the new designation as a means
to “force financial institutions that do business with the
 United States  to cease engaging in transactions with the NIOC.”
He said it also will “encourage significant reductions in
purchases of petroleum,” by letting crude buyers know that
Iranian oil revenues benefit the Revolutionary Guard.  Mark Dubowitz , a sanctions advocate who prepared reports
for Congress and the administration on Revolutionary Guard links
to the oil sector, said the designation should encourage law-
abiding refiners to seek other suppliers.  “This determination matters for all those foreign
companies that continue dealing with NIOC and its dozens of
subsidiaries,” Dubowitz, executive director of the Foundation
for Defense of Democracies, said in an interview today. He
called it a strong signal against “buying, financing, insuring
or otherwise dealing in Iranian oil.”  China Imports  China  was the leading importer of  Iranian oil  in the first
six months of last year, followed by  Japan ,  India  and  South
Korea , according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
All four nations were granted renewable 180-day exemptions from
U.S. financial sanctions over their Iranian oil purchases
earlier this year.  Chinese customs data released Sept. 21 showed China’s
imports of Iranian crude fell 20 percent in August compared with
a year earlier, to the lowest level in five months.  Crude oil for November delivery declined 96 cents to settle
at $91.93 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, down 7.1
percent since Sept. 14 and 7 percent for the year.  American officials including Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  have accused the Revolutionary Guard of taking over the
most lucrative sectors of Iran’s economy. The unit or its
members have been sanctioned by the U.S.,  United Nations  and
European Union for alleged offenses including nuclear and
missile work.  Nuclear Issue  Oil supplies more than 50 percent of Iran’s national
budget, according to International Monetary Fund data. Oil
earned the Persian Gulf nation $95 billion in 2011, according to
the U.S. Energy Department.  Proponents of the financial and energy-related sanctions
imposed say hobbling Iran’s oil revenue is the best way to slow
its nuclear progress and forestall military action by  Israel  or
the U.S. Iran says its nuclear program is for civilian energy
and medical research only.  The state-owned NIOC is the world’s second-largest oil
company by volume produced, after the Saudi Arabian Oil Co.
NITC, a former subsidiary of NIOC that was privatized 12 years
ago, has the world’s fourth-largest fleet of supertankers,
according to London-based Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a
unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  Past Denial  In August 2011, Rostam Qasemi, a former Revolutionary Guard
commander and former head of Khatam al-Anbiya, its engineering
arm, was named Iran’s oil minister and chairman of NIOC. Qasemi
and Khatam al-Anbiya have been sanctioned by the U.S. and the EU
for ties to the Guard.  In a telephone interview in February, the tanker company’s
general manager of planning, Abdolsamad Taghol, dismissed any
suggestion of military links to the tanker line. NITC operates
independently, without administrative, financial or political
ties to the Guard, he said.  Menendez said he was disappointed that the tanker company
wasn’t sanctioned today and urged the administration to continue
investigating possible links to the Guard.  The U.S. already has sanctioned Iran’s national maritime
carrier, the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines, for
involvement in missile programs and transporting military
cargoes.  President  Barack Obama  on Feb. 6 ordered a freeze on all
Iranian government and financial institutions’ assets under U.S.
jurisdiction, which would apply to the state-owned oil company.  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in OPEC after  Saudi
Arabia , pumped 2.75 million barrels a day in August, 350,000
barrels a day less than in July, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  