-- UN Envoy Urges World Body to Intervene to Solve Syria Violence
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-09-24T22:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/un-envoy-urges-world-body-to-intervene-to-solve-syria-violence.html
United Nations Special Envoy
Lakhdar Brahimi told the  Security Council  that reducing the
violence in  Syria  isn’t possible unless the world body is united
on a way to end the 18-month conflict.  Brahimi’s remarks yesterday underscored the UN’s paralysis
in dealing with a civil war that has claimed more than 26,000
lives. He also was making clear that, if he fails in his mission
to help the country make the transition to new leadership, the
responsibility won’t be his alone.  “You all say you support me individually; why don’t you
support me collectively?” Brahimi told the gathered ambassadors
when he briefed the Security Council, according to a diplomat in
the room who wasn’t authorized to speak about the meeting. “It
shouldn’t be very difficult,” the envoy told them.  Brahimi, who just returned from a trip to Damascus, Cairo
and Syrian refugee camps in Jordan and Lebanon, spoke at the UN
as world leaders gathered this week for the annual General
Assembly. The Syrian conflict threatens to further destabilize a
region already facing the possibility of an Israeli strike on
Iranian nuclear facilities. The veteran Algerian diplomat warned
of the consequences.  “There is no disagreement anywhere that the situation in
Syria is extremely bad and getting worse, that it is a threat to
the region and a threat to peace and security in the world,”
Brahimi said, speaking to reporters outside the Security Council
chamber.  Brahimi’s predecessor,  Kofi Annan , also placed some blame
on the Security Council when he resigned from the position after
less than six months, telling reporters about the “clear lack
of unity” in the council as well as the “finger-pointing and
name-calling.”  International ‘Hypocrisy’  Joshua Landis , who heads the Middle Eastern department at
the University of Oklahoma in Norman, said Brahimi’s comments
were meant to “underline the hypocrisy of the international
community” that says it wants a solution to the violence yet
won’t compromise to reach one.  “He’s also providing himself with an alibi,” Landis said
in a telephone interview.  The Security Council has been deadlocked for more than a
year as Russia and  China  have protected President Bashar al- Assad from censure in resolutions brought by the U.S. and
allies. Russia in particular has made clear that it won’t allow
a UN resolution to become the basis for military intervention,
as happened in  Libya  in 2011.  Iranian Proposal  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , in  New York  for the
General Assembly, told a gathering of senior editors and
television network anchors yesterday that outside involvement
just complicates matters. Instead,  Iran  supports the formation
of a “national dialogue group” of countries, including  Saudi
Arabia  and  Turkey , he said.  “Interventions from outside make conditions much
tougher,” said Ahmadinejad, whose regime supports Assad.  “We are hopeful we can have a stand-up contact group,”
Ahmadinejad said. “All of the actors must be present. I believe
Turkey should be a part of these negotiations. What will occur
within Syria is what the people of Syria decide.”  The Obama administration has said Iran is supplying weapons
and materiel to Syria as well as sending military and
technological specialists to help the Assad regime.  The U.S. believes that instead of letting the Syrian people
decide the fate of their country, Iran “will stop at nothing to
try to help prop up the Assad regime,” State Department
spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said on Sept. 20.  Shiite Crescent  For the regime in Iran, the battle over Syria’s future is
crucial. If Assad is forced from power, Shiite Iran would
probably lose its most important regional ally and a linchpin in
the so-called Shiite Crescent that runs through  Iraq , Syria,
Lebanon and the Palestinian territories. Iran’s rivals, the
Sunni Gulf nations, have long wanted a chance to curb its power
and influence.  Brahimi’s assessment to the Security Council was grim,
according to the diplomat who wasn’t authorized to comment
publicly. He said the envoy described  torture  so routine that
it’s not mentioned unless people are asked and the steady
destruction of Syria’s cultural heritage.  At least 1.5 million people have been forced to leave their
homes and 280,000 have  fled  to neighboring countries, Brahimi
told the council. This year’s poor harvest means food shortages
are looming.  The envoy also made clear that he can’t accept the premise
that there’s no possible opening for a solution. “I do not have
a full plan for the moment, but I do have a few ideas,” he told
reporters.  ‘Serious Consequences’  Analysts such as Amr Al Azm said they are skeptical. “I
don’t think Lakhdar Brahimi has any chance of success until the
international community is ready to put in place serious
consequences for the Syrian regime if it doesn’t comply,” said
Al Azm, an associate professor at Shawnee State University in
Portsmouth,  Ohio , who is involved in opposition efforts to plan
for a post-Assad Syria.  “If it doesn’t do that, this is doomed to failure and I
think Brahimi knows that,” Al-Azm said in a telephone
interview.  One sign that doesn’t speak well for Brahimi’s efforts is
the rigidity of Security Council members’ positions, said Aram
Nerguizian, a visiting fellow at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a Washington policy group.  “They have been talking past each other for 18 months,”
Nerguizian said. “The really distressing thing is the comfort
with which both sides say we can’t bridge our differences.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  