-- UN Energy Initiative May Reach 300 Million People by 2015
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-09-24T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/un-energy-initiative-may-reach-300-million-people-by-2015.html
A United Nations initiative to
provide sustainable energy for the 1.6 billion people without
power may reach as many as 300 million in three years, said
Kandeh Yumkella, who is leading the effort.  “There are some areas, such as Ghana and  Kenya , that are
primed for action and the money should start to flow,” Yumkella
said in an interview at UN headquarters in New York.
“Commitments from Bank of America and the  African Development
Bank  could begin to flow in the next six to 12 months.”  Yumkella, who was named chief executive officer of the UN’s
Sustainable Energy for All initiative today, said his initial
goals are focused on distributing solar-powered lanterns and
mobile-phone charging stations to areas without power grids.  “You need to link energy use to productive activity and
that helps empower locals to join the effort,” Yumkella said.
“That way they can pay for the energy they consume and it’s
cheaper and cleaner than kerosene and diesel.”  Chad Holliday, chairman of  Bank of America Corp. , was named
chairman of the group’s newly formed executive committee, and
World Bank President Jim Yong Kim will serve alongside UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon as co-chairmen of its advisory
board. Yumkella was previously director of the UN Industrial
Development Organization.  Sustainable Energy for All received more than $50 billion
in pledges from investors and lenders in the past year to
develop renewable energy projects in 61 countries, Yumkella
said.  The group is organizing government and corporate
partnerships worldwide to provide universal energy access,
double the rate of energy efficiency improvement and double the
use of renewable energy use by 2030.  “Sustainable energy is the golden thread that connects
economic growth, social equity and a climate and environment
that enables the world to thrive,” Ban said today in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  