-- Hungary Forint Must Reflect Risk of No Aid, Rabobank Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-09-24T12:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/hungary-forint-must-reflect-risk-of-no-aid-rabobank-says.html
Hungary’s currency must reflect the
risk that Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  may walk away from rescue
negotiations with the  International Monetary Fund  without
agreeing on a loan, Rabobank International said.  The talks probably won’t be concluded this year and the
forint should better reflect the risk that they won’t end in a
financial rescue, Christian Lawrence, a London-based strategist
at Rabobank, wrote in an e-mailed note today. Hungary is seeking
a credit line of between 12 billion euros ($15.5 billion) and 15
billion euros and may agree on a deal in November should talks
resume next month, chief negotiator Mihaly Varga said, the daily
Magyar Nemzet reported on Sept. 21.  Hungary requested aid in November as its  credit rating  was
cut to junk. Negotiations for a loan were delayed multiple times
because of Orban’s resistance to adhere to legal and economic
conditions set by the IMF and the European Union.  “We remain very skeptical of these talks being concluded
in 2012 and are still of the view that the forint is not fully
pricing in what we see as the significant downside tail risk of
Orban walking away from the talks completely,” Lawrence wrote.
“We expect talks to be dragged out into next year and an
agreement to be finally reached, but ‘walking away’ is certainly
a non-negligible risk.”  The forint fell 0.4 percent to 283.16 versus the euro as of
1:10 p.m. in Budapest today. It has been the world’s best
performer against  Europe ’s single currency this year, gaining
11.3 percent, helped in part by expectations of an aid deal.  The latest round of IMF talks stalled after Orban on Sept.
6 rejected cutting pensions and scrapping an extraordinary bank
tax as well as other measures to reduce the budget gap and boost
growth. Orban said those policies were the IMF’s conditions,
while the Washington-based lender said the next day that his
list contained “significant inaccuracies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  