-- Hungary Eyes Rate Cut as Slump Trumps Inflation Concerns
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-09-25T08:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/hungary-eyes-rate-cut-as-slump-trumps-inflation-concerns.html
Hungary ’s central bank will
probably cut its  main interest rate  for a second month amid a
deepening slump, shunning concern about the European Union’s
fastest inflation and stirring divisions among policy makers.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will reduce the two-week deposit
rate to 6.5 percent from 6.75 percent, the EU’s highest, the
second quarter-point cut in as many months, according to 17 of
29 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Twelve forecast no change.
The decision will be announced at 2 p.m. in Budapest.  Policy makers last month lowered the main rate for the
first time since April 2010 as the four non-executive members of
the Monetary Policy Council, appointed by Prime Minister  Viktor
Orban ’s allies in parliament, outvoted central bank President
Andras Simor and his two deputies. With the economy mired in its
second slump since 2009, Hungary is in talks to obtain a loan
from the  International Monetary Fund .  “The four government-appointed” policy makers are
“likely to vote for another rate cut and as they hold the
majority of seats they are likely to dominate over the 3 other
MPC members,” Carolin Hecht, a Frankfurt-based strategist at
Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-mail today.  Underscoring divisions on the council, Simor on Sept. 13
called the cut “pointless” with inflation at double the bank’s
3 percent target. The move cast doubt on the bank’s commitment
to tackle price growth and did little to boost an economy held
back by subdued lending and investments, he said.  Best Performer  The forint has been the world’s best-performing currency
this year as investors bet the government will obtain an IMF
backstop. The currency rose 11.2 percent against the euro even
after dropping 2 percent from its level before the Aug. 28 rate
cut. The forint traded at 283.3 per euro at 9:24 a.m. today. It
plunged 15 percent, the most in the world, in the second half of
last year.  Hungary’s cost to insure debt for five years with credit
default swaps fell to 385 basis points today from 423 basis
points before the August rate cut and compared with 630 basis
points on June 5. The yield on the government bond maturing in
2022 dropped 17 basis points to 7.29 percent in the period.  “We still believe the external members are operating a
framework of cutting when they can,” Peter Attard Montalto, an
economist at Nomura Plc in  London , said in an e-mail yesterday.
With the current forint and CDS levels, “we think they will
indeed cut again.”  Regional Peers  As demand for exports wanes in the 17-nation euro region
amid the sovereign-debt crisis, the Czech central bank on Sept.
27 may cut its main rate to 0.25 percent from 0.5 percent,
already a record low. The Romanian central bank may keep its
main rate unchanged at 5.25 percent the same day, the median
estimate of economists in Bloomberg surveys show.  Hungary’s potential rate cut may clash with the central
bank’s new forecasts in its quarterly inflation report, to be
published at 3 p.m. in Budapest, which will probably boost
estimates for price growth. The inflation rate may fall to the
target in 2014 instead of 2013 as estimated in the bank’s June
report, Simor said July 24. The August rate rose to 6 percent,
the highest since Jan. 2010, led by food and fuel prices.  Inflation Forecast  “We think there is a very good chance that the inflation
forecast will be revised higher, potentially in a meaningful
way,” Pasquale Diana, a London-based economist at Morgan
Stanley, said in a Sept. 21 research note. “Growth is likely to
be revised down from the previous estimates.”  Simor will explain the rate decision at 3 p.m., while the
Monetary Policy Council will publish a statement on how the
latest inflation and economic forecasts may impact rate policy.  Hungary’s economy shrank 1.3 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, after contracting 0.7 percent in the three
months through March. Industrial production fell 2.2 percent in
July from a year earlier as the economy plunged into a deeper
recession than previously forecast.  The Cabinet’s measures over the past two years, including a
special tax on lenders and nationalization of private-pension
funds, damaged investor confidence, contributed to a lowering of
the country’s credit rating and a cut in investments.  IMF Talks  Hungary requested aid in November as its debt was
downgraded to junk. Negotiations for a loan of about 15 billion
euros ($19.4 billion) were delayed multiple times because of
Orban’s resistance to adhere to legal and economic conditions
set by the IMF and the EU.  Hungary is expecting to conclude negotiations by November,
chief aid negotiator Mihaly Varga said in an interview published
in Magyar Nemzet newspaper on Sept. 22.  Orban rejected IMF aid after coming to power in 2010 only
to ask for help after debt auctions failed and the forint
plunged to a record. Financing pressures have eased since the
 European Central Bank  on Sept. 6 pledged to buy the bonds of
troubled euro nations to help resolve the region’s debt crisis.  The improvement may be short-lived, said Mariann Trippon, a
Budapest-based economist at Intesa Sanpaolo SpA.  “While in the short-run we don’t expect a negative
correction in global markets, sentiment may deteriorate, which
would obviously impact forint assets, especially without an IMF
backstop,” Trippon wrote in a Sept. 21 note. On rates, “a
wait-and-see approach would be a realistic decision.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  