-- United Spirits Rises as Diageo Said to Be in Talks: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-09-24T10:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/united-spirits-rises-as-diageo-said-to-be-in-talks-mumbai-mover.html
United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  jumped to the
highest in more than a year in Mumbai trading after four people
familiar with the matter said  Diageo Plc (DGE)  may buy a stake in the
whiskey maker controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya.  United Spirits rose 6.1 percent to 1,054.40 rupees at the
close of trading in Mumbai today, the highest since July 2011.
The stock was the biggest gainer on the 10-member  BSE India Fast
Moving Consumer Goods Index. (BSETMCG)   Diageo, the world’s biggest distiller, and United Spirits
may announce a deal by next month, a person with knowledge of
the matter said, asking not to be identified as the discussions
are confidential. United Spirits’ Chairman Mallya, who owns 28
percent of the company, will continue to be a  shareholder , the
people said in comments published Sept. 21 by  Bloomberg News .  Mallya needs money to help finance  Kingfisher Airlines
Ltd. (KAIR) , which is struggling with losses and a cash shortage. He
gave 59 billion rupees ($1.1 billion) of guarantees last year to
Kingfisher’s lenders, according to the company’s annual report.
The carrier needs $600 million in the next two months, industry
consultant CAPA Centre for Aviation said in August.  “They can get expertise, distribution, exposure to foreign
countries,” Sharan Lillaney, a Mumbai-based analyst with Angel
Broking Ltd. said, referring to the benefits of a deal for
United Spirits.  Share Surge  Diageo may get the right to appoint a majority of United
Spirits’s board members, including the chairman, one of the
people familiar with the discussions said.  United Spirits’s  share  price has more than doubled this
year, compared with a 21 percent rise in India’s benchmark
 Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   “The real attraction here for Diageo is to acquire a large
platform in local spirits which will allow it to capture the
lion’s share of growth of Scotch in India,”  Ian Shackleton , an
analyst at Nomura in London, wrote on Sept. 21. The Indian
market for spirits was $3.9 billion in 2011, Nomura estimates.  Diageo has made acquisitions including Turkey’s Mey Icki
raki brand as part of its push to expand in emerging markets and
cash in on booming economies. Its talks in 2009 to take a
minority stake in United Spirits collapsed after the Indian
distiller said Diageo’s offer wasn’t at a fair value.  Diageo already distributes its brands in India through its
own network, and sales grew 24 percent in the country in the
year through June 30, the company said, driven by “strong
momentum across the scotch portfolio.” Diageo introduced a
locally made whiskey, Rowson’s Reserve, last year to compete
with other local brands owned by United Spirits and competitor
Pernod Ricard SA, and sells  Johnnie Walker  there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ; 