-- Hutchison Vows Austrian 4G Start to Gain EU Deal Approval
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-09-24T16:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/hutchison-vows-austrian-4g-start-to-gain-eu-deal-approval.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , seeking to
buy Orange’s Austrian unit, would start next-generation mobile-
phone services within two years and tweak previous concessions
to gain European Union approval for the purchase.  Hutchison, which agreed to buy Orange  Austria  for 1.3
billion euros ($1.7 billion), will “make improvements” to its
plan to allow at least two companies to use Hutchison’s systems
as a mobile virtual-network operator, its Austrian Chief
Executive Officer Jan Trionow told journalists in Vienna today.
He called on the EU to approve the purchase even after the
European Commission told the company last week it is concerned
the acquisition may diminish competition in Austria.  “The Commission cannot expect us to make further
concessions that go to the commercial core of the business,”
Trionow said. “We believe the Commission can be convinced that
we should focus on some technical improvements of the MVNO
remedies and get clearance on that basis.”  MVNOs don’t own their own network and usually rent capacity
from existing operators. EU and Austrian regulators extended an
investigation into the Orange Austria purchase in June.
Hutchison 3G Austria is the smallest wireless operator in the
country of 8.2 million people, where it competes with Orange,
 Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile. The
company says the planned Orange purchase will help consumers
because it creates viable competition.  ‘Competitive Strength’  “The key thing we think is important for this merger and
its pro-competitive effect is our competitive strength after the
merger,” Trionow said. Additional restrictions by antitrust
authorities are “at the end of the day weakening our capability
to compete,” he said.  Hutchison, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ,
agreed to buy Orange Austria in February. Austria’s competition
authority is separately probing a side deal to the Orange
purchase, in which  Telekom Austria  plans to acquire about
700,000 clients using Orange via the Yesss! discount brand.
Orange Austria is 35 percent owned by  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and 65
percent by U.K. private-equity firm Mid Europa Partners.  Hutchison shares fell 0.3 percent to HK$73.60 in Hong Kong
trading today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  