-- Warm Outlook for U.S. East, Midwest May Crimp Natural Gas Prices
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-09-24T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/warm-outlook-for-u-s-east-midwest-may-crimp-natural-gas-prices.html
The U.S. Midwest and Northeast will
probably have above-normal temperatures from October through
December, keeping natural  gas prices  lower as less energy is
needed to heat the large eastern cities.  The Midwest may have the highest departures from normal,
while the West and the Southeast may be cooler than the 1981-
2010 benchmark, according to a report by Weather Services
International and  Energy Security  Analysis Inc.  “Warmer-than-normal temperatures in the Northeast and
Great Lakes region in November will reduce early-season heating
demand in those key regions,” said  Chris Kostas , senior power
and gas analysts at Energy Security in Wakefield, Massachusetts.
“With mild temperatures expected to stretch from Texas to  New
England  in December, delivered gas prices are likely to remain
subdued heading into winter.”  It would be the second year in a row gas prices suffered
because of above-normal temperatures. Last year, increased
production coupled with warm weather pushed natural gas prices
to a 10-year low in the U.S. and by April made it the worst
performer on Standard & Poor’s GSCI commodity index.  “The biggest wildcard heading toward winter is the degree
of atmospheric blocking in the North Atlantic,” said  Todd Crawford , chief meteorologist at Weather Services in Andover,
Massachusetts.  Weather Patterns  Weather patterns known as the Arctic and North Atlantic
oscillations affect how much cold air drops from the North Pole
and whether it gets bottled up along the East Coast.  “It’s still too early to predict the behavior of the North
Atlantic Oscillation for the upcoming winter, but is clearly the
key to a successful winter forecast,” Crawford said.  Last year, the North Atlantic Oscillation didn’t block cold
air in the U.S., and that helped contribute to a milder winter.
In the winters of 2009-2010 and 2010-2011, cold was held in
 North America  and seasonal snow records and cold were set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  