-- West Indies Advances Over Ireland at Cricket’s World Twenty20
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-09-24T23:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/west-indies-advances-in-twenty20-as-ireland-game-is-abandoned.html
West Indies reached the last eight
of the World Twenty20 cricket competition after its final group
game against Ireland was abandoned because of rain.  Ireland, sent in to bat in  Colombo ,  Sri Lanka , scored 129-6
in yesterday’s Group B match that was originally reduced to 19
overs per side after rain. West Indies was unable to bat because
of more showers and the umpires called the game off.  The Caribbean team and Ireland finished with  one point each ,
though West Indies advances to the Super Eight stage with group
winner Australia because it has a superior net run rate to the
Irish, who exit the 12-nation tournament. West Indies next plays
defending champion  England  on Sept. 27 in Pallekele.  “This is the Super Eight and they are very important games
but we do fancy our chances,” West Indies captain  Darren Sammy 
told  Sky Sports . “A strong point for us is the belief we have
in the dressing room that once we play to our full potential the
quality we have we could go all the way. But we have got to take
it one game at a time.”  India,  New Zealand , South Africa and Sri Lanka have also
advanced. Pakistan and Bangladesh meet today in a Group D match
in Pallekele to decide the remaining berth.  The competition, typically held every two years, is the
international championship of Twenty20, cricket’s newest and
shortest format. The tournament starts with four groups of three
teams, followed by a Super Eight phase, semifinals and final.
India secured the inaugural title in 2007 before Pakistan won in
2009 and England took the third edition in 2010.  The Super Eight stage consists of two groups of four, with
teams playing each other once and the top two in each group
progressing to the semifinals. The final is scheduled Oct. 7 in
Colombo.  England, West Indies, Sri Lanka and New Zealand make up one
group, with India, Australia,  South Africa  and Pakistan or
Bangladesh in the other.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  