-- Williams Says Fed to Pursue QE3 Until Job Market Rebounds
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-09-24T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/williams-says-fed-to-pursue-qe3-until-job-market-rebounds.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San
Francisco  President  John Williams  said the Fed will buy bonds
“as long as needed” under its newest stimulus plan,
underscoring policy makers’ commitment to reduce unemployment.  “If the economy stumbles, we will keep the program in
place as long as needed for the job market to improve
substantially, in the context of  price stability ,” Williams
said today in the text of prepared remarks given in San
Francisco. As the Fed pursues its dual mandate to promote full
employment and stable prices, “the bigger problem today is high
unemployment,” he said.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  on Sept.
13 announced a new round of quantitative easing with the
purchase of $40 billion in mortgage bonds per month. It said
it’s prepared to ease more if the labor market fails to improve.  “Monetary policy cannot solve all problems that affect our
economy,” Williams told the City Club of San Francisco. “But
it can help speed the pace of recovery and get our country back
on track sooner.”  Williams, a voting member of the FOMC this year, was among
the first Fed officials to advocate a bond-buying program that’s
open-ended rather than limited to a set duration or total
amount. The FOMC also said this month that it will probably keep
its benchmark  interest rate  low through at least mid-2015,
compared with a forecast of late 2014.  ‘Automatic Stabilizer’  The open-ended “approach serves as a kind of automatic
stabilizer for the economy,” the district bank chief said. “If
conditions improve faster than expected, we will end the program
sooner, cutting back the degree of monetary stimulus.”  Helped in part by the Fed’s newest stimulus, the economy
will probably grow 2.5 percent next year and 3.25 percent in
2014, Williams said. The  unemployment rate , at 8.1 percent in
August, may “gradually” drop to 7.25 percent by the end of
2014, he said.  Several headwinds create doubt for the pace of economic
growth, including  Europe ’s debt crisis and government spending
cuts, Williams said.  “The economy could find itself teetering on the brink of
recession” if Congress fails to avoid the so-called fiscal
cliff, the $600 billion of tax increases and spending cuts that
will kick in automatically at the end of the year unless
Congress acts, he said.  Previous Rounds  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion in securities in its previous
two rounds of large-scale asset purchases and has swapped its
short-term Treasuries with longer-term securities in a program
known as Operation Twist. The U.S. central bank’s newest round
of quantitative easing may run through mid-2015 and amount to
almost $2 trillion,  Jan Hatzius , chief economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., said in a note Sept. 21.  Williams, 50, became president of the San Francisco Fed in
March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  