-- Wisconsin’s Lawyer Asks Court to Reverse Union Law Ruling
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-24T17:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/wisconsin-s-lawyer-asks-court-to-reverse-union-law-ruling.html
A Wisconsin law requiring certain
public worker unions to vote annually on whether they wish to
remain in existence is constitutional, a lawyer for the state
told a federal appellate court.  Special Counsel Joseph Olson today asked the Chicago-based
three-judge panel to reverse U.S. District Judge William
Conley’s March 30 ruling that the recertification law violates
U.S. constitutional guarantees of equal protection under the law
by classifying some unions as engaged in “public safety” and
exempting them from compliance.  While he upheld the bulk of Governor  Scott Walker ’s 2011
legislation, Conley also struck down a provision barring the
voluntary deduction of union dues from “general employee”
paychecks.  “Now they have an annual election where they’re allowed to
voice their pleasure or displeasure,” with their collective
bargaining agent, Olson told the judges.  Known as Act 10, the legislation required unions to poll
their members yearly on whether they wanted to be in the
organization. To continue, the union would have needed positive
votes from a majority of all its members, not just those voting.  The Wisconsin Education Association Council last year filed
suit at the federal courthouse in Madison, the state’s capital
city, seeking to overturn the law, which it said was politically
motivated and discriminatory.  Recall Election  The legislation sparked protests outside the state’s
Capitol and a recall election in June in which Walker defeated
Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, his Democratic challenger.  A Wisconsin state court judge this month declared the
measure unconstitutional. The state is appealing that ruling.  Hearing today’s argument was U.S. Circuit Judge William J. Bauer, who was first appointed to the federal bench by President
Richard M. Nixon in 1971 and elevated to the appellate court by
Nixon’s Republican successor, Gerald R. Ford, in 1974.  Joining Bauer on today’s panel was Judge Joel M. Flaum,
whom Ford appointed to the federal district court in  Chicago  in
1974 and whom Republican President  Ronald Reagan  named to the
appeals court in 1983. The third member of the panel was U.S.
Circuit Judge David F. Hamilton,  selected by Democrat  Bill Clinton  in 1994 for the federal district court in  Indiana .
President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, named Hamilton to the
appeals court in 2009.  Public Safety  All of the public safety unions qualifying for the
exemption had supported Walker in his 2010 gubernatorial
campaign while none of the general employee unions to which the
rule applied had backed him, Conley said in his March ruling.  Olson today called that finding unsubstantiated.  “The court should be leery to ascribe political animus,”
the state’s lawyer said. Olson is an attorney in the Madison law
office of Michael Best & Friedrich LLP.  Wisconsin Education Association attorney Leon Dayan
disagreed, saying the legislation contained a “gerrymandered”
definition of public safety employee to protect those who backed
Walker’s election in 2010.  “Its a political payback distinction and not a substantive
policy distinction,” said Dayan, a lawyer with the Washington
firm of Bredhoff & Kaiser PLLC.  Dayan said the lower court halted enforcement of the
recertification law and is allowing automatic dues deductions to
continue only for those unions that weren’t decertified while
the measure was in force.  The judges said they’d take the attorneys’ arguments under
advisement and issued no decision today.  The case is Wisconsin Education Association Council v.
Walker, 12-2011,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Seventh Circuit
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  