-- Two Near-Collisions in Chicago Under U.S. Investigation
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-09-24T22:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/two-near-collisions-in-chicago-under-u-s-investigation.html
Two similar near-collisions within
months of each other last year at  Chicago ’s O’Hare International
Airport are under investigation by the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board.  Regional jetliners in both cases came within several
hundred feet of colliding at the same part of the airport, a
point where arriving and departing planes cross. Controllers are
supposed to monitor flights to prevent such incidents, according
to NTSB reports released today.  Pilots in both cases told investigators they had to take
evasive action to avoid a collision, according to the reports.  The captain of closely held Trans States Airlines Inc.’s
Flight 3367 said he pushed the jet’s yoke forward as the jet
neared takeoff speed Aug. 8, 2011, to keep it on the ground as
 Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) ’s Chautauqua Airlines Flight 5021
flew overhead, according to the  reports .  At the same time, a controller warned the pilots to stay
low. “That advice may have been too late if we didn’t see him
first,” the unnamed pilot said.  The Chautauqua jet passed 125 feet above and 350 feet in
front of the Trans States plane, according to the NTSB.  The pilots of ExpressJet Airlines Flight 6075, a departing
plane, said they stayed 100 feet off the ground on May 16, 2011,
to avoid  SkyWest Inc. (SKYW)  Flight 6958, which passed 275 feet above
them, according to the NTSB. ExpressJet is a unit of SkyWest.  Keyed Up  “After I was able to gain a little composure back after
nearly being killed, I keyed up the mike and yelled to the tower
controller ‘What the (expletive) was that?’” the unidentified
captain told investigators, according to a transcript included
in the NTSB reports.  “Sorry about that,” a controller replied.  In some wind and weather conditions, O’Hare arrivals from
the west pass over another runway used for departures.
Controllers are supposed to act like traffic police during that
configuration, allowing an arrival to pass before clearing a
departure.  The NTSB today opened its public docket on the cases, which
contain factual reports and summaries of witness interviews. The
safety board hasn’t issued probable causes for the incidents.  Multiple Issues  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  has taken several
steps to improve safety at the airport since last year, the
agency said in an e-mailed statement.  “Since these measures were implemented, there have been no
repeats of these incidents,” the agency said.  The NTSB reports point to several issues that may have
contributed to the incidents.  The automated warning  system  that alerts controllers to a
collision on the runways didn’t sound in either case because it
wasn’t programmed to notice a hazard just above the ground,
according to the NTSB. It could have issued an alert with a
software change, according to the safety board.  The FAA altered the warning system so that it now issues an
alert if planes on the two runways get too close, according to
the agency statement.  The O’Hare tower configuration made it difficult for
controllers working different runways to communicate, several
witnesses told investigators.  The FAA also moved the desks where the controllers work
closer together, it said.  Incidents Up  In both cases, distractions at the airport may have kept
controllers from noticing the potential for a collision. A White
House plane had landed at O’Hare minutes before the May 16
incident and controllers were coordinating with the U.S. Secret
Service, according to the safety board.  Incidents in which planes got too close together due to
controller safety errors more than doubled from 2008 to 2011,
according to a Government Accountability Office  study .  The FAA has attributed the increase mainly to a new policy
to encourage better error reporting and said most cases were
minor. The GAO said all of the increase can’t be attributed to
the policy.  One incident occurred July 31 near Washington’s Ronald
Reagan National Airport when a communication mix-up led
controllers to clear two planes to take off toward a flight
lining up to land in the opposite direction.  Those planes didn’t pass as closely as the aircraft at
O’Hare. Two of the planes in the Washington incident came within
0.94 mile of each other after the departing craft had climbed
800 feet above the other.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  