-- Tyco to Pay $26 Million to Resolve U.S. Bribery Cases
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-09-24T20:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/tyco-to-pay-13-7-million-penalty-in-foreign-bribe-case.html
Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  agreed to
pay more than $26 million to resolve U.S. charges that it bribed
officials of companies including Saudi Aramco to win contracts.  Tyco Valves & Controls Middle East Inc., a subsidiary of
Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based Tyco, agreed to pay
$13.7 million as part of a guilty plea entered today before U.S.
District Judge Claude Hilton in Alexandria, Virginia, for
conspiring to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, the U.S.  Justice Department  said in a
statement.  In a civil proceeding, Tyco, which makes and sells products
related to security, fire protection and energy, agreed to pay
$13.1 million under a final judgment with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, according to the statement.  From 1999 to 2009, Tyco and some of its subsidiaries paid
government officials to obtain and keep business with private
and state-owned entities, falsely describing the payments in
their corporate books as legitimate charges, the Justice
Department said.  “For more than 10 years, various Tyco entities bribed
foreign officials and cooked the books to hide the payments,”
 Neil MacBride , the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of
Virginia, said in the statement.  Voluntary Disclosure  The plea agreement acknowledged that Tyco had voluntarily
disclosed the payments, conducted its own investigation, fired
employees involved and closed some subsidiaries.  “We’re pleased to have reached a final resolution and
we’re definitely committed to maintaining our rigorous
compliance programs across all of our business activity,” said
Brett Ludwig, a spokesman for Tyco. Ludwig said the company
conducts internal audits, and maintains an anonymous internal
hotline for employees and other anti-corruption programs.  Alan Dodd, a representative with Aramco Services in
Houston, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and a phone
call seeking comment on the case.  The case is U.S. v. Tyco, 12-cr-00418, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  