-- Zloty Weakens as Polish Central Banker Gilowska in Hospital
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2012-09-24T15:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-24/zloty-weakens-as-polish-central-banker-gilowska-in-hospital-2-.html
The zloty weakened after a report
that Zyta Gilowska, a Polish central banker who backed monetary
tightening at least twice in 2012, was in hospital.  Gilowska’s absence may prove “very important” to the
outcome of next week’s meeting of the 10-member Monetary Policy
Council, fellow policy maker  Adam Glapinski  told reporters in
Warsaw. Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the leader of  Poland ’s biggest
opposition party, said at an economic conference that Gilowska,
63, wasn’t in attendance because she is awaiting a “serious”
medical procedure. She will not take part in the Oct. 2-3 policy
meeting, council member Andrzej Kazmierczak said.  The zloty depreciated 0.3 percent to 4.1459 against the
euro at 4:57 p.m. in Warsaw, the third-steepest decline among
more than 20 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Before Kaczynski’s comments, the zloty traded at 4.1482, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on five-year zloty bonds
increased two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.35
percent.  “Her absence would mean one less person who would oppose
cutting  interest rates  already in October,”  Grzegorz Maliszewski , chief economist at  Bank Millennium SA (MIL) , said by
phone from Warsaw today. “She is known as one of the more
hawkish members of the council.”  The central bank is under pressure to loosen policy to
stoke economic growth, which fell to an almost three year low in
the second quarter, according to data from the  Central
Statistics Office . Forward rate agreements, used to speculate on
interest rates, show trader bets on the central bank reversing
its May interest rate increase and cutting borrowing costs by 50
basis points over the next three months.  Voting Record  Gilowska has been a supporter of monetary tightening,
according to voting records on the central bank’s  website . She
backed a quarter-point interest rate increase in April, which
was defeated in a 7-3 vote and was part of a 8-2 majority that
increased the  reference rate  by 25 basis points to 4.75 percent
in May, the records show.  The central bank’s inflation and economic growth projection
in November will be key for the council as it decides on whether
to change interest rates, PAP newswire reported Gilowska as
saying on Sept. 21.  Magdalena Rusiecka, from the Monetary Policy Council’s
secretariat, said she had no knowledge about Gilowska’s health.
Przemyslaw Kuk, a spokesman for the Warsaw-based central bank,
declined to comment when contacted by phone.  Heart Defect  Gilowska, who served as finance minister in 2005 and 2006
in a government led by Kaczynski, wasn’t present at the July
rate meeting, the records show. Information from the Sept. 4
council meeting hasn’t yet been published.  Gilowska told Super Express newspaper in 2009 that she had
been suffering from a “congenital heart defect” and underwent
an aortic valve surgery in 2004. She is one of three council
members appointed by late President  Lech Kaczynski  in February
2010, together with Kazmierczak and Glapinski.  “There’ll be one vote missing” at next month’s rate
meeting, Glapinski told reporters on the sidelines of the
opposition party’s seminar. “I won’t deny that it’s a very
important vote.” The central bank should keep rates steady
until the end of this year as inflation is elevated, Glapinski
told reporters in Warsaw today.  Gilowska’s absence “may or may not” have an impact on the
deliberations next week as there “could be various outcomes,”
Kazmierczak said.  Poland’s  central bank’s law  states that a Monetary Policy
Council member may be dismissed in the case of “illness which
permanently prevents him/her from performing his/her
responsibilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  