-- 49ers’ Aldon Smith Takes Leave of Absence From Team After Arrest
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-23T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/49ers-aldon-smith-takes-leave-of-absence-from-team-after-arrest.html
San Francisco 49ers Pro Bowl
defensive end Aldon Smith will take an indefinite leave from the
team to attend to a personal issue and will miss this week’s
 National Football League  game against the  St. Louis Rams .  Smith, who was second in the NFL with 19 1/2 sacks last
season, was arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence
of alcohol in  San Jose ,  California , on Sept. 20, police said. He
had a previous DUI arrest in  Miami Beach  in 2012 and was charged
with reckless driving after completing a program for first-time
DUI offenders.  Smith, 23, will enter a rehabilitation facility for
substance abuse treatment, NBC Sports reported last night,
citing people familiar with the situation its didn’t identify.
49ers Chief Executive Officer Jed York declined to give specific
details about why Smith was leaving the team, saying only that
it’s a personal issue.  “If Aldon is willing to fight for himself and try to make
this right, I will stand here and support him,” York told
reporters yesterday. “I’ll support Aldon as long as he’s
willing to work at this and fight to get better.”  Smith, who played in yesterday’s loss to the  Indianapolis
Colts , yesterday apologized to his teammates, family and friends
for the most recent arrest.  “This is a problem and something I will get fixed,” Smith
said, without being specific. “I’ll do everything in my power
to make sure this never happens again.”  York said Smith faces a “long-term fix,” not a one-day
correction.  “This is the best thing for Aldon,” York said. “We’re
very fortunate nobody got hurt, Aldon included. And we want to
make sure that Aldon is never in a position like that again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  