-- Aberdeen Said to Join Bidding for Lloyds’s Asset Division
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d ,   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-09-23T15:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/aberdeen-said-to-join-bidding-for-lloyds-s-asset-division.html
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) ,
Scotland’s largest  fund manager , is in talks to buy  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s  Scottish Widows Investment Partnership ,
according to three people with knowledge of negotiations.  Aberdeen has joined the race for the asset-management arm
of Scottish Widows, said the people who asked not to be
identified because the matter hasn’t been made public. The
acquisition of Scotland’s third-largest fund manager would make
Aberdeen Europe’s biggest publicly traded fund company, with
assets of about 350 billion pounds ($561 billion).  Lloyds Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 49, is
seeking to strengthen the firm’s balance sheet by selling
assets, cutting costs and eliminating jobs following the bank’s
government bailout in 2008. Britain’s largest mortgage lender,
based in London, purchased  Scottish Widows , which runs both a
life-insurance business and the SWIP fund-management operation,
for 7.3 billion pounds in 2000.  “I don’t think it would go down well with investors,”
said David McCann, a London-based analyst at Numis Securities
Ltd. with a buy recommendation on Aberdeen shares. “Given what
they have said so many times, the credibility of the management
would fall through the floor.”  Aberdeen CEO Martin Gilbert said in April that a bid for
the fund manager was “highly unlikely.” The company, which
 oversaw  201.7 billion pounds as of Aug. 31, paid 250 million
pounds in 2008 to acquire 75 billion Swiss francs ($82 billion)
in assets under management and divisions in Europe, the U.S. and
Asia from Credit Suisse Group AG.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Australia’s largest investment bank,
is among companies weighing an offer, said two of the people.
 Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s largest lender by assets,
and  Natixis (KN) , the French investment bank and asset manager, are
also considering a bid, three people familiar said in June.  Lloyds hired Deutsche Bank to advise on the sale of the
unit, according to people familiar. It had 145.8 billion pounds
of assets under management at the end of the first half.  Officials at Lloyds, Aberdeen, Macquarie, RBC, Natixis and
Deutsche Bank all declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  