-- Lacrosse Millionaire Joins Olympic Champ Phelps at Octagon
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-09-23T12:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/lacrosse-millionaire-rabil-joins-olympic-champ-phelps-at-octagon.html
Paul Rabil, the first professional
lacrosse player to amass a million-dollar endorsement portfolio,
has hired Octagon as his marketing representative.  Rabil said he’s joining the firm’s Personalities &
Properties division and will be represented by agent Erin Kane,
whose clients include Olympic softball pitcher Jennie Finch. The
division includes Nascar driver Jimmie Johnson and former
National Football League coaches Bill Cowher,  Brian Billick  and
Herm Edwards. Olympic swimming champion  Michael Phelps  is also
an Octagon client.  The 27-year-old Rabil in a telephone interview said he
sought a long-term, global-minded partner capable of increasing
not only his personal brand, but the sport of lacrosse at both
the professional and development levels. Rabil is the first
lacrosse player represented by Octagon, a unit of  Interpublic
Group of Cos. , the second-largest U.S. advertising company.  “Octagon has a track record with other professional
athletes whose sport has a growing participation at the youth
level but low visibility at the pro level,” said Rabil, who had
been represented by Baltimore-based attorney Ira Rainess.
Rainess will remain an adviser to Rabil.  Kane said there are similarities between Rabil and Phelps,
who won a record eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games.
Phelps has endorsements with, among others,  Louis Vuitton ,
Subway, Head & Shoulders, Speedo, Omega and Hilton. Octagon also
manages the swimmer’s foundation.  “We envision having Paul alongside top athletes in other
sports. It comes down to personality that captures
imagination,” said Kane, adding that her first order of
business is to perform a brand analysis of the two-time Major
League Lacrosse Most Valuable Player. “Paul brings lacrosse out
of the niche area.”  Endorsement Portfolio  A graduate of  Johns Hopkins University , the 6-foot-3, 220-pound Rabil plays for the Philadelphia Wings of the indoor
National Lacrosse League and the Boston Cannons of the outdoor
MLL. Included in his endorsement portfolio are Red Bull, New
Balance Inc.’s Warrior brand, which features a Rabil line; Polk
Audio; Nooka watches; and EFX performance bracelets.  There were about 1.6 million lacrosse participants in the
U.S. in 2012, up 7.1 percent from the previous year and 8.9
percent from 2007, according to the  Silver Spring , Maryland-based Sports & Fitness Industry Association. Half of the
participants have an annual household income of more than
$75,000, SFIA said.  “It’s a great demographic that people want to connect
to,” Kane said. “People are looking for opportunities to reach
new people in different ways.”  Octagon will also manage Rabil’s foundation, which
according to its mission statement is committed to helping kids,
especially those with learning differences, realize their
potential through sports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  