-- Lagarde Says Nations Must Better Report Female Labor Data
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-09-23T20:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/lagarde-says-nations-must-better-report-female-labor-data.html
Christine Lagarde said the
International Monetary Fund will push countries to publish more
data on female participation in the labor market in an effort to
draw attention to policies that could boost growth from  Italy  to
 Egypt .  Getting more women to join the labor force is a topic
Lagarde, the IMF managing director, says she raises in every
meeting with government officials. Some countries don’t provide
statistics on the number of women accessing the labor market or
working part time and the fund can use its yearly appraisal of
countries’ economies to weigh in, she said.  “We will actually encourage countries to report on gender
issues,” Lagarde said in a telephone interview today, while
adding that the fund cannot make it compulsory. “Focusing on
the other half of humanity does not hurt growth and economic
development, quite to the contrary.”  The global female labor force participation has stalled
around 50 percent for two decades, reflecting a lack of progress
toward gender equality in markets also characterized by lower
wages and limited access to senior positions for women,
according to a  report  by the fund’s staff released today.  That shows in the U.S., where about 60 percent of the
increase in employment for women from 2009 to 2012 was in jobs
that pay less than $10.10 an hour, compared with 20 percent for
men, according to a study by the National Women’s Law Center
using data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Boost Growth  Getting more women to participate in the workforce would
boost growth in both developed and developing economies,
according to the fund, at a time when world expansion remains
sluggish amid a slowdown in  emerging markets . The report lists
measures that range from tax credits for low-wage earners to
better access to affordable child care for countries to adopt.  While the IMF’s influence is strongest in countries it
lends to, Lagarde said it won’t systematically attach gender
measures to the money.  “If and where we see inappropriate principles or
discriminatory issues, we can always raise those as part of our
discussions with policy makers in the context of programs, but I
would not say that it’s one of the lead key items,” she said.  The fund has already made gender a more frequent theme of
its economic assessments in recent years said Heidi Crebo-Rediker, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in
 Washington  and served as the State Department’s first chief
economist until earlier this year.  ‘Strong Voice’  “In my experience, the IMF has quite a strong voice when
it consults with countries,” she said.  IMF economists in an October report last year called “ Can
Women Save Japan ?” explored how to remove hurdles faced by
working women and the prospects for the country if more women
joined the labor force.  In April, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced measures to
elevate the role of women in the economy, calling for women
filling 30 percent of senior positions in all parts of society
by 2020 and vowing to eliminate waiting lists for childcare and
provide training for mothers returning to work.  Women make up 15 percent of department managers across all
sectors, according to  Japan ’s Ministry of Health, Labor and
Welfare, while female workers’ salaries are about 70 percent
those of men. Long working hours plus a lack of child and
elderly-care facilities deter women from taking senior roles.  The fund’s work on Japan, which Lagarde promoted while in
 Tokyo  last year, “has gone a long way to influence Abenomics,”
Crebo-Rediker said.  G-20 Conference  Lagarde said she brought up female participation at a
recent conference in Italy and at the Group of 20 nations
meeting in  Russia .  “They need to hear the music over and over and over,” she
said. In the Middle East and North Africa, which lags other
regions with a rate of 21 percent, “I generally do that
privately.”  Lagarde has said she once walked away from a job interview
at a law firm in Paris after being told she would never become a
partner because of her gender. Now at the head of a male-dominated institution, she is experiencing challenges making the
management ranks more balanced at the IMF.  An annual  report  released last week showed that the share
of women in management jobs, at about 22 percent, is still short
of targets set at 25 percent to 30 percent for the fiscal year
ending April 30.  “They might be difficult to reach, but I’m not going to
give up on them,” Lagarde said of the goals. Targets, like
quotas “are a necessary step given the hard work that needs to
be done, but I don’t think they are the long-term solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  