-- Agrium Says Wholesale Earnings May Fall on Lower Volumes
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-09-23T13:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/agrium-says-wholesale-earnings-may-fall-on-lower-volumes.html
Agrium Inc. (AGU) , North America’s  third-largest  fertilizer producer, said earnings are expected to fall
in its wholesale unit this quarter because of lower sales
volumes for the three major crop nutrients and weak prices.  Wholesale earnings before interest and taxes in the third
quarter will be $200 million less than a year earlier, the
Calgary-based company said today in a statement. Earnings for
last year’s third quarter were $312 million. Wholesale
fertilizer sales volumes are expected to be as much as 30
percent lower than a year earlier, the company said.  Prices for potash, a major fertilizer used to strengthen
crops, have declined since OAO Uralkali, the world’s biggest
producer, pulled out of a trading venture with  Belarus  in July
and said it would sell its product at a lower price.  Last week, Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.,  Canada ’s
largest producer, said world potash markets were “paralyzed”
in the wake of the Russian company’s withdrawal from the venture
with state-run Belaruskali. Mosaic Co., the largest U.S.-based
fertilizer producer, cut its quarterly potash forecast on Sept.
16 after saying crop-nutrient markets had “softened.”  Agrium fell 1.9 percent to C$90.66 at 9:39 a.m. in Toronto.
 The shares  have declined 8.6 percent this year.  Agrium, which produces nitrogen, phosphate and potash
fertilizers and also is the largest U.S. farm-products retailer,
boosted its quarterly  dividend  by 50 percent to 75 cents a share
and said it expects EBIT from its retail network to increase
from a year earlier. Agrium had profit of $69 million from its
retail arm in the third quarter of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  