-- Lahiri’s ‘The Lowland’ Delves Into Family Secrets, Lies
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-09-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/lahiri-s-the-lowland-delves-into-family-secrets-lies.html
Jhumpa Lahiri’s delicately
harrowing third novel, “ The Lowland ,” is a family saga
spanning more than 60 years. Its plot pivots on secrets and
lies, and it is as much about parenting as politics.  Brothers Subhash and Udayan Mitra are inseparable as boys.
Born just 15 months apart, they share clothes and a mattress and
are often mistaken for one another as they roam the suburbs of
post-Partition Calcutta.  From the very beginning of “The Lowland” -- which is a
finalist for this year’s Man  Booker Prize  -- theirs is the kind
of bond that makes a reader edgy. As in a tale by Thomas Hardy,
it’s impossible to escape the feeling that fate has some cruel
blow in store for them.  Though Subhash is older, Udayan is bolder, and in college
their different temperaments begin to steer them. Meek,
observant Subhash gravitates to oceanography. Headstrong Udayan
falls in with an underground communist group that emerges from
peasant uprisings in West Bengal and embraces terrorism.  When calamity strikes, Subhash is studying for a Ph.D.
thousands of miles away in Rhode Island. A telegram from home
informs him that his brother has been killed. Though the full
story isn’t revealed until the novel’s end, its aftershocks
quickly come to define the lives of those closest to Udayan.  Among them is the philosophy student he defied his parents
to marry. Her name is Gauri and she alone can tell Subhash how
and why his brother’s life ended so suddenly. She’s also
carrying Udayan’s child, and in a moment of uncharacteristic
decisiveness, Subhash proposes to her.  Hide and Seek  With Bela, the daughter he raises as his own, Subhash
experiences a closeness he’s only ever known with his brother.
Gauri, meanwhile, struggles to find meaning in her role as a
mother. In a foreshadowing of tribulations to come, the one game
she doesn’t mind playing with Bela is hide and seek.  Over the novel’s course, technology flattens the world out,
improving our connectedness while doing nothing to help us find
the right words. Lahiri has a devastatingly keen ear for the
tensions and misunderstandings endemic in our closest
relationships.  As a boy, for instance, Subhash cannot tell whether he’s
more frustrated by his brother’s daring or his own lack of it.
Years later, when a grown Bela rations the time she spends with
Subhash, she is unclear whether she’s punishing him or herself.  Solitary Family  “They were a family of solitaries,” he notes resignedly,
and the book’s structure echoes this, flitting between the
perspectives of its constituent characters, weaving back and
forth in time and across continents as it unravels its
mysteries.  Subhash spends a lot of time traipsing along shorelines,
and Lahiri is preoccupied with the liminal in other ways, too.
When does idealism become extremism, her story asks? At what
point does a mother’s instinct for self-preservation become
unforgivable neglect? Even the line between loyalty and betrayal
appears deceptively fine.  Throughout, place is poignantly evoked in a way that
sometimes transcends geography, be it the lush putting greens of
an old Raj golf club or the trees that signal the changing
seasons in  Rhode Island , their leaves blazing cayenne, turmeric
and ginger.  Lahiri’s prose is as measured here as in her previous work.
Occasionally, though, a particularly striking image pops out --
Bela as a sleeping infant, say, breathing with her whole body
“like an animal or a machine.”  For all its quietness, this is a determinedly moral novel.
It certainly has no time for Udayan’s hot-headedness. As Gauri
wryly observes, the man who dreams of revolution in the streets
still expects to be waited on at home. Nobody emerges
unpunished, though -- not even the innocent.  If this suggests a certain bleakness, fear not: It makes
the fragile ray of hope that pierces the book’s ending all the
more affecting.  “The Lowland” by Jhumpa Lahiri is published by Knopf in
the U.S. and Bloomsbury in the U.K. (340 pages, $27.95, 16.99
pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  Lili Rosboch  on art and  Philip
Boroff  on Broadway.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 