-- Air France Bides its Time on Alitalia Investment as Board Meets
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-09-23T20:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/air-france-bides-its-time-on-alitalia-investment-as-board-meets.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF)  required more
information from  Alitalia  SpA management as it considers its
options, indicating the largest shareholder of the Italian
airline may need more convincing before increasing its stake.  “The board considered it vital to hear the information
that Alitalia’s executive management should provide at a
forthcoming meeting of the Italian carriers’ board of
directors,” Air France-KLM said in a statement after its own
directors met today to assess the relationship. The Alitalia
panel is slated to congregate on Sept. 26, two people familiar
with the planned meeting said last week.  Air France, which already owns 25 percent of Alitalia that
it bought in 2009, has said it wants to decide this year whether
to seek control of Alitalia or move away. Taking full control of
Alitalia would help Air France improve access to one of  Europe ’s
key aviation markets and funnel traffic west, at the same time
as the investment risks binding funds as the French carrier
works to improve its ailing short-haul business.  Italy ’s Infrastructure and Transport Minister, Maurizio Lupi, is scheduled to meet with his French counterpart on Sept.
26 to discuss the situation. The same day, Alitalia’s board
gathers to review feedback from its banking adviser on plans to
raise at least 300 million euros in fresh financing before the
end of the year, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the meeting has not been made public.  Air France-KLM’s French division last week met with its
central employee committee to discuss plans to end losses in its
short-haul and cargo businesses, laying the groundwork for fresh
measures including a possible 2,800 job cuts on top of 5,100
already in the works.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  