-- Alibaba Challenges Tencent’s WeChat With Instant-Messaging App
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-09-23T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/alibaba-offers-instant-messaging-app-to-compete-against-tencent.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., the
largest e-commerce company in  China , is offering an instant-messaging app as it tries to compete against  Tencent Holdings
Ltd. (700) ’s WeChat in the world’s biggest smartphone market.  The app, called Laiwang, allows users to form group chats
with as many as 500 people and share maps, videos and stickers,
 according to  Alizila, a website run by Alibaba. It has about 1
million existing users, and the company wants to boost that to
100 million, the company said in an e-mail yesterday.  Alibaba’s competition with Tencent comes as smartphone
shipments in China are projected to rise to 450 million units
next year from 360 million this year, according to International
Data Corp. More than 84 percent of China’s Internet users
regularly access instant messaging, making it the most popular
online application in the country, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Alibaba wants to gain as many access points for users as
possible,” said Alex Wang, a Beijing-based analyst at Internet
consulting group IResearch. “Tencent has an existing advantage
with WeChat and lots of users. It would be a challenge for
Alibaba to compete in that sense.”  Tencent’s QQ instant messaging service had 818 million
monthly active users at the end of June, and WeChat, known as
Weixin in China, had 236 million. Tencent’s  shares  fell 0.2
percent to HK$409.20 at the close of  Hong Kong  trading yesterday.  Laiwang has privacy settings for photos and a “burn after
reading” feature that deletes a message after the recipient has
read it, according to Alizila.  Analysts expect Alibaba may consider an initial share sale
that could be the largest since  Facebook Inc. (FB)  The Hangzhou-based
company has a value of about $87 billion, according to the
average of 11 analyst estimates released in July.  The number of people in China accessing the Internet via
mobile devices rose 10 percent to 464 million by the end of June
from six months earlier, according to the  China Internet Network
Information Center . That’s greater than the population of any
other country except  India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  