-- Talks on Private Air-Traffic Control Turn Serious in U.S.
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-09-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/talks-on-private-air-traffic-control-turn-serious-in-u-s-.html
Discussions about removing
government management of the U.S. air-traffic control system are
the most serious in two decades, prompted by budget cuts and
uncertain funding for converting to satellite navigation.  Leaders of the U.S. air-traffic controllers’ union and a
private-pilot lobbying group, once fierce opponents of taking
control of the system away from the Federal Aviation
Administration, have endorsed talks on other ways to manage and
pay for aviation safety.  “There are conversations taking place among the
stakeholders,” Gerald Dillingham, civil aviation director of
the U.S. Government Accountability Office, said in an interview.
“All things are on the table, including privatization or
corporatization.”  Putting U.S. air-traffic operations under private or semi-private management -- arrangements adopted by more than 30 other
industrialized nations -- may have significant impacts for
companies like  Excelis Inc. (XLS) ,  Harris Corp. (HRS)  and  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) , which have government contracts to build parts of the $42
billion satellite-navigation network known as NextGen.  Insulating air-traffic management from politics would speed
technology development while also providing steadier funding for
it, said George Donohue, a former FAA associate administrator.
Lawmakers in both parties have pressured the agency to back down
on closing outdated air-traffic facilities and keep operating
towers at times few flights are landing.  “We should have this discussion,” Paul Rinaldi, president
of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, the union
representing more than 15,000 FAA-employed controllers, said at
a June 27  conference  on NextGen. “I don’t have the answers, but
I do know the current system is broken.”  Switching Sides  Similar efforts in the past have met strong resistance from
lawmakers.  President Bill Clinton’s proposal to turn over air-traffic
control to a government corporation was dropped after getting
support from only two lawmakers, Donohue said.  Proposals by Presidents George W. Bush and  Barack Obama  to
charge fees for flights -- a funding mechanism used by almost
all nations that have at least partly removed air-traffic
control from government -- also went nowhere in Congress.  Groups such as the National Business Aviation Association,
a Washington-based trade group for corporate flight departments,
have opposed any arrangement requiring fees.  As recently as last December, NATCA’s Rinaldi said
controllers need to be government employees because they perform
public-safety duties like police and firefighters.  ‘Game Changer’  At the June conference, Rinaldi said the union had altered
its position. It hasn’t endorsed private management of air-traffic operations, only a discussion of it, he said.  “There is a game changer out there and it’s called the
sequester,” he said, referring to the automatic budget cuts
imposed on U.S. agencies when Congress and Obama couldn’t agree
how to close the gap between federal spending and revenue.  The FAA cut $637 million from its $16 billion budget this
fiscal year and faces similar cuts in the year beginning Oct. 1.  Rinaldi didn’t respond to an interview request through
NATCA spokesman Doug Church. The FAA, in an e-mailed statement,
declined to comment.  To meet this year’s budget targets, the FAA in April began
furloughing controllers one day every two weeks, leading to
flight delays of as much as two hours in major cities. It also
sought to close 149 low-activity control towers operated by
contractors.  Congress intervened days later, passing an emergency bill
that gave the FAA authority to use airport-improvement grant
money to pay controllers and operate the towers.  NextGen Threatened  Similar furloughs and flight delays may recur in the new
fiscal year, FAA officials have told industry groups.
Administrator Michael Huerta told House lawmakers July 17 that
NextGen would be slowed under new cuts.  Those funding issues, which followed a two-week partial
shutdown of the FAA in 2011 in a partisan dispute over
subsidized flights to small cities and union-election rules, are
spurring calls for changes that until recently were considered
anathema to some aviation groups.  Like the controllers union, the lobbying group representing
about 400,000 U.S. private pilots has altered its opposition to
any non-government management of air traffic, because most
nations pay for it by charging fees for flights.  “It makes sense to examine the alternatives for operating
and funding the nation’s air-traffic control system,”  Craig Fuller, who stepped down as president of the Frederick,
Maryland-based Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association earlier
this month, said in an e-mail.  ‘Thinking Big’  While AOPA hasn’t changed its stand, it is willing to
discuss how the FAA is funded and managed, Katie Pribyl, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  About two-thirds of the costs of operating the U.S. air-traffic system comes from aviation excise taxes, including
levies on airline tickets and fuel.  Lawmakers including House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee Chairman Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican, are
“very interested in thinking big” on the issue, Holly Woodruff
Lyons, Republican staff director for the committee, said Sept.
10 at a conference in  Washington .  The FAA’s Management Advisory Council, an 11-member board
that advises the agency, sent a letter to congressional
transportation-policy leaders Aug. 2 saying sequester cuts
underscored “the need to reform the policy, funding and
governance structure of the FAA.”  Nav Canada  One possible model is the one adopted in  Canada , where air-traffic control is overseen by a nonprofit corporation funded by
user fees instead of tax money.  The change from government control helped the system become
a global leader in adopting new technology and stabilized the
operations’ finances, John Crichton, president and chief
executive officer of Nav Canada, said in an interview last
December.  Arrangements such as Nav Canada have worked because
governments retained safety oversight, said Robert Poole,
transportation director of the Los Angeles-based Reason
Foundation and a longtime advocate for removing government
control of air traffic.  Air-traffic systems run by nonprofits or government
corporations charge airlines and private-plane owners fees that
are more reliable than tax money, and can sell bonds to pay for
capital improvements, Poole said.  Without political interference, those systems have been
able to close underutilized towers, consolidate radar rooms and
make other efficiency gains, he said.  Nav Canada may be better at some functions, such as guiding
flights over oceans, than the U.S. system, Rinaldi said in his
June remarks.  “If we do not mature, have this conversation, find a way
to sustainably fund this system properly so that we can
modernize it, we are going to fall way behind the world,”
Rinaldi said.  Donohue, now an engineering professor at George Mason
University in Fairfax,  Virginia , was an FAA point man for
Clinton’s proposal in the 1990s. He said budget pressures make a
transformation the most probable since he tried it.  “No betting man would bet that this would happen,” he
said. “But I’ve had 40 years in and around the government and
I’ve never ceased to be amazed at the speed of some changes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  