-- Hamburg Backs EU2 Billion Buyback of Power Grids in Plebiscite
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-09-23T14:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/hamburg-backs-eu2-billion-buyback-of-power-grids-in-plebiscite.html
Hamburg, Germany’s second-biggest
city, is preparing to spend 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) to
buy back energy grids it sold to utilities Vattenfall Europe AG
and  EON SE (EOAN)  more than 20 years ago after its citizens backed the
repurchase by a narrow majority yesterday.  The buyback was supported by 51 percent of voters in a
referendum held on the same day as federal elections that saw
 Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats win their highest score
since  Helmut Kohl ’s victory of 1990 and Merkel a third term as
chancellor.  The port city is one of dozens of German municipalities
that are reclaiming control of energy grids after a period of
privatizations in the 1990s when money was needed to prop up
budgets. More than 70 new municipal utilities have started up
since 2007, and public operators have taken over more than 200
concessions to run energy grids from private companies in that
time, according to the VKU association of public utilities.
Berlin will hold a similar referendum Nov. 3.  “We’re generally seeing a remunicipalization trend as the
idea that private is superior to state has not lived up to its
promises,” said Hans-Joachim Reck, VKU’s managing director.
“The regional operators in Frankfurt and Munich show that it’s
worth keeping  energy supply  in municipal hands.”  The repurchases come as Germany’s commercial utilities are
seeing margins squeezed by Merkel’s decision to phase out
nuclear power by 2022 in a shift to renewable energy.  The drive has created the biggest discrepancy between
consumer and producer power prices in 15 years, turning the cost
of electricity into a political battleground and prompting
municipalities to reverse course.  Residential Bills  Because of taxes and charges that subsidize the country’s
550 billion-euro plan to expand solar and wind power,
residential bills are more than twice the amount that utilities
pay to deliver the electricity, according to Berlin-based lobby
group  BDEW .  EON, Germany’s biggest utility, in June sold a majority in
its Westfalen Weser unit. In January it announced plans to sell
a 43 percent stake in EON Thueringer Energie to a group of
municipalities.  RWE AG (RWE) , the biggest power generator in the country of more
than 80 million people, in December sold its 58 percent stake in
a regional utility for 220 million euros to a group including
Thuega AG, Energieversorgung Mittelrhein GmbH and Koblenz city.  Germany is divided over whether returning grids to public
operators will ease the burden on consumers. Consumer power
prices are 68 percent higher than in 1998, leaving Germans
paying more for their power than any other nation in the
European Union except Cyprus and  Denmark , EU data show.  Delaying Shift  The local initiative  Our Hamburg – Our Grid , a group of
more than 50 environmental, consumer and church groups
advocating the buyback, argued that Vattenfall and EON don’t act
in the best interest of the people and are delaying  Germany ’s
shift to alternative energy.  The proponents say  Hamburg , which has 1.7 million
inhabitants and boasts Germany’s biggest port, may generate
sales of 1 billion euros and a profit of 100 million euros a
year with grid fees once it is in charge of the networks. These
span 27,000 kilometers (16,780 miles) of power grid, 7,300
kilometers of gas lines and an 800-kilometer district heating
network.  “We regret the result of the referendum,” said Ove
Struck, spokesman for EON’s northern German EON Hanse AG unit,
in a statement. “We need to examine in depth what it means for
Hamburg and for the company,” he said, adding that EON remains
open to talks with the city-state.  Debt Pile  Hamburg’s Social Democrat Mayor Olaf Scholz opposed a
complete buyback, saying this would overburden the city, whose
debt pile stands at more than 20 billion euros, in a Sept. 19
interview in  Hamburger Abendblatt .  Hamburg, unlike Munich and  Frankfurt , began privatizing
municipal utilities Hamburgische Electricitaetswerke AG, or HEW,
and Hein Gas in the late 1990s.  In 2012, the city bought back 25.1 percent of three grid
units for 543.5 million euros as it sought to regain influence
and press for a modernization of the network.  The referendum is only the first step in the city’s attempt
to take back control. It must now ask Vattenfall and EON for
approval to increase its stake to 100 percent, said Andreas
Dressel, leader of the SPD bloc in the Hamburg parliament, in an
interview.  “If they oppose a sale, we will have to start our own
power grid operator” and submit competing bids for network
concessions at the start of 2014, he said.  Vattenfall also plans to take part in the  power grid 
concessions tender and sees a good chance of winning it, Tuomo
Hatakka, Chairman of the management board of Vattenfall GmbH,
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  