-- AMR-US Airways Merger Deadline Extended as U.S. Suit Fought
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-09-23T20:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/american-airlines-us-airways-extend-merger-deadline-to-jan-18.html
American Airlines  and  US Airways (LCC) 
Group Inc. agreed to extend the deadline for completing their
$14 billion merger until at least Jan. 18 as the carriers fight
a U.S. antitrust lawsuit to block the combination.  The boards of American parent AMR Corp. and  US Airways 
approved moving the deadline from the original Dec. 17 date,
according to a regulatory filing today. If there is a favorable
order from the court on or before Jan. 17, the companies have an
additional 15 days to finish the deal.  The tie-up, which would let American exit bankruptcy
protection, is on hold pending resolution of the U.S. Justice
Department’s suit. The airlines say the new American would have
the heft to compete with larger  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and United
Continental Holdings Inc., while the U.S. says the merger would
hurt consumers by raising fares and curbing competition.  Both companies “remain committed to completing this
combination to create the new American,” Chief Executive
Officers Doug Parker of US Airways and  Tom Horton  of American
said in a statement. “Our focus is on mounting a vigorous
defense and winning our court case.”  US Airways fell 0.2 percent to $18.86 at the close in New
York. AMR gained 0.8 percent to $3.95.  Parker, 51, would be CEO of the combined carrier, which
will keep the American name and its headquarters in Fort Worth,
Texas. Horton, 52, would serve as chairman until the first
annual meeting of the new American.  American and Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways also said they
amended the merger agreement to drop a $20 million severance
package for Horton after the judge in American’s bankruptcy case
challenged the amount. American’s lawyers had agreed to the
change earlier this month.  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington). The bankruptcy case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  