-- Manchester City Routs United 4-1 as Arsenal Wins to Top League
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-23T00:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/manchester-city-routs-united-4-1-as-arsenal-wins-to-top-league.html
Sergio Aguero  scored twice as
 Manchester City  routed defending champion  Manchester United  4-1
in English soccer’s Premier League. Arsenal beat Stoke City 3-1
to top the standings.  Also yesterday, Swansea City won 2-0 at Crystal Palace and
Tottenham Hotspur beat Cardiff City 1-0. Spurs are level with
Arsenal on points, though have an inferior goal difference.  Yaya Toure and Samir Nasri also scored for City at its
Etihad Stadium before United striker  Wayne Rooney  got a late
free kick for his record 11th goal in Manchester derbies.  “The way we played is the way I want this team to play,”
City manager Manuel Pellegrini told  Sky Sports  after his first
Manchester derby. “We went 4-0 up and Manchester United didn’t
have a really clear chance apart from a beautiful free kick by
Rooney and one corner.”  United lined up without striker  Robin van Persie  because of
a groin strain and City dominated from the start. Aguero gave
the home team a 16th-minute lead with a left-foot volley from
the edge of the six-yard area.  Toure made it 2-0 off his knee just before half time after
Alvaro Negredo headed on Nasri’s corner.  Two minutes after the break, Aguero converted Negredo’s
cross to make it 3-0 and Nasri volleyed in Jesus Navas’s cross
from the right three minutes later to put City four goals up.  Substitute Edin Dzeko almost scored a fifth for City,
goalkeeper David de Gea smothering the striker’s shot.  Patrice Evra headed against a post for United, then Rooney
curled his free kick past goalkeeper Joe Hart three minutes from
the end.  ‘Great Answer’  “We have been playing irregular in other games, but it is
normal in this moment of the season,” Pellegrini said. “This
was a high test and the players had a great answer.”  United and 2011-12 champion City were under new managers.
Pellegrini succeeded  Roberto Mancini  and  David Moyes  replaced
the retired  Alex Ferguson , who’d been in charge since 1986.  “They started much stronger and quicker,” Moyes said.
“We’ll get better, there’s a long season to go. We’ll put this
behind us and move on.”  Six of United’s 13 Premier League titles have come after
the Red Devils won only two of their opening five matches,
according to Opta Sports.  Arsenal and Tottenham have 12 points through five games.
Manchester City, Chelsea and Liverpool have 10, followed by
Everton (9) and Southampton (8). United, Swansea, Stoke, Hull
City and  Newcastle United  each have seven points.  Ozil’s Assists  At the Emirates Stadium, Arsenal’s Theo Walcott was ruled
out by illness and Serge Gnabry started his first Premier League
game. Midfielder Mesut Ozil made his home debut after a 42
million-pound ($67 million) transfer from Real  Madrid  and
delivered the set-pieces that led to all three goals.  Aaron Ramsey  gave Arsenal a fifth-minute lead after
goalkeeper Asmir Begovic pushed out Ozil’s free kick.  Geoff Cameron leveled for Stoke 21 minutes later after
Marko Arnautovic hit the post, and Per Mertesacker restored the
home team’s lead from close range in the 36th minute. Bacary Sagna’s looping header in the 72nd minute closed the scoring.  It was Arsenal’s seventh straight win in all competitions
after losing its opening league game to Aston Villa.  “We are in a position where we can focus on improvement in
a stable environment,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said in a
news conference. “That’s a good basis.”  Paulinho got Tottenham’s winner at Cardiff in stoppage
time, leaving the Welsh club in 16th place with five points.  Michu gave Swansea the lead in the second minute at Palace
and Nathan Dyer made it 2-0 soon after half time. Palace is one
spot above last-place Sunderland, which last night fired manager
Paolo Di Canio. The 45-year-old Italian won three of his 13
matches since being appointed in March.  Two days ago, Chelsea beat Fulham 2-0, Liverpool lost 1-0
at home to Southampton, Hull had a 3-2 victory at Newcastle, and
 Aston Villa  won 1-0 at Norwich. West Brom defeated Sunderland
3-0 and West Ham was beaten 3-2 at home by Everton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  