-- AquaSure Cuts Debt Premium by 53% in A$3.7 Billion Refinancing
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-09-23T04:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/aquasure-to-halve-borrowing-costs-in-a-3-7-billion-refinancing.html
AquaSure Pty, the builder of a
desalination plant in  Australia ’s Victoria state, is poised to
more than halve its borrowing costs on A$3.7 billion ($3.5
billion) of loans backing the idled project, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  The refinancing will cut interest margins to about 135
basis points more than the bank bill swap rate on three-year
debt and about 165 basis points on money with a five-year
maturity, said the person, asking not to be identified because
the details are private. That compares with 350 basis points on
a five-year loan AquaSure arranged in 2009 to build the plant,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  John Ridley, a Melbourne-based spokesman for AquaSure,
declined to comment on the financing today.  Victoria’s government said in February it was paying A$1.8
million a day to maintain the water facility. Since it was
commissioned in 2007, the nation’s most prolonged drought has
broken, leaving nearly dry dams in Victoria state almost full
after floods and storms caused at least A$7 billion of insured
losses and 40 deaths nationwide the past three years.  AquaSure was created to bid for the project in a group that
included  Suez Environnement Co. (SEV) ,  Europe ’s second-largest water
utility, its subsidiary Degremont SA, and construction company
Thiess Pty to build and operate a plant capable of turning as
much as 150 billion liters (39.6 billion gallons) of saltwater a
year into potable water.  The Melbourne-based company, which is in partnership with
the government, hired Macquarie Group Ltd. to advise on the
refinancing, it said in July. Talks have been held with about 10
banks to provide the new debt, the person said today.  AquaSure had agreed a price increase on the original loan
to 375 basis points after six years and 400 basis points, or 4
percentage points, after seven, a person said in 2009.  The company is also considering raising debt in the U.S.
private placement market, the person said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  