-- Harvard Seeks $6.5 Billion as Gifts Over $50 Million Proliferate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/harvard-seeks-6-5-billion-as-gifts-over-50-million-proliferate.html
The number of so-called mega
donations to U.S. colleges is rebounding just as  Harvard
University  begins a $6.5 billion capital campaign, the largest
in the history of higher education.  There have been 16 gifts this year of at least $50 million,
twice as many as for all of last year as donors gain confidence
amid improving economic conditions, according to data compiled
by the Chronicle of Higher Education. Developer Stephen Ross
gave $200 million to the  University of Michigan  while  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM)  co-founder Irwin Jacobs and his wife donated $133 million
to  Cornell University . Last week, former  Los Angeles  Dodgers
owner  Frank McCourt  gave $100 million to  Georgetown University .  “They not only have more confidence, they have more wealth
to give away,” said Donald Fellows, president and chief
executive officer of Marts and Lundy, a philanthropy consulting
firm based in Lyndhurst,  New Jersey . “The institutions have
greater needs and priorities too so they are also probably being
more aggressive.”  The importance of large gifts to capital campaigns can’t be
overstated, according to John Lippincott, president of the
Council for Advancement and Support of Education in  Washington .
Just 1 percent of donors account for 87 percent of the money
raised by U.S. universities and colleges in campaigns of $1
billion or more, he said.  The pace of philanthropy in higher education is closely
tied to the performance of the U.S. stock market. The number of
mega gifts plummeted to eight in 2009 from 28 the year before
after an economic recession and global credit crisis undermined
equities, resulting in a 38 percent drop in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  in 2008.  ‘More Confident’  While gifts rebounded in 2010 and 2011, they dropped again
last year amid the Eurozone crisis, when  Greece  and other poor
countries flirted with defaults and debated abandoning the
single currency used by much of the continent. While the  S&P 500 
posted no gain in 2011, it gained 13 percent last year and is up
20 percent this year through Sept. 20.  “As wealth grows and people become more confident, their
giving tends to follow that growth in confidence,” said  Tim
Seiler , director of The Fund Raising School at Indiana
University. “This is a good time to be doing capital
fundraising.”  Harvard’s aim to raise $6.5 billion by 2018 eclipses the $6
billion goal set in 2011 by the  University of Southern
California  in Los Angeles.  Stanford University , near  Palo Alto ,
 California , established new standards by amassing  $6.23 billion 
in donations in a campaign that ended in 2011, beyond its goal
of $4.3 billion.  Stanford Benchmark  Stanford, which is benefiting from the wealth of Silicon
Valley entrepreneurs, also set a record by becoming the first
university to collect more than $1 billion in gifts in a single
year in its fiscal 2012. In the past few weeks, several schools
have announced record fundraising, such as  Texas A&M University ,
which got more than  $740 million  in donations and pledges in the
year ended Aug. 31.  Harvard has already received $2.8 billion in donations and
pledges toward its goal in the past two years, during what’s
referred to as a “quiet phase,” Tamara Rogers, vice president
for alumni affairs and development, said in an interview.  The campaign will let Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Harvard expand research and teaching in engineering, the arts
and humanities, along with the fields of energy, neuroscience
and stem cell research, Provost Alan Garber said. The university
is also renovating dormitories and resuming construction that
stalled after the financial crisis that began in 2008.  Right Time  About 45 percent of the money raised will go to research,
faculty and teaching, Rogers said. About 25 percent will be
earmarked for student financial aid; 20 percent for construction
and renovation; and 10 percent to support new initiatives.  “The timing now feels as good as it could be,” she said.
“One takes advantage of opportunities, enthusiasm and good
planning and that’s what we’ve done.”  Harvard’s fundraising effort is its first since 1999, when
the school raised $2.65 billion over seven years. Harvard is the
richest U.S. school with an endowment of $30.7 billion as of
June 2012.  As the demands for operating a top-level university
increase, institutions are scheduling capital campaigns with
greater frequency, said  Indiana University ’s Seiler. The lag
between campaigns is shorter than 10 years at many schools, he
said.  Harvard President Drew Faust and other officials have spent
the last few years crisscrossing the globe to meet with large
donors and secure gifts that show commitment to the institution.  Mega Gifts  Recent gifts that will be counted toward Harvard’s 2018
goal include $125 million for the Wyss Institute for
Biologically Inspired Engineering from billionaire Hansjoerg Wyss and $50 million from the Blavatnik Family Foundation to
develop treatments from scientific discoveries.  The campaign will also help Harvard recruit top teachers
and researchers. About half of the university’s $4 billion
operating budget for fiscal 2012 went to employee pay and
benefits, according to the  annual report . About 5.5 percent of
Harvard’s endowment, or $1.4 billion, was spent on Harvard’s
operations in 2012.  Recent results show Harvard’s fundraising success. Donor
pledges in the 2012 fiscal year totaled $909 million, up from
about $758 million in the year earlier period.  The university will probably meet its goal because it has
such wealthy and supportive alumni as well as a top-notch
development team on staff, said fundraising consultant George
Ruotolo, who runs Ruotolo Associates in Cresskill, New Jersey.
Yet, the campaign could raise philosophical questions because
Harvard is already so rich, he said.  While mega donors are back, fundraising overall is flat,
suggesting a growing divide between elite schools and those not
so wealthy. Charitable contributions to colleges last year
increased just 2.3 percent to $31 billion, remaining below the
high-water market of $31.8 billion in 2008, according to the
Council for Aid to Education.  “When you look at Harvard and their endowment it’s hard to
get your head around why they need $6.5 billion,” Ruotolo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  