-- Marvell Loses Bid to Toss $1.17 Billion Patent Verdict
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-09-23T21:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/marvell-loses-bid-for-new-trial-in-carnegie-mellon-case.html
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) 
failed to overturn a $1.17 billion verdict it lost last year to
 Carnegie Mellon  University after a judge said it deserved to pay
for deliberately infringing patents for hard-disk drives.  U.S. District Judge Nora Barry Fischer in Pittsburgh today
denied Marvell’s request for a new trial on either liability or
damages, and agreed with Carnegie Mellon’s argument that the
jury’s award should be increased because it found willful
infringement. The judge said she would issue a further opinion
later. The verdict was the fourth-biggest patent decision in
U.S. history, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The jury said Marvell intentionally infringed two Carnegie
Mellon patents for a way to more accurately detect data from
computer hard-disk drives. The university  claimed  Marvell knew
of its inventions and intentionally incorporated the technology
in its chips for computers and mobile phones for more than a
decade.  “There was adequate evidence upon which a reasonable jury
could properly find a verdict in favor of CMU” on infringement,
Fischer said. She also rejected Marvell’s invalidity arguments
and said the damage award, while large, isn’t disproportionate
because it was based on more than $10.3 billion in Marvell
sales.  Marvell fell 43 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $12.03 at 4:30
p.m. Sukhi Nagesh, a spokesman for Marvell, said in an e-mail
the company had no comment on the ruling and repeated prior
statements that it doesn’t infringe the patents. He said in the
e-mail that “we are disappointed with the jury verdict and
Marvell will be appealing to the federal courts.”  ‘Bad Facts’  Fischer also upheld the finding that Marvell knew about the
university patents and went ahead with its designs anyway. The
company’s “bad facts and even worse litigation strategy were
fatal to its cause,” the judge said.  “Marvell is in its current predicament because it
deliberately undertook a series of strategic risks,” the judge
said. “Now, Marvell looks to the courts to relieve it from the
damages award it faces from taking those risks.”  Of the $1.67 billion verdict, $535 million was based on
sales from the time the suit was filed in 2009 to July 29, 2012,
the judge said. That, as well as $181.9 million in additional
royalties incurred between July 2012 and Aug. 2, could have been
avoided had the two sides reached a settlement or agreement,
such as establishing “the Marvell Hall of Engineering at CMU”
in 2009, the judge said.  Marvell told the jury that a reasonable royalty would have
been $250,000 and presented no alternative to the royalty rate
argued by Carnegie Mellon, leaving jurors to choose between
$250,000 and $1.67 billion, Fischer said.  ‘Sound Asleep’  “At one point in trial, the court observed two out of
Marvell’s three experts sound asleep for a period of time,” the
judge said. “In all likelihood, the jury made the same
observation.”  The judge has yet to rule on Marvell’s argument that the
university took too long to file the suit, which could lower the
damage award, or on Carnegie Mellon’s request for either an
order blocking further use of its inventions or a payment
schedule for future royalties.  Marvell, which reported $3.17 billion in sales for the year
ending Feb. 2, 2013, said in an April 12 court filing that the
verdict should be no more than $164.6 million. The Hamilton,
Bermuda-based company argued it shouldn’t be held liable for
chips that aren’t used in the U.S., an argument Fischer
rejected.  Carnegie Mellon in Pittsburgh asked that the jury award be
increased based on the finding of intentional infringement, and
that Marvell be ordered to pay ongoing royalties of as much as
$1.50 for each chip sold. The jury award was based on a royalty
of 50 cents per chip.  University Invention  Carnegie Mellon said Marvell performs research and
development in the U.S., and then uses simulators to test
designs and maintains a “golden unit” -- a master version --in
 California .  University researchers in the 1990s developed a way to
reduce unwanted electrical signals, known as media noise, that
made it harder to detect data on a disk. The invention,
according to the university, is used throughout the industry.  Marvell was experiencing falling sales in the late 1990s
and “was desperate to satisfy its customers’ persistent demands
to combat the ever-increasing media noise,” so began
incorporating the invention in its chips, Carnegie Mellon told
the court.  Marvell said the industry doesn’t use the technology
because it’s too complex. It said its chips “include hundreds
of features, built from millions of transistors, using Marvell’s
own proprietary and innovative designs.”  Bermuda Incorporation  The university said Marvell has increased its share buyback
program and began paying a quarterly dividend in an effort to
reduce its ability to pay any judgment in the case, and
incorporated in  Bermuda  to limit exposure in U.S. courts. The
company hasn’t set aside reserves to pay for the verdict.  In a Sept. 5 regulatory filing, Marvell said it doesn’t
believe a material loss is probable, and that “there are strong
grounds for appeal.”  Among all jury verdicts, it was the largest in a patent
case in 2012, ahead of the $1.05 billion won by Apple Inc.
against Samsung Electronics Co., in which a new trial has been
ordered for half the damages, and a $1 billion verdict won by
 Monsanto Co. (MON)  against DuPont Co. that was later settled.  The case is  Carnegie Mellon University  v. Marvell
Technology Group Ltd., 09cv290, U.S. District Court for the
Western District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  