-- Asian Stocks Trade Near Four-Month High After China Data
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-09-23T10:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/asian-stocks-near-4-month-high-before-china-manufacturing.html
Asian  stocks  traded near a four-month high after a Chinese manufacturing index jumped more than
forecast. Trading volume in  Hong Kong  was below average after a
storm shut the market for half the day.  Delta Electronics Inc. a maker of power-supply packs for
 notebook computers , surged 6.3 percent, leading technology
shares higher.  Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000)  gained 1.6 percent in
Seoul amid speculation sales of its regional bank units will
succeed.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s largest gold
producer, slumped 8.2 percent after analysts from Citigroup Inc.
and Morgan Stanley predicted the bullion will extend losses as
the  U.S. economy  improves.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  slipped 0.1
percent to 468.9 at 6:37 p.m. in Hong Kong. The gauge reached a
four-month high on Sept. 19 after the  Federal Reserve  maintained
its bond-buying program. A preliminary HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics’ purchasing managers index for  China  released
today rose to 51.2, a six-month high.  “It’s an indication of a continuing expansion,” Hao Hong,
Hong Kong-based strategist at Bank of Communications Co., told
Bloomberg TV. “As long as we continue to see economic
expansion, the depressed expectations will continue to reverse
and that is positive for the market.”  The Asia-Pacific gauge rallied 7.9 percent this month
through Sept. 20 amid signs China’s economic growth is
stabilizing.  Chinese Manufacturing  A pickup in China’s growth may boost Premier  Li Keqiang ’s
odds of meeting this year’s 7.5 percent expansion goal. The
final reading of the manufacturing PMI from HSBC and Markit will
be released Sept. 30.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index added 1.3 percent as
mainland Chinese bourses resumed trading for the first time
since the Federal Reserve unexpectedly announced Sept. 18 that
it needed more evidence of a U.S. economic recovery before
paring its economic stimulus program.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.5 percent, South
Korea’s  Kospi index  added 0.2 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index declined 0.6 percent. Singapore’s Strait Times Index
dropped 0.7 percent. Futures on the  S&P 500  rose 0.2 percent.
Japan’s market was closed for a holiday.  Typhoon Usagi  Taiwan’s Taiex Index climbed 1 percent as technology firms
advanced. Delta Electronics rose 6.3 percent to NT$144 and
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. advanced 2.4 percent to
NT$105.50.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slipped 0.6 percent, retreating
from a seven-month high, after trading during the morning
session was canceled due to Typhoon Usagi. The storm made
landfall on the southern mainland, killing at least 25 people in
China, forcing hundreds of flights to be canceled and leaving
travelers stranded. HSBC Holdings Plc lost 1.9 percent to
HK$86.30, the biggest drag on the  Hang Seng Index .  Woori Finance advanced 1.6 percent to 12,650 won in Seoul.
The shares rose on anticipation sales of Woori’s regional bank
units Kyongnam Bank and Kwangju Bank may go well, according to
Hwang Seok Kyu, a Seoul-based analyst at Kyobo Securities Co.  The Fed’s decision last week to maintain record stimulus
also reduced concern over capital outflows from the Asian
region, increasing foreign investors’ appetite for Korean bank
stocks, the analyst said.  Gold producers declined after Morgan Stanley said the Fed’s
surprise move will benefit prices only in the short term. The
precious metal fell 3 percent on Sept. 20.  Newcrest Mining sank 8.2 percent to A$12.03 in Sydney and
Perseus Mining Ltd. slumped 16 percent to 56.5 Australian cents.
Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s biggest gold producer, lost 4.5
percent to HK$1.93 in Hong Kong. Zhaojin Mining Industry Co.,
China’s second-largest producer, lost 4.3 percent to HK$7.08.  Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. (TWE)  lost 6.3 percent to A$4.45 in
Sydney after the world’s second-biggest publicly traded wine
maker said Chief Executive Officer David Dearie was leaving the
company immediately.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  