-- Asian Default-Swap Index Rolls Into New Series, Bond Risk Rises
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-09-23T01:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/asian-default-swap-index-rolls-into-new-series-bond-risk-rises.html
The latest series of Markit Group
Ltd.’s index measuring the cost of insuring Asian corporate and
sovereign bonds from non-payment with credit-default swaps
started trading today.  Series 20 of the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  was at 141 basis points as of 8:30
a.m. in Hong Kong, according to Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. prices. The previous version, Series 19, climbed 1
basis point to 119, ANZ prices showed.  A fresh version of the CDS benchmark is created every six
months when companies are added or dropped depending on their
ratings, cost of protection and ease of trading. While indexes
for Australia and Japan rolled into their new series on Sept.
20, the shift in the Asia-Pacific index didn’t happen until
today due to a public holiday in Hong Kong at the end of last
week. The contracts typically have a maturity of five years.  Export-Import Bank of  India  and Shinhan Bank are the newest
members of the Asia ex-Japan list, while Temasek Holdings Pte
and Tenaga Nasional Bhd. have been omitted, Markit said on its
 website .  The Series 20 Markit iTraxx Australia index of 25 borrowers
climbed 1 basis point to 117 basis points as of 10:16 a.m. in
Sydney, National Australia Bank Ltd. prices showed.  Financial markets in Japan are closed today for a public
holiday.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  