-- Atari Files Turnaround Plan to Exit Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-09-23T22:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/atari-files-turnaround-plan-to-exit-bankruptcy-keep-operating.html
Atari Inc., the bankrupt video-game
maker, filed a reorganization plan to give unsecured creditors a
recovery of as much as 25 percent and exit court protection as a
going concern.  The company sought  bankruptcy protection  in January
intending to break away from French parent Atari SA, which
hasn’t made a profit since 1999 and sought related relief from
creditors under French law, the company has said.  Atari, founded in 1972, now plans to reorganize with its
parent’s support, which is sponsoring the restructuring plan,
and continue operating with the brands it has left, according to
filings in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  “The plan effectuates a restructuring transaction under
which the sponsor will make contributions to the estates
sufficient to ensure a meaningful recovery to holders of general
unsecured claims,” the New York-based company said in court
papers filed Sept. 20.  A pioneer in the home video-game console market and maker
of classic titles such as “Pong” and “Asteroids,” Atari
attempted to sell virtually all its assets earlier this year,
according to court documents. Atari, which owned or managed more
than 200 games and franchises, failed to get qualified offers
for its most popular assets, including its namesake brand for
which it was seeking a minimum of $15 million.  Liquidation Scenarios  The company said in court papers that after evaluating its
prospects as “ongoing business enterprises” and creditors’
recoveries in various liquidation scenarios, Atari and its
parent determined the “business and remaining assets have
substantial value that would not otherwise be realized in a
liquidation.” Stakeholders would be better served by continuing
operations as a going concern, it said.  The video-game maker would reorganize around titles such as
“RollerCoaster Tycoon,” “Test Drive” and “Centipede.”  The company moved forward with auctions of seven less
valuable franchises that generated a total of about $5.1
million, according to court papers.  Under the reorganization plan, unsecured creditors, which
Atari estimates are owed $5 million to $7 million, will get cash
payments for a recovery of as much as 25 percent, according to
court documents. The recovery estimate assumes the unsecured
creditors aren’t owed more than $7 million and would be reduced
if allowed claims exceed that amount.  Creditor Recoveries  The official committee representing unsecured creditors
supports the plan, according to court papers. The unsecured
creditors would get a payment of 8 percent of their claims or
$560,000, whichever is less, when the plan takes effect. They
would get identical treatment one year later, and then get a
payment for the lesser of 9 percent of their claims or $630,000
two years later.  Parent Atari SA is waiving its right to any distribution on
its $309.5 million intercompany claims, according to court
documents. Alden Global Capital, which acquired a secured credit
facility to Atari SA in February, will be paid in full on the $5
million it lent to help fund Atari’s bankruptcy. Alden is
waiving its right to distributions on account of a secured claim
it has against Atari.  The case is In re Atari Inc., 13-bk-10176,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  