-- Aussie Dollar Rises as China Manufacturing Data Exceed Estimates
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-09-23T02:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/aussie-dollar-rises-as-china-manufacturing-data-exceed-estimates.html
Australia’s currency climbed
against 15 of its 16 major counterparts after data on China’s
manufacturing surpassed economist estimates, boosting prospects
for the South Pacific nation’s commodity exports.  The Aussie snapped a two-day decline versus the dollar and
three-year government notes fell as Asian shares advanced,
sapping demand for safer assets. New Zealand’s dollar remained
lower against the greenback as investors ponder whether the
 Federal Reserve  will start to taper monetary stimulus that has
weighed on the U.S. currency.  “Data from China has been increasingly more positive,”
said Divya Devesh, a foreign-exchange analyst in Singapore at
Standard Chartered Plc. “We think this rally can continue for a
few more weeks if not months,” he said of the gains in
Australia’s currency.  The Aussie advanced 0.3 percent to 94.22 U.S. cents as of
12:30 p.m. in Sydney after falling 1.3 percent in the prior two
sessions. The  New Zealand dollar  was little changed at 83.65
U.S. cents after losing 0.1 percent on Sept. 20.  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan index of shares
advanced 0.3 percent. Japan’s markets are closed today for a
national holiday.  The yield on  Australia ’s benchmark three-year note rose
three basis point to 2.84 percent after dropping 11 basis points
last week. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate was little changed
at 3.47 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The purchasing-managers’ index for China was 51.2 in
September on preliminary reading, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics said today, compared with a median estimate of 50.9
from economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The gauge was at
50.1 in August.  Net Shorts  Hedge funds  and other large speculators cut their bearish
bets on the Australian dollar to the least in four months,  data 
on futures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed. The number of wagers on a decline in the
Aussie compared with those on a gain was 27,360 on Sept. 17, the
smallest net shorts since May 14.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said last
week that the  Federal Open Market Committee  may make a small cut
to bond purchases in October. The Fed maintained its $85 billion
pace of monthly debt purchases on Sept. 18, while economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News had projected it would dial down the
quantitative-easing program by $5 billion.  “The FOMC will taper -- it’s just a matter of time,” said
 Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based currency strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest lender. As
the dollar extends a recovery from the slide that occurred after
the Fed decision last week, that “should push the  U.S. dollar 
up and the Aussie and kiwi down,” he said.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S.
cities probably rose to 162.69 in July, a level unseen since
August 2008, from 159.54 in June, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  ahead of
tomorrow’s release of the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  