-- Australia to Boost Capacity at Offshore Camps for Asylum Seekers
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-23T07:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/australia-to-boost-capacity-at-offshore-camps-for-asylum-seekers.html
Australia  will expand capacity at
its offshore processing camps for asylum seekers as it tries to
halt a surge in arrivals by boat, the government said at its
first weekly briefing on the issue since winning office.  Australia’s detention center on Papua New Guinea’s Manus
Island, where 798 asylum seekers are currently based, will be
expanded by 1,230 places, Immigration Minister Scott Morrison
told reporters in Sydney today. The camp in Nauru, an island-nation in Micronesia, will be expanded by 2,000 people. There
are 710 people there now, Morrison said, without providing the
center’s current capacity.  Prime Minister  Tony Abbott  pledged to “stop the boats”
when campaigning for elections on Sept. 7, when his coalition
won 90  seats  in the 150-member lower house to Labor’s 55. Abbott
repeated that promise in his victory speech, referring to the
often-unsafe vessels used by smugglers in  Indonesia  to ferry
people who started their journey from strife-torn countries such
as  Afghanistan . Abbott and then-Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  both
took a hard line before the election on preventing asylum
seekers from being housed onshore.  Today’s briefing was the first as the new government shifts
to giving weekly updates on the issue, with others to be held
only when necessary, Morrison said. Under the former Labor
government, the Australian Customs and Border Protection Service
informed the media every time a boat was intercepted in
Australian waters.  ‘Taking Control’  “People smugglers use information as a tactic to ply their
trade,” Morrison said in a separate statement yesterday.
“Taking control of how that information is released denies
people smugglers the opportunity to exploit such information.”  The government will also update detention and bridging visa
statistics for boat arrivals monthly, he said.  The change in how the Australian public is notified of boat
arrivals is “counter-productive,” Labor’s  Bill Shorten , who is
vying for the party leadership after Rudd resigned in the
aftermath of the party’s election loss, said earlier yesterday.  Asylum seekers arriving in Australian waters by boat will
be transfered to the camps within 48 hours, Morrison said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  