-- Treasury Yields Reach Six-Week Low, U.S. Stocks Retreat
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-09-24T20:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/australian-futures-fall-as-u-s-stocks-drop-crude-slides.html
Treasuries rose as investors bet
the  Federal Reserve  will keep buying debt as it awaits a pick-up
in economic growth, while U.S. stocks fell for a fourth day amid
concern lawmakers will fail to reach a budget deal to avoid a
government shutdown. The dollar gained and metals slid.  Ten-year Treasury rates decreased for a third straight day,
losing five basis points to a six-week low 2.65 percent. The
yield on benchmark 10-year German  government bonds  lost seven
basis points to 1.85 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
slipped 0.3 percent to 1,697.42 and has fallen 1.6 percent in
four sessions. The U.S. dollar gained against 14 of 16 major
peers, while nickel, copper and aluminum lost more than 1
percent and oil fell for a fourth day.  Senate Democrats  offered a new proposal that funds the
government through Nov. 15, complicating efforts to avoid a
shutdown in a week as Republican Senator  Ted Cruz  began an
extended speech in opposition to funding for the health-care
law. An index of U.S.  consumer confidence  slumped in September
to a four-month low, while  home prices  in 20 U.S. cities rose in
the 12 months through July by the most in more than seven years.  “Momentum remains relatively constructive in the Treasury
market in the wake of the Fed’s decision not to taper,” said
 Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group
LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “The market is grinding a little
bit higher.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said after its Sept.
17-18 meeting that it wants more evidence of an economic
recovery before paring its $85 billion of monthly asset
purchases, surprising economists who had forecast a reduction.  Fed Views  Fed members offered different views on central bank
stimulus.  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said
yesterday the  U.S. economy  “still needs the support of a very
accommodative monetary policy,” while his Atlanta counterpart
 Dennis Lockhart  said policy should focus on creating a more
dynamic economy after a recent cooling in growth.  Twenty-four of 41 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  on
Sept. 18-19 said the Fed will wait until December before taking
the first step in slowing its bond-buying.  Growing concern over the outlook for hiring and wages shook
U.S. consumer sentiment this month, raising the risk spending
will contribute less to growth. The Conference Board’s consumer
confidence index declined to 79.7, the weakest since May, from
81.8 a month earlier. The Richmond Fed’s  manufacturing index 
dropped to 0 from 14.  Budget Debate  Investors are also watching the debate in Washington over
spending cuts. Hardening positions on the  federal budget  and
borrowing limit, and recent political setbacks suffered by both
President  Barack Obama  and Republican congressional leaders as
they go into the fight, are raising the odds of a government
shutdown, debt default or near-miss that could roil markets.  The two-year Treasury note yield was little changed at 0.33
percent, within three basis points above the lowest level in six
weeks, after the U.S. sale of $34 billion in two-year notes was
met with weaker-than-forecast yield.  The  S&P 500  has advanced 5.7 percent in the current
quarter, and is up 19 percent for the year. Seven of the 10 main
S&P 500 industry groups declined today as telephone and
consumer-staples companies led losses.  Applied Materials Inc. surged 9.1 percent after the largest
supplier of chipmaking equipment agreed to buy Tokyo Electron
Ltd.  Red Hat Inc. (RHT)  slumped 12 percent after second-quarter
billings at the largest seller of the  Linux operating system 
trailed estimates.  Homebuilders Gain  The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index rose 2.3 percent,
with all its  11 members  gaining. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values in 20 cities increased 12.4 percent from July
2012, matching the median projection of 31 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg and the biggest year-to-year advance since February
2006, a report from the group showed today in New York. Lennar,
the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, rose 4.3 percent
after earnings topped analysts’ estimates.  The Bloomberg  U.S. Dollar  Index, a gauge of the currency
against 10 major peers, rose 0.2 percent. The euro weakened 0.2
percent to $1.3473. New Zealand’s kiwi weakened 1.2 percent to
82.71 U.S. cents.  European Markets  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.2 percent. The index has
surged 9.9 percent since the end of June, on pace for the
biggest quarterly gain in four years. Telecom Italia SpA rose
1.7 percent today after Telefonica SA agreed to increase its
stake in the Italian phone company.  Germany’s  Ifo business climate index  climbed less than
predicted in September. The gauge, which polls executives in
Europe’s largest economy, rose to 107.7 from 107.5 in August.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast a reading of 108.  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange fell 1.4 percent to $7,147 a metric ton. Nickel
declined 1.4 percent to $13,750 a ton and zinc dropped 1.1
percent to $1,875 a ton, as all six main industrial metals
traded on the LME retreated. Gold futures fell 0.8 percent to
$1,316.30 an ounce in New York.  Soybean futures climbed 0.4 percent to $13.1250 a bushel on
the Chicago Board of Trade, rallying from a one-month low as
demand for U.S. supplies climbed.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.6 percent, paring
the quarterly gain to 7.5 percent. Egypt’s benchmark stock
index, the EGX 30, added 0.6 percent as a court ordered the
banning of the Muslim Brotherhood’s activities and seizure of
its assets yesterday. The Egyptian stocks index has rallied 3
percent in four days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  