-- Mayfair Office Squeeze Spawns New London Real Estate Hubs
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-09-24T13:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/mayfair-office-squeeze-spawns-new-london-real-estate-hubs.html
Mayfair and St. James’s just aren’t
big enough for all the companies that want a piece of London’s
most expensive neighborhoods. Many are now settling for less
prestigious city-center addresses, creating new hot spots in the
office-property market.  Buildings are sprouting up in once rundown Victoria and
King’s Cross, a former  red-light district , as developers expand
the area that commands the world’s  highest office rents .
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  bought a property about a half mile (0.8
kilometer) from St. James’s Square to profit from a squeeze
caused by conversions of offices into luxury homes.  Land
Securities Group Plc (LAND)  is investing 2 billion pounds ($3.2
billion) in Victoria.  The construction push comes as older workplaces in St.
James’s and Mayfair, many built as townhouses, are turned back
into homes to profit from soaring prices.  Hedge funds  and
private-equity firms are taking most of what’s left, accounting
for 55 percent of new office leases in the districts this year,
Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said on Sept. 10.  “When you see occupiers becoming more transient because of
that lack of supply, it creates opportunities on the fringe of
historic prime areas to drive exponential rent growth,” said
James Lock, managing director at Blackstone’s real estate unit.  While there are no precise boundaries for the  West End ,
it’s usually considered the central business area west of the
City of London financial district. It includes the neighborhoods
of Mayfair, Soho and St. James’s and tourist attractions such as
 Buckingham Palace , the theater district and the bustling
Piccadilly Circus commercial intersection.  Victoria’s Revamp  Developers are seeking to exploit demand for larger and
more modern offices in central London with access to transport
links. Rents are rising throughout the West End’s fringes,
according to Knight Frank LLP. In Mayfair and St. James’s, home
to Europe’s largest concentration of hedge funds, they average
95 pounds a square foot, unchanged from a year earlier.  In Victoria, a gritty bus and rail hub between St. James’s
and Belgravia that Mayor  Boris Johnson  has earmarked for
 revival , Land Securities’ projects include the Zig Zag Building,
an office and retail complex with an undulating facade on
Victoria Street. The U.K.’s largest real estate investment trust
also  refurbished  a building across the road with about 200,000
square feet (19,000 square meters) of offices for tenants
including retailers Jimmy Choo and  John Lewis .  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  agreed to lease 37,120 square feet
of  office space  on two floors of Land Securities’s 62 Buckingham
Gate building a few blocks away, the London-based developer said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Image Makeover  “What’s great about Victoria is that we have sites that
can accommodate buildings with floor-plates of 20,000 square
feet or more,” said Kaela Fenn-Smith, Land Securities’ head of
leasing.  American Express Co. (AXP) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
already occupy modern buildings in Victoria near strips of
offices built nearly half a century ago mostly to accommodate
government bureaucrats. Land Securities is tearing down 1960s-and 1970s-era buildings to create the type of space companies
desire these days, Fenn-Smith said.  Land Securities’ plans are “going to completely change the
perception of Victoria” from a tenant’s perspective,
Blackstone’s Lock said.  Thames Views  Blackstone sees an opportunity in the  Adelphi Building  on
the Strand, a street known for theaters and its proximity to
 Trafalgar Square . It’s seeking at least 55 pounds a square foot
for the lower three floors and more on higher levels of the 13-story tower overlooking the River Thames.  The New York-based firm, the biggest manager of private-equity property funds, plans to spend 25 million pounds
refurbishing the Adelphi to attract tenants whose leases are
expiring in Mayfair and St. James’s. It’s also trying to get
technology, media and telecommunications companies looking for
bigger spaces, according to Lock, who leads Blackstone’s U.K.
real estate purchases.  Offices at nearby Soho Square, a favorite of technology and
media companies like  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) , go for 65
pounds a square foot, according to Lock. Workplaces on the
Strand “can now accommodate those sort of rents,” he said.  Tenants occupying 26 million square feet of central London
offices have the option to move by the end of 2016, according to
Lock. Meanwhile, demand for central-London office space has
risen 13 percent from a year earlier, broker  Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. (JLL)  said in a July report.  Limited Options  As leases expire, companies looking for new space will have
to consider districts on the edges of the best West End
neighborhoods. Options are limited because vacancy levels in
Mayfair, Soho and St. James’s were about a quarter below the
long-term average at the end of June, broker  Knight Frank  said
in an Aug. 1 report.  Kings Cross and Paddington are among areas on the edge of
the West End set to benefit from better transport links such as
Crossrail, a high-speed train line that will link  Heathrow
Airport  to the Canary Wharf financial district, Deutsche Bank AG
researchers including Simon Durkin wrote in a Sept. 3 report.  British Land Co. (BLND)  bought offices, stores and land near
Paddington Station, the terminus of Heathrow Express trains, in
July for 470 million pounds. The site, about 1.5 miles from
Mayfair, will give the developer an annual yield of 6.2 percent
when fully leased, Chief Executive Officer Chris Grigg said on
an investor call in July. That compares with a 3.5 percent yield
for offices in prime West End areas, broker  Savills Plc (SVS)  said
last month. Yields for the best U.K. property nationwide fell to
5.66 percent on average in August, the lowest in more than five
years, Cushman & Wakefield said in a report yesterday.  Larger Floors  “It’s those larger floor-prints which really make a
difference,” Grigg said in a July 24 interview.  British Land, the U.K.’s second-largest REIT, also owns
Regent’s Place, a development less than a mile from Oxford
Street, where rents are more than 60 pounds a square foot, Grigg
said. That’s an increase of more than 20 percent in less than
two years.  Developers betting on the expanded West End will face
mounting competition from new projects in the City of London,
many offering cheaper rents and targeting the same technology,
media and telecommunications companies. Amazon.com Inc. chose to
locate south of Farringdon, on the City’s western edge, where
rents are about 48 pounds a square foot.  Farther east is London’s emerging technology hub nicknamed
“Silicon Roundabout” on Old Street.  Derwent London Plc (DLN) , a REIT
focused on central London, is tailoring a 290,000-square-foot
office complex to tech firms with construction set to begin next
year.  Google’s Gain  Google opted for the West End’s northern edge in King’s
Cross, buying 2.4 acres (1 hectare) of land that’s part of a
larger development by King’s Cross Central LP near the Eurostar
rail link to mainland Europe. The owner of the world’s largest
search engine is building its new U.K. headquarters on the site
about 1.5 miles northeast of Oxford Street.  Tenants “are drifting east from the West End,” enticed by
cheaper office space neighboring companies with global brands
like Google, said Guy Grantham, a  Colliers International 
director in London. “We were expecting mostly media and
technology tenants, but we’re seeing occupiers from the legal
sectors and beyond” consider King’s Cross, he said.  Rents for the best buildings in Kings Cross are forecast to
rise more than 20 percent to about 65 pounds a square foot by
2016, according to Colliers.  “These peripheral locations people talk about will no
longer be peripheral,” said  Mike Prew , a Jefferies Group LLC
analyst in London. The developers of Kings Cross, “now that
it’s been completely repositioned, they will make a fortune,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  