-- Bailed-Out Nations Get Another Four Years of Merkel
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-09-23T08:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/bailed-out-nations-get-another-four-years-of-merkel.html
Southern Europeans are facing four
more years of  Angela Merkel  whether they like it or not.  Majorities of 82 percent in  Spain , 65 percent in Portugal
and 58 percent in  Italy  repudiate the German leader’s handling
of the euro area’s debt crisis, blaming her for drastic cuts in
social services, recession and record unemployment, according to
a German Marshall Fund poll released last week.  The majority that matters, in  Germany , decided otherwise
yesterday, putting Merkel back in charge and saluting policies
that have kept the currency union intact while at times veering
close to letting it unravel. Any concessions now are likely to
come on the margins: a little more money for  Greece  here, a
little less austerity there, without altering her determination
at most to drip-feed aid to countries that embrace tight
budgets, wage restraint and export-oriented industry.  “Crisis management is very much a continuation of the
status quo,” said Mujtaba Rahman, a former European Commission
official who is now director of European analysis at the Eurasia
Group in  New York . “The core German principles of legal
certainty and conditionality will remain in place. Decision-making will still be incremental.”  Merkel, 59, will start her third term with  Europe  perched
between crisis and recovery. The 17-nation euro zone is emerging
from a record 18-month recession and Ireland is poised to become
the first of five aid-dependent countries to be weaned off
outside help.  Bond Spreads  While Ireland’s 10-year bonds now yield about 2 percentage
points more than German debt, making it the first aid recipient
to fall in line with euro interest-rate targets, progress has
been spottier elsewhere. Greece, with a yield premium of about 8
percentage points, needs further relief;  Portugal , with a 5.1
percentage-point premium, might also need a top-up.  Germany’s 28 percent weight in the $12.7 trillion euro-area
economy, top  credit rating  and pre-eminent role in the creation
of the euro enabled it to dominate the crisis response. German
views may gain more clout, now that two crisis-management allies
-- the Netherlands and  Finland  -- face fiscal and economic
problems of their own.  “We cannot prematurely drop the pressure to reform,”
Merkel said on German television last night. Defending her habit
of feeling her way into problem-solving instead of laying out
grand visions, she said that “once I know that something will
cost something, I’ll say so.”  Coalition Building  Merkel wouldn’t speculate on the shape of her next
government, most likely a rerun of her 2005-2009 coalition with
the  Social Democrats , her party’s traditional rivals. The
Christian Democratic bloc won 311 seats in the Bundestag, five
short of an absolute majority, forcing Merkel to share power
with the Social Democrats or Greens.  “The German SPD is much more in sync with other countries,
also in the south,” said Laurens Jan Brinkhorst, a former Dutch
deputy prime minister who now teaches at the University of
Leiden.  Defections from her own ranks have already compelled her to
enlist the Social Democrats as de facto crisis-management
partners. On at least four occasions, including this year’s aid
package for Cyprus, Merkel relied on opposition votes to pass
save-the-euro measures in the Bundestag.  “She has been able very successfully to occupy the middle
ground,” said Kemal Dervis, a former Turkish economics minister
who is now a vice president of the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington . Merkel the consensus-seeker ruled out trying to form
a minority government.  Merkel and her chief lieutenants meet this morning to
consider which party to engage in coalition talks, which will
run in parallel with euro-level negotiations over bailout fixes,
next year’s national budgets and backstops for troubled banks.  Merkel-SPD talks lasting as long as the 65 days of 2005
would give time for markets to be unsettled by risks including
political tumult in Italy or German high-court objections to the
 European Central Bank ’s bond-buying program, the key element in
over a year of market calm.  Merkel’s Legacy  One school of thought holds that Merkel, in her third term,
will turn to legacy-building by dispensing aid more liberally
and shouldering more of the costs of forging a closer euro
union.  Merkel is animated by “a sense of destiny in terms of what
her third term can leave behind in the legacy of the EU,” said
Jackson Janes, head of the American Institute for Contemporary
German Studies at  Johns Hopkins University  in Washington.
“That’s where she’s going to put her marbles.”  So far, destiny’s verdict is mixed. Merkel, who grew up on
the wrong side of the Cold War east-west divide, is grappling
with a north-south one that was at least temporarily deepened by
her austerity-first prescriptions.  The  5.3 percent unemployment rate  in Germany that smoothed
her re-election contrasts with a euro-zone average of 12.1
percent. Joblessness is 16.5 percent in Portugal, 26.3 percent
in Spain and 27.6 percent in Greece, where the debt crisis broke
out just as Merkel started her second term in late 2009.  Athens Inspection  As Germans were counting votes yesterday, top officials
from the troika of European Commission, ECB and  International
Monetary Fund  were heading to Greece to map out the next steps
in the rescue package for the country that drove the euro zone
to the brink of breakup.  Greece is drawing on 240 billion euros ($324 billion) of
pledged aid and needs more, either in the form of fresh loans, a
writedown of existing ones, or both. Prime Minister Antonis Samaras said he will hold creditors to a commitment to
“consider further measures and assistance” once Greece posts a
surplus on its operating budget.  As that date draws closer, the Greek and German sides are
replaying familiar arguments over conditionality. In Brussels
last week, Samaras said Greece doesn’t need to make further
budget cuts. Merkel’s acolytes accused Greece of a something-for-nothing mentality.  Conditions Demanded  “There would definitely be no new program without
conditions,” Michael Meister, deputy parliamentary chairman of
Merkel’s party in the outgoing government, said in a pre-election interview.  Merkel has ruled out a shift to joint debt liability,
saying that would take Europe backward by providing artificially
cheap financing to countries that don’t deserve it. She favors
keeping governments in charge of euro policies and limiting the
powers of the Brussels-based commission, especially on bank
oversight.  One country appealing for a more lenient German stance is
Cyprus, which was forced by creditors to raze its debt-laden
banking system in exchange for a 10 billion-euro bailout in
March. The Cypriot economy will shrink 8.7 percent this year,
the commission forecasts.  “Germans too realize through the policy of more Europe,
more unification, that there is a need for measures not just of
austerity, or harsh austerity, but measures to boost growth,”
Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades said in a Sept. 17
interview in Nicosia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  