-- Bale Misses Home Debut as Real Beats Getafe; Roma Wins Derby
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-23T00:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/bale-misses-home-debut-as-real-beats-getafe-roma-wins-derby.html
Real  Madrid  lost Gareth Bale to an
injury in the warm-up before beating Getafe 4-1 to move two
points behind leaders Barcelona and  Atletico Madrid  in Spanish
soccer’s La Liga.  Cristiano Ronaldo scored twice, including a penalty kick
for his 150th league goal for Real, and Pepe and Isco also got
goals at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium yesterday. Getafe’s
Michel was red-carded just before the end.  Real said Bale felt discomfort in his left thigh and as a
precaution was pulled from what would have been his home debut
since joining Real for a reported world-record 100 million euros
($135 million) from Tottenham Hotspur. The Welsh winger will
have tests on his thigh today, the club added on its  website .  Barcelona’s  Pedro Rodriguez  scored three goals as his team
maintained its perfect start to the season with a 4-0 victory at
Rayo Vallecano two days ago. Atletico Madrid also has five wins
from five games after a 2-0 victory at Real Valladolid.  Barcelona and Atletico have 15 points. Real Madrid has 13
and Villarreal 11 after a 0-0 draw at Celta Vigo.  Roma extended its 100 percent record in Italy’s Serie A by
beating Lazio 2-0 in the Rome derby with a goal by Federico Balzaretti and an injury-time penalty by Adem Ljajic. Napoli
also made it four wins from as many matches last night by
winning at AC Milan for the first time since 1986. Miguel Britos
and Gonzalo Higuain got the goals in Napoli’s 2-1 victory.  Third-place  Inter Milan  routed Sassuolo 7-0, Fiorentina won
2-0 at Atalanta, and Juventus had a 2-1 victory against Verona.
Roma and Napoli lead with 12 points, with Inter, Juventus and
Fiorentina two points back.  Dortmund Drops Points  In Germany’s Bundesliga,  Borussia Dortmund  dropped points
for the first time with a 1-1 draw at Nuremberg two days ago.
 Bayern Munich  won 4-0 at Schalke to join leader Dortmund on 16
points.  Bayer Leverkusen  is third with 15 points after a 4-1
victory at Mainz.  Defending champion Paris Saint-Germain and leader Monaco
drew 1-1 in France’s Ligue 1 last night. Radamel Falcao’s 20th-minute goal tied Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s early strike to maintain
Monaco’s two-point lead over PSG and Saint-Etienne, which lost
2-1 at home against Toulouse on Sept. 20.  In the Netherlands,  PSV Eindhoven  moved atop the standings
after it beat defending champion Ajax yesterday and previous
leader PEC Zwolle lost 3-0 at Vitesse Arnhem. PSV has 15 points,
two ahead of Zwolle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  