-- Balls Reopens U.K. Labour Rift Over High-Speed Rail Project
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-23T12:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/balls-reopens-u-k-labour-rift-over-high-speed-rail-project.html
Ed Balls , the Treasury spokesman
for the U.K.’s Labour opposition, reopened his party’s rift over
the planned high-speed rail line from  London  to northern
England.  In his speech today to Labour’s annual conference in the
south-coast resort of Brighton, Balls took time to repeat his
August warning that the plan would be scrapped under a Labour
government if costs run out of control. The 50 billion-pound
($80 billion) project, known as HS2, is designed to cut journey
times and increase capacity on existing lines for freight.  “In tough times, when there is less money around and a big
deficit to get down, there will be no blank check from me as a
Labour chancellor for this project,” Balls said, though he said
Labour continues to “back the idea” of the line. “The
question is not just whether a new high-speed line is a good
idea or a bad idea, but whether it is the best way to spend 50
billion pounds for the future of our country.”  His comments come after the last Labour chancellor of the
exchequer,  Alistair Darling , and the party’s former business
secretary,  Peter Mandelson , questioned the project. By contrast,
Andrew Adonis, a former Labour transport secretary who is now
advising the party’s leader  Ed Miliband  on economic policy, said
last month it would be an  “act of national self-mutilation”  if
the party were to cancel HS2.  The high-speed line is unpopular among people who live on
the route, which passes through Conservative-supporting rural
districts. To try to allay concern, more than half the 140 miles
(225 kilometers) of the first leg, from London to Birmingham,
will be in cuttings or tunnels.  The government intends to introduce legislation supporting
HS2 by the end of 2013, with a plan for it to be passed by
Parliament by 2015. Construction would then begin in 2017, with
the line to Birmingham opening in 2026. After Birmingham the
line will split, with tracks going to Manchester and Leeds.
These sections wouldn’t open until 2033.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Brighton,  England , at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  