-- Bank Leverage Holes Drive Scandinavia to Set Agenda EU Won’t
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-09-24T08:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/bank-leverage-gaps-drive-scandinavia-to-set-agenda-europe-won-t.html
Scandinavia is once again showing
it won’t wait for the European Union when it comes to banking
regulation as the AAA rated region moves to curb financial
industry leverage.  After beating the EU in setting rules for too-big-to-fail
banks, Sweden and Denmark are now exploring the option of
imposing a leverage ratio years before most of the rest of
 Europe  does so, and with tougher limits on gearing than
recommended by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Eagerness to regulate in areas neglected by the EU is
growing among Europe’s richest nations, where record-low
 interest rates  are distorting asset prices. A leverage ratio --a
measure of capital to assets before they’ve been weighted for
risk -- will help national regulators catch banks understating
loss probabilities, said  Jesper Rangvid , the head of Denmark’s
government-appointed crisis commission. His report, released
last week, showed excessive leverage at Danske Bank A/S almost
destabilized the entire Danish economy in 2008.  “At the moment, it is difficult for the Financial
Supervisory Authority,” Rangvid said in an interview. “That’s
why we need some minimum level so that a bank holds a certain
level of equity in the end.”  Risk Weights  Stefan Ingves, governor of the Riksbank and chairman of the
 Basel  committee, said this month regulators in his native Sweden
should target a  leverage ratio  before European standards are
set. Ingves said in June the risk weights banks apply to their
assets vary across markets, putting additional pressure on
regulators to ensure capital buffers aren’t diluted. While the
Swedish FSA this year required banks to raise risk weights on
mortgage assets to 15 percent, the level should go as high as 35
percent, Per Jansson, a deputy governor at the Riksbank, said
today.  Europe has hesitated to follow Basel’s recommendation that
banks hold at least 3 percent equity relative to total assets on
concern more rules risk curbing lending and hampering economic
growth. The EU will instead require banks to publish their
individual leverage ratios from 2015 and decide by 2018 whether
region-wide standards need to be set.  Bank Freedoms  Ingves has warned that without leverage requirements, banks
are left with too much freedom to lower their capital base by
adjusting risk weights. Though Sweden’s four biggest banks, led
by Nordea Bank AB and  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , are among
Europe’s best capitalized, the lenders are “highly leveraged,”
Ingves said Sept. 12.  Norway , which unlike Sweden and Denmark isn’t an EU member,
is working to raise banks’ equity relative to total assets by
tripling risk-weight requirements.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who leads the
group of 17 euro finance ministers, said last month systemically
important banks should meet a leverage ratio of at least 4
percent. He also recommends that governments be permitted to
impose national standards if Europe can’t agree on a guideline.
Rangvid is advising Denmark’s government against allowing banks
to follow Basel’s minimum standard.  “We are simply afraid that a bank that has only 3 percent
equity, that that is just low,” he said.  In Denmark, which like  Sweden  has watched its bank industry
grow to four times its economy, Rangvid says regulators need a
clear gauge of risk that isn’t subject to bank managements’
interpretation.  Danske Order  Denmark’s FSA ordered Danske in June to add 100 billion
kroner ($18 billion) to its risk-weighted assets after finding
flaws in its internal ratings model. Danske, Denmark’s biggest
bank with assets equivalent to 182 percent of the economy,
appealed the order a month later. A decision is due six to 12
months from the date the appeal was lodged, according to Danske.  Some banks already are meeting the Basel III leverage
requirement, which increased the ratio from 2 percent in its
Basel II standards. Ratios for large international banks climbed
to 3.7 percent from 2.8 percent from 2009 to 2012, while smaller
banks lifted their average ratio to 4.4 percent from 3.8
percent, according to a Bank for International Settlements
 survey  published Sept. 15.  Among the world’s largest banks, leverage ratios range from
a low of 2.5 percent at Barclays Plc to 5 percent at  Bank of
America Corp. , according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries.  Economic Fallout  Denmark ’s banks are warning against taking the lead on yet
another piece of regulation. The industry saw its funding costs
surge after Denmark in 2010 became the first and only EU nation
to pass a resolution framework that forces losses on senior bank
creditors. Europe is still negotiating its bail-in framework.  Further extraordinary measures would put Denmark’s banks at
a competitive disadvantage and risk hurting the economy, Morten
Frederiksen, head of regulatory affairs at the Danish Bankers
Association, said in an interview.  “Danish banks should have the same regulations as banks in
other countries,” Frederiksen said. “We need to see what
happens internationally, at Basel and in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  