-- Banks Prove Safer Than Industrials in Bond Rally: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-09-23T15:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/banks-prove-safer-than-industrials-in-bond-rally-credit-markets.html
For the first time since before the
credit crisis, bond buyers are demonstrating more confidence in
the U.S. banking system than in industrial companies as lenders
fortify balance sheets while firms from  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  borrow record amounts.  Relative yields on bonds from  Citigroup (C)  Inc. to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  were 3 basis points less than the average for
industrial notes last week, the first time since September 2007
that investors didn’t require more from bank borrowers, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. The relationship reversed
after bank bond spreads surged to an unprecedented 365 basis
points more than industrials amid the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  Lenders sitting on a record $9.5 trillion of  deposits  are
winning over the  bond market  after increasing a measure of their
capital cushions by about 54 percent to meet regulations
intended to prevent a repeat of the turmoil that followed the
2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and contributed
to more than $2 trillion of writedowns and losses at the world’s
biggest financial institutions.  Citigroup, JPMorgan  “These are the cleanest balance sheets we’ve seen in a
generation,” said  Mark Kiesel , global head of corporate bond
portfolios at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., which oversees $1.97 trillion as the world’s
biggest bond-fund manager. “Banks were being forced by
regulators to act in the best interest of bondholders,” said
Kiesel, who began calling for a rally in the bonds in 2009.  Spreads on the debt of Citigroup, which took its last step
in eliminating a $7 billion government stake this month after
receiving more bailout assistance than any other U.S. lender,
have dropped to 137 basis points from 806 basis points in April
2009. The third-biggest U.S. bank by assets boosted its tangible
common equity ratio, a measure of its ability to absorb
financial shocks, to 8.72 percent in the second quarter from
1.66 percent at the end of March 2009, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  Spreads on JPMorgan, the nation’s biggest bank, have fallen
to 115 from 500, or 5 percentage points, during the same period
as it increased its equity ratio to 6.18 percent from 4.18
percent during the same period.  Industrial Debt  As banks bolster their balance sheets, corporate debt loads
are approaching the highest levels since 2009 as treasurers tap
the  bond market  to fund acquisitions and shareholder rewards
before the  Federal Reserve  starts scaling back stimulus that
pushed borrowing costs to record lows.  Corporate debt levels have increased faster than cash flow
for six straight quarters, boosting the obligations of
investment-grade companies in the second quarter to 2.09 times,
according to an Aug. 23 report by JPMorgan credit strategists.
That’s up from 2.07 times in the first three months of 2013 and
compares with 2.13 in the third quarter of 2009.  “You have a dichotomy of environments,” said Thomas Urano, a  money manager  at Austin, Texas-based Sage Advisory
Services Ltd., which oversees about $10 billion and favors
financial bonds over industrial debt. “The regulatory
environment is kind of prohibiting re-leveraging in finance, and
on the industrial side the credit fundamentals make it
attractive to.”  Spread Gap  The extra yield investors demand to own bank debt instead
of similar-maturity Treasuries was 149 basis points on Sept. 20,
compared with a spread of 152 on industrial notes, the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Globally, spreads on bank debt of 145 basis points are 4
more than those of industrial notes, index data show.  Bank bonds were seen as safer than industrial debt by
investors until September 2007, the month after BNP Paribas SA
marked the start of the credit seizure by halting withdrawals
from investment funds that owned subprime mortgage securities.  Lender spreads averaged 82 basis points, or 55 less than
those for industrial companies, in the five years before 2007,
when a collapse of the U.S. housing market triggered failures of
lenders from Lehman to Washington Mutual Inc. Spreads reached
823 basis points on bank securities in March 2009 and 603 for
industrial debt in December 2008, both all-time highs.  Bond Returns  Dollar-denominated bank debt has returned 9 percent
annually since the end of 2008, compared with 9.2 percent for
securities of non-financial firms, the index data show.  Investors started to regain confidence as the Fed began
stimulus efforts that expanded its balance sheet by $2.8
trillion since Lehman’s collapse and the U.S. government stepped
up rescue efforts including the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program that backed new
senior unsecured debt.  Increased banking standards announced in 2010 by the 27-country  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  pushed lenders to
boost capital measures that regulators track to determine their
ability to withstand losses. In the U.S., Congress passed the
Dodd-Frank Act seeking to restrict the risks banks take with
their own money.  The average tangible common equity ratio for North American
banks climbed to 8.57 percent in the second quarter from 5.58
percent in the fourth quarter of 2008, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  ‘Good Shape’  Lenders have increased deposits 37 percent since the end of
2008, while borrowings from  money market funds  and other short-term sources that all but froze during the credit crisis have
decreased 23 percent to $1.35 trillion, Bloomberg Industries
data show. Deposits exceed lending at U.S. banks by an
unprecedented $2.2 trillion, Fed data show. Obligations were
$135.9 billion more than deposits at the end of 2007.  “Banks are going to be in really good shape going
forward,” given the tougher regulation, Matthew Duch, who helps
oversee $12 billion as a money manager at Bethesda,  Maryland ,
Calvert Investments Inc., said in a telephone interview.
“Profitability may not be as strong, so maybe it’s not an
equity story,” he said. “But from a debt perspective, you feel
pretty good.”  Bank confidence was boosted again this week as the Fed
refrained from trimming its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases,  Fitch Ratings  said in a Sept. 18 report.  Rate Sensitivity  “Sustained asset purchases and slow loan growth have
created a large deposit cushion for banks,” analysts at the
ratings company said. “U.S. bank liquidity will remain near
record levels, as securities held on the Fed’s balance sheet
continue to grow.”  Bank debt also is benefiting as investors seek securities
that are less vulnerable to rising  interest rates  as the Fed
considers scaling back bond buying that pushed yields on
corporate bonds from the riskiest to the most creditworthy
borrowers to a record-low 3.35 percent in May. Yields climbed to
4.09 percent on Sept. 20.  A measure of that rate sensitivity, known as effective
duration, was 4.56 for securities issued by lenders, compared
with 6.94 for industrial bonds, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  The same measures that helped to mend the banking system
enabled companies in the U.S. to issue $6.1 trillion of bonds
since 2008 to extend maturities, lower interest expense and
finance mergers and acquisitions.  Verizon Offering  Sales of $1.1 trillion in the U.S. this year follow
unprecedented offerings of $1.47 trillion in all of 2012,
Bloomberg data show. The share of bank bonds in the overall
market fell to 18 percent, its lowest in more than four years,
with the share of industrial bonds rising to 48 percent, its
highest ever, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Verizon raised $49 billion of debt on Sept. 11, the biggest
corporate bond offering ever, for its $130 billion deal with
Vodafone Group Plc to take full control of its Verizon Wireless
unit. The new debt more than doubled the New York-based
company’s $49.2 billion of borrowings and raises its ratio of
debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization to about 2 times from 1.6 times, after accounting
for the increased cash flow from Vodafone’s 45 percent stake.  That offering surpassed a previous record $17 billion issue
in April by Apple that was used to help fund a $100 billion
capital reward for shareholders. The company had been debt-free
since 2004 and saw its leverage increase to 0.3 times.  Industrial Risk  “We’ve seen a noticeable up-tick in shareholder activism,
M&A risk and shareholder-friendly rewards,” Sage’s Urano said.
“In our minds that puts the balance sheet and credit
fundamentals at risk in the industrial sectors.”  The total amount of cash delivered to shareholders in the
second quarter by investment-grade companies rose to $485
billion, a 1.5 percent increase from the previous period,
JPMorgan data show. That’s 57 percent higher than the average
over the past decade, though the level has declined from a year
earlier, the analysts wrote.  While bank credit quality has improved as capital cushions
increased, industrial “companies have a lot more freedom to
take advantages of opportunities in low interest rates,”
 Kathleen Shanley , an analyst at debt researcher Gimme Credit
LLC, said in a telephone interview. “We are seeing more freedom
to leverage up and do acquisitions and buybacks.”  GM Offering  Elsewhere in credit markets,  General Motors Co. (GM)  plans to
sell bonds in a three-part offering that will help the carmaker
partially owned by the U.S. government repurchase $3.2 billion
of preferred stock. Moody’s Investors Service lifted GM to
investment grade. Issuers in the reviving market for U.S.
mortgage securities are creating debt with features not seen
since before the financial crisis that can increase risks for
certain investors, Moody’s said in a report.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. and  Europe  rose in the second day of trading for new
versions of benchmark credit-default swaps indexes.  Series 21 of the Markit CDX North American Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.9 basis point to 80.8
basis points as of 11:37 a.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 8.8 basis points more than where
the previous series is trading.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 0.7 basis point to 100.1, or 9.7
more than the older contract, Bloomberg prices show.  Verizon Active  New versions of Markit Group Ltd.’s indexes are created
every six months. Companies are replaced if they no longer hold
appropriate grades, aren’t among the most actively traded credit
swaps or fail to meet other criteria. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of New York-based Verizon Communications Inc. are the
most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, accounting for 7.2 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  GM intends to issue five-, 10- and 30-year securities to
help it buy back 120 million preferred shares from the United
Auto Workers retiree health care trust, the Detroit-based
company said today in a statement. The bond sale may price
tomorrow, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction who asked not to be named because terms aren’t set.
The new bonds will be rated Ba1, Moody’s said in a report.  Mortgage-Bond Risks  The deal would come almost three years after the automaker,
which filed for bankruptcy in 2009, repurchased $2.1 billion of
the preferred stock from the Treasury Department. The UAW trust
currently holds 260 million of the shares, GM said in the
statement. Moody’s raised the corporate rating of GM to Baa3
from Ba1, citing expectations for an improved credit profile and
competitive position, according to the report today.  The expanding ways in which investors in the various pieces
of mortgage-bond deals will share cash flows from the underlying
loans raise additional “analytical challenges,” Moody’s said
today in a report. The structures are creating debt -- with
names including super-senior support bonds, exchangeable
securities, principal-only notes and pool interest-only bonds --
in which investors in some pieces can have greater losses even
with the same levels of loan defaults and repayments.  After a previous generation of  mortgage bonds  without
government backing helped fuel a global credit seizure, Moody’s
said the quality of the underlying loans in new deals remains
“strong” and their senior-ranked bonds “will only incur
losses in low-probability scenarios.” At the same time, some of
the revived features have been exacerbating the losses in older
bonds, Moody’s analyst Kruti Muni said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  