-- Bank of Israel Surprises With First Post-Fischer Cut
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-09-23T12:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/bank-of-israel-surprises-with-first-post-fischer-cut.html
The Bank of  Israel  unexpectedly
reduced the benchmark lending rate for the first time since
 Stanley Fischer  stepped down as governor, after the shekel
appreciated to its strongest level in two years.  The five-member monetary policy panel, which has been led
by acting Governor Karnit Flug since Fischer left the bank three
months ago, cut borrowing costs by a quarter of a percentage
point to 1 percent. Only one of the 18 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg had forecast the decision, while the remainder had
predicted no cut.  “The strength of the shekel, the low-inflation
environment, the slowdown in export activity support an
additional rate cut,”  Rafael Gozlan , chief economist at I.B.I.
- Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd., said before the
announcement.  Exports, the main engine of growth of the Israeli economy
in the past decade, have stagnated this year as shekel
strengthens.  The  Bank of Israel  under Fischer had lowered the benchmark
rate by 2 percentage points since 2011, including twice in May,
to help spur economic growth. Israel’s economy will probably
expand 3.4 percent in 2013, the same as last year, the  Central
Bureau of Statistics  said Sept. 16. The estimate missed the
central bank’s June forecast of 3.8 percent.  Natural Gas  The central bank in May announced a plan to buy $2.1
billion by the end of the year in an effort to help moderate
shekel gains, spurred this year by first-time  natural gas 
production. Since the end of May, the Israeli currency
strengthened by about 4.6 percent, making it the sixth best
performing currency during that period among the 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The shekel’s gains prompted the Israel Export &
International Cooperation Institute to call on the government
and the central bank to halt the currency’s appreciation.  The bungled appointment of the Bank of Israel’s next
governor has not affected the central bank’s operations, Reuben
Gronau, a member of its monetary policy panel, said last month,
offering reassurance to markets the vital institution is in good
hands.  Two nominees fielded by Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
and Finance Minister Yair Lapid withdrew after questions about
alleged conduct arose. Helming it in the meantime is the hand-picked deputy Fischer recommended to replace him, twice-spurned
Flug.  Three more candidates are currently being considered: Mario Blejer, a former Argentina central banker; Zvi Eckstein, a
former Bank of Israel deputy governor; and Victor Medina, a
onetime Finance Ministry director general and former chief
executive officer of United Mizrahi Bank Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  