-- Banks Mull Tap Sales for $230 Billion of Danish Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-09-23T10:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/banks-mull-tap-sales-for-230-billion-of-danish-mortgage-bonds.html
Denmark ’s mortgage banks are
looking into opening non-stop auctions affecting $230 billion in
adjustable-rate covered bonds in an effort to mitigate
refinancing risks.  Banks, which in 2009 extended annual bond auctions to
quarterly refinancing sales, are now considering stretching the
length of each auction to as long as three months and
effectively creating an on-tap system, according to Peter
Jayaswal, deputy director at the Association of Danish Mortgage
Banks.  The talks follow warnings from the central bank and
 Standard & Poor’s  that Denmark’s adjustable-rate mortgage bonds
are adding risk to the $340 billion economy. S&P in July put
Danish mortgage lenders on review for downgrades, arguing their
reliance on bonds as short as one year to finance mortgages as
long as 30 years exposes the industry to liquidity shocks.  “All the mortgage banks agree there is more risk with
adjustable-rate mortgages,” Jayaswal said in a phone interview.
“If a mortgage bank has refinancing auctions four times a year
and they take three months, then the mortgage bank would have
continual issuance. That is one way to do it.”  Banks have so far defended the adjustable-rate mortgage
bonds, arguing their performance during the financial crisis
shows they can withstand liquidity droughts. Their popularity
among homeowners and investors has driven up issuance since they
were first introduced in 1996 to make up about half the $500
billion market.  Beating Treasuries  The  Nykredit Realkredit A/S index  of the most-traded Danish
mortgage bonds has returned 35 percent since the end of
September 2008, the month Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
failure sent international  capital markets  into a tailspin. U.S.
Treasuries longer than one year have returned 21 percent in the
period, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. The figures
include re-invested interest.  S&P cut its outlooks on four mortgage banks in July,
including Danske Bank A/S and Nykredit,  Europe ’s biggest issuer
of mortgage-backed covered bonds, citing risks posed by the one-year bonds. Under European legislation adopted this year, banks
must meet two new liquidity ratios to survive a 30-day market
shutdown and to have a minimum level of funding with maturities
longer than one year. The Danish central bank has urged earlier
national implementation of both standards.  Downgrade Threat  Talks to shift mortgage bond sales to tap auctions also
follow warnings from S&P analyst Per Tornqvist that previous
efforts to spread refinancings across the year weren’t enough to
help the industry escape the threat of downgrades. S&P rates
 Danske Bank (DANSKE)  A-, and gives Nykredit an A+ grade.  Higher rates and a steepening yield curve are likely to
lead borrowers to stick to adjustable-rate mortgages in December
auctions, Jan Oestergaard, a senior analyst at Danske, said in a
Sept. 20 note. He estimates banks will sell 192 billion kroner
($35 billion) in one-year bonds, more than three times the
amount of three- and five-year securities.  Given the bonds’ popularity, the industry prefers a model
that cuts risk without cutting issuance, Jayaswal said.  “We will see more distribution of refinancing,” he said.
“We don’t want to put a percentage on the amount of one-years
that a bank can have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  