-- Banks Facing Onslaught of Property Loan Seekers, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-09-23T16:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/banks-facing-onslaught-of-property-loan-seekers-jpmorgan-says.html
Wall Street banks face an influx of
borrowers seeking commercial property loans in the wake of the
Federal Reserve’s decision to maintain the pace of its stimulus
measures, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  With  interest rates  falling since the central bank
announcement, after a surge that started in May when Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated policy makers could taper $85
billion in monthly bond purchases as soon as September, issuance
of commercial-mortgage bonds is poised to increase, according to
JPMorgan analysts led by Ed Reardon.  “Both refinance volume and transaction volume will pick up
as borrowers seek to lock in lower rates ahead of the eventual
tapering decision,” the New York-based analysts said in a Sept.
20 report.  The extended period of  low rates , a boon for property
values, could strain investor appetite for securities linked to
everything from skyscrapers to strip malls, according to
JPMorgan. The bank is forecasting $77 billion in sales this
year, with about $56.7 billion offered to date, the report said.  The market for new commercial-mortgage backed securities
reopened in 2010 after slamming shut when credit markets froze
in 2008. The amount of debt paying down during the past five
years outstripped the pace of new issuance, boosting demand,
according to JPMorgan. That pattern is set to reverse as
issuance rises. Sales are poised to double from last year’s $42
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Net supply is now less of a tailwind for the market
relative to the period when the CMBS market first reopened,”
the JPMorgan analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  