-- Barrick Gold Seeks Efficiencies With Corporate Structure Changes
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-09-23T01:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/barrick-gold-seeks-efficiencies-with-corporate-structure-changes.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s
biggest producer, is overhauling its corporate structure so that
mines are managed more directly by senior executives in its
Toronto office.  Barrick, which already cut its corporate office staff by 30
percent this year, will create new operating units to replace
its regional units that run as largely self-contained
businesses, the company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
Support functions will be centralized and roles and
responsibilities may change for some employees in regional
offices, the company said.  Barrick is among gold miners seeking to curb spending and
reduce costs after bullion had its steepest drop in three
decades. Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky started a
companywide review of operations after he was promoted from
Chief Financial Officer in June 2012 and efforts have
accelerated after gold slipped into a  bear market  in April.  Barrick appointed Gary Halverson, the company’s regional
head of  North America , to act as interim chief operating
officer, Sokalsky said in a Sept. 12 presentation. Barrick is
seeking a permanent replacement for former COO Igor Gonzales,
who left during the second quarter.  “The new operating units will be accountable for managing
our core business of mining operations, with a focus on free
 cash flow , production, costs, safety performance, and meeting
our environmental obligations and commitments,” the company
said in the statement. “Under this new structure, the
operations will have a more direct reporting line to the
corporate office, and the COO.”  Three Mines  Barrick will cut regional managers, the Financial Times
reported yesterday.  Andy Lloyd , a Barrick spokesman, declined to
comment on any job cuts or provide further comment on the
reorganization.  Barrick sold its oil and gas unit and agreed last month to
sell three Australian mines to Gold Fields Ltd. The company will
also start shutting down its high-cost Pierina mine in  Peru  this
quarter, Sokalsky said Sept. 12, when he also discussed plans
for changes to the corporate structure.  Higher-cost mines that don’t improve will be closed or
sold, he said.  “We are going to emerge leaner, more agile and
profitable,” Sokalsky said in the presentation. “If we get
smaller, so be it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  