-- 3 Billion Reasons Why Believing Argentine GDP Is Optional
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-23T15:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/believing-data-not-required-with-gdp-warrants-argentina-credit.html
Buyers of warrants tied to
 Argentina ’s economic growth have at least 3 billion reasons to
believe the nation is expanding faster than  China .  The securities have jumped 15.6 percent this month to the
highest level this year, versus a 3.8 percent gain for  emerging-market government debt . The government, which in February became
the first member of the  International Monetary Fund  to be
censured for reporting inaccurate data, said Sept. 20 that the
economy grew 8.3 percent in the second quarter. That exceeds
China’s 7.5 percent growth and would be the fastest in the world
apart from Macao, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has boosted
spending and subsidies ahead of congressional elections next
month and the 2014 budget showed the government projects growth
of 5.1 percent this year. While former central bank President
 Martin Redrado  says the data is being inflated to garner more
votes and the economy is actually expanding at less than half
that rate, the official estimate surpasses the 3.22 percent
needed trigger an estimated payment of $3 billion.  “For investors, what matters is the official reports and
we see that the government is triggering a GDP warrant
payment,” Hernan Yellati, head strategist at BancTrust & Co.
said in a telephone interview in Buenos Aires. “This strategy
of showing growth that is likely higher than the real one is an
expensive one.”  Growth Outlook  Presidential spokesman Alfredo Scoccimarro and Norma Madeo,
a spokeswoman for the Economy Ministry, didn’t return an e-mail
and phone calls seeking comment on the accuracy of official data
and the likelihood of a warrant payment.  The government would have to report a contraction of at
least 3 percent in the third and fourth quarter from the
previous quarters to miss the payment, according to Luciana
Carcione, an economist at Orlando Ferreres & Asociados.  Opposition lawmakers said Sept. 19 the economy grew 5.4
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier and 3 percent
in the first half, according to a report that compiled private
estimates from 12 economic research firms.  Payments on the warrants are triggered when Argentina’s
economy meets pre-established growth targets. Coupons are paid
in December of the following year. The securities, which pay no
interest and were issued as part of the nation’s debt
restructurings following the 2001 default, rose 0.36 percent to
8.48 cents on the dollar at 12:53 p.m. in  Buenos Aires , the
highest this year.  ‘Look Cheap’  Last month, Credit Suisse Group AG raised its 2013 growth
forecast to 3.7 percent from a previous estimate of 3 percent
and said holders of the securities will get a payment of 5.7
cents in 2014. Of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, 10 estimate
growth this year will surpass the threshold for payment.  “GDP warrants valuations are attractive,” Credit Suisse’s
strategist Daniel Chodos wrote in the Aug. 19 report, when he
raised the growth forecast. “Optionality on Argentina’s future
growth looks cheap.”  The country will have to pay about $3 billion to the
warrant holders in December 2014, BancTrust’s Yellati said.  Since 2010, the country has tapped about $39 billion from
central bank  reserves  to make debt payments. The 2014 budget
bill includes a plan to use a record $9.86 billion in reserves
for next year’s obligations. Reserves have tumbled 18.8 percent
this year to $35.02 billion on Sept. 20.  Argentina’s budget bill sees the economy expanding 6.2
percent in 2014, above the 3.03 percent that triggers a payment
in 2015. Government estimates exceed IMF forecasts of 2.8
percent this year and 3.5 percent in 2014.  IMF Doubts  “Alternative data sources have shown significantly lower
real growth than the official data since 2008 and considerably
higher inflation rates than the official data since 2007,” the
IMF said in a footnote on its April’s World Economic Outlook.
“In this context, the IMF is also using alternative estimates
of GDP growth and CPI inflation for the surveillance of
macroeconomic developments in Argentina.”  Redrado, who runs Buenos Aires-based MR Financial Services,
said that official data is inflated as the government tries to
show an economic rebound before Oct. 27 mid-term elections.  “There will be a revision of growth data in the last
quarter because Argentina doesn’t have enough dollars to make
the warrant payment,” Redrado said in a telephone interview.
“It would be a wasteful payment.”  Argentina’s five-year credit-default swaps, contracts that
protect the nation’s bondholders against non-payment, fell 71
basis points, or 0.71 percentage point, to 2,276 basis points at
11 a.m. in  New York , according to data compiled by CMA Ltd. The
peso fell 0.2 percent to 5.7719 per dollar.  ‘Crazy’ Payment  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  fell one
basis point to 1,036 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Diversified index.  Since the warrants were first issued as part of the
country’s debt restructuring in 2005, investors have received
six payments totaling 18 cents as Argentina averaged growth of
7.4 percent. The securities can pay a maximum of 48 cents until
they mature in 2035, or a total of $480,000 for a notional
amount of $1 million. The government paid $3.5 billion in 2012
to warrant holders.  Argentina has decided to ease some import restrictions this
year to prioritize growth before the mid-term elections, said
Rodrigo Alvarez, an economist at Analytica research firm in
Buenos Aires. The government won’t underreport growth enough in
the fourth quarter to miss the payment, he said.  “It’s crazy for Argentina to lose 10 percent of its
reserves for lying with its data,” he said. “But I don’t see
the government showing a violent drop in activity to avoid the
payment.”  a  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  