-- Bernanke Delaying Taper Slows Worst Fund Withdrawal: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/bernanke-delaying-taper-slows-worst-fund-withdrawal-muni-credit.html
Credit Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  with putting the brakes on the biggest stampede out
of municipal mutual funds since 2011.  As the $3.7 trillion local-debt market logs its best rally
in 21 months, individuals are yanking the least money in six
weeks from funds focusing on city and state debt. The slowdown
in withdrawals follows Bernanke’s unexpected decision last week
to refrain from curbing the Fed’s monthly bond buying.  The rally has led investors seeking higher interest rates
to munis, where yields have  exceeded  those on Treasuries for the
longest stretch in almost a year. Individuals in the week
through Sept. 18 pulled $1.1 billion from local-debt mutual
funds, the smallest withdrawal since Aug. 7, Lipper US Fund
Flows data show. The slowing exodus should continue and extend
the market’s gains, said Michael Zezas, chief municipal
strategist at Morgan Stanley in  New York .  “Conditions for demand to return are improving, and we’re
expecting to see an improvement in fund flows going into the
fourth quarter,” Zezas said. “You can capture excess relative
value in the market right now, particularly in high-grade
bonds.”  Losses Moderate  The demand boost following the Fed announcement has helped
moderate the worst losses in 14 years for municipal investors.
Local debt dropped 4.4 percent in 2013 through Sept. 17, on pace
for the biggest yearly decline since 1999, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. The past week’s gain has trimmed the
drop to 3.7 percent, which would be the worst since 2008.  Yields on benchmark 10-year munis fell 0.29 percentage
point over the past two weeks, the most since 2011.  The rally may support states and cities looking to bolster
their budgets more than four years after the longest recession
since the 1930s. Local governments have scaled back refinancing
this year by the most since 2006 as elevated yields prevented
them from saving on borrowing costs.  Refundings dropped to $81 billion through Sept. 11, out of
$229 billion of total sales, Citigroup Inc. data show. That’s
down 29 percent from last year’s pace, when localities refunded
the most since at least 2003.  Denver’s Move  This week, issuers such as Denver and Western Michigan
University are set to offer a combined $446 million in deals
dedicated to refunding, representing about 15 percent of
issuance, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Such refinancing deals made up 10 percent of supply last
week, the smallest share since July 26. That was the first full
week after  Detroit  filed a record $18 billion municipal
bankruptcy.  Denver is offering about $122 million of refunding debt. If
the Fed had tapered its bond purchases,  Colorado ’s most-populous
city would have probably delayed the sale, said Guadalupe
Gutierrez, the city’s debt administrator.  “We try to plan around any sort of significant releases in
market information in case there’s any sort of disruption as a
result,” she said. “The news actually improved the
conditions” to save on debt service.  Denver’s refinancing is estimated to save more than $5
million, “well above” the city’s target, Gutierrez said.  Supply Sag  Interest rates are declining as supply is set to dwindle,
said Dan Solender at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey . Localities have scheduled $4.6 billion of bond sales
during the next 30 days, the  least  since February.  “The market for two weeks now had steady performance with
low supply,” said Solender, who oversees $16.5 billion of local
debt as head of munis. “Retail demand seems pretty strong at
these yields.”  Individuals have still pulled money from funds for 17
straight weeks, withdrawing about a net $27 billion, Lipper data
show. It’s the fastest pace since 2011.  The 10 straight days of declining yields coupled with last
week’s slower outflows reflect a “herd mentality” of demand
returning to the market when a rally begins, said Adam Mackey at
PNC Capital Advisors in Philadelphia.  For example, investors added $842 million to muni funds in
the week through Dec. 5 when yields were setting generational
lows. Similarly, they yanked $1.9 billion in the week through
Sept. 11 as a fourth straight month of losses pushed  interest
rates  to a two-year high, data from Bloomberg and Lipper show.  ‘Momentum Market’  “The muni space is evolving and it’s turning into this
momentum market where we’re oversold or overbought all the time
-- there’s very little equilibrium,” said Mackey, who oversees
$6.5 billion in local debt as head of municipal fixed income.
“Either everyone is piling in or everyone is piling out. It
creates opportunities, no question about it.”  Localities from  West Virginia  to  Washington  are issuing
$3.7 billion of long-term munis this week, down from $4.2
billion last week,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. They’re
selling as AAA 10-year munis yield 2.86 percent, the lowest in
more than a month. That compares with 2.73 percent on
Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields suggests munis are relatively
cheap, as local bonds historically yield less than their federal
counterparts given their tax-exemption.  Following is a pending sale:  The Regents of the  University of California  are set to sell
about $2.6 billion of revenue bonds this week, according to the
state treasurer’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  