-- BlackRock Sees Growth Surprise as Bond Risk Slides: China Credit
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-09-23T02:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/blackrock-sees-growth-surprise-as-bond-risk-slides-china-credit.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, expects  China’s economy  to “surprise on the
upside” for the rest of the year, after the cost of insuring
the nation’s debt fell the most in  Asia  this quarter.  China ’s credit-default swap contracts have declined 39
basis points since June 30, the most of any major sovereign in
the region, according to data provider CMA. The extra yield
Chinese borrowers pay over Treasuries to raise dollars in the
 debt market  dropped 44 basis points in the same period to 362 on
Sept. 16, the lowest since January, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. indexes. That exceeds the  17 basis-point  decline for all
Asian issuers.  Bank of America Corp., UBS AG and ING Groep NV have raised
China’s growth forecasts for 2013 after factory output expanded
the most in 17 months in August, even as other Asian nations
grapple with slowdowns. Regional currencies rallied on
expectations Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s decision
last week to maintain quantitative easing will staunch a $50
billion flow from emerging-market funds since May.  “China seems to be the one bright spot now,” said Suanjin Tan, a Singapore-based Asia fixed-income portfolio manager at
BlackRock. “Emerging-market tourists are finding it more
attractive to invest back home, unless the surprise decision by
Mr. Bernanke not to taper QE sends them back into the hunt-for-yield paradigm.”  Rising Output  Industrial production in China  rose  10.4 percent in August
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in a
statement in Beijing on Sept. 10, beating the median 9.9 percent
forecast of 45 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . A separate
manufacturing gauge rose to a six-month high in September. The
preliminary reading of 51.2 for a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
advanced from 50.1 in August.  UBS boosted its outlook earlier this month for the nation’s
economic expansion in 2013 to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent,
citing the stronger-than-expected factory production. ING
increased its forecast for the year to 7.7 percent from 7.5
percent, while Bank of America now projects 7.7 percent growth,
up from 7.6 percent, according to e-mailed notes.  “Stability is very important from a market standpoint and
that’s what we seem to be getting now,” said Kaushik Rudra, the
global head of credit research in  Singapore  at Standard
Chartered Plc. “That is providing a decent backdrop for all
China-related risk.”  Weaker Credit  Swap contracts insuring the nation’s debt against non-payment have fallen from a high for the year of 147 basis points
marked in June, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
private market. Concerns some companies may miss debt payments
had mounted at that time, as Premier  Li Keqiang  engineered the
country’s worst cash crunch in at least a decade.  “That was an attempt to try to send a message to the
banking system that it would not allow unchecked credit growth
indefinitely,” said Geoffrey Lunt, a Hong Kong-based senior
product specialist of fixed income at HSBC Global Asset
Management. The company oversees $413 billion globally. “It was
a difficult period and the authorities have learned from that.”  Although China is forecast to expand more than any other
major economy at 7.5 percent this year, that would still be the
least in more than two decades.  The slowdown will contribute to weaker credit profiles for
some companies, particularly in coal, metals and mining, and
transportation,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a statement last
month. The impact will be uneven, with oil and gas refiners and
telecommunications providers among the strongest, it said.  China Value  The yield on 10-year benchmark government  bonds  has climbed
54 basis points to 4.05 percent this quarter, according to
Chinabond indexes. Top-rated corporates are also paying more for
domestic  debt  with yields rising 55 basis points to 5.678
percent, near the highest since October 2011, the indexes show.
The  yuan  closed at 6.1212 per dollar in  Shanghai  on Sept. 18
before the two-day Mid-Autumn Festival holiday.  UBS sees value in BBB rated centrally controlled Chinese
state-owned enterprises and is overweight on the nation’s
property developers, Edwin Chan, head of Asian credit research
at the Swiss lender said late last month.  China Orient Asset Management Corp., which purchases,
manages and disposes of non-performing loans, led $2.1 billion
of U.S-currency note sales by Chinese and Hong Kong companies
this month, already the most since May, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  China Ping An Insurance Overseas Holdings Ltd., a wholly
owned subsidiary of Ping An Insurance Group Company of China
Ltd., planned to meet investors last week after setting up a $2
billion medium-term note program, a person with knowledge of the
details said at the time. China National Offshore Oil Corp. and
China General Nuclear Power Corp. are also planning meetings,
separate people said.  Recent signs of improvement in the Chinese economy have
been encouraging, according to HSBC Global Asset Management’s
Lunt. “I don’t think the world has to be scared of a slowing
Chinese economy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  