-- Blackstone’s Brixmor Expects IPO Proceeds of $750 Million
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-09-23T16:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/blackstone-s-brixmor-expects-ipo-proceeds-of-750-million.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s  Brixmor
Property Group Inc. (BRX) , the second-largest U.S. shopping center
landlord, expects $750 million in gross proceeds in its initial
public offering.  The estimate was disclosed today in a regulatory filing by
New York-based Brixmor. The company, which first filed for an
IPO in July, hasn’t set price terms or the number of shares
being sold.  An offering of at least $750 million would be the largest
IPO by a retail real estate investment trust since Simon
Property Group Inc. raised $840 million in 1993, data from the
National Association of REITs show. Blackstone is planning the
sale at a time when U.S. shopping-center occupancies are at an
almost four-year high and rents are climbing.  Even so, shares of retail-focused REITs have declined in
recent months on concern that rising interest rates will
increase landlords’ borrowing costs and hurt property values.
The Bloomberg REIT Shopping Center  index  fell almost 15 percent
from its May high through last week.  Brixmor owns or operates 522 centers, more than 70 percent
of which are anchored by a market-leading grocery store,
according to the filing. The company is second to  Kimco Realty
Corp. (KIM)  among U.S. shopping-center landlords by number of
properties.  The assets that form Brixmor’s core were acquired in
Blackstone’s $9 billion purchase of U.S. shopping centers from
 Australia ’s Centro Properties Group in 2011.  Brixmor also said in its filing that it is nominating
Michael Berman, the chief financial officer of mall owner
General Growth Properties Inc., and Anthony Deering, chairman of
Exeter Capital LLC, a private investment firm, to its board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  