-- BOE’s Broadbent Says Faster Jobless Drop May Demand Rate Rethink
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-09-23T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/boe-s-broadbent-says-faster-jobless-drop-may-demand-rate-rethink.html
Bank of England policy maker Ben Broadbent said it was right to link forward guidance to
unemployment and a faster drop in the jobless rate would warrant
a rethink on the scale of stimulus needed for the economy.  It’s “appropriate to consider withdrawing some of the
monetary easing in place if we see a marked decline in the
single most reliable -- albeit lagged -- measure of spare
capacity, namely the rate of unemployment,” Broadbent said in a
speech in  London  today. “If unemployment declines more slowly
it would be right to leave the monetary stance unchanged for
that much longer.”  Governor Mark Carney introduced guidance last month, saying
policy makers won’t consider raising their  key interest rate 
from a record low of 0.5 percent at least until the unemployment
rate falls to 7 percent, something they don’t see happening
until late 2016. Broadbent said the plan is needed to
accommodate the “unusually uncertain” outlook for the
economy’s output potential.  He also signaled he doesn’t see a problem if a faster-than-forecast recovery prompts the Monetary Policy Committee to
consider withdrawing stimulus sooner. The  jobless rate  was 7.7
percent in the three months through July  “If unemployment falls faster than we’re expecting either
because productivity does less well than in our central
projection, or because demand grows more strongly, it would be
right to ask whether we should think about withdrawing some of
the monetary stimulus currently in place,” Broadbent said.
“‘Nor would we be displeased with such an outcome -- what’s not
to like about lower unemployment?”  Productivity Uncertainty  Broadbent said officials must be “more cautious” about
forecasts for the economy’s productive potential than before and
that “unusually poor” productivity growth during the recession
means it’s “hard to be sure” how it will develop as the
economy recovers.  “The right response to this uncertainty is to attach less
weight to output growth itself and more to direct indicators of
economic slack,” he said.  “It’s surely likely that demand and supply-side factors
have both contributed to weak productivity growth,” and as
demand recovers supply will react, he said. “That’s why I’m
happy with the MPC’s central forecast, in the latest Inflation
Report, that forecasts an acceleration in productivity -- and a
correspondingly gentle decline in the rate of unemployment -- as
the economy recovers,” he said.  ‘Conditional’ Pledge  Broadbent, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist,
said the MPC hasn’t made a “promise unconditionally” to keep
interest rates fixed for a particular length of time.  “What we have pledged to do -– and the clue is in the word
‘conditional’ -– is to examine the case for a withdrawal of
monetary stimulus only after a significant fall in unemployment
and as long as the inflation and financial stability ‘knock-outs’ have not been breached,” he said.  U.K.  economic growth  has “picked up significantly faster”
than the MPC has forecast, he said, noting that  purchasing
managers’ surveys  suggest expansion at an annualized rate of
about 5 percent. Data for the third quarter are “strong,” he
said.  Still, the surveys are near record highs, and so it’s
“reasonable to expect a degree of moderation from here,”
Broadbent said.  “Domestic deleveraging pressures may not be enough to keep
the economy in permanent stagnation but they nonetheless provide
a headwind to growth,” he said. “While they may have
diminished, the underlying imbalances in the euro area, and the
risks they entail, have not gone away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  