-- Bundesbank Sees German Economy Improving After Industry Slowdown
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-09-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/bundesbank-sees-german-economy-improving-after-industry-slowdown.html
The Bundesbank said it sees signs
that the German economy will improve in the rest of this year,
even after industrial output slowed.  “The essentially modest increase in industrial orders and
the noticeable improvement in production and export expectations
signal an upward trend for the following months,” the
Bundesbank said in its monthly bulletin published today.
“Company investment confirms the evidence of a solid
foundation, though signs of a dramatic upswing are lacking.”  German Chancellor Angela Merkel won an overwhelming
endorsement from voters in a general election yesterday, helped
by an unemployment rate near its lowest level in two decades and
her handling of the euro crisis. Business confidence in Europe’s
largest economy rose to the highest in 16 months in August, even
after the nation’s industrial orders and output fell in July.  “The extraordinarily good consumer climate is being
sustained, supported by slowing inflation and the overall
positive labor-market situation,” the Bundesbank said in its
report.  The Ifo institute’s business climate index is forecast to
rise for a fifth month in September, according to a Bloomberg
News  survey  before tomorrow’s report. The gauge climbed last
month to the highest since April 2012. German  investor
confidence  is at a three-year high, according to the ZEW Center
for European Economic Research in Mannheim.  Borrowing Costs  In a sign that the recovery is uneven, a preliminary
measure of German industrial production unexpectedly fell in
September. The September purchasing managers’ index for
manufacturing slid to 51.3 from 51.8, while the PMI for services
rose to 54.4 from 52.8, data released by London-based Markit
Economics showed today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  While Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc took 41.5 percent
of the votes in yesterday’s election, she’s still short of a
majority. Merkel lost her preferred coalition partner after the
liberal Free Democrats failed to clear the 5 percent hurdle to
enter parliament. The Social Democrats, who got 25.7 percent of
the votes, said they’d take time to consider coalition options.  The Bundesbank said that  Germany ’s cost of borrowing will
probably rise as the euro area recovers and investors’ need for
safe assets declines. German 10-year bond yields are at 1.94
percent, while comparable U.K. gilts yield 2.92 percent and U.S.
debt is at 2.73 percent.  “With regard to budget planning, it wouldn’t be advisable
to count on a continuation of the still extremely advantageous
financing conditions,” the Bundesbank said. “A careful budget
plan seems therefore to be recommended.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  