-- Manufacturers Argue Against $1 Billion for Lead Paint
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-09-24T02:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/california-judge-hears-closing-arguments-in-lead-paint-trial.html
NL Industries Inc. (NL)  is one of five
paint companies that presented closing arguments against a
public-nuisance lawsuit by 10 California cities and counties
seeking more than $1 billion to replace or contain lead paint in
millions of homes.  Superior Court Judge James Kleinberg in San Jose,
California, interrupted closing arguments by Don Scott, a lawyer
for NL Industries, who relied on studies by U.S .doctors to
claim that the companies didn’t know about the potential for
lead poisoning in children in the first half of the 20th
century, as the counties and cities have claimed.  Kleinberg, who is hearing the case, asked Scott about what
he said was a “flat-out ban” of lead paint in Europe in the
early 1900s, and a 1918 advertisement by Wilmington, Delaware-based  DuPont Co. (DD)  that “distinguished themselves away from lead
paint.”  “Is it your position that if the American doctors that you
cite say X, that’s the end of the issue, and that the court
should not be concerned with these other pieces of evidence that
are undisputed?” Kleinberg asked. “I am troubled by the idea
that because American doctors, fine people I’m sure they were,
say XYZ that’s the end of the inquiry.”  Scott replied that the laws in Europe were a “mixed bag”
in which some countries banned lead paint earlier than others.  ‘Prevailing Standard’  “The fact is that on the question of what is pertinent to
this case, we’re looking at what was known and knowable here,”
Scott said. The “prevailing best and scientific knowledge at
the time” didn’t recommend any restriction of lead paint in
homes, Scott said, adding that the cities and counties case must
focus on “what was the prevailing standard of medicine and
science at the time.”  The defendants in addition to Dallas-based NL Industries
and DuPont are ConAgra Grocery Products LLC, a unit of the
Omaha, Nebraska-based maker of Chef Boyardee pasta and Pam
cooking spray, Cleveland-based  Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW)  and Los
Angeles-based Atlantic Richfield Co.  The cities and counties, including San Diego, Los Angeles
County and San Francisco, are aiming to break the companies’
streak of victories in similar suits in seven different states.
The  California  plaintiffs’ suit relies on a 2006 California
appeals court opinion that reinstated the case.  Joe Cotchett, a lawyer for the cities and counties, told
the judge he had met the “substantial and reasonable” standard
of proof of lead poisoning to children required for the case to
go forward.  1937 Document  Cotchett told the judge that the key document proving his
case came from a 1937 Chicago gathering of staff doctors for
each of the paint companies titled “Lead Poisoning, Report of
Conference Physicians and Surgeons of Member Companies.”
Physicians attending the conference were told not to tell anyone
about it, and not to take notes, Cotchett told the judge.  “They knew in the 1930s that lead poisoning of children
was happening and they tried to conceal it,” Cotchett said in
an interview.  Tony Dias, a lawyer for Sherwin-Williams, said in an
interview that the document from the 1937 conference concerns
the occupational risks of working with lead, and that it has
“nothing to do with lead paint.”  Cotchett’s emphasis on the document “shows how little if
any evidence they have concerning the knowledge of risks in lead
paint in the early half of the last century,” Dias said.  Lead Abatement  At the start of trial in July, Owen Clements, the chief of
special litigation for the San Francisco City Attorney’s Office,
said in an interview that the counties can’t recoup money
they’ve spent over decades on lead-abatement programs.  The lawsuit seeks more than $1 billion for remediation,
according to a court exhibit. The total damages figure isn’t
final, as it depends on what remediation, if any, is required,
and who does it. One estimate, according to a court filing, is
more than $2.4 billion.  At the conclusion of today’s hearing, Kleinberg told both
sides that “it’s never too late to settle -- never.”
Commenting that many of the lawyers in the room had probably
spent much of their careers involved in lead paint cases, he
said: “What a legacy it would be to actually bring an end in
any productive way to this litigation,” he added. “That would
truly be a valuable legacy.”  Unique Facts  The defendants argue that each of them have their “own
unique facts” and are represented by different lawyers.
Sherwin-Williams said in a court filing that the appeals court
ruling allowed the case to go forward only as an effort to block
future harm, and that the cities and counties “cannot recover
money damages or a fund to cover costs of abatement.”  The cities and counties have failed to link the public
nuisance of lead paint with its wrongful promotion by Sherwin-Williams, the company claimed in a court filing.  “The alleged wrongful conduct must be connected to the
alleged harm today,” a standard which the cities and counties
“failed to meet,” Sherwin-Williams said in the filing.  The companies have argued that decisions in states
including New York, New Jersey and  Wisconsin  demonstrate that
the California public-nuisance suit is without merit.  In a 2006 opinion, state appeals-court Judge Nathan Mihara
said that the plaintiffs alleged that the companies’
“misrepresentations about the dangers of low-level lead
exposure” caused government entities “to fail to make timely
efforts to prevent and treat” the problem.  The misrepresentations “increased the cost of treatment
for those who had been exposed or continued to be exposed,”
Mihara wrote, adding that it wasn’t until 1998 that studies
adequately analyzed the companies’ misrepresentations and proved
that low-level lead exposure could cause serious damage to
fetuses, children and adults.  The case is California v. Atlantic Richfield Co., 1-00-CV-788657, California Superior Court, County of Santa Clara (San
Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  