-- BCE, Rogers, Telus Signal Plans for Canada Spectrum Sale
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-09-23T20:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/canada-says-bce-rogers-telus-make-deposit-for-spectrum-sale.html
BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Rogers Communications (RCI/B) 
Inc. and  Telus Corp. (T)  --  Canada ’s three largest phone businesses
-- are among those that signaled their intent to bid in a
wireless spectrum auction, with no indication of interest from
major foreign companies.  Others that applied to participate in the auction include
smaller existing wireless firms such as Wind Mobile,  Manitoba
Telecom Services (MBT)  Inc. and  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B) , and investment
companies Birch Hill Equity Partners Management Inc. and
Catalyst Group Inc., according to a list posted on Industry
Canada’s  website  today.  The Canadian government has been trying to boost
competition in the country’s mobile-phone industry and says it
will limit how much spectrum BCE, Telus and Rogers can buy in
the Jan. 14 auction. The list of applicants doesn’t appear to
include major foreign players.  It’s “good for incumbents,” Greg MacDonald, an analyst in
Toronto at Macquarie Capital Markets, said in an e-mail,
referring to the three largest companies.  BCE shares climbed 1.3 percent to C$44.51 in Toronto,
gaining for a sixth straight day. Rogers gained 1.2 percent to
C$45.35 and Telus advanced 2.5 percent.  Companies like BCE and Rogers say they need the airwaves to
feed data-hungry smartphones and tablets. The spectrum being
sold is in the 700-megahertz band and is coveted by wireless
providers because devices using that frequency are better able
to receive signals inside buildings and in rural areas.  Wouldn’t Enter  Verizon Communications Inc. said Sept. 3 it wouldn’t enter
the Canadian market after saying earlier in the summer that it
was exploring the idea.  Companies had to submit a refundable deposit of C$8 million
($7.8 million) by Sept. 17 to apply to bid on a license to
operate across the country. The remaining 95 percent of the
C$159 million pre-auction deposit is due Oct. 29. The final list
of qualified bidders will be published Nov. 8.  Industry Minister James Moore said the government will
continue pursuing the interest of consumers, according to a
statement posted on the ministry  website .  “Prices have come down, the number of jobs in the wireless
sector has increased and consumers have more choices,” Moore
said in the statement. “This trend will continue as a result of
January’s auction.”  The lack of foreign interest “sets the stage for a
positive rally” in wireless sector bonds, RBC Capital Markets
credit analyst Andrew Calder said in a research note. “The
market will consider the risk posed by financial sponsors and
prospective spectrum acquirers to be modest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  