-- Canada Dollar Gains First Time in Three Days Before Retail Sales
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-23T21:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/canadian-dollar-little-changed-as-investors-seek-taper-time-line.html
The Canadian dollar gained for the
first time in three days before a report tomorrow forecast to
show retail sales rebounded in July from the worst monthly
decline this year.  Canada ’s dollar approached the three-month high versus its
U.S. peer reached last week as two Federal Reserve regional
presidents said the economy still needs central-bank support.
The currency remained higher after Canadian smartphone maker
BlackBerry Ltd. reached a tentative buyout agreement. The
nation’s  retail sales  increased 0.6 percent in July after
declining the same amount the previous month, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 18 economists.  “There may be some scope for an upside surprise on the
data,” Mazen Issa, Canada macro-strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank, said by phone from Toronto of the retail-sales report.
“We could be in store for a stronger reaction in CAD.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.2 percent to
C$1.0284 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It reached
C$1.0182 per U.S. dollar Sept. 19, the highest since June. One
loonie buys 97.24 U.S. cents.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  rose, pushing
yields down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.65
percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 gained
35 cents to cost C$90.28.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell 1.2
percent to $103.43 per barrel in  New York  and the Standard &
Poor’s Index of U.S. stocks dropped 0.5 percent.  BlackBerry’s tentative $4.7 billion buyout deal from a
group led by its biggest shareholder opens a path for the
company to go private after a new line of smartphones failed to
catch on. The loonie fell Sept. 20 when BlackBerry announced
4,500 job cuts.  Fed Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said that
policy makers must “forcefully” push against economic
headwinds as the U.S. has yet to show “any meaningful pickup”
in momentum.  “The economy still needs the support of a very
accommodative monetary policy,” Dudley, who is vice chairman of
the  Federal Open Market Committee  and votes on monetary policy,
said today in the text of remarks for a speech in New York.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart , a backer of bond
purchases who also spoke in New York, warned of slowing job
creation. The central bank on Sept. 18 unexpectedly maintained
the $85 billion in monthly asset purchases it uses to encourage
growth and cap borrowing costs.  ‘Repositioning’ Markets  “Within this brave new world, Canada probably does better
until the Fed blinks,” Brad Schruder a director of foreign
exchange at Bank of Montreal, said by phone from Toronto.
“Despite retail sales being a decent number to watch for
economic activity, I think the Canadian data isn’t really what
you’re keying off of. You’re keying off a unified message from
the Fed officials this week and a repositioning of global
markets.”  Traders are trimming bets the  Bank of Canada  will raise
 interest rates  next year, suggesting policy makers may follow
their counterparts at the Fed in lowering growth forecasts as a
slower U.S. expansion threatens to delay a long-awaited export
boost.  Rate Expectations  The yield on March 2014  bankers’ acceptances  contracts, a
gauge of short-term interest rate expectations, fell to a four-month low of 1.28 percent. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cited
worse-than-expected economic indicators for prompting officials
last week to lower forecasts for the year and refrain from
slowing monetary stimulus. Overnight index swaps shows traders
are pricing in about six basis points in tightening by July,
down from 20 the day before the Fed meeting.  Implied volatility for three-month options on Canada’s
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart rose to 6.27 percent, from
6.13 percent last week, the lowest point in four months. The
measure is used to set option prices and gauge the expected pace
of currency swings. The average for this year is 6.8 percent.  “We’re probably looking for Canada to make a little bit
more gains from here, and then lose a little bit of steam,” Don Mikolich, executive director of foreign exchange sales at
Canadian Imperial bank of Commerce, said by phone from Toronto.
“I don’t know if Canada is due to overly strengthen in a period
where we’re still in recovery mode.”  Options traders became more bearish on the Canadian dollar
for the second day. The three-month so-called 25 delta risk
reversal rate, which measures the premium charged for the right
to buy the  U.S. dollar  against its Canadian counterpart versus
contracts to sell, rose to 1.27 percent, after touching 1.20
Sept. 19, the lowest in a closing basis since July.  The loonie has declined 3.3 percent in the past 12 months
against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index, making it the third worst
performer. Only the Australian dollar’s 8.7 percent drop and the
yen’s 22 percent decline have been greater. The U.S. dollar
gained 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  