-- Canadian Syncrude Oil Unchanged as Export Pipelines Overbooked
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-09-23T19:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/canadian-syncrude-oil-unchanged-as-export-pipelines-overbooked.html
Canadian synthetic light oil was
unchanged versus West Texas Intermediate after  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) 
said two pipelines that export the grade to the U.S. were
overbooked for October.  Crude shipments on Mainline lines 2 and 3, which transport
a combined 678,700 barrels a day from  Edmonton ,  Alberta , to
Superior,  Wisconsin , will be apportioned by 12 percent in
October, the Calgary pipeline company said in a Sept. 21 e-mail.  Syncrude for October delivery finished the October index
trading period on Sept. 17 at a $5.80 discount to U.S. benchmark
WTI crude and has been unchanged since then, according to
Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc. The differential fell almost
$7 a barrel this month as three upgraders that produce synthetic
oil are expected to be back to full operations next month,
increasing supplies.  “There are upgraders down, but I think the market is
already looking beyond that,” said Christopher Macculloch, an
oil and gas analyst with Desjardins Securities Inc. in Calgary.
“Prices were already quite weak.”  Upgraders, plants that produce synthetic light oil from
heavy crude, had been shut down for maintenance in Alberta and
Saskatchewan this month and last.  The Syncrude oil-sands  upgrader  in Alberta restarted on
Aug. 27, said the company’s largest owner,  Canadian Oil Sands
Ltd. (COS)  Next month,  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE)  is scheduled to return the
82,000-barrel-a-day Lloydminster upgrader to service after a 45-day turnaround and  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  is scheduled to finish
maintenance at one of its two Fort McMurray upgraders.  Western Canadian Select heavy oil, used as a feedstock for
upgraders, was unchanged at a $27.25 discount to WTI, Net Energy
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  