-- Centerra to Look for Acquisitions After Kumtor Resolution
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-09-23T22:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/centerra-to-look-for-acquisitions-after-kumtor-resolution.html
Centerra Gold Inc. (CG)  plans to acquire
another gold project once Kyrgyzstan has completed its
acquisition of a stake in the Canadian company’s Kumtor mine.  Centerra will consider development projects and mines that
are already in production, Chief Executive Officer Ian Atkinson
said today in an interview in Denver, where he’s attending the
Denver Gold Forum. The Toronto-based company would like to add
about 100,000 ounces or more of output from a new mine, he said.  “In this current market and  gold prices , we’ve still got a
reasonable margin and we are building up cash,” Atkinson said.
“There are some other opportunities out there that we’d like to
pursue.”  Centerra said Sept. 9 it agreed to discuss a proposed swap
in which would give the Central Asian country a 50 percent stake
in Kumtor in exchange for the 33 percent stake in the company
owned by state-controlled Kyrgyzaltyn JSC. Centerra would
continue to operate and manage the mine after such a deal.  Centerra has been negotiating with the Kyrgyz government to
address concerns raised in a report by a state commission
regarding taxes and ownership issues connected with Kumtor. If
the agreement on the government’s stake in Kumtor is formalized,
all Kyrgyz state agency environmental claims against the mine
would be resolved.  Kyrgyz Prime Minister Zhantoro Satybaldiye will seek
authorization from parliament to extend a deadline for the
negotiations, Atkinson said today. The company has been advised
he will seek an extension until the end of the year, the CEO
said.  The deal would need approval by the Kyrgyz parliament,
Centerra’s board and its minority shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  