-- McGuireWoods, Goodwin, Duane Morris: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-23T10:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/mcguirewoods-goodwin-duane-morris-business-of-law.html
David Kirk, chief criminal counsel
at the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, will join McGuireWoods
LLP’s  London  government, regulatory and criminal-investigations
practice as a partner in January.  Kirk will advise clients on regulation, compliance and
criminal investigation matters across the financial spectrum.  “I have had the pleasure of working with David in the past
and I have enormous respect for him both professionally and
personally,” said Vivian Robinson, a former general counsel at
the  Serious Fraud Office  who joined McGuireWoods’ London office
in 2011.  McGuireWoods has more than 900 lawyers at 19 offices in the
U.S. and  Europe .  Amazon Senior Corporate Counsel Joins Goodwin Procter  Goodwin Procter LLP announced that Jared G. Jensen has
joined the firm’s  San Francisco  office as a partner in its
private equity practice. He was previously senior corporate
counsel at  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   At Goodwin, Jensen will represent private-equity firms,
companies and management teams in leveraged buyout, growth-equity and merger-and-acquisition transactions, the firm said.  “Jared’s private-equity market knowledge and insight,
coupled with his experience in taking technology companies
private, make him an exceptional addition to our team,” John LeClaire, chairman of Goodwin’s private-equity practice, said in
a statement.  Goodwin Procter has lawyers at offices in the U.S., Europe
and  Asia .  Duane Morris’s Philadelphia Office Adds Trial Partner  Duane Morris LLP announced that former partner John C. Ryan
has rejoined the firm’s trial practice group as a partner in
Philadelphia. He was most recently senior vice president and
deputy general counsel at Aramark Corp.  He focuses his practice on white-collar criminal defense
and internal corporate investigations for public and private
companies, corporate governance and commercial litigation.  Ryan led the legal teams for Philadelphia-based Aramark’s
sports, leisure and corrections, and business and industry
operating groups, and also led the food concessionaire’s
intellectual-property and supply-chain legal support. He served
as counsel to Aramark’s chief compliance officer.  Before that, he oversaw Aramark’s litigation and government
investigations and led the legal teams for the health-care and
education operating groups.  He was a partner at Duane Morris from 2004 to 2005.  The firm has more than 700 attorneys in the U.S., Europe
and Asia.  K&L Gates Adds to Energy Practice With San Francisco Hire  The San Francisco office of K&L Gates LLP added Paul C.
Lacourciere as a partner in the energy and infrastructure
projects practice. Lacourciere joins from Greenbridge Corporate
Counsel.  Lacourciere has experience as a transactional and
regulatory lawyer in the energy sector, particularly in wind and
solar.  As counsel to both suppliers and purchasers, he has
negotiated equipment supply, installation and service agreements
for numerous wind energy projects throughout the U.S. and
 Canada . He also focuses on the solar electricity industry,
structuring power-purchase agreements and advising on compliance
with regulations governing the sale of electricity in
 California .  K&L Gates has 48 offices in the U.S., Asia,  Australia ,
Europe, the  Middle East  and  South America .  Fees  Qatari Sheikh Must Pay $419,400 in Fees to U.K. Law Firm  A member of the Qatari royal family must pay a London-based
 law firm  261,279 pounds ($419,400) in fees for advice given when
his assets were frozen after he failed to pay auction houses for
bids he won.  Sheikh Saud Bin Mohammed Bin Ali Al-Thani was ordered to
turn over the unpaid fees because he never responded to the
lawsuit by SJ Berwin LLP, according to the default judgment
given at London’s High Court in April and made public this week.  Al-Thani was sued for 4.1 million pounds in the U.K. by
London auction house Bonhams 1793 Ltd. and for $22 million in
the U.S. by rare coin specialists A.H. Baldwin & Sons Ltd.
because he didn’t pay for items, SJ Berwin said in court
documents filed Feb. 20.  A London judge froze Al-Thani’s global assets on Oct. 2, SJ
Berwin said in the court documents, without saying how much the
freezing order was for.  Al-Thani last year successfully bid on coins including a
$3.25 million single gold piece from the ancient Greek city of
Pantikapaion that bears the head of a bearded satyr, according
to the Oct. 9 lawsuit filed in  Washington  by A.H. Baldwin, M&M
Numismatics LLC of Washington and Dmitry Markov Coins & Medals
of  New York .  Charlotte  Ward, a spokeswoman for SJ Berwin in London,
declined to comment on the ruling. A London number for Al-Thani
was disconnected and the spokeswoman for the law firm named on
court documents as representing Al-Thani said they weren’t
involved.  Al-Thani was head of Qatar’s National Council for Culture,
Arts and Heritage and is a “significant collector of valuable
antiques and fine art,” SJ Berwin said.  Al-Thani pledged the world’s most expensive watch and other
collectibles valued at almost $83 million to Sotheby’s in
November to cover debts owed to the auction house, according to
court documents filed at the New York Department of State in
October.  Litigation  Madoff Money on Way to Victims ‘Fast as Possible,’ DOJ Fund Says  The Madoff Victim Fund controlled by the U.S.  Justice
Department  said it will distribute $2.4 billion in forfeitures
from the Jeffry Picower estate “as fast as possible” once all
eligible recipients are known.  The statement came in answer to calls for an update from
victims of the fraud, according to the Madoff Victim Fund’s
four-month-old website. The money is part of a $7.2 billion
settlement by the widow of Picower, one of  Bernard Madoff ’s
largest individual investors, of a lawsuit accusing Picower of
having known of the fraud, which robbed customers of about $17
billion in principal.  A federal judge approved the settlement in March 2012 and
the trustee liquidating Madoff’s bankrupt brokerage distributed
his $5 billion share of the Picower money a year ago, when a
former Madoff customer lost her legal bid to challenge her
exclusion from the payout.  Any perceived delay by the government in distributing its
share of the money relates to definitions of who is eligible,
according to the Justice Department’s fund. While the trustee
for the Madoff firm’s estate uses bankruptcy law to decide which
customers should be compensated, the fund must screen the
conman’s investors for victims, according to its website.  “The legal definition of ‘victim’ is different,” the fund
said. “The MVF must analyze carefully the circumstances under
which eligible customers are also ‘victims,’ as well as whether
there are ‘victims’ who were not recognized as ‘customers’ in
the bankruptcy proceedings.”  While the fund said it can’t yet set a date for the payout,
“the process is moving forward toward necessary decisions in
the relatively near term.” Madoff customers can look for
updates on the site “approximately every 45 days, or as the MVF
has news to report.”  The Madoff brokerage liquidation case is Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 08-bk-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  News  Vilar’s Lawyer Has Relationship With Co-Defendant, U.S. Says  The lawyer representing technology investor Alberto Vilar,
who faces resentencing for his 2008 conviction for stealing from
clients, is in a romantic relationship with his co-defendant,
prosecutors said.  Vivian Shevitz’s relationship with Gary Tanaka, “by all
appearances, would impair Ms. Shevitz’s duty of loyalty to Vilar
and cloud her judgment with respect to Tanaka,” Justice
Department lawyers said in a letter Sept. 20 to U.S. District
Judge Richard Sullivan in Manhattan.  The U.S. lawyers submitted a proposed list of questions for
the two former Amerindo Investment Advisors Inc. partners to
make sure that they understood the potential conflict of
interest of the lawyer, who represents them both in the case,
and that they knowingly and voluntarily waive the possible
conflict.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York last month reversed
the sentences of the two men and sent the case back to Sullivan.
The 2008 jury convictions weren’t overturned on appeal.  Shevitz didn’t immediately return a phone message after
regular business hours seeking comment on the letter.  The case is U.S. v. Vilar, 05-00621, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  