-- China Money Rate Rises Most in Month on Holiday Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-23T02:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/china-money-rate-rises-most-in-month-on-holiday-demand.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
climbed for a fourth day on speculation banks are hoarding cash
before the end of the quarter and a week-long holiday.  The People’s Bank of China asked lenders to submit orders
for seven- and 14-day reverse-repurchase agreements, 28-day
repurchase contracts and 91-day bills today, according to a
trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. The
monetary authority has  drained  funds from the financial system
for three consecutive weeks. Markets in China will close Oct. 1-7 for the National Day holidays.  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the banking system, rose 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage
point, to 4.11 percent as of 10:32 a.m. in  Shanghai , according
to a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The rate touched 4.2 percent, the highest since Aug. 29.
It surged to a record 12.45 percent on June 20.  “It is expected the money market can tighten a bit on
quarter-end cash demand, especially before a long holiday,”
said Chen Ying, an analyst at GF Futures Co. in Guangzhou.
“However, I don’t expect anything similar to the June crunch
now that the banks have learned from the experience.”  The cost of one-year interest rate swaps, the fixed payment
to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, gained five basis
points to 4.1 percent, the highest since Sept. 12.  Preliminary Audit  The preliminary reading for a September Purchasing
Managers’ Index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics was 51.2. That compares with the median estimate of
50.9 in a Bloomberg survey and a final reading of 50.1 in August.  China’s economy  may expand 7.5 percent in the second half,
the People’s Daily reported today, citing Zhu Baoliang, head of
the State Information Center’s economic forecasting department
in Beijing. Gross domestic product increased 7.7 percent in 2012,
official data show.  The yield on the government’s 4.08 percent bonds due August
2023 climbed three basis points to 4.05 percent, according to
prices from the Interbank Funding Center.  China has completed a preliminary audit of local government
debt, 21st Century Business Herald reported, citing unidentified
people that participated in the audit.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  