-- Citigroup Drops After Report That Bond-Trading Will Drop
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-23T15:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/citigroup-drops-after-report-that-bond-trading-will-drop.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  fell the most since
June, the fourth-worst performance in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, after a newspaper reported that the bank’s third-quarter
bond-trading revenue slumped.  The lender fell 3.1 percent to $49.63 at 11:13 a.m. in  New
York . Citigroup’s interest-rate and currencies business may lead
a drop in overall bond-trading revenue at the company, the
Financial Times reported, citing people familiar with the firm’s
talks with investors.  Global investment banks have seen a slowdown in debt
trading amid uncertainty about the  Federal Reserve ’s plans to
reduce monthly bond-buying. JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest
U.S. bank, and Barclays Plc told investors third-quarter trading
revenue will probably drop from a year earlier. Jefferies Group
LLC said last week that fixed-income trading revenue plunged 88
percent in its fiscal quarter ended Aug. 31.  “We model for Citi’s FICC trading revenue to decline 25
percent,”  John McDonald , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst,
wrote in a Sept. 20 report, referring to fixed-income, currency
and commodities trading. Citigroup, based in New York, is the
third-biggest U.S. bank by assets.  The decline may be mitigated by a 29 percent increase in
equity trading, McDonald wrote. He cut his estimate for third-quarter earnings by 16 percent to $1.01 on weaker capital
markets and mortgage revenue. McDonald has an outperform rating
on the stock.  Estimate Lowered  Atlantic Equities LLP’s Richard Staite, who assigns an
overweight rating to the shares, cut his estimate for third-quarter earnings by 14 percent to $1.05, citing a 20 percent
decline in fixed-income trading revenue at the biggest U.S.
banks.  Some investors expect revenue to fall by more than 10
percent, the FT reported. Mark Costiglio, a bank spokesman,
declined to comment. Citigroup is scheduled to report results
Oct. 15.  The shares rose 29 percent this year through Sept. 20,
outpacing the 20 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500
 Index. (SPX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  