-- Citigroup to Cut 1,000 in Mortgage Business
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-23T20:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/citigroup-to-cut-1-000-in-mortgage-business.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the fifth-biggest
U.S. mortgage originator last year, is cutting about 1,000 jobs
in its home-lending business.  The job reductions will come in mortgage sales,
underwriting, fulfillment and default roles, primarily in Las
Vegas and Irving, Texas, the New York-based company said today
in an e-mailed statement.  Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat ,
53, joins  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in
trimming home-lending staff as a surge in borrowing costs slowed
refinancing by more than 70 percent since September 2012 and
curbed what had been record profits. Citigroup announced the
closing of a Danville, Illinois, facility in July, leading to
120 job cuts, and fired some telephone sales agents, the company
said earlier this month.  “While difficult, these actions reflect our ongoing
efforts to increase operational efficiency, adopt to changes in
the marketplace and position the business for the future,”  Mark Rodgers , a company spokesman, said in the statement.  The last day for most employees will be in November or
December, and workers will be paid for two months afterward in
addition to severance, a person familiar with the moves said.  Refinancings Decline  Separately, Citigroup is hiring employees to originate new
mortgages for home purchases as opposed to refinancings, the
person said.  The share of applicants seeking to refinance declined to 57
percent in the week ending Sept. 6, the lowest since April 2010,
before rebounding to 60.9 percent the next week, according to
the Mortgage Bankers Association.  Bank of America is eliminating 2,100 jobs and closing 16
offices by Oct. 31, two people with direct knowledge of the plan
said earlier this month. Wells Fargo said in August it will cut
2,300 jobs in mortgage production.  Citigroup handed out $65 billion of mortgages last year, or
about 3.4 percent of the total market, according to Inside
Mortgage Finance, a trade publication.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  