-- CommonWealth REIT to Change Manager Payment Structure
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-09-23T20:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/commonwealth-reit-to-change-manager-payment-structure.html
CommonWealth REIT (CWH) , whose biggest
 shareholder  is seeking to oust the board, plans to change the
way its management company is paid, add directors and eliminate
a takeover defense to address  investor  concerns.  Beginning next year, 10 percent of the company’s base
business management fees paid to Reit Management & Research LLC
will be paid in shares of CommonWealth, instead of in cash, the
Newton, Massachusetts-based office landlord said in a statement
today. Annual incentive payments to RMR will be based on total
returns by CommonWealth shares in excess of certain benchmarks,
instead of being tied to funds from operations.  Corvex Management LP and Related Cos., which own about 9.6
percent of CommonWealth after buying shares this year, began a
campaign in April to remove the company’s board trustees,
claiming conflicts of interest and mismanagement. The real
estate investment trust’s move to improve governance follows
conversations with investors who said they wanted RMR’s
financial incentives to be more aligned with shareholders, the
trustees said in the statement.  “We think it’s the right thing to do,” Adam Portnoy,
CommonWealth’s president, said in a telephone interview. “My
hope is that we have a happier shareholder base.”  External Management  Portnoy and his father, Barry, a company founder, sit on
CommonWealth’s five-member  board  and are owners of RMR. Corvex
and Related have claimed that the external management structure
diminishes shareholder  returns  and that the Portnoys’ ownership
leads to self-dealing.  Disputes between the REIT and the Corvex group are in
arbitration. Last month, the arbitration panel struck down a
provision making it more difficult for stockholders to remove
the company’s board of trustees. The arbitrators scheduled a
hearing for further consideration of the issues to begin Oct. 7.  Corvex and Related said today that the governance changes
“lack substance,” contain caveats and wouldn’t be considered
until after the arbitration panel rules.  “Today’s announcement is nothing more than hollow rhetoric
and a desperate attempt to keep Barry Portnoy and his son Adam
in control of CommonWealth,” Corvex Founder Keith Meister and
Related Chief Executive Officer Jeff T. Blau said in an e-mailed
statement.  Share Gain  CommonWealth  shares  closed unchanged at $22.54. They have
gained 42 percent since Feb. 25, the day before Corvex and
Related made their activism public.  CommonWealth said today that it plans to get rid of a
poison pill after the conclusion of its arbitration with Corvex.
The board also plans to recommend to shareholders that the
company’s corporate rules be amended to allow for the annual
election of all trustees, instead of the current staggered board
where they serve three-year terms.  The company also plans to boost the size of the board to
increase the ratio of independent trustees to at least 75
percent from 60 percent.  “What we tried to do was address basically everybody’s
concerns,” Adam Portnoy said. “We really tried to hit upon all
the major themes we heard.”  RMR’s base management fees are calculated at the annual
rate of 0.5 percent of the gross historical cost of
CommonWealth’s assets. Next year they will be based on the lower
of gross historical cost of CommonWealth’s real estate assets or
the company’s market value.  Monetary Damages  Corvex and Related had asked for monetary damages from
CommonWealth’s trustees for alleged breaches of fiduciary duty.
The investors asked that those claims be dismissed, which they
were by the arbitration panel, according to the statement.  Corvex and Related consented to the dismissal to expedite
the arbitration process, the investors said in their statement.  Other REITs managed by RMR also plan to change their
compensation arrangements and their boards will recommend the
annual election of trustees, according to statements from those
companies today.  Select Income REIT (SIR) ,  Government Properties
Income Trust (GOV) ,  Hospitality Properties Trust (HPT) , and  Senior Housing
Properties Trust (SNH)  are all managed by RMR.  The changes “better align interests with common
shareholders,” while conflicts of interest still exist given
the external management structure, David Loeb and Michael
Bellisario, analysts at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Co.
who cover Hospitality Properties, wrote in a report today.  “We believe these shareholder-friendly changes in the RMR
management agreements are due to pressures created by activist
efforts by Corvex/Related at CommonWealth,” Loeb and Bellisario
wrote.  CommonWealth, which also owns properties in  Australia ,
focusing on selling U.S. suburban office properties to focus on
downtown buildings.  “Nobody told us we were on the wrong track,” Portnoy said
of shareholder comments from meetings on the company’s business
strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  