-- Cooking Oil Refiners Seek Levies as Plants Idle: Corporate India
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-09-23T04:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/cooking-oil-refiners-seek-levies-as-plants-idle-corporate-india.html
Cooking oil refiners in  India  are
seeking higher tariffs to curb cheaper imports that have eroded
margins of companies in the world’s second-largest consumer of
the commodity.  India must increase the levy to 12.5 percent from 7.5
percent,  Atul Chaturvedi , chief executive officer at Adani
Wilmar Ltd., said in an interview. Overseas purchases of
refined, bleached and deodorized palm olein surged 36 percent to
a record in the 10 months to August as a drop in palm prices in
 Malaysia  made it lucrative to import processed products.  Refiners including Adani and  Ruchi Soya Industries Ltd. (RSI) ,
India’s largest cooking oil processor, say they are operating at
30 percent of capacity as imports flood the market. Rising
overseas purchases are hurting Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
efforts to rein in an unprecedented current account deficit that
sent the rupee to a record low last month.  At the rate now for capacity utilization “you are as good
as closed,” said Chaturvedi. “If the refineries are shut, you
are going to have lot of job losses.”  Demands for higher levies may increase as international
prices slump further. Palm, the world’s most-used cooking oil,
may drop to the lowest level since 2009 by January as global
supplies of edible oils expand and crude oil weakens,  Dorab Mistry , director at Godrej International Ltd., said yesterday.  Prices Retreat  Futures will probably retreat to 2,000 ringgit ($629) a
metric ton in  Kuala Lumpur  if Brazil and  Argentina , the largest
soybean growers after the U.S., harvest bigger crops and Brent
crude drops below $100 a barrel, Mistry told an industry
conference in Mumbai.  The contract for delivery in December lost 0.7 percent to
2,300 ringgit on the Bursa Malaysia Derivatives on Sept. 20, the
lowest price at close for the most-active contract since Aug.
14. Futures dropped 2 percent last week.  “If you don’t change levies now, you are not going to have
any margins,” Paul Bloemendal, commercial director at Ruchi
Soya, said in an interview yesterday. “With no margins you are
not going to get investments.”  India will decide on the  import tariff  in 10 days, Food
Minister K.V. Thomas said on Sept. 20. The government in April
2008 cut the tax to 7.5 percent. India will also have to take
into account the effect of higher taxes on inflation, which
accelerated to the fastest pace in six months in August.  Singh has moved to attract foreign investment and increased
gold-import taxes to try and pare a record current-account gap
to about $70 billion in 2013-2014. The government has raised the
bullion levy three times this year and linked imports to re-exports to moderate consumption.  ‘Dire’ Situation  The rupee has dropped 12 percent this year. That hasn’t
deterred imports of the vegetable oil as at the current rate of
duties processed cooking oil in India costs $810 a ton, while
crude  palm oil  can be purchased at $805 a ton increasing the
demand for refined products.  “The current situation is very dire for the industry,”
said Isha Trivedi, a Mumbai-based analyst at PhillipCapital
India Pvt. “It doesn’t make sense to import crude oil if the
price difference between crude and refined oil is not much. Even
if India raises the refined tax marginally, imports will
continue to take place but at a slower pace.”  Cooking oils represented 61 percent of Ruchi Soya’s revenue
in the year ended March 31. The company’s  earnings  margin before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization narrowed to 3.4
percent in the period from 4.04 percent a year earlier.  Palm Stockpiles  Ruchi Soya’s shares have dropped 41 percent this year
making it the worst performing stock in the Bloomberg Industries
GL Sugar & Grain, Oilseed Competitive Index. The stock  rose  1.1
percent to 38.2 rupees at 9:59 a.m. in Mumbai.  World palm stockpiles will surge 17 percent to a record 9.2
million tons by the end of 2013-2014 as demand expands 4.5
percent, the least in 12 years, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates.  India’s imports of vegetable oils may increase 3.8 percent
to 11 million tons in the season starting Nov. 1, from 10.6
million tons estimated for this season, said Mistry. Consumption
will gain 4.9 percent to 18.1 million tons, he said.  “Some of my refiner friends tell me they make money on
refining sunflower oil in 12 out of 12 months,” said Godrej’s
Mistry. “They make money in refining  soybean oil  10 out of 12
months. They make money refining palm oil in 3 out of 12
months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  