-- Copper Futures Decline on U.S. Economic Concerns
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-09-23T18:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/copper-falls-a-second-day-on-concern-about-u-s-economic-outlook.html
Copper futures fell for the second
straight session as U.S. economic concerns outweighed signs of
factory gains in China, the world’s top metal consumer.  The  Federal Reserve  said on Sept. 18 that it needed to see
a sustained rebound in the U.S. labor market before paring $85
billion in monthly debt purchases. A gauge of Chinese
manufacturing from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose
to a six-month high in September.  “If the Fed is reluctant to start things off by cutting a
modest $10 billion from its monthly buying program, how bad
could things potentially get” after tapering starts,  Edward Meir , an analyst at INTL FCStone in New York, said in a report.
“The restrained tone we are seeing in metal prices over the
last few weeks just as  China’s economy  is showing signs of
perking up tells us that the metal markets need to see more
before prices respond more forcefully to the upside.”  Copper futures for December delivery dropped 0.7 percent to
settle at $3.2985 a pound at 1:16 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
The metal fell 0.8 percent on Sept. 20. The price has declined
9.7 percent this year.  Prices also fell amid concern that most U.S. government
operations will stop after the fiscal year ends next week if the
Obama administration and lawmakers fail to agree on a funding
bill. Forty percent of global investors surveyed in a Sept. 10
Bloomberg poll said they would pull back on U.S. markets in the
event of a shutdown.  The reading of 51.2 for a  China  Purchasing Managers’ Index
by HSBC and Markit exceeded a 50.9 median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Above 50 means expansion. The
U.S. is the second-biggest copper consumer.  “Metals are mixed as a better-than-expected flash China
PMI has been offset by concerns that the Fed’s decision to
maintain stimulus means the  U.S. economy  is in worse shape than
previously thought,” RBC Capital Markets Ltd. said in a report.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 0.5 percent to $7,245 a metric ton ($3.29 a pound).
Lead, nickel and tin dropped. Aluminum and zinc rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  