-- Croatia May Issue Dollar Bond by Year’s End Despite Rating Cut
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-09-23T13:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/croatia-may-issue-dollar-bond-by-year-s-end-despite-rating-cut.html
Croatia  will probably shake off
last week’s downgrade to junk by ratings company Fitch and issue
a dollar bond to tap investor appetite fueled by Federal Reserve
stimulus, analysts in London and Croatia said.  Facing 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in payments for debt
maturing by next April, the European Union’s newest member could
benefit from the Fed’s surprise decision last week to refrain
from paring back its bond-buying program, said Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging-markets strategist at  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc . The Finance Ministry in Zagreb didn’t immediately
respond when asked for comment today.  “I expect Croatia to issue a 1-billion to 1.5-billion
dollar bond before year’s end,” Ameli-Renani said in e-mailed
response to Bloomberg questions. “The next big maturity comes
in April so they could wait until early 2014 if they wanted to,
but the market is unlikely to be as generous with its cash in
2014 as it is now.”  The Adriatic nation has struggled to keep public finances
in check during the economic crisis, which has knocked more than
10 percent off economic output and squeezed foreign direct
investment by 80 percent since 2008. In its downgrade, Fitch
said it expected Zagreb to overshoot its 2013 budget gap target.  Croatia’s 10-year borrowing costs, which fell below 6
percent earlier this month, rose today. The yield on the
country’s 2023 dollar bond increased 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 5.819 at 12:33 p.m., the highest since
Sept. 18. Croatia last tapped international markets in March,
selling $1.5 billion of 10-year bonds at 5.625 percent.  Third Downgrade  Any failure of the economy to recover will put further
strain on public finances and could lead to more downgrades,
Fitch said last week. It said Croatia should trim its bloated
public sector to exit a recession and improve potential growth
over the medium term. The government is expected to release
fiscal guidance for the short and medium term on Sept. 26.  “The timing is good for Croatia to look at a new Eurobond,
as it faces sizable maturities in 2014,” Hrvoje Stojic, the
chief economist at the Croatian unit of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank
International AG, said by phone from Rovinj, Croatia. “But as
it can’t come to investors empty-handed, the government should
clearly demonstrate commitment to reforms in the fiscal
guideline plan later this week.”  Zagreb planned to offer 5 billion kuna in bonds on the
domestic market, Assistant Finance Minister Miljenko Ficor said
in May. That would be unnecessary if it sells bonds abroad.  Zdeslav Santic, the chief economist at  Soc-Gen Splitska
Banka d.d. , said by phone from Zagreb that Croatia may issue $1
billion to $1.5 billion in bonds “around November.”  Exceeding Target  Fitch cut Croatia’s long-term foreign-currency debt rating
to BB+, one level below investment grade, from BBB- with a
stable outlook. It shaved its local currency rating to BBB- from
BBB, citing worsening fiscal prospects.  It said Croatia’s fiscal deficit would slide to 4.7 percent
of gross domestic product this year, wider than its previous
estimate of 3.9 percent. The gap probably surpassed the
government’s full-year goal of 3.4 percent of GDP in the first
six months of the year, according to the Finance Ministry.  The  government  expects 0.7 percent growth this year,
compared with the European Commission’s estimate of a 1 percent
contraction.  Last Downgrade  The downgrade to junk followed similar moves from Standard
& Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service, putting Croatia on par
with Portugal and  Hungary . Fitch also raised its estimate on
public debt, saying it would peak at 66 percent of GDP in 2016,
rather than 62 percent.  Because the downgrade was the last by the main three rating
companies, the impact on Croatia’s borrowing costs would be
limited, Ameli Renani said.  “From the market’s perspective, Fitch’s rating downgrade
is largely irrelevant,” he said, adding he doesn’t expect a
sell-off beyond the initial reaction on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  