-- Crude Drops to Six-Week Low on Waning Syria Concern
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-09-23T19:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/crude-drops-to-one-month-low-on-waning-syria-concern.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
to a six-week low on easing concern that  Syria ’s conflict will
disrupt supplies and on rising production in Nigeria and Libya.  Crude dropped 1.1 percent as the United Nations Security
Council worked toward a resolution based on the Geneva accord
between the U.S. and  Russia . The Organization for the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons said Sept. 20 it received an
initial disclosure from Syria. Nigeria restored flows from three
trunk pipelines that were sabotaged by vandalism and theft. WTI
also slid on concern wrangling over spending may shut the U.S.
government.  “The Syria premium has basically been taken out of the
market,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We’ve got more
production coming back to the market. We are re-establishing the
downward move that probably can take us down to $102 pretty
easily.”  WTI for November delivery slid $1.16 to $103.59 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement level
since Aug. 8. The volume of all futures traded was 21 percent
less than the 100-day average for the time of day. The futures
have gained 7.3 percent this quarter and 13 percent this year.  Brent for November settlement fell $1.06, or 1 percent, to
$108.16 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Volume was 19 percent below the 100-day average. The
European benchmark’s premium to WTI was $4.57, up from $4.47 on
Sept. 20.  UN Action  The UN Security Council is set to negotiate a Syria
resolution this week, as world leaders travel to New York for
the opening of the General Assembly. The U.S., the U.K. and
 France  have accused Syrian government forces of carrying out an
Aug. 21 chemical attack that killed 1,400 people, including more
than 400 children. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has blamed
rebel groups for the attack. Russia, a Syrian ally, rejected a
plan to include enforcement in the resolution.  Ben Rhodes, White House deputy national security adviser,
said Sept. 20 that it was “a positive step” for Syria to
submit the list within the period outlined in the agreement,
which calls for the Arab country to turn over its chemical
weapons to international control for eventual destruction.  “You could say we are down on a peace dividend,” said Tim Evans, an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York.  Iran Action  Syria borders  Iraq  and is near  Iran , countries that
together hold almost a fifth of the output capacity from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Bloomberg
estimates show. The Middle East accounted for 35 percent of
global oil production in the first quarter of this year,
according to the International Energy Agency.  Iran has freed 80 political prisoners before President
Hassan Rohani’s trip to the UN, state-run Fars news agency
reported today, citing judiciary spokesman Gholamhossein Mohseni-Ejei. It will be the first UN speech for Rohani, who
swept to power with a vow to improve relations with the world.  “The market is not seeing any geopolitical premium and
there is no imminent military action against Syria,” said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
 Chicago . “You’ve got production coming back in Nigeria and
Libya. That’s really weighing on prices.”  Libya Output  Restarting the lines boosted Nigeria’s daily output to 2.4
million barrels, Tumini Green, a spokeswoman for the state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp., said in an e-mailed
statement. Output fell to 2.2 million in the first quarter in
 Africa ’s largest oil producer, according to the company.  In Libya, oil production climbed to more than 600,000
barrels a day and all fields in the west of the country are
producing, Sliman Qajam, the deputy head of the parliament’s
energy committee, said yesterday in a phone interview in
Tripoli.  Supply from Libya has rebounded from 150,000 barrels
earlier this month, compared with a 2013 high of 1.4 million in
April, according to the IEA’s monthly report on Sept. 12. Five
of nine export terminals were operating as of Sept. 19.  Traders were also watching to see how the U.S. Congress and
President  Barack Obama  dealt with looming budget issues that may
result in a government shutdown, debt default or a close call
that affects investor confidence or economic demand.  “There is a lot of uncertainty about what’s going to
happen with the budget talks,” Armstrong said. “The
possibility of another fiscal crisis is pulling down the
market.”  Equities Slip  Crude also followed declines in U.S. stocks. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.4 percent as of 2:35 p.m.  “The prospect of a government shutdown is making people
nervous, which is being reflected in the S&P,” said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester,  Massachusetts . “Libyan and Nigerian oil is flowing
again, which is also bearish.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 20.8 percent, up from 20.1 percent on Sept. 20,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 418,522
contracts as of 2:35 p.m. It totaled 562,781 contracts on Sept.
20, 11 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was
1.9 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  