-- WTI Drops to Six-Week Low as Global Supply Concern Eases
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-09-24T12:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/crude-trades-near-six-week-low-as-middle-east-concern-eases.html
West  Texas  Intermediate crude
dropped for a fourth day to the lowest price in more than six
weeks amid output gains and speculation that a United Nations
mandate will ease the threat of a U.S. military strike on Syria.  Futures were down as much as 0.9 percent after closing
yesterday at the lowest since Aug. 8 as the Security Council
worked toward an agreement to disarm Syria’s chemical weapons.
Production in Texas climbed in June to the most in 32 years,
while Nigeria restored some oil supplies as pipelines sabotaged
by vandalism and theft were repaired. Saudi Arabia will meet any
shortage in the market, according to the kingdom’s oil minister.  “Today is another selloff and it seems like the oil market
is under pressure this week,” Myrto Sokou, an analyst in  London 
at Sucden Financial Ltd., a commodities broker. “The risk
premium on  Syria  has dissolved.”  WTI for November delivery dropped as much as 89 cents to
$102.70 a barrel and was at $102.76 in electronic trading on the
New York Mercantile Exchange as of 1:40 p.m. London time. The
volume of all futures traded was 21 percent less than the 100-day average. Prices have gained 6.4 percent this quarter, the
most in a year, and are up 11.9 percent in 2013.  Texas High  Brent for November settlement slid 18 cents to $107.98 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude widened for a third day to a premium of
$5.24 to WTI, the most since Sept. 6.  Growing production from Eagle Ford, the nine fields that
make up the majority of shale reserves in south Texas, is
helping fuel a revival in the state’s crude output. Texas pumped
2.58 million barrels a day in June, the highest monthly level
since May 1981, according to the Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical arm. The EIA
hasn’t released July output data for the state.  U.S. crude inventories shrank by 800,000 barrels in the
week ended Sept. 20, the lowest in 18 months as refineries
maintained operations at more than 90 percent of capacity and
oil imports slipped, according to the median estimate of nine
analysts surveyed before a report tomorrow from the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical unit. That would leave
stockpiles at 354.8 million, the least since March 2012.  The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute is
scheduled to release supply data today.  Crude prices are currently driven by geopolitics and don’t
reflect supply and demand balances, Saudi Arabia’s Oil Minister
 Ali al-Naimi  told reporters in  Riyadh  today.  Syria Resolution  The UN Security Council is set to negotiate a Syria
resolution as world leaders travel to New York for the opening
of the General Assembly. The U.S., the U.K. and  France  have
accused government forces of carrying out a chemical attack on
Aug. 21 that killed 1,400 people near Damascus. Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad has blamed rebel groups. Russia rejected a plan
to include enforcement in the resolution.  Oil rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid concern that a
U.S.-led assault would widen the Syrian conflict and disrupt
Middle East shipments. Syria borders  Iraq  and is near  Iran ,
which together control almost a fifth of the production capacity
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Output in Nigeria,  Africa ’s largest crude producer,
increased to 2.4 million barrels a day after sabotaged lines
were restarted, Tumini Green, a spokeswoman at Nigerian National
Petroleum Corp., said in an e-mailed statement. Supply dropped
to 2.2 million in the first quarter, according to the state-owned company.  “We are a little bit more relaxed about the Middle East
risk,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets
in Sydney. With “supply increases in Libya and Nigeria, crude
prices are under pressure in recent days. We may see WTI move
back to under $100.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  