-- TD Bank Agrees to Pay $52.5 Million Over Ponzi Accounts
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-09-23T20:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/td-bank-agrees-to-pay-52-5-million-over-ponzi-accounts.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Canada ’s
second-biggest lender, will pay $52.5 million to settle U.S.
regulatory claims related to accounts held by a Florida man who
is serving a 50-year prison sentence for running a Ponzi scheme.  TD Bank, the Toronto-based lender’s U.S. unit, agreed to
turn over $37.5 million to the Office Comptroller of the
Currency and $15 million to the Securities and Exchange
Commission to resolve complaints stemming from its ties to Scott Rothstein’s fraud, according to statements from the two agencies
today.  Frank Spinosa, a former regional vice president who was
sued by the SEC, falsely represented to investors in 2009 that
TD Bank had restricted the movement of funds in accounts held by
Rothstein, whose fraud unraveled later that year, regulators
said. Spinosa is fighting the SEC’s claims.  “Financial institutions are key gatekeepers in the
transactions and investments they facilitate and will be held to
a high standard of accountability when their officers enable
fraud,” Andrew Ceresney, co-director of the SEC’s enforcement
division, said in a statement. “TD Bank through a regional vice
president produced false documents on bank letterhead and told
outright lies to investors.”  Rothstein used forged court documents and phony bank
records to sell wealthy investors stakes in what he said were
payouts in confidential sexual-harassment and workplace-bias
lawsuits. At least 10 people, including Rothstein’s wife, were
convicted of crimes connected to the $1.2 billion fraud.  Investor Restitution  TD Bank, which Rothstein used to launder the proceeds of
his fraud, got an order barring lawsuits after agreeing to
settle with the bankruptcy trustee for as much as $72 million
and with a group of investors for $54 million. The bank has paid
more than $600 million in restitution to investors harmed by the
fraud, the OCC said.  “Mr. Spinosa did not know about the fraudulent conduct,”
his attorney, Samuel Rabin Jr., said in a statement. “He is now
being vilified for discharging his duties as a banker and for
various deficiencies within TD Bank’s internal administrative
and compliance functions.”  Ali Duncan Martin, a spokeswoman for TD Bank, said in an e-mail that the company works very closely with regulators to
ensure that it complies with applicable laws and regulations.  “TD Bank is pleased to resolve these regulatory concerns
and to put the Rothstein matter behind us,” Duncan Martin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  