-- Danone’s Dumex to Report Bribery Probe Results This Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-24T01:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/danone-s-dumex-to-release-china-investigation-report-this-month.html
Danone’s (BN)  Dumex unit pledged to
reveal results of an internal probe within a week amid fresh
allegations that it paid hospital staff in  China  to sell baby
formula.  Dumex faced new claims by the state-run  China Central
Television  yesterday that it paid about 500,000 yuan ($81,690)
to hospital staff in the cities of Beijing, Tianjin, and five
other Chinese provinces.  In yesterday’s report, the broadcaster cited documents
provided by an unidentified person. This follows a separate CCTV
report last week that Dumex paid hundreds of thousands of yuan
annually in the various forms of “sponsorship fees” to doctors
and nurses at hospitals in the northern Chinese city of Tianjin
to sell its products amid fierce competition among baby-formula
makers.  “A thorough investigation was launched a few days ago, and
now it is still ongoing,” Athena Wang, a Shanghai-based
spokeswoman for Dumex’s China unit, said by e-mail yesterday.
“The report will be available before Oct. 1.”  The allegations follow others claiming doctors’ involvement
in malfeasance amid China’s crackdown on corruption in the
country’s $350 billion health-care market.  China extended the probe to multiple drug companies and
hospitals after saying it was investigating  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
over claims that employees used cash and sexual favors to bribe
doctors and health officials to promote sales of its medicines.  Dumex last week said it was “extremely shocked” by the
initial Chinese media report on Sept. 16, which cited comments
and documents from an unidentified former sales manager. Dumex
adheres to Chinese laws and regulations and it has set up a
“strict management system, including severe punitive measures”
for activities that violate Chinese laws and regulations, the
company said in a statement last week.  Precautionary Recall  In August, Danone was fined 172 million yuan by China’s top
economic planning body for fixing prices of milk powder. That
prompted it to cut prices for its products in the Asian nation
by as much as 20 percent.  The French maker of Activia Yogurt and Evian water also
issued a precautionary recall of its milk formula products last
month after Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said the items might
have been affected by a contaminated whey protein ingredient.  Danone’s baby-nutrition sales will fall in the third
quarter because the recalls had a “significant” effect on
sales in  Asia , the company said last month.  Danone is the third-largest baby formula company in China,
with a 9.2 percent market share last year, according to industry
researcher Euromonitor International.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) 
ranked first with a 14 percent share and Hangzhou Beingmate
Group Co. was No. 2 with 10 percent, it said.  China is cracking down on possible misbehavior by
companies. Alcon, the eye-care division of Novartis AG, said
last week it is probing reports that its China employees paid
doctors to boost sales. In July, China accused four senior Glaxo
executives of crimes involving 3 billion yuan of spurious travel
and meeting expenses as well as trade in sexual favors.  Sanofi and Eli Lilly & Co. were among drugmakers that
subsequently said they were visited by Chinese regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Jarvis  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net  