-- Dell Said to Work With AlixPartners on Post-LBO Shape
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/dell-said-to-work-with-alixpartners-on-post-lbo-shape.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , the computer maker that
founder  Michael Dell  and  Silver Lake  Management LLC are taking
private for $24.9 billion, is working with AlixPartners LLP on
its turnaround, according to people with knowledge of the
matter.  AlixPartners, which advised General Motors Co. on its
restructuring when the automotive giant filed for  Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection  in 2009, is counseling Dell on
organizational restructuring and cost cuts, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the information
isn’t public.  The move highlights how the  Round Rock , Texas-based
personal-computer maker is working to reshape itself after
shareholders on Sept. 12 approved the go-private deal. Chief
Executive Officer Dell, 48, faces a tough road ahead --
including job cuts and other actions -- as he takes the company
out of public hands to transform it into a leaner provider of
data-center gear and corporate software.  The leveraged buyout itself was mired in months of
wrangling, with opponents including billionaire activist  Carl Icahn  arguing that the deal undervalued Dell. The shareholder
vote was postponed three times, and didn’t pass until Dell and
Silver Lake twice sweetened the price, ultimately boosting it to
$13.88 a share from $13.65 a share.  The go-private deal is scheduled to close by Nov. 1, the
end of Dell’s fiscal third quarter. It needs regulatory approval
in China and Brazil, where the company generates significant
revenue.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment, as
did Gordon Goldstein, a spokesman for Silver Lake. Tim Yost, a
spokesman for AlixPartners, also declined to comment.  Debt Payments  Once the deal closes, Dell will have a  debt  load of about
$18 billion, including a $2 billion loan provided by  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , up from $6.8 billion in debt before the LBO, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dell will take at least three years to repay its debt,
assuming it continues to generate cash flow of $2 billion to $3
billion a year, said a person familiar with the company’s
financial situation.  The turnaround will have to include cuts of Dell’s
workforce of 108,800, to make up for the lack of cost
efficiencies after acquisitions in the past five years, said the
person. Dell has bought companies including computer-services
company Perot Systems Corp., data-storage company Compellent
Technologies Inc. and software maker SecureWorks Inc.  AlixPartners is aiming to advise Dell on fully capturing
the benefits the acquisitions should have generated, said
another person with knowledge of the matter. The person said
AlixPartners also plans to help realign Dell with the company’s
new strategy focused on enterprise software and services.  Management Challenges  CEO Dell founded the PC maker in 1984 in his college
dormitory. In recent quarters, the company has missed earnings
estimates as the PC market has declined. Dell’s sales this year
are expected to fall to about $57.3 billion, according to the
average  estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, from $62.1
billion two years ago.  Private-equity firms typically replace the management of
the companies they take private. Since Silver Lake sponsored
Dell’s buyout, it is stuck with the CEO, said  Erik Gordon , a
professor at the  University of Michigan ’s Ross School of
Business and Michigan Law School.  “Michael founded the company and grew it but has no
turnaround expertise,” Gordon said in a phone interview. “They
hired an adviser because a turnaround is very different from
growing a company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  