-- Device Prices Plunge as Hospitals Pay Less to Fix Hearts
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-09-23T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/device-prices-plunge-as-hospitals-pay-less-to-fix-hearts.html
Prices paid in the U.S. for medical
devices, including those that regulate the heart’s rhythm and
replacements for hips and knees, have plunged as much as one-third since 2007 as hospitals clamped down on spending.  The average inflation-adjusted prices for seven of the
largest categories of medical devices fell through 2011,
according to a study released today from the  Advanced Medical
Technology Association . Drug-coated stents used to prop open
arteries sold by  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  
and  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  had a 34 percent decline. Artificial knees 
from  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  
fell the least at 17 percent.  The results suggest medical technology isn’t responsible 
for driving up health-care costs in the U.S., where prices for
devices have risen at less than half the pace of goods in the
 U.S. economy  for two decades, said Stephen Ubl, chief executive 
officer of the industry group known as AdvaMed. The open market 
works for medical devices, he said.  “It’s an incredible value story to talk about price
declines against the backdrop of public health gains,” Ubl said
in a telephone interview. “What else in health care can you say
is going down in terms of price? At least in this part of health
care, good old fashioned competition works well.”  Strong Competitors  The competition can be fierce. J&J, the world’s biggest
seller of health-care products, in 2011 stopped marketing drug-coated stents, an area it pioneered less than a decade earlier.
The  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company generated $627
million from stents in 2010 compared with $2.62 billion in 2006
before it lost share to rival products from Natick,
Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific and  Abbott Park , Illinois-based Abbott.  The pricing pressure is no surprise to medical technology
investors. The  Standard and Poor’s 500 Health Care Equipment &
Services Index  fell 11 percent from 2007 to 2011. The index has
gained since then, rising 37 percent through Sept. 20, as
company executives said plunging prices and demand for their
devices have begun to stabilize.  The study presented at AdvaMed’s meeting in  Washington , 
was based on pricing data gathered from almost 300 hospitals 
by Millennium Research Group, which tracks the industry.   Costs covered the average selling price for devices in 
seven categories, including pacemakers and joint implants, 
after taking into account discounts and rebates. The survey 
didn’t distinguish between more advanced products and simpler 
versions, nor did it take into account the number used.  Excise Tax  Industry leaders and AdvaMed executives may use the
findings to lobby for a repeal of the 2.3 percent medical device
excise tax that went into effect this year to help pay for the
Affordable Care Act. The tax and payment cuts for laboratory
tests, imaging services and durable medical equipment, are
threatening innovation and job creation in the industry, Ubl
said.  The results shouldn’t dissuade investors from putting money
into the industry, the group said. Increasing demand for devices
from aging populations worldwide, and the rising ability of
people in  emerging markets  to pay for the products, bodes well
for the future of the industry, said David Nexon, AdvaMed’s
senior executive vice president. The dynamics of the industry
will fuel innovation, he said.  “There is tremendous pressure to make money by producing a
better product so people are willing to pay for it,” he said in
a telephone interview. “In this industry, that advantage
doesn’t last very long, which keeps pricing very low. It’s been
historically a tremendous engine to improve quality of care.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  