-- Di Canio Fired After Dispute With Team, Guardian Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-23T09:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/di-canio-fired-after-dispute-with-team-guardian-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Di Canio  Paolo Di Canio was fired as Sunderland manager after a
training-ground argument with players during which he was told
the squad had lost faith in his methods, the  Guardian reported .  Di Canio’s 13-game tenure was ended after details of the
row were relayed to club owner Ellis Short, the paper said.  According to the  Daily Mirror , Sunderland’s players are
said to have been upset to have had their effort, commitment and
professionalism questioned publicly by Di Canio, whose team has
lost four of its five Premier League games this season.  Leading Contenders  Roberto Di Matteo, Gustavo Poyet, Steve McLaren and  Tony Pulis  are the leading contenders to replace Di Canio, the  Daily
Mail reported .  Glasgow Rangers manager Ally McCoist, a former Sunderland
striker, may be tempted by the opportunity to manage an English
club, the newspaper added.  Moyes Demands Reaction  Manchester United  manager  David Moyes  demanded a reaction
from his team after yesterday’s 4-1 loss to  Manchester City 
consigned the Red Devils to their worst Premier League start
since 2004, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Moyes told the players the performance was unacceptable,
the newspaper added.  Brazilian Teenager  Udinese is trying to beat Manchester United to the signing
of Desportivo Brazil’s teenage striker Bruno Gomes, the  Daily
Express reported .  Although United has the first right to sign Gomes when he
turns 18 because of a link up with his current club, that
doesn’t apply if Desportivo receives a bid above a certain
level, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  