-- Doctors Brace for Health Law’s Surge of Ailing Patients
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-09-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/doctors-brace-for-health-law-s-surge-of-ailing-patients.html
Holy Cross Hospital’s  health center
in Aspen Hill,  Maryland , is bracing for more business.  The center treats the uninsured, and has been busy since it
opened in 2012 with a waiting list of more than 400 people at
its clinic. Now, as a result of the U.S. Affordable Care Act,
it’s mulling adding staff and hours in anticipation of next
year’s rush of newly-insured patients, many with chronic medical
conditions that have gone untreated for years.  Poorly controlled diabetes can cause stroke,  kidney failure 
and blindness. Undiagnosed cancer can translate into complex
end-of-life care, and untreated high  blood pressure  can lead to
heart attacks. In effect, the 2010  health law ’s biggest promise
becomes its most formidable challenge: unprecedented access to
care for a needy population when the nation is already grappling
with overtaxed emergency rooms and a shortage of physicians.  “When you’re getting people that haven’t had insurance,
they have significant health issues,” said Kevin Sexton,
president and chief executive officer of Holy Cross Health, in a
telephone interview. “A lot of people need these services.”  About 25 million Americans are expected to gain coverage
under the health law, commonly known as Obamacare. Starting Oct.
1, as many as 7 million uninsured Americans will begin shopping
for private plans through government-run exchanges, with many
people eligible to have their premiums subsidized by taxpayers.
On Jan. 1, Medicaid programs for low-income people will be
expanded in about half the U.S. states.  Strained System  The increase in newly insured patients arrives at a time
when the nation has 15,230 fewer primary-care doctors than it
needs, according to an Aug. 28 assessment by the  U.S. Department
of Health  and Human Services. And emergency rooms report being
strained with visits that have risen at twice the rate of
 population growth .  “It’s like we’re handing out bus tickets and the bus is
already full,” said Perry Pugno, vice president for medical
education at the  American Academy of Family Physicians , by
telephone. “The shortfall of primary-care access is not an
insignificant problem, and it’s going to get worse.”  Almost half of all uninsured, non-elderly adults had a
chronic condition, based on a 2005  report  by the  Urban Institute 
and the  University of Maryland . One in six with hypertension
reported no visits to health professionals in a year.  Most who come to Holy Cross’s health center now lack
insurance, and have lived for years with serious ailments,
according to Elise Riley, the center’s medical director. “It’s
frustrating to see diseases that could have been prevented,”
she said in an interview in her office.  More demand may lead to months-long waits to see doctors,
delays in finding specialists, and strains on hospitals and
outpatient clinics, others said.  Patient Access  Ensuring patient access is critical to the Affordable Care
Act’s success: if the newly insured swamp the medical system, it
could hand critics pushing to derail the law another argument to
fray public support. Sara Rosenbaum, a health-law professor at
George  Washington  University in Washington, said she doesn’t
believe it’s going to happen.  “It’s going to be a slow ramp up,” Rosenbaum said in a
telephone interview. “It’s not like seven million people will
get insurance at once. They’re not going to all come racing in
the door.”  While that number of new patients can be debated, the
status of those who do come in the door is not.  Patients who have had gaps in health insurance were more
likely to have not gone to a doctor when sick or to have skipped
getting prescriptions, according to an April 2013 report by the
Commonwealth Fund, a New York-based foundation that works for
health-care access. The uninsured were less likely to be up-to-date on recommended cholesterol, blood pressure, colon cancer
screenings and mammograms.  Massachusetts Overhaul  Massachusetts pioneered health reform in 2006 when it
enacted near universal coverage under then governor  Mitt Romney .
Community health centers and hospitals that care for a larger
share of lower-income residents saw a 12 percent jump in patient
volume from 2009 to 2010, with almost 100,000 more visits to
safety net hospitals during that time, according to a 2012
 report  by the  Kaiser Family Foundation .  David Longworth, chairman of the Medicine Institute at
 Ohio ’s  Cleveland Clinic , was working in Massachusetts when the
state passed near universal health coverage.  “Practices closed and patients would wait for eight to
nine months to get in,” Longworth said by telephone. “We
overwhelmed the primary care health system.”  In cities such as Lawrence, Massachusetts, a former textile
city that has long been home to a large immigrant community,
doctors have coped with rising volume.  Patient Surplus  The  Lawrence Family Medicine Residency , which provides
primary care and other medical services to a largely low-income
patient population, saw an uptick in patients, said Joseph
Gravel, chief medical officer and residency program director.  “When you look at the experience in  Massachusetts , it’s
going to be bumpy” when Obamacare rolls out, Gravel said in a
telephone interview.  The percentage of family doctors in the state accepting new
patients has dropped 19 percent in the past seven years and the
percentage of internists accepting new patients has fallen 21
percent over nine years, according to a July report by the
Massachusetts Medical Society, an advocacy group for patients
and physicians. Only about half of family doctors were accepting
new patients this year.  The Cleveland Clinic predicts as many as 90,000 new
patients in northeast Ohio if everyone signs up for coverage.
The health system is working to ramp up its primary care
practices in anticipation.  Exciting Challenge  At Grady Health System in Atlanta, more patients are
expected, especially at its six outpatient centers. San
Francisco General Hospital and Trauma Center in  California  has
some expanded hours its 19 primary care centers. The centers are
located in the hospital and out in the community.  “We anticipate an increase in primary care and
specialty,” Chief Executive Officer Sue Currin said.  On a recent Friday morning at the Holy Cross clinic in
Aspen Hill, Riley donned a white coat and prepared to see
patients. While there may be more patients under reform, Riley
said an increase in business will be welcome.  “I’ve very excited,” Riley said. “I’ve been dealing with
uninsured patients for a long time. If they get coverage, we can
prevent a lot of problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  