-- Dollar Gains as Investors Pare Bearish Bets; Aussie, Kiwi Fall
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-09-24T21:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/dollar-holds-drop-as-shutdown-looms-fed-stimulus-damps-demand.html
The dollar rose as investors pared
bets on a weaker greenback amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will maintain monetary stimulus as it awaits a pick-up in
economic growth.  The U.S. currency strengthened versus most of its major
counterparts amid commentary from regional Fed presidents as
investors are paying the biggest premium in four days for
options to buy the dollar versus the euro. The Australian and
New Zealand dollars weakened as Asian stocks declined, reducing
demand for the region’s higher-yielding assets. The pound fell
as a gauge of mortgage approvals rose less than forecast.  “The market is squaring up positions on the dollar after
its decline starting last week,”  Omer Esiner , chief market
analyst in  Washington  at the currency brokerage Commonwealth
Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a telephone interview. “The Fed
speakers today were pretty much a non-event. It’s going to come
down to the data over the next few weeks.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, rose 0.2 percent to 1,014.14 at 5
p.m.  New York  time after climbing to the highest level since
Sept. 18.  The U.S. currency strengthened 0.1 percent to $1.3474 per
euro after rising 0.2 percent yesterday. The greenback fell 0.1
percent to 98.75 yen. The euro dropped 0.2 percent to 133.05
yen.  Market Results  The dollar fell 2 percent in the past month, the biggest
decline after the yen, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-nation currencies. The
yen slid 2 percent and the euro fell 1.2 percent. This year, the
greenback is up 2.8 percent, the euro has gained 5.2 percent and
yen is down 11 percent.  The New Zealand dollar fell versus all but one of its 31
most-traded counterparts as declines in global stocks reduced
investor appetite for higher-yielding assets. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index of shares fell 0.6 percent.  The kiwi tumbled 1.1 percent to 82.82 U.S. cents after
decreasing 1.4 percent, the most since Aug. 21.  Australia ’s
dollar dropped 0.4 percent to 93.91 U.S. cents.  “The equity markets opened on a softer foot and we’re
seeing a bit of weakness in the Aussie dollar as some risk comes
off the table,” said Jim Vrondas, chief currency and payment
strategist at OzForex Ltd. in Sydney. “I don’t expect it to
have a long-lasting effect.”  Hungary’s forint depreciated against the majority of its
major peers as the country’s central bank cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to a record low after inflation slowed. The
currency slid 0.4 percent to 222.19 per dollar and declined 0.3
percent to 299.34 per euro.  Quarterly Decline  The dollar has weakened 3.6 percent this quarter versus the
euro, headed for the biggest decline since the three months
through March 2011. The greenback has dropped 0.4 percent
against the yen in the same period.  Cleveland Fed President  Sandra Pianalto  and the Kansas City
Fed’s Esther George spoke earlier after the central bank
unexpectedly left its bond-purchases program unchanged when
officials met on Sept. 17-18.  Fed Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said
yesterday the economy “still needs the support of a very
accommodative monetary policy,” and told CNBC today tapering
would require improvement in the job market and economy. His
Atlanta counterpart Dennis Lockhart said yesterday policy should
focus on creating a more dynamic economy after a recent cooling
in growth.  “Some people are taking short dollar positions off the
table,” Douglas Borthwick, head of foreign exchange at
Chapdelaine & Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“Yesterday, you saw a number of comments that made it seem that
tapering was right on the cusp. Esther George will likely come
out and move the taper issue even closer.” A short position is
a bet that an asset will decline in value.  Fed View  Twenty-four of 41 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  on
Sept. 18-19 said the Fed will take its first step in slowing its
bond purchases in December.  The greenback will continue gaining versus the euro until
it reaches key resistance at $1.3450 to $1.3454, at which point
it will resume a longer-term decline,  David Sneddon , global head
of technical analysis in  London  at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote
in a client note.  The pound weakened for the third time in four days against
the dollar after the  British Bankers Association  said loans
approved for house purchases rose to 38,228 in August from a
revised 37,428 the previous month. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast 38,950.  Data Dependence  “The pound has had a long rally recently on the back of
strong U.K. data and a generally weaker dollar,” said Bernd Berg, a currency strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.
“There is a lot of positive economic news priced into the
pound. Any slight disappointment in economic data in the weeks
ahead will lead to a reversal of the recent strength and a pull
back towards $1.57.”  Sterling fell 0.2 percent to $1.6004 after climbing to
$1.6163 on Sept. 18, the strongest since Jan. 11.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $24.9 billion, from $14.3 billion yesterday, according
to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yuan  exchange rate  amounted to $3.7 billion, the largest share
of trades at 15 percent. Options on the dollar-yen rate totaled
$3.5 billion.  Dollar-yuan options trading was 54 percent more than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading was
21 percent less than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  