-- Dollar Falls a 2nd Day Versus Yen as Fed Officials Back Stimulus
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-09-23T21:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/dollar-weakens-for-second-day-versus-yen-before-fed-speakers.html
The dollar weakened for a second
day against the yen as Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said policy makers must
“forcefully” push against economic headwinds.  The U.S. currency fell versus the majority of 16 major
peers as Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart , who has
backed the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases that were
retained last week, said policy should focus on creating a more
dynamic economy. The yen gained against most of its major peers
as U.S. two-year note yields have dropped 20 basis points since
reaching 0.53 percent on Sept. 6, the highest level since May
2011. The 17-member currency fell versus the dollar after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said he’s ready to
deploy another long-term refinancing operation, if needed.  “The U.S. dollar continues to trade near lows versus the
euro and other major foreign-exchange counterparts,” David Rodriguez, quantitative strategist in New York at DailyFX, wrote
today in a client note. “But the fact that the greenback
continues to hold key lows suggests that traders are not yet
willing to force larger dollar weakness.”  The dollar weakened 0.5 percent to 98.85 yen at 5 p.m. New
York time, after dropping 0.1 percent on Sept. 20. The greenback
lost 0.2 percent to $1.3493 per euro. The yen advanced 0.7
percent versus the common currency to 133.37.  Aussie, Rand  Australia ’s dollar advanced after data showed manufacturing
expanded in  China , the nation’s biggest trading partner. The
preliminary reading for a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 51.2 this month from
50.1 in August. The Bloomberg survey median was for 50.9. The
Aussie gained 0.4 percent to 94.31 U.S. cents.  The rand strengthened for the first time in three days
after manufacturing in China, the biggest buyer of South African
raw materials, rose to a six-month high in September. The
currency climbed 0.5 percent to 9.8431 per dollar.  Indonesia ’s rupiah fell the most in more than a week versus
the dollar amid speculation local companies are boosting dollar
purchases to meet month-end debt and import payments. The
currency weakened 0.8 percent to 11,445 per dollar after
declining 1.4 percent, the most since Sept. 12.  The Israeli shekel slipped versus the majority of its 31
most-traded peers after the  Bank of Israel  unexpectedly reduced
its benchmark lending rate. It decreased 0.6 percent to 3.5322
per dollar after falling as much as 0.8 percent.  Fed Policy  The  U.S. dollar  fell after policy makers said on Sept. 18
that they want more proof of an economic recovery before curbing
their bond-purchase program, known as quantitative easing,
surprising analysts who predicted a $5 billion cut.  The dollar may also stay under pressure as a deadline on
increasing the U.S. government’s debt ceiling approaches,
according to UBS AG.  “Dudley expressed support for the Fed’s decision to keep
accommodation as it is,” Eric Viloria, senior currency
strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “That sort of dovish commentary is going
to keep pressure on the dollar.”  The dollar may break key levels of resistance versus the
yen at 101.53, and then 103.74, the May high, according to a
client note written by UBS technical strategist  Richard Adcock .
Beyond that, he said the focus is on the 105.75 level, which
would be the highest in almost five years.  Dollar Measure  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, fell 0.2 percent to 1,011.81 after
tumbling 1 percent last week.  Mexico ’s peso rose 0.4 percent to 12.8036 per dollar.  Futures traders reversed their bets that the  Mexican peso 
will gain against the U.S. dollar,  figures  from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators on a decline in the peso compared with those on a
gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 10,201 on Sept. 17, compared
with net longs of 8,279 a week earlier.  The euro weakened versus most of its major peers.  “While repayment of central bank credit is certainly a
sign of normalization, the resulting reduction in excess
liquidity can reinforce upward pressures on term money market
rates,” Draghi said in testimony to the European Parliament in
Brussels. He said the ECB is ready to use tools “including
another LTRO, if needed.”  Merkel Wins  Germany ’s voters re-elected Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
yesterday. Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc took 41.5 percent
of the vote, versus 25.7 percent for the  Social Democrats  of
 Peer Steinbrueck , according to results from all 299 districts.
That leaves her short of a majority and party leaders are due to
meet today to discuss forming a coalition.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $14.6 billion, from $18 billion on Sept. 20, according
to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-real  exchange rate  amounted to $3.1 billion, the largest share
of trades at 21 percent. Options on the dollar-yen rate totaled
$2.4 billion.  Dollar-real options trading was 319 percent more than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading was
28 percent less than average.  The euro has risen 5 percent this year, the best performer
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen lost 11.4 percent, the
worst performer, while the dollar rose 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  