-- Draghi Says EU Bank Resolution Fund Needed With Power to Borrow
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   W i s h a r t
-- 2013-09-23T15:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/draghi-says-eu-bank-resolution-fund-needed-with-power-to-borrow.html
The European Union needs a bank
resolution fund that can borrow money if needed as it’s
gradually filled by contributions from the financial-services
sector, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said.  Draghi said the EU should press ahead with plans to create
a Single Resolution Mechanism to step in when banks fail. He
endorsed European Commission plans for a single system with
centralized powers and a joint fund.  In the short run, national authorities will need to stand
ready to finance the cost of stabilizing a failing bank, Draghi
said. The ECB will be conducting balance sheet reviews of
lenders across the  euro zone  as it prepares to become the
currency bloc’s single supervisor next year, and the results of
those reviews will require some sort of backstop.  “We’ll have to have national backstops in place,” Draghi
told a European Parliament panel in Brussels today. “The role
for the national backstops is there and it’s realistic.”  Current plans call for the Single Resolution Mechanism to
start on Jan. 1, 2015, and build up its fund over 10 years.
Draghi said it would be better if the fund could ramp up more
quickly. Otherwise it will be up to national authorities to act
when needed, which is “suboptimal,” he said.  Draghi said the ECB can make an assessment of when a bank
should enter resolution and should then remain an “observer”
for what happens next. “The ECB should not and will not have
anything to do with this fund,” he said.  Credit Line  The resolution authority and national governments will have
to decide whether to prop a bank up or shut it down, Draghi
said. The costs of that decision should be handled by the
central fund, which should have access to a  credit line  for
short-term cash, he said.  Draghi stressed that the fund would need “not money for
free, but to borrow money” that could later be repaid as the
fund is filled with industry fees. He said it’s too early to say
where the fund’s credit line should come from or whether it
could tap the euro area’s firewall fund, the 500 billion-euro
($674 billion) European Stability Mechanism.  “Some people have suggested the ESM could extend a credit
line to the resolution fund,” Draghi said. “I am not sure that
this is possible within the existing treaty.”  Draghi said the ECB would offer more details by mid-October
on its forthcoming reviews of euro-area lenders. The central
bank has begun the process of hiring outside firms to help, at
the ECB and at the national level, he said.  “The asset-quality review and balance-sheet assessments
will be done by the ECB, by the national supervisors, by third-party supervisors -- in other words, we do expect collaboration
from other member countries’ supervisors -- and by private-sector, independent consultants,” Draghi said.  Asked if this is a requirement for all member states,
Draghi said “Yes, indeed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Wishart in Brussels at 
 iwishart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  