-- Draghi Says ECB Is Ready to Offer More Long-Term Loans
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-09-23T15:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/draghi-says-ecb-is-ready-to-use-another-long-term-loan-if-needed.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi said he’s ready to deploy another long-term
refinancing operation to provide funds to Europe’s banking
system if needed.  “We are ready to use any instrument, including another
LTRO if needed, to maintain the short term money markets at the
level that is warranted by our assessment of inflation in the
medium term,” Draghi said in response to questions from
lawmakers in the European Parliament in Brussels today.  Euro-area money-market rates rose to a level that Draghi
described as “unwarranted” in July after the U.S. Federal
Reserve signaled that it would begin to ease stimulus and signs
emerged of a recovery in the 17-nation region. While those rates
have since declined, excess liquidity in the financial system is
approaching the 200 billion-euro ($270 billion) level the ECB
has previously signaled as a lower limit.  In his opening remarks at the hearing, Draghi said while
repayment of central bank credit is “certainly a sign of
normalization, the resulting reduction in  excess liquidity  can
reinforce upward pressures on term money market rates.”  As the buffer of excess cash held by the financial system
falls, the rates that banks charge each other for liquidity can
rise as they shoulder more risk. The ECB has also tried to keep
money-market rates in check by issuing forward guidance on its
 official interest rates , saying that they will remain where they
are or lower for “an extended period.”  ECB Reliance  The overnight rate that banks expect to charge each other
by the ECB’s September 2014 meeting, as measured by Eonia
forward contracts, is at 0.21 percent, having fallen from 0.3
percent on Sept. 5.  “Reliance on ECB funding support has been steadily
declining,” Draghi said.  Europe’s banks will repay 7.91 billion euros of three-year
loans this week, data released by the ECB on Sept. 20 showed.
That’s the highest level of repayments since May. The ECB
introduced two sets of loans of longer maturity than before,
beginning in December 2011, as a credit crunch in Europe
threatened.  The euro weakened after Draghi’s comments and was trading
at $1.3493 as of 4:50 p.m. Frankfurt time, down 0.2 percent from
yesterday.  Draghi Attentive  Draghi said the ECB will remain “particularly attentive”
to the implications falling excess liquidity could have for
monetary policy, echoing language from a Sept. 5 press
conference.  “We are down from 800 billion euros to 250 billion euros
in terms of excess liquidity, and that is all in all good
news,” he said then. “I remember some time ago I mentioned a
figure of 200 billion euros as the threshold, but in fact it is
really context-dependent. It depends on the context; it depends
on the degree of fragmentation that we have.”  The amount of extra liquidity that the region’s banks have
been holding as an insurance against shocks to the financial
system has fallen, in part due to returning confidence in the
region’s economy and the presence of the ECB’s OMT bond-buying
plan that has helped insure against the breakup of the currency
union. Excess liquidity stood at 220.5 billion euros as of Sept.
20, and use of the ECB’s overnight  deposit facility  fell last
week to the lowest since August 2011.  “Over the past twelve months, confidence in the euro area
has returned,” Draghi said today. “As a consequence,
fragmentation in euro-area funding markets has been receding.
This improvement owes not only to the ECB’s non-standard
measures, but also to progress by governments in improving the
euro-area governance and in pursuing reform agendas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  