-- Dudley Says Fed Must ‘Forcefully’ Push Against Headwinds
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-09-23T17:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/dudley-says-fed-must-act-forcefully-to-push-against-headwinds.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said policy makers must
“forcefully” push against economic headwinds as the U.S. has
yet to show “any meaningful pickup” in momentum.  “The economy still needs the support of a very
accommodative monetary policy,” Dudley, who is vice chairman of
the  Federal Open Market Committee , said today in a speech in New
York. “Improving economic fundamentals versus fiscal drag and
somewhat tighter financial conditions are pulling the economy in
opposite directions, roughly canceling each other.”  U.S. policy makers last week unexpectedly refrained from
reducing their $85 billion in monthly bond buying, saying they
need to see more signs of sustained labor-market gains. Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said on Sept. 18 the Fed will alter record
accommodation based on “what’s needed for the economy” and not
“let market expectations dictate our policy actions.”  Dudley said any decision to taper bond purchases shouldn’t
be seen as a sign the benchmark  interest rate  will be raised any
sooner, and that the Fed may wait “a long time” to raise the
rate after breaching its 6.5 percent unemployment threshold.
Dudley has consistently supported the Fed’s easing policies.  Dudley, 60, said the economy is “slowly healing” and
faces headwinds including “the large amount of fiscal drag”
from tax increases and budget cuts, as well as the “tightening
of financial-market conditions” that has occurred since May.  Bond Yields  Bernanke’s remarks earlier this year on the prospect for
tapering sent bond yields as much as a percentage point higher.
Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note climbed as high as
2.99 percent on Sept. 5 from 1.93 percent on May 21, the day
before Bernanke first outlined a possible timetable for a
reduction in the asset purchases.  Treasuries rose today, pushing the yield on the 10-year
note down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.71
percent at 1:29 p.m. in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 0.5 percent to 1,701.91.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank
harmed its credibility with the decision not to taper bond
purchases.  “Doing nothing at this meeting would increase uncertainty
about the future conduct of policy and call the credibility of
our communications into question,” Fisher, who doesn’t vote on
policy this year, said he told the Federal Open Market
Committee. “I believe that is exactly what has occurred, though
I take no pleasure in saying so,” he said today in remarks
prepared for a speech in  San Antonio ,  Texas .  QE Effective  Dudley said in response to an audience question that the
market reaction to the possibility the Fed may reduce the pace
of securities purchases demonstrated the policy’s effectiveness.  “The very idea that we might begin to taper” led “to a
significant tightening of financial conditions,” Dudley said.
That shows the stimulus has kept “financial conditions more
accommodative than they otherwise might have been.”  Dudley reiterated that before supporting a trim to
quantitative easing, he wants to see the extent of fiscal
restraint and the impact of higher interest rates on housing.  Another regional Fed bank president, Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart , today said monetary policy should focus on creating a
more dynamic economy.  “Recently there appears to have been some slowing” in  job
creation , Lockhart, who next votes on policy in 2015, said in a
speech in New York. Payroll gains have averaged just 148,000 a
month the past three months, he said. Lockhart has also backed
the Fed’s monthly bond purchases.  ‘Shown Improvement’  Dudley said he needs to see “evidence that the labor
market has shown improvement,” and “information about the
economy’s forward momentum that makes me confident that labor
market improvement will continue in the future.”  “So far, I think we have made progress with respect to
these metrics, but have not yet achieved success,” Dudley said.
While “the economy continues to grow and payrolls are rising,”
there “is little evidence of a pickup in the economy’s forward
momentum.”  Joblessness (USURTOT)  fell to 7.3 percent in August from 8.1 percent
in August of last year, the latest reading before the Fed
started its bond purchases the following month.  The decline in unemployment “overstates the degree of
improvement,” he said. Other measures, such as hiring and job
openings point to a “much more modest improvement.”  ‘Not Sustainable’  Dudley said in response to an audience question that “some
of the decline” in joblessness is “not sustainable” because
it’s due to a falling participation rate. As conditions
“hopefully” improve, discouraged workers will reenter the
 labor force , he said.  The inflation rate will probably accelerate toward the
central bank’s 2 percent target during the next few years,
Dudley said, adding that inflation expectations remain “well-anchored.”  The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index, showed prices rising 1.4 percent
in the 12 months ended in July. The Fed has a 2 percent
inflation target.  The economy is “still stuck” growing close to the 2.2
percent rate “that has prevailed since the beginning of the
expansion,” Dudley said. He predicted “a bit faster” growth
next year if fiscal restraint lessens and financial conditions
don’t tighten further.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard , a voter on policy
this year who has backed record stimulus, said on Sept. 20 the
central bank may make a small trim to its asset purchases next
month after its “very close call” at last week’s meeting.  ‘Borderline Decision’  “That was a borderline decision” after “weaker data came
in,” Bullard said Sept. 20 in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“The committee came down on the side of, ‘Let’s wait.’”  The New York Fed said last week it will begin testing an
overnight fixed-rate reverse repurchase facility as an
additional tool to aid policy makers when they eventually seek
to raise interest rates and tighten policy.  “The goal of this new facility is to improve our control
over overnight interest rates to aid us in the implementation of
monetary policy,” Dudley said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  