-- Egypt Court Orders Banning of Muslim Brotherhood Activities
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-09-23T14:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/egyptian-court-orders-banning-of-muslim-brotherhood-activities.html
An Egyptian court ordered the
banning of the Muslim Brotherhood’s activities and seizure of
its assets, in a major blow to an organization already facing a
sweeping crackdown by the military-backed government.  The ruling, read out in the Cairo Court for Urgent Matters
by Judge Mohamed El-Sayed, extends to the Brotherhood and any
organizations it set up, including the association it registered
under earlier this year. It said the cabinet should form a
committee to oversee funds belonging to the group.  The verdict comes as the Brotherhood faces its toughest
crackdown in decades after President Mohamed Mursi, who was
fielded for office by the group, was pushed from power by the
military on July 3 after days of mass protests. The ruling
renders the Brotherhood an illegal organization, relegating it
to the status it held for much of its 80-year existence before
 Hosni Mubarak ’s 2011 ouster opened the door for its rise to
power, according to Gamal Eid, executive director of the Cairo-based Arab Network for Human Rights.  “The ruling is political and will complicate matters on
the political scene,” Eid said by phone. “While the state
should be working to incorporate all political groups, it is now
allowing the group to go back to its underground status.”  The ruling will be appealed, the state-run Ahram Gate
reported, citing Ali Beshr, a senior member of the Brotherhood.  ‘Politically Motivated’  “How can someone question our legitimacy and existence
when we’ve existed for 85 years? We will remain, as we are, no
matter what,” the Brotherhood said in a post on its @Ikhwanweb
Twitter account. The “Muslim Brotherhood is part and parcel of
Egyptian society, corrupt and politically motivated judicial
decisions cannot change that.”  Mahmoud Abdullah, the lawyer who filed the case against the
Islamist organization, said in an interview in the court that
the government has the right to immediately implement the
verdict.  The court ruling banned the “activities of the Muslim
Brotherhood organization in  Egypt ,” as well as those of
affiliated institutions or entities funded or which receive
“any other sort of support” from it.  The ruling will restrict its charitable and grassroots
activities, which gained broad support under Mubarak and helped
it prevail in the first parliamentary elections held after the
2011 uprising. It also heaps new pressure on the organization
after hundreds of Mursi supporters were killed in clashes with
security forces last month. The Brotherhood’s top leaders have
been arrested and face charges including inciting violence and
the killing of protesters.  Charter Changes  The interim government is pushing ahead with plans to amend
the now-suspended constitution and convene presidential and
parliamentary elections by early next year.  A 50-member committee charged with amending the national
charter could finish its work by next month, its spokesman said
yesterday. The changes may include an overhaul of the entire
constitution, which was speedily pushed through to a referendum
last year by the Islamist-dominated committee that drafted it.  The charter, which secularists saw as curbing freedoms and
infringing on the rights of minority Christians, was among the
catalysts for the broad unrest that sparked mass protests
against Mursi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  