-- Telecom Italia Investors Are Said to Resume Ownership Talks
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-09-23T18:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/telecom-italia-shareholders-are-said-to-resume-ownership-talks.html
Telecom Italia (TIT) ’s biggest
shareholders have resumed negotiations over their six-year
investor agreement that can be revoked this month, according to
people familiar with the matter.  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  and  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  together hold 22.4 percent of Milan-based
Telecom Italia through Telco SpA. Telefonica is in talks to
increase its stake in Telco to 70 percent from 46 percent, with
the financial investors lowering their holdings to 30 percent,
said two of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the deliberations are confidential.  At today’s closing price, the additional Telecom Italia
stake that Telefonica is seeking has a market value of about 580
million euros ($782 million). The discussions are at an advanced
stage, though no final accord has been reached, said one of the
people. The shareholders, who failed to agree on a price last
week, will continue to negotiate this evening and Telco may make
a statement tomorrow, the person said.  Telefonica is also seeking to extend Telco’s exit window by
another six months as a way to gain time and prepare the
potential sale of Telecom Italia’s Brazilian unit  Tim
Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  to strengthen the Italian carrier’s balance
sheet, people familiar with the matter have said. Italian
investors are willing to grant the extension if Telefonica signs
a preliminary agreement this week for the purchase of their
shares, according to one of the people.  Telecom Italia  shares  rose 3.4 percent to 59 cents today,
valuing the phone company at 10.8 billion euros.  Intesa meeting  Representatives for Telefonica, Intesa, Mediobanca and
Telecom Italia declined to comment on the talks. A spokesman for
Generali couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Intesa’s management board is scheduled to gather today to
discuss its holding in Telco, said one of the people.  Telefonica and the financial investors agreed in 2007 to
pay 4.1 billion euros for an 18 percent stake in Telecom Italia
in what was a compromise by the government to keep the carrier
Italian and fend off a takeover bid by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Carlos
Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB.  Telco’s owners have written down their investments at least
five times as Telecom Italia shares slumped more than 70 percent
over six years. Mediobanca last week wrote down the value of its
Telecom Italia shares to 53 euro cents each from 1.2 euros,
while other investors in Telco hold stock at 1.2 euros apiece.  The investor pact can be dissolved by the end of this week,
or else it will be extended through February 2015 with another
exit window in August 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  