-- Telefonica Tightens Grip on Telecom Italia With Stake Boost
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-09-24T15:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/telefonica-said-to-reach-deal-to-boost-stake-in-telecom-italia.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  agreed to boost its
stake in  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  in an 861 million-euro ($1.2 
billion) cash and stock transaction, expanding its influence 
over the indebted Italian phone company and paving the way for 
potential asset sales.  The Spanish carrier will pay an initial 324 million euros
to increase its holding in Telco SpA, the investment vehicle
that owns 22.4 percent of Telecom Italia, to 66 percent from 46
percent. Partners  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  and  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  will gradually reduce their stakes. The
price values Telecom Italia shares at 1.09 euros each. The stock
rose as much as 4.9 percent to 61.9 cents in Milan today.  The agreement, first reported by Bloomberg News yesterday,
marks the unraveling of a six-year shareholder pact as Telecom
Italia looks for capital to pare more than $38 billion in net
debt. Moody’s Investors Service in August gave the carrier three
months to strengthen its balance sheet or else it could be
stripped of its investment-grade rating, putting pressure Chief
Executive Officer Franco Bernabe to consider asset sales.  “It’s the first time in Italy a former state-owned
enterprise with strategic assets is sold to a foreign company,”
Andrea Giuricin, a media and telecommunications analyst at
Milan’s Bicocca University, said in a phone interview. “Telecom
Italia was just too weak to continue as a standalone business.”  Second Stage  Falling valuations of the region’s phone companies have
attracted billionaire investors including  Mexico ’s  Carlos Slim 
and Hong Kong’s  Li Ka-shing  to increase investments.  AT&T Inc. (T) 
scoured Europe for takeovers this year, and Telefonica and
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  have in recent months made wireless and cable
acquisitions in  Germany  to bolster their phone offerings.  In a second step of the transaction, Telefonica will pay an
additional 117 million euros to increase its stake in Telco to
as much as 70 percent. Generali, Intesa and Mediobanca’s
combined holdings will fall to 30 percent. Once Telefonica’s
voting rights in Telco exceed 50 percent, it can appoint half of
Telco’s 10-person board, with the remainder to be decided by the
Italian partners.  Telefonica also agreed to purchase part of a 1.75 billion
euro-bond issued by Telco last year. Increasing its share to 70
percent from 46 percent will cost about 420 million euros and
Telefonica will finance the acquisition with its own stock.  Telecom Italia traded 2.8 percent higher at 60.7 cents at
5:09 p.m. in Milan. Telefonica was little changed at 11.27 euros
on the  Madrid  exchange.  Political Compromise  Telefonica and the financial investors agreed in 2007 to
pay 4.1 billion euros for an 18 percent stake in  Italy ’s biggest
phone company. At the time it was a compromise by the government
to keep the carrier Italian and to fend off a takeover bid by
AT&T and Slim’s America Movil SAB.  Telco’s owners have written down their investments at least
five times -- Mediobanca devalued its stake last week to 53
cents a share and Generali announced its writedown today -- as
the stock  slumped  more than 70 percent over six years as
Europe’s debt crisis sapped consumer spending and profit from
telecommunications services.  As part of today’s deal, Telco’s investors agreed to extend
the period in which they could revoke the accord as they wait
for Telecom Italia CEO Bernabe to present a business plan at a
board meeting scheduled for Oct. 3.  Towers Sale  Among proposals to raise cash and increase efficiency are a
sale of 12,000 wireless towers and a reorganization of Milan-based Telecom Italia’s domestic units by creating separate
companies for its consumer and business services, people
familiar with the matter have said. Telecom Italia is also
working on a spinoff of its fixed-line network as an avenue to
raise capital and bargain for lighter regulations.  Telco’s owners will have a chance to end the shareholder
pact from June 15 to June 30 next year, followed by another
window from Feb. 1 to Feb. 15, 2015, today’s statement showed.  Telefonica was seeking to extend the first exit period,
which was due to expire this week, to gain time to push for a
sale of Telecom Italia’s Brazilian unit  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) ,
which has a market value of more than $11 billion, people
familiar with the matter have said.  During the negotiations, Telefonica has expressed it would
back a capital increase only if the plan comes along with
measures to shore up Telecom Italia’s finances such as a
disposal of Tim  Brazil  in the medium term, the people said.  Brazil Breakup?  Telefonica Brasil, which sells services under the Vivo
brand, is the country’s biggest wireless operator. By increasing
its indirect holding in Telecom Italia incrementally, Telefonica
aims to circumvent any regulatory hurdles in the event of a sale
or a breakup of Tim Brazil, said one of the people.  Tim gained 5.8 percent to 10.70 reais in Sao Paulo. It had
risen as much as 7.2 percent, the biggest intraday jump since
August 2011.  For Telefonica CEO Cesar Alierta -- who was in Milan last
week to help broker an agreement -- boosting investments in
Italy is a preferred option because a sale would have meant
another writedown similar to the ones Mediobanca and Generali
have just made.  Having sold assets in the past year from Ireland to Central
America, Alierta has averted a rating downgrade and gained the
financial flexibility that allowed him to expand in Germany by
agreeing to take over  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s E-Plus business in an 8.55
billion-euro sweetened transaction last month.  Winning Support  Telefonica eventually aims to acquire the remaining Telecom
Italia shares held by its Telco partners, said a person familiar
with the matter. Today’s agreement gave Telefonica the option to
buy out remaining Telco stakeholders in cash starting next year.  “Telefonica has managed to win support from Telco and gain
time to try to improve Telecom Italia’s delicate situation,”
said Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at Banco de Sabadell in
Madrid.  Telecom Italia reported a 2.2 billion-euro goodwill
writedown for the first half, bringing the amount of impairment
losses by the carrier to 14 billion euros since 2011 as its
stock heads for the ninth consecutive annual decline.  Telecom Italia sold 1 billion euros of seven-year bonds
last week, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. Still, without any
major asset sale, the carrier will need a capital increase of
about 4 billion euros, another person familiar with the matter
has said, asking not to be identified because the discussions
are confidential.  Italian Takeovers  Telecom Italia’s Baa3  rating , the lowest investment grade,
remains under review for a possible downgrade, Moody’s analyst
Carlos Winzer said in a statement to Bloomberg News.  Foreign investors have taken control of some of Italy’s
other biggest companies in recent years.  Bulgari SpA, the jeweller, was bought by  France ’s  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  for 12.3 billion euros in 2011. Milk
producer  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  and power company Edison SpA also went to
French buyers. Cashmere clothier Loro Piana SpA agreed in July
to be acquired by LVMH for 2 billion euros.  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  is weighing an increase in its 25
percent stake in Alitalia SpA, Italy’s flagship airline.  Politics may be on Telefonica’s side. Prime Minister Enrico
Letta was from 1993 until April last year secretary-general of
Arel, a research institute of economics and politics that
coordinates Italy-Spain forum of dialog with Cidob, a Barcelona-based foundation. Letta was undersecretary for former Prime
Minister Romano Prodi when the government blocked AT&T and
America Movil’s bid for Telecom Italia in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  