-- Emerging Stocks Advance on China as Apple Suppliers Rally
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-09-23T21:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/emerging-stocks-climb-on-china-data-as-thai-india-shares-drop.html
Emerging-market stocks rose after a
report showed that a gauge of Chinese manufacturing increased to
a six-month high. Technology companies climbed, led by  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s suppliers, amid optimism over new iPhone sales.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.3 percent to
1,016.30, extending a three-week gain. The Shanghai Composite
Index advanced 1.3 percent as  GoerTek Inc. (002241) , an Apple supplier,
surged the most in a month. Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  snapped a two-day
slide as Banco Santander Brasil SA led gains in financial stocks
after Citigroup Inc. said it’s “bullish” on the country’s
banks. Indonesia’s rupiah paced losses in currencies on
speculation local companies are boosting dollar purchases.  Stocks advanced amid optimism that  China ’s economic growth
is picking up, boosting Premier  Li Keqiang ’s odds of meeting the
year’s 7.5 percent expansion goal. The preliminary reading of
51.2 for a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics compared with a 50.9 median
estimate from 14 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “The number was very good, much better than expected,”
Paul Christopher, the St. Louis-based chief international
strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. His firm oversees about
$1.3 trillion. “We had been expecting China to do better in the
second half, and that’s coming true.”  Technology and consumer discretionary shares led gains
among the  10 industries  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The
measure for developing markets trimmed this year’s decline to
3.7 percent, trading at 10.7 times projected earnings, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That trails the 14  valuation  of
the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund advanced 0.4 percent to $42.23. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slipped 2 percent to 23.09.  Brazil’s Ibovespa gained as Santander added 2.9 percent.
The benchmark gauge will reach 60,000 by the end of the year and
to 64,000 in 2014, boosted by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
decision to delay tapering of its bond-buying program and by
better-than-forecast economic data in Brazil, Citigroup analysts
wrote in a report.  Russian stocks declined for a second day as JPMorgan Chase
& Co. reduced the nation’s equities to the equivalent of sell on
declining crude prices. OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil
producer, dropped 1.3 percent. JPMorgan upgraded equities in
 Turkey ,  Peru  and  South Africa , saying the Fed’s decision to keep
monetary stimulus intact would spur emerging-market stocks for
the rest of the year.  ‘Happy Days’  “The Fed is allowing investors to ‘temporarily’ relive the
happy days of QE-driven EM bonds and equities,” JPMorgan said
in the report. “The switch to bullish EM equities was built on
bearish positioning and improving cyclical data in EM.”  Chinese shares climbed the most in two weeks as the bourse
resumed trading after a two-day holiday last week. GoerTek
jumped 6.2 percent, the most since Aug. 8. Apple sold 9 million
iPhones in the weekend debut of two new models, almost double
the previous record, and predicted that quarterly revenue would
be at the high end of its previously projected range.  The Taiex Index rallied to the highest level since May 29,
led by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks posted the biggest two-day loss in a month on
concern the central bank may take more steps to quell inflation
after unexpectedly increased borrowing costs last week.  State
Bank of India  plunged 5.3 percent, sending the S&P BSE Bankex to
its biggest retreat in three weeks.  Indonesia’s rupiah fell the most in more than a week amid
speculation local companies are boosting dollar purchases to
meet month-end debt and import payments.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 317 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  