-- Emerging Market Tourist Spend Boosts U.S. Travel: Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2013-09-23T20:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/emerging-market-tourist-spend-boosts-u-s-travel-economy.html
Vivian Leite needed a new suitcase
to tote $5,000 worth of goods from her one-week U.S. shopping
trip back home to South America.  “The variety of goods is unbelievable in the U.S.,” the
40-year-old veterinarian from Rio de Janeiro said Sept. 15 while
shopping near Miami with 11 of her friends. “I came with one
piece of luggage but I can tell I’ll need a second one to get
back home.”  Leite is among a growing number of tourists from countries
including China,  India  and Argentina who are pouring into
America’s shopping malls to snap up everything from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
iPhones to  Coach Inc. (COH)  handbags that carry cheaper price tags in
the U.S. So-called tourism exports, or the value of products and
services purchased by visitors from abroad, have climbed to  a
record , boosting the economy and employment.  “The travel industry so far this year has accounted for
more than a quarter of our country’s growth in exports, so it’s
incredibly important,” said David Huether, senior vice
president of research at U.S. Travel Association, a Washington-based non-profit organization representing the industry.
“People come here, spend money, and support jobs.”  Tourism exports rose to a record $14.9 billion in June.
They accounted for 32 percent of the gain in total sales to
overseas customers during the first seven months of the year,
Commerce Department figures show. That’s almost three times the
share in the same period last year.  International Arrivals  The number of people visiting the U.S. is on the rise, and
their spending is growing even faster. International arrivals
 increased  6.4 percent in the first quarter compared with a year
earlier, Commerce Department data showed last week. Outlays in
the same period rose 10.6 percent. For all of 2012,  traffic
climbed  6.1 percent and spending rose 8.7 percent.  Exchange rates, tariffs and less competition in some
countries help explain why merchandise sold overseas can be more
expensive than in the U.S., according to Chen Grazutis, an
analyst with Bloomberg Industries.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, fell 0.2 percent to 1,011.81 at
4:05 p.m. in New York, after falling 1 percent last week.  Even as growth in some countries such as  China  and  Russia 
cool and the purchasing power of currencies, including the
Argentine peso, declines, visits to the U.S. haven’t skipped a
beat.  Better Deals  Shoppers are finding better deals on a variety of goods in
the U.S. Apple’s new iPhone 5s, which went on sale last week,
costs $649 without a contract for mobile phone service, while
the same model on Apple’s  site  for Chinese customers is
advertised at 5,288 yuan, or around $864.  Brazil ’s Apple website didn’t offer a 5s model as of Sept.
18, though the 16 gigabyte iPhone 5 it did have listed  was
priced  at $2,299 reais, or $1,040. Verizon Communications Inc.’s
wireless unit is  advertising  the same smartphone in the U.S. for
$549.99 without a contract.  Coach’s Madison Phoebe shoulder bag costs $398 on the New
York-based company’s website. The bag with a similar description
is listed on Coach’s Chinese website for 4,950  yuan , or about
$809.  American retailers are also benefiting from growing middle
classes around the world, Huether said. People from Colombia,
 Venezuela , China, Argentina,  Taiwan  and Brazil showed the
biggest increases in visits among the U.S.’s top 20 tourist-originators as of March, the most recent Commerce  data  show.
Those trends were similar to 2012 results, even as Western
Europe posted a 2 percent visitation decline because of a
recession.  Bigger Budgets  Travelers from China and India spent more than $6,200 per
capita in 2012, while visitors from Argentina and Brazil spent
more than $5,000. French residents, by comparison, spent $3,654,
based on U.S. Travel Association calculations of Commerce data.  “For a lot of these countries where there is an emerging
middle class, this is their first time traveling in the United
States, and they take longer trips,” Huether said. They also
dedicate a larger budget.  Gustavo Torretta said he saved about $25 on shoes by
shopping in Miami rather than at home in Buenos Aires.  “I’ll probably spend about $800 here today,” said
Torretta, 36, toting luggage as he stood on a bustling walkway
outside of the Rainforest Cafe at the  Sawgrass Mills  outlet mall
in Sunrise,  Florida . “There’s always complications with the
exchange rate, but the prices here are still so much better that
it’s worth it.”  More Variety  The broader range of goods is a draw for others, such as
Leite, who was browsing at a T.J. Maxx store in Sawgrass Mills.  “If you go shopping for a vacuum in Argentina, you might
find just one model,” she said. Leite, who splits her time
between Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro, said currency
fluctuations do “not at all” impact her shopping or traveling.
“Here you get the whole package.”  Leite and Torretta are among overseas tourists and shoppers
who may help make up for a decline in the number of Americans
taking vacations. The number of U.S. employees not at work
because they were  on holiday  fell to 24.7 million through August
from 25.9 million the prior year, according to Labor Department
data. That compares with 30 million in 2007, before the last
recession.  “We’re seeing the recovery absolutely fall flat” for U.S.
leisure travelers, said Marcello Gasdia, an analyst at Sherman,
Connecticut-based PhoCusWright Inc., a travel research provider.  “They’re shifting their attention to the big-ticket items
that kind of piled up on the backburner” during the last
recession, he said. “The home improvements, the car industry is
doing well. They’re going to pay attention to these things
before the $5,000 family trip.”  Travel Spending  Even with the decrease in vacations, the U.S. Travel
Association projects domestic travel expenditures -- which
include business travel -- will  increase  3.6 percent this year,
compared with a 4.4 percent improvement in 2012. Including a
projected 5.8 percent gain in international expenditures, travel
spending will grow 3.9 percent, they estimate.  The pickup in tourism from abroad is prompting cities and
companies to market themselves to foreigners.  Air China Ltd. (601111) 
opened a Beijing-to-Houston direct flight in July, and Jorge
Franz, vice president of international sales and tourism at
Houston’s convention and visitor’s bureau said the city is
looking for a boost in Asian visitors.  “International travelers spend a lot more than domestic
travelers, in most cases up to twice as much,” Franz said,
adding that they frequent high-end Gucci Group NV and LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA shops. Tourists from “the BRIC
economies are a real phenomenon for Houston,” Franz said
referring to Brazil, Russia, India and China.  Outlet Malls  They’re also a boon for Sawgrass Mills, where Leite and
Toretta shopped. The outlet mall, with more than 350 stores near
Miami, attributes more than half of sales to international
visitors, said  Luanne Lenberg , the mall’s general manager.  “We see a propensity to shop brands -- they can be luxury
brands, they can also be strong American brands,” Lenberg said
of the mall’s international visitors. “We are looking at
 emerging markets  such as China and India, and others, and those
will be very important to develop further.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Faries in Miami at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  