-- End of Atomic Age Seen as Merkel’s Biggest Headache Now
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-09-24T13:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/end-of-atomic-age-seen-as-merkel-s-biggest-headache-now.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
faces one task above all others when she returns to her desk on
the seventh floor of the Chancellery: fixing the biggest shift
to clean energy of any developed country in history.  Merkel needs to keep a lid on soaring electricity bills
that have provoked consumer and industry anger and clamp down on
rising pollution as her government phases out nuclear reactors
that have been the backbone of German  energy policy . Failure
risks hurting  Europe ’s biggest economy and would spell trouble
for Merkel’s new government, whatever its composition.  The overhaul “is not only key to  Germany ’s economic
competitiveness, it also affects the wallets of ordinary
Germans,” Carsten Nickel, an analyst with  Teneo Intelligence ,
said in a telephone interview. “Merkel will have to balance the
plan’s renewable targets with making sure that energy prices
don’t go through the roof.”  The chancellor said during the election campaign that her
priority is changing the  EEG  law, a 13-year-old subsidy system
that was copied around the world and helped turn Germany into
Europe’s biggest clean-energy market. Reworking the rules may
benefit consumers and reduce incentives for wind and solar
farms, scaling back work for manufacturers such as  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S (VWS)  and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  It could either help or hurt
utilities such as RWE AG and EON SE.  Legal Incentives  Aimed at increasing the share of renewables to 80 percent
of the power mix by 2050 from about 23 percent now, the EEG
helped saddle Germans with the third-highest electricity prices
in the European Union.  A spokesman for the German government declined to comment
when contacted by phone yesterday.  Renewables no longer occupy a niche “but are part of the
overall generation mix,” Merkel told lawmakers in the Bundestag
on Sept. 3. “That leads to entirely new problems.”  Reforming the EEG to contain cost increases “is one of the
first tasks” for a new government, she said. “It’s necessary
to move the affordability of electricity into the focus of our
efforts.”  In what would be a watershed move for developers of wind
and solar plants, Merkel may abolish the EEG system of awarding
uncapped above-market payments to developers for 20 years,
according to William Pearson, the London-based director for
global energy and natural resources at the Eurasia Group.  While there won’t be any retroactive changes to the support
regime, “there’s a lot of talk” to move away from subsidized
rates, called feed-in tariffs, for new projects “to a more
market-based system” to reduce costs, Pearson said in a Sept.
17 phone interview.  Business Demands  The BDI industry federation that represents about 100,000
companies including  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  on Sept. 19
called for an end to feed-in tariffs and said developers must
sell power on the market to encourage output that responds to
demand, rather than when the wind is blowing or the sun shines.
That echoes similar demands from industry groups such as the VCI
chemical lobby, utility groups VKU and BDEW as well as the Free
Democratic Party, Merkel’s second-term junior coalition partner.  Merkel’s environment minister,  Peter Altmaier , a member of
her  Christian Democratic Union  and a long-time confidant, has
repeatedly clashed over the 550 billion-euro ($743 billion)
project with Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, the FDP leader
whose ministry shared responsibility for the program known in
German as the Energiewende.  Merkel’s Command  Those frictions will be a thing of the past after Merkel’s
Christian Democratic bloc got the biggest vote tally since
 Helmut Kohl ’s post-reunification victory of 1990, taking 41.5
percent in the Sept. 22 elections, and the FDP crashed out of
the lower house of parliament.  That leaves a coalition with the Social Democrats or the
Greens as possible options,  Volker Kauder , the CDU’s
parliamentary caucus leader, said yesterday on ZDF television.
Merkel has made contact with the Social Democrat leadership and
also refused to rule out speaking to the Greens, she told
reporters yesterday in Berlin. Negotiations could take some
time. In 2005, it took 65 days to swear in the so-called grand
coalition of CDU/CSU and Social Democrats, a record in post-reunification Germany.  “Energy policy will be key for Merkel’s coalition
negotiations,” Claudia Kemfert, who heads the energy unit at
the DIW economic institute, a research group in Berlin, said
today by e-mail. Talks may be easier with the  Social Democrats 
than the Greens because the latter favor a speedier expansion of
renewables, she said.  Governing with the Social Democrats may help Energiewende
reform, since friction that has delayed energy-related bills in
the SPD-controlled upper house of parliament, the Bundesrat,
would be dissipated. In any case, the Social Democrats are the
co-architects of Germany’s first nuclear exit under Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder.  Offshore Gridlock  Getting Germany’s state leaders, who sit in the  Bundesrat ,
to sign off on legislation may be easier in a grand coalition,
Nickel said. “Convincing the states is key for this reform as
there are so many different interests across the country,” he
said.  For Merkel, there’s more to do than just getting costs
under control. Germany last year alone added 10 gigawatts of
 wind turbines  and solar panels -- the capacity of about 10
nuclear plants -- yet output varies with the weather and
nightfall. That puts strains on an already outmoded electrical
grid.  Wind Farms  Development of offshore wind farms that would replace
reactors is behind schedule because of delays in connecting
turbines to the land-based grid. The switch has also hurt the
climate as more coal instead of cleaner natural gas is burned to
replace the eight oldest reactors Merkel shuttered following the
tsunami and nuclear disaster at Fukushima in  Japan .  Gas-fired plants that in the past ran mostly in the middle
of the day when demand peaked are losing money as wind and solar
power floods the grid. EON and  RWE (RWE) , Germany’s biggest utilities
that controlled 4.9 percent of renewable capacity by 2012, are
shuttering gas plants and rely more on cheaper coal plants.
Germany’s air pollution is now set to worsen for a second year,
the first back-to-back increase since at least the 1980s.  Consumers fund clean-energy subsidies through a surcharge
on their power bills. This year’s renewables fee is 5.28 euro
cents a kilowatt-hour, up 47 percent from last year. The average
cost of electricity for homes last year was 26.4 euro cents a
kilowatt-hour, including the subsidy, according to data from
Eurostat in Luxembourg.  ‘Heavy Backpack’  No matter how Merkel’s overhaul looks, German consumers
will pay more than 20 billion euros a year through 2030 to fund
the shift to renewable power, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. That’s because subsidies are fixed for 20 years.  “Germany will be carrying a huge cost backpack for quite a
while,”  Hubertus Bardt , head of energy and environmental policy
at the Cologne Institute for  Economic Research , said by phone.
“The government may eventually have to step in and use federal
funds to relieve the burden on consumers and industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  