-- England Recalls Panesar for Ashes Cricket Tour of Australia
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-23T13:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/england-recalls-panesar-for-ashes-cricket-tour-of-australia.html
England  recalled spin bowler Monty
Panesar for the Ashes cricket series in Australia after off-field incidents overshadowed his career.  Panesar was named as a second spinner to Graeme Swann in a
17-man squad announced by the England and Wales Cricket Board at
Lord’s in London today.  Batsman Gary Ballance, bowler Boyd Rankin and all-rounder
Ben Stokes were also named. The trio have never played Test
cricket but do have international experience having represented
the Lions, England’s second-tier team.  “They’ve justified it in their performances in county
cricket and for the Lions,” Geoff Miller, England’s chairman of
selectors, said of the newcomers in an interview. “They’ve
shown that they can make that one step up, now it’s time to see
if they can make that second step.”  Batsman Michael Carberry, who has one Test appearance, was
also selected. The 32-year-old played his only 5-day game for
England against  Bangladesh  in 2010, but featured in the recent
one-day series against Australia.  Bowler Tim Bresnan was sidelined due to a stress fracture
in his lower back, but will travel with the squad “to maximize
his rehab opportunities with the medical team and coaches who
will monitor his progress,” the ECB said in a statement on its
website.  Panesar was released by county team Sussex last month and
signed on loan with Essex after an incident at a night club when
he urinated on bouncers and was fined by police. The recently
divorced 31-year-old said at the time he’d “endured a
challenging time this year off the field and my frustrations
have sometimes got the better of me professionally.”  Panesar has played in 48 Tests for England, the last of
them against New Zealand at Auckland in March.  England defeated  Australia  3-0 in a five-Test home series
this year. The victory margin was England’s biggest in the Ashes
since a 5-1 win in 1978-79 and its best at home since a 3-0
triumph in 1977, which was the last time Australia failed to win
a single match against its oldest international rival.  The five-Test series in Australia starts in Brisbane on
Nov. 21. There are also matches at Adelaide, Perth, Melbourne
and Sydney.  
To contact the reporter on this story: Peter-Joseph Hegarty in
London at   phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Elser in  London  at   celser@bloomberg.net  