-- English, French Clubs Commit to Breakaway Rugby Champions Cup
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-09-23T03:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/english-french-clubs-commit-to-breakaway-rugby-champions-cup.html
England  and  France ’s top clubs
proposed a breakaway European tournament called the Rugby
Champions Cup to replace the Heineken Cup from next season.  England’s  Premiership Rugby  and France’s  Ligue Nationale de
Rugby  released a joint statement yesterday saying that the new
tournament would be open to clubs from Ireland,  Italy ,  Scotland 
and Wales, as well as those from other European nations.  “The competition will be based on the principles of
qualification on merit, a strong competition format, equality
between the leagues, higher commercial values for the teams and
expansion into new European markets,” the clubs  said .  English and French clubs, who have said they will quit the
Heineken Cup at the end of this season because of revenue
distribution and what they say is an unfair qualification
process, have been formulating plans for the new competition
since first announcing the proposal Sept. 10.  As well as settling on a name, a joint working group was
created “to prepare all necessary elements in good time for the
2014-15 season.” Further details about the competition’s format
and commercial details will be made public next month, the clubs
added in the statement.  The International Rugby Board said last week any new pan-European club tournament would require the approval of national
governing bodies. IRB Chief Executive Officer Brett Gosper said
in a Sept. 18 interview in  London  that the Dublin-based global
body backs a full European competition that doesn’t include just
two countries.  French Framework  The French Rugby Federation said in a statement that
yesterday’s announcement was “ irrelevant and inappropriate ”
because no international match or competition involving French
clubs can be organized outside the FFR’s framework without its
prior agreement.  The English and French first served notice to quit the
Heineken Cup in June 2012 after years of dissatisfaction with
their split of tournament revenue and a qualification process
that they say favors teams from the other nations, most of whom
are guaranteed entry.  Talks between the clubs and Heineken Cup organizer European
Rugby Cup have so far failed to produce a new accord for the
structure of European club rugby for the 2014/15 season and
beyond. ERC last week invited all stakeholders for  mediation
talks  on Oct. 23 in Dublin.  The Heineken Cup,  Europe ’s elite club rugby competition,
started in 1995 and comprises 24 teams from England, France,
Ireland, Italy, Scotland and  Wales .  Revenue Split  England and France, which operate their own independent
domestic leagues, each receive 24 percent of competition
revenues. Clubs from the other four nations participate in a
combined league called the Pro12 and split the remaining 52
percent. English Premiership clubs and teams in France’s Top 14
say this is unfair and that the money should be split equally
between the three leagues.  Under current arrangements, six clubs apiece from the
English and French leagues qualify for the Heineken Cup, while
10 of the Pro12 teams advance. Scotland and Italy are each
guaranteed two berths in the competition, which effectively
means automatic qualification since there are currently only two
clubs from each of those nations in the Pro12.  English and French clubs say this is unfair as their clubs’
participation is determined by their league position. They say
that makes it easier for Pro12 teams to rest players without
compromising their participation the following season.  Heineken NV (HEIA)  spokesman  John Clarke  said that the Dutch
brewer, while focused on its sponsorship of the 2013-14
competition, was paying close attention to the situation.  “We will be following with interest the ongoing
developments between the ERC, the clubs and the respective
governing bodies,” Clarke said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  