-- Merkelism Is a Harder Sell Outside Germany
-- B y   H a r o l d   J a m e s
-- 2013-09-23T14:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/merkelism-is-a-harder-sell-outside-germany.html
Germany’s elections yesterday
weren’t supposed to be a cliffhanger, but they started to look
like one in the last weeks of campaigning. No one doubted that
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s  Christian Democratic Union  would come
out with largest number of votes and the largest number of seats
in the parliament. What was uncertain -- and remains unclear
from the early results -- was the nature of the coalition she
would need to work with.  The main drama of the last weeks was the slump of the small
 Free Democratic Party , which had been part of the governing
coalition and which -- in a last-minute bid to stay in power --
tried to sell itself as essential to any Merkel success. Voters
saw through the ploy, and instead believed what Merkel was
saying: If Germans wanted a Merkel government, they needed to
vote for her  Christian Democrats , who received more than 41
percent of the vote.  The other drama -- which provided the cliffhanger -- was
the rise of the anti-euro Alternative for Germany, which got
about  4.8 percent . If this rather conservative, one issue group
had made it past the 5 percent barrier to enter the legislature,
Merkel would have been forced to embark on a complicated round
of coalition negotiations: probably with the Social Democrats,
who were easily in second place with only slightly more than a
quarter of the votes, and also perhaps with the
environmentalists (the  Green Party , which also did poorly).  Obfuscating Language  Germans found Merkel’s principal challenger, the Social
Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck , unpleasantly direct and hectoring, as
well as depressed and uncouth. The main contrast between the two
candidates was style: unprecise and sometimes obfuscating
language, but a charming smile and a kindly manner from the
chancellor; sharp analysis and confrontational language,
conveyed with the hint of a snarl from her challenger.  By giving the chancellor the biggest victory since  Helmut Kohl ’s post-reunification landslide in 1990, the election can be
interpreted as an endorsement of Merkelism. It is likely that
the Social Democrats will move quickly to replace Steinbrueck
with Hannelore Kraft, the premier of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, who, like Merkel, is fundamentally nonideological
and assembles coalitions on a pragmatic basis.  Merkel’s sweep fits perfectly with a deep German desire for
consensus and peace. This moderation is the result of the deep
traumas of German history, the memory of the profoundly
fractured society that made democracy unworkable in the interwar
years and that led to  Adolf Hitler ’s criminal dictatorship, as
well as the 40 years of communist rule in East Germany. But the
search for consensus -- and the need to elaborate firm rules
that allows consensus to operate -- is also an outcome of a
federal system that brings together substantial regional
diversity. Merkel has an instinct for the fuzzy and
nonideological politics that federalism requires.  There is a substantial disconnect between the outside view
of the German elections and the way Germans themselves saw them.  To non-Germans, this was a plebiscite on how  Europe  would
be governed and about the solutions for the European financial
crisis. In particular, many of Germany’s European partners hoped
the vote would clarify the extent to which a new government in
Berlin might be prepared to countenance some measure of debt
forgiveness or accept the idea of a fiscal transfer from the
richest European nation to the debtor countries of the
periphery.  Yet the European issue was barely discussed in the
campaign. Only the fringe parties produced any substantive
criticism of the euro and only on the last day of campaigning
did Merkel try to address the anti-euro challenge from the
Alternative for  Germany .  European Dismay  This virtual silence caused dismay outside Germany. There
were complaints that a de facto government of Europe was being
elected, without any say from the non-Germans. Other Europeans
attacked Merkel’s alleged “domination,” a common theme for
Greek and Italian caricaturists who, for the last three years,
have presented her as a modern incarnation of German angst,
aggression and autocracy.  One of Steinbrueck’s many goofs was to suggest that Merkel
didn’t understand Europe because she had been born and raised in
East Germany. That statement was immediately pounced on by
critics, including many Social Democrats, who rightly pointed
out that under communism, many East Europeans had a vision of
Europe that was much deeper and more idealistic than that of
westerners, for whom the whole exercise was often cast as a
matter of the material advantages from increased economic
growth.  Yet the Steinbrueck interpretation has a measure of
accuracy. One requirement for successful maneuvering in the
complex political process of transforming communism into
democracy was avoiding ideological polarization, and presenting
problems as fundamentally soluble micro-issues.  Merkel fully
articulates the German aversion to the “vision thing.”  In giving her a clear mandate, Germans have also endorsed
her view of politics as practical rather than visionary. She
will now have to carry out that strategy not only in Germany but
in Europe, where it will be a much harder sell.  ( Harold James , a professor of history and international
affairs at  Princeton University , is the author, most recently,
of “The Creation and Destruction of Value: The Globalization
Cycle” and “Making the European Monetary Union.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Harold James at  hjames@princeton.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 