-- ‘Breaking Bad’ Wins Emmy for Best TV Drama in Last Season
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-23T17:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/merritt-wever-wins-emmy-for-supporting-role-in-nurse-jackie-.html
“Breaking Bad,” the  AMC (AMCX)  network
series about a science teacher turned drug kingpin, won the Emmy
for best TV drama as its final season comes to an end.  Vince Gilligan, the show’s creator, credited  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ,
saying an Internet outlet for older episodes of the series
helped keep “Breaking Bad” alive past its second season.
Netflix itself made history with the first prime-time Emmy for a
Web service, for “House of Cards” director David Fincher.  “Breaking Bad” got its award after being nominated three
times with no success since its 2008 debut, beating past winner
“Homeland” and “House of Cards,” which Gilligan said he
thought was going to win. One of the night’s surprises was Jeff Daniels’s award for his lead role as anchor Will McAvoy on  HBO ’s
“The Newsroom,” beating Bryan Cranston from “Breaking Bad”
and Jon Hamm in “Mad Men.”  “I didn’t expect this,” Daniels said onstage. “I usually
don’t win anything.”  “Breaking Bad,” in its sixth year on TV, concludes its
final season on Sept. 29. The show also garnered a supporting
actress Emmy for Anna Gunn, while Claire Danes was best actress
for the second time for her role as a CIA analyst on the
Showtime series “Homeland,” highlighting pay TV’s strength in
drama and television movies.  Airing at the start of the TV season, the Emmy telecast
showcases programs most admired by the industry and promotes
returning hits. Last night’s show on CBS vied for viewers with
NBC’s “Sunday Night Football” match-up between the Chicago
Bears and Pittsburgh Steelers. Last year’s telecast, also up
against a game, drew 13.2 million viewers, to come in second.  ‘Modern Family’  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO network grabbed seven awards, more
than a fourth of 26 handed out in last night’s live telecast.
“Behind the Candelabra,” HBO’s made-for-TV feature about
pianist Liberace, won three Emmys -- for director Steven Soderbergh, lead actor Michael Douglas and best miniseries or
movie.  “Modern Family,” the series on Walt Disney Co.’s ABC,
captured the award for best comedy, showing broadcast TV is
holding its own with half-hour sitcoms.  Showtime’s awards included an Emmy for Laura Linney for her
lead role in “The Big C: Hereafter,” about a suburban mom with
cancer. “Homeland,” about a former soldier turned terrorist,
won for best drama writing.  Merritt Wever  won for her supporting
role on Showtime’s “Nurse Jackie.”  Not Netflix’s Night  With one prime-time award during the show, Los Gatos,
California-based Netflix was mostly shut out. Its nominations
included those for “House of Cards” lead actor Kevin Spacey,
who played the corrupt congressman in the political thriller,
and Robin Wright, his wife. Jason Bateman, a star of the comedy
“Arrested Development,” which was resurrected by Netflix, lost
in the comedy category to CBS’s Jim Parsons.  Still, the win for Netflix opens the door for other
streaming services that are beginning to offer original series.
Hulu LLC is increasing production after its owners, Disney,  21st
Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)  and Comcast, announced plans in July to invest
$750 million in the service.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is licensing shows
from CBS and other outlets and starting production on shows of
its own.  HBO also demonstrated strength in comedy. Julia Louis-Dreyfus won the Emmy for leading comedy actress for her
portrayal of Vice President Selina Meyer in “Veep.”  Tony Hale ,
a co-star in the series, won for supporting actor. CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
Showtime was second with four awards.  “It means a ton,” Louis-Dreyfus told reporters backstage.
“I have lost many, many more times than I’ve won. It is
delicious to win.”  ‘The Colbert Report’  The Emmy was the fourth for Louis-Dreyfus, who has had 15
nominations, including a win for “Seinfeld,” according to the
Academy of Television Arts & Sciences.  Parsons won the Emmy for lead actor in a comedy series
for his role as Sheldon Cooper, a socially awkward physicist on
“The Big Bang Theory,” which airs on CBS. The show is among
the most-watched comedies on TV.  Broadcast networks also dominated reality programming, with
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC winning for “The Voice.”  “The Colbert Report,” on  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Comedy Central,
won best variety series and best writing for a variety series.
The program bested “The Daily Show with Jon Stewart.” Colbert
credited Stewart’s decision to take a hiatus to direct a movie
for the win.  “I’m glad Jon took the summer off during the voting
period,” Colbert told reporters backstage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  