-- Tesco Unveils Hudl Tablet as U.K. Grocer Takes on Amazon, Apple
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-09-23T16:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/tesco-unveils-hudl-tablet-as-u-k-grocer-takes-on-amazon-apple.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
retailer, will start selling a cut-price tablet loaded with its
own shopping applications next week as it takes on the likes of
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and Apple Inc. in the digital space.  The 7-inch (17.5-centimeter) high-definition tablet called
Hudl will sell for 119 pounds ($191) in Tesco stores and be
available to members of the retailer’s Clubcard loyalty program
for as little as 60 pounds in vouchers.  Only a quarter of U.K. households own a tablet and many
customers feel they are too expensive, Tesco Chief Executive
Officer Philip Clarke said at the unveiling of the new device in
London today.  Apple’s (AAPL)  iPad with similar specifications sells for
about 320 pounds and Amazon’s Kindle Fire HD for about 160
pounds. The market for tablets will grow 37 percent this year
after 140 percent last year, consultant e-marketer  estimates.   Tesco’s device is “not expected to single handedly move
the revenue or profit dial any time soon or ever,” Clive Black,
an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool, said in a note. If it
is well received, “it may contribute to what is clearly a hard-earned, but only very steady self-improvement program.”  Tesco has to become a technology company as well as a
retailer as it seeks to revive its flagging domestic business,
Clarke said earlier this year. The grocer, which has lost market
share to discounters like Aldi and Lidl as well as upscale
competitors such as Waitrose over the past decade, plans to
spend about $750 million on digital services this year.  Hudl gives full access to the Internet and has a dedicated
button for Tesco’s online shopping and banking as well as the
retailer’s Blinkbox digital movie and music streaming services.  Tesco executives declined to comment on how much it cost to
develop the tablet, how many they expect to sell over the key
Christmas period and how much profit the product could make.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  