-- Metso Falls on Morgan Stanley’s Mining Outlook: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-09-23T10:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/metso-falls-on-morgan-stanley-s-mining-outlook-helsinki-mover.html
Metso Oyj (MEO1V) , the Finnish provider of
rock crushers and engineering services, declined the most in two
months after Morgan Stanley said the company will probably miss
its service growth target as miners rein in spending.  Metso fell as much as 3.1 percent, the most since July 25.
Shares in the Helsinki-based company traded down 2.2 percent at
31.11 euros as of 1:10 p.m. in the Finnish capital, the biggest
decline in the  OMX Helsinki 25 Index. (HEX25)   “The recent lackluster service sales growth means we
believe it will be difficult for Metso to reach expectations,”
Markus Almerud, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a note to
clients today. He downgraded his recommendation to equal-weight
from overweight, lowering the 12-month price target to 31 euros
from 35 euros. “We clearly overestimated the potential mining
aftermarket growth earlier in the year.”  BHP Billiton Ltd., Rio Tinto Group and Glencore Xstrata Plc
are among miners cutting costs, selling assets and reducing
spending as lower prices erode profit. Aftermarket services
include selling spare parts for grinders, maintenance and
equipment upgrades.  Metso’s aftermarket sales will grow 2 percent annually
through 2015, compared with 7 percent estimated earlier and less
than the company’s long-term target of over 10 percent, Almerud
said. As the mining companies’ cash flow remains weak, orders
are set to recover only after next year, he said.  Metso published a prospectus today regarding spinning off
its pulp, paper and power unit to a separate company called
Valmet. The transaction is set to take effect by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  