-- Letta Faces Investors in U.S. After Italian Bond Success
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-09-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/letta-faces-investors-in-u-s-after-italian-bond-success.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta, whose country has knocked more than 3 percentage points
off its 10-year borrowing costs since Nov. 2011, is seeking a
similar vote of confidence from equity investors.  The 47-year-old premier will make his pitch for more
foreign direct investment in New York this week as part of a
“Destination Italy” road show. The outreach marks a shift from
the debt crisis-era U.S. visits by Letta’s predecessor,  Mario Monti , which focused on winning support from bondholders.  Fixed-income managers were won over last year by Monti’s
fiscal austerity and the  European Central Bank ’s pledge to
protect the euro. In contrast, companies in Italy face
difficulties enforcing contracts, getting credit and even
getting electricity, showed the World Bank Ease of Doing
Business  survey , which ranked the country 30th of 31 high-income
countries as of June 2012.  “There are fundamental reasons why Italy is such a poor
performing country,” Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said of its foreign direct
investment inflows. “It’s one thing to have identified the
problem, but it’s another to have solved it in  Italy .”  Italy has attracted $68.8 billion of net inflows of foreign
direct investment, or FDI, in the five years ended in December,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in Paris. That is less than half the $143.5 billion
that went to  Germany  and about a third of Spain’s $181 billion
and France’s $185.6 billion. The U.K. had net inflows of $328.2
billion over that period, the OECD said.  ‘Not Enough’  “It’s not enough,” Letta’s Cabinet said of Italy’s 1.6
percent share of global FDI in a 59-page investors’ handbook the
government published Sept. 19. The pitch reiterated his
commitment to state-asset sales, tax cuts and infrastructure
improvements. It summarized Letta’s plans to speed up the civil-justice system and bring the price of energy more in line with
European averages.  The agenda, which the government plans to enact in coming
years, lacks a labor-market reform capable of improving
productivity and stimulating hiring, said Francesco Galietti
founder of Rome-based research firm Policy Sonar. The agenda may
be promising too much for Letta’s fractious parliamentary
majority, said  Raffaella Tenconi , an economist at  Bank of
America  Merrill Lynch in  London .  “It’s not a coalition that will be able to deliver
anything nearly as bold as what the economy needs,” Tenconi
said.  Fraying Alliance  Letta’s alliance is fraying over the legal troubles of his
ally, former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi . Letta’s
 Democratic Party  is seeking to strip Berlusconi of his Senate
seat due to the former premier’s tax fraud conviction.
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party has threatened to topple
the government if the expulsion is carried out.  The Italian economy has contracted every quarter since the
three months ended Sept. 30, 2011, and unemployment has risen to
12 percent. Letta’s Cabinet said last week that GDP will shrink
1.7 percent this year, more than the 1.3 percent previously
projected, before expanding 1 percent next year. On Sept. 12,
Italy said industrial production unexpectedly fell 1.1 percent
in July after rising in the two previous months.  FDI inflows rose to 15 billion euros ($20 billion) in the
12 months ended in July, according to the most recent data from
the  Bank of Italy . It was the first time since 2011 that 12-month inflows increased for at least three straight months.  Foreign investors have taken control of some of the biggest
Italian companies in recent years. Bulgari SpA, the jeweller,
was bought by France’s  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  for
12.3 billion euros in 2011. Milk producer  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  and power
company Edison SpA also went to French buyers. Cashmere clothier
Loro Piana SpA agreed in July to be acquired by LVMH for 2
billion euros.  “Foreign investments are welcome, especially in industries
where we have a lack of experience or a technological deficit,”
said Giuseppe Ragusa, professor of economics at Luiss University
in  Rome .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  