-- European Stocks Drop on German Election, Fed Comments
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-09-23T16:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/european-stock-futures-little-changed-after-merkel-win.html
European stocks  fell for a second
day, the first back-to-back losses this month, as investors
weighed the German election result and monetary-policy
statements from Federal Reserve officials William C. Dudley and
 Dennis Lockhart .  Banco de Sabadell SA and Barclays Plc sank more than 1.5
percent, pacing a selloff in  financial stocks . National Grid
Plc, the operator of energy networks in the U.K. and  North
America , and Metso Oyj, a Finnish supplier of mining equipment,
slipped at least 1.5 percent as analysts cut their ratings.
German utilities dropped as brokers said the new government is
unlikely to reverse policies favoring renewable energy.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index retreated 0.5 percent to 312.62
at the close of trading. The gauge has still surged 9.7 percent
this quarter, on course for the biggest gain in four years. The
measure advanced for a third week last week,  extending  its rally
this year to 12 percent, after the Fed unexpectedly refrained
from reducing its monthly asset purchases.  “We’re seeing a bit of volatility because the Fed is not
communicating clearly and investors don’t know where they
stand,” said Michael Woischneck, who helps oversee about $1.6
billion in equities at Lampe Asset Management in Dusseldorf,
 Germany . Will the U.S. central bank start paring stimulus
measures “in October, December or this year at all?” he said.  Fed Bank of  New York  President Dudley said today that
policy makers must “forcefully” push against economic
headwinds as the U.S. has yet to show “any meaningful pickup”
in momentum. Lockhart, the Atlanta Fed president, said U.S.
monetary policy should focus on creating a more dynamic economy
following a recent slowing in growth.  German Election  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc
 won  41.5 percent of the vote in yesterday’s election. She may
form a coalition with the Social Democratic opposition or the
Green after her Free Democratic allies failed to take any seats
in the lower house of parliament. Negotiations to form German
governments usually last from four to six weeks.  “There’s also uncertainty about which German government
we’ll get and when, so I can understand a bit of profit-taking
today,” Woischneck said.  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets, except Greece and Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
lost 0.6 percent and Germany’s DAX slid 0.5 percent, while
 France ’s CAC 40 sank 0.8 percent.  VStoxx Gains  The number of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600-listed
stocks was 6.3 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The VStoxx Index, a
measure of expected volatility in euro-area stocks, climbed 4.1
percent to 17.45.  Sabadell declined 1.5 percent to 1.87 euros and Barclays
dropped 2.6 percent to 266.35 pence. A gauge of financial shares
was the second-worst performer in the MSCI World Index as
Atlantic Equities LLP forecast a drop in fixed-income trading
revenue for the biggest U.S. banks.  Citigroup Inc. may post a decline in revenue of more than
10 percent, the Financial Times reported. The newspaper said the
New York-based bank declined to comment.  National Grid slipped 1.5 percent to 747 pence. UBS
 downgraded  the shares to neutral from buy, saying the price
already reflects growth projections for the company. The stock
trades at 14.3 times estimated earnings, compared to its five-year average of 11.7 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Metso Drops  Metso (MEO1V)  retreated 3.6 percent to 30.68 euros as Morgan
Stanley cut its rating on the stock to equal weight, similar to
a hold recommendation, from overweight. The brokerage cited
worse-than-projected orders for mining equipment in the first
half of the year.  A  gauge of utilities  on the Stoxx 600 fell 0.5 percent. EON
SE and RWE AG, Germany’s largest, slipped 1 percent to 13.38
euros and 0.3 percent to 24.61 euros, respectively. The absence
of the FDP in parliament after yesterday’s vote is negative for
the utilities because the party had favored reversing the
government’s pro-renewable energy policies, Citigroup analysts
wrote in a report.  Infineon Technologies AG gained 1.6 percent to 7.61 euros
after Boersen-Zeitung reported that the company’s full-year
profit will be 20 percent greater than its forecasts amid signs
of a global chip-market recovery. The newspaper cited an
interview with Chief Financial Officer Dominik Asam.  Finmeccanica SpA increased 4.2 percent to 4.71 euros, its
highest price in seven months, amid separate reports from La
Repubblica and  Corriere della Sera  of bids for some of the
Italian arms company’s holdings. Neither newspaper cited anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  