-- Ex-Brown Aide Denies Tell-All Memoirs Will Sabotage U.K. Labour
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/ex-brown-aide-denies-tell-all-memoirs-will-sabotage-u-k-labour.html
Damian McBride a former aide to
Gordon Brown said he was paid more than 100,000 pounds
($160,000) for the serialization of his memoirs, adding that he
was offered even more money if he held off publication until the
2015 election.  McBride, who ran Brown’s communications operation when
Brown was chancellor of the exchequer and then prime minister,
resigned in 2009 after newspaper reports showed e-mails that
discussed publishing false claims about lawmakers from the then-opposition Conservatives.  The publication of “Power Trip: A Decade of Policy, Plots
and Spin,” has dominated the  Labour Party ’s annual conference
in Brighton,  England , this week. The party leader,  Ed Miliband ,
has faced questions about his own friendship with McBride in the
period they were both working for Brown, overshadowing his
efforts to establish his credentials for the election.  “I was offered a much-more-lucrative contract to publish
this book in April 2015, to do maximum damage to the Labour
Party,” McBride told the  BBC ’s Newsnight show late last night.
“I don’t think it will have any effect on the outcome of the
next election.” He did not say who made the offers.  The book tells of McBride’s attempts to neutralize
criticism of Brown within the party by passing on to the media
stories about ministers, including alcohol abuse and
extramarital affairs.  Miliband, a former aide of Brown, served as energy
secretary in his government until the party was ousted from
power in 2010. He and his team of ministers-in-waiting have
spent the conference batting away questions about how much they
knew of McBride’s machinations.  The revelations come as Labour’s poll lead over Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservatives is narrowing amid a
strengthening economy.  Referred to Police  Cameron’s Tories have referred McBride to  London ’s
Metropolitan Police and called for him to be stripped of his
“generous” civil service pension.  Conservative lawmaker Alun Cairns has written to police to
say he is “deeply concerned that serious offenses may have been
committed” as the serialization reveals McBride accessed the
then chancellor’s emails without authorization.  Another Tory lawmaker, Henry Smith, has written to a
government watchdog over what he alleges was evidence in the
book of “serious and repeated breaches” of the code of conduct
that oversees civil service behavior and called for McBride’s
pension to be withdrawn.  “I’d be happy to talk to the police,” McBride said. “If
they want to take my pension away that’s up to them. I am not
going to sit here and plead for my civil service pension.”  “I built up a lot of debts,” McBride said. “The majority
of the money I make will go to paying off those debts.”  Asked if he would return to politics, he replied, “I don’t
think politics would have me, and quite rightly.”  Gordon Brown  declined to comment on McBride when asked by
the  Daily Telegraph  in  New York  today, where the former prime
minister is attending the  United Nations General Assembly .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Brighton, England at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in Brighton, England at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  