-- Femsa to Buy Dona Tota to Expand Into Restaurant Operations
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-09-23T20:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/femsa-to-acquire-dona-tota-to-expand-into-restaurant-operations.html
Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB (FEMSAUBD) , the
owner of  Latin America ’s largest convenience-store chain, agreed
to buy a majority stake in restaurant operator Dona Tota to spur
growth with an expansion into food service.  Femsa, as the Monterrey, Mexico-based company is known,
didn’t disclose the purchase price for the 80 percent of the
maker of cornmeal patties. Dona Tota, whose founding
shareholders will keep the remaining stake, has 204 outlets in
Mexico and 11 in the U.S., Femsa said in a statement today.  Dona Tota offers “a compelling new avenue for growth,”
Femsa said. Same-store sales at Femsa’s 11,000 Oxxo convenience
stores have slowed and customer traffic declined this year for
the first time in a decade. The company in May acquired pharmacy
chains Farmacias YZA and Farmacias FM Moderna.  “It’s a bolt-on acquisition and it builds on the growth
strategy they have announced, which is expanding into pharmacies
and fast food,” Alan Alanis, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said in a telephone interview from  New York . “It fits
pretty well into their existing business model.”  He rates Femsa’s American depositary receipts overweight,
the equivalent of buy.  The Dona Tota transaction requires “customary regulatory
approvals,” Femsa said. The restaurant operator is based in
Ciudad Victoria, Mexico, according to its website.  Femsa  fell  1.4 percent to 131.20 pesos at the close in
Mexico City, the biggest decline in almost four weeks. The
benchmark  IPC index  of 35 Mexican stocks advanced 0.2 percent.  Falling Traffic  The company, which also controls  Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL) , the
largest bottler of the soft drink in Latin America, may add Dona
Tota products to Oxxo stores, Alanis said.  Same-store sales at Femsa’s retail unit rose 0.9 percent in
the second quarter, the slowest pace since 2009. Store traffic
fell for the second straight quarter, the first declines since
2003.  While Dona Tota’s reach is “very small” compared with
Oxxo’s, the deal will bolster Femsa’s potential in the food
service industry, said Karla Miranda, an analyst at Corporativo
GBM SAB. She rates Femsa shares market perform, the equivalent
of hold.  The acquisition is “positive because it gives the company
more expertise in prepared food,” she said in a telephone
interview from  Mexico  City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  