-- Finsbury Food Drops Most in Two Years as Commodity Prices Rise
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-09-23T11:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/finsbury-food-drops-most-in-two-years-as-commodity-prices-rise.html
Finsbury Food Group Plc (FIF) , the holder
of the Weight Watchers cake license for Britain, fell the most
in more than two years after reporting a rise in commodity
prices and tough consumer markets.  “Of course, consumer markets remain challenging,” the
Cardiff, Wales-based company said today in a statement. “Weary
consumers have grown increasingly deal focused while commodity
prices continue to rise.”  Finsbury Food  dropped  as much as 7.9 percent, the most
since Aug. 5, 2011, paring the company’s market value to 47
million pounds. The stock traded 4.9 percent lower at 72.25
pence at 10:20 a.m. in London. Volume traded was 88 percent of
the three month daily average.  U.K. retail sales unexpectedly fell the most in 10 months
in August as demand for food plunged, reversing a surge the
previous month, according to the  Office for National Statistics .
Food sales dropped 2.7 percent after increasing that amount the
previous month, which was the biggest gain since April 2011.  Finsbury Food’s  revenue  in the year ended June 29 fell 1.3
percent to 176.6 million pounds ($283.4 million), mainly because
currency movements affected its overseas business, the company
said. The pound has declined 3.6 percent against the euro this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit before tax
rose 19 percent to 5.5 million pounds and the company reinstated
its dividend with a proposed total payout of 0.75 pence per
share.  “Regrettably, the economic environment remains unhelpful
with promotional activity at unsustainable levels in most
categories of food,” the company said. “Commodity prices have
settled down marginally, we haven’t witnessed the huge
fluctuations of recent years. Overall, however, trends remain
upwards with marked volatility in key ingredients such as wheat,
eggs and sugar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in  London  at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  