-- Fischer Sees Modest Cut in Fed Stimulus Before Bernanke Exits
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-09-23T08:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/fischer-sees-modest-cut-in-fed-stimulus-before-bernanke-exits.html
Former Bank of Israel Governor
 Stanley Fischer  said he expects the  Federal Reserve  to reduce
monetary stimulus “modestly” before Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
exits in January next year.  “Interest rates shouldn’t rise too much” because the Fed
will move slowly, Fischer, 69, said at a business forum in  Hong
Kong  today.  Demands for “forward guidance” from the U.S. central bank
have become unrealistic, Fischer said, adding that policy makers
can’t be expected to spell out actions to be taken in six
months’ time. He was commenting five days after the  Federal Open
Market Committee  surprised economists by refraining from paring
$85 billion of monthly asset purchases as officials wait for
more signs of labor-market gains.  Fischer, who left his role at Israel’s central bank at the
end of June, was Bernanke’s thesis adviser at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology , where the Fed chairman obtained his
Ph.D. in 1979. In a Bloomberg News survey of economists last
week, 8 percent said Fischer should be the next Fed chairman,
while a majority favored current Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen .  Fischer said today that investors had overreacted to
Bernanke’s comments in May on the outlook for reducing stimulus.  “It’s impossible to believe there are people who didn’t
think the Fed was going to start tapering, to start reducing the
extended stimulus, within a reasonably short time as long as
unemployment continued falling and growth continued,” Fischer
said.  ‘Only Explanation’  “The only explanation that added up is that investors
thought up until that point that the Fed was not only worrying
about unemployment and inflation, it was also worrying about
stability of financial markets,” Fischer said.  The Fed is likely to reduce quantitative easing
“modestly” before Bernanke leaves, Fischer said.  The former central banker also referred to the likely
effect of Fed policy on developing nations.  “As for emerging-market economies, their  interest rates 
should be expected to go up and will go up when the Fed does
start tapering,” he said. “Again, they should not be expected
to go up as rapidly as they did in May through September.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  