-- Fisher Says White House Botched Fed Chairman Succession
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-23T22:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/fisher-says-white-house-mishandled-fed-chairman-succession.html
Richard Fisher , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said the White House botched the
nomination for Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s successor by allowing
an unprecedented public debate over who would be the best
choice.  “The White House has mishandled this terribly,” Fisher
said today in response to a question from the audience after
giving a speech in San Antonio, Texas. “This should not be a
public debate,” he said, adding that the Fed “must never be a
political instrument.”  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Former Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers , citing a
possible “acrimonious” confirmation process, withdrew his name
from consideration for the post this month in the face of
opposition from several members of the Senate Banking Committee.
President  Barack Obama  has no plans to name a nominee this week,
according to a person familiar with administration
deliberations.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  is the leading candidate to
replace Bernanke when his term expires on Jan. 31, according to
people familiar with White House discussions. She has been
picking up support from Democratic senators and party leaders
including former President  Bill Clinton .  ‘Excellent Choice’  Yellen would be an “excellent choice,” Senator  Charles Schumer , the chamber’s No. 3 Democrat and a senior member of the
Banking Committee, said this month. “Now that Summers has
pulled out, I think the president should choose Yellen.”  White House officials made calls last week to influential
senators to encourage them to voice support for a Yellen
nomination to head off any attacks on her before Obama announces
a decision. The Fed nomination is subject to U.S. Senate
confirmation.  In June, Obama said in an interview with  Charlie Rose  that
Bernanke, whose second term expires on Jan. 31, has stayed at
the central bank “longer than he wanted.” Bernanke declined to
talk about his plans for the future in a press conference last
week, saying he’ll have more information to share “at some
reasonably soon date.”  Criticism of Summers prompted efforts by Obama to defend
him. Summers’s history as an advocate of deregulation and his
comments -- while he was president of  Harvard University  --
about whether women were naturally inclined to excel in the
sciences made him a target among Democratic lawmakers.  Top Adviser  Summers advised Obama prior to the 2008 presidential
election on how to handle the financial crisis, and served as
Obama’s top economic adviser from 2009 until 2010. He was
Treasury secretary from July 1999 to January 2001.  “The perception that Mr. Summers might have an inside
track simply had to do with a bunch of attacks that I was
hearing on Mr. Summers pre-emptively, which is sort of a
standard Washington exercise that I don’t like,” Obama said at
a White House news conference on Aug. 9. “I tend to defend
folks who I think have done a good job and don’t deserve
attacks.”  Yellen “would make a great chairperson,” Fisher said,
adding that he and Yellen “differ on policy.”  The scrutiny of candidates has been “denigrating” for
both Summers and Yellen, who would be the first female Fed
chairman if nominated and confirmed, Fisher said. The White
House should handle future nominations “with more grace,” he
said.  Twenty U.S. senators, 19 Democrats and one independent,
signed a letter in July supporting Yellen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  