-- Ex-FBI Agent to Plead Guilty for Classified Terror Leak
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-09-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/former-fbi-official-to-plead-guilty-to-classified-leak.html
A former FBI official agreed to
plead guilty to leaking classified information about a counter-terrorism operation and to child pornography charges, according
to court papers in separate investigations filed by the U.S.  Donald Sachtleben, 55, of Carmel,  Indiana , faces a combined
11 years and eight months in prison for the two sets of
offenses, the U.S. Justice Department said yesterday in a
statement. Both cases were brought in federal court in
Indianapolis.  Sachtleben was being investigated for involvement with
child pornography when he came under suspicion in a national-security case involving a leak to the Associated Press of
classified information about an intelligence operation in Yemen
that foiled a plot to blow up an airliner.  The AP reported on the disrupted plot on May 7, 2012.
Sachtleben admitted being the source of the information in the
report, according to the U.S.  “I am deeply sorry for my actions,” Sachtleben said in an
e-mailed statement released through his lawyers. “While I never
intended harm to the United States or to any individuals, I do
not make excuses for myself.”  Sachtleben filed a petition to plead guilty to unlawfully
disclosing national defense information in court documents filed
yesterday, according to the Justice Department. He earlier
agreed to plead guilty to possessing and distributing child
pornography.  Reporter’s Records  Sachtleben was implicated in the leak investigation after
authorities subpoenaed a reporter’s phone records and compared
them with other evidence gathered in the inquiry. Investigators
linked Sachtleben to the case through computer, mobile-phone and
other records already in their possession because of the child-pornography investigation.  “The prosecution demonstrates our deep resolve to hold
accountable anyone who would violate their solemn duty to
protect our nation’s secrets and to prevent future, potentially
devastating leaks by those who would wantonly ignore their
obligations to safeguard classified information,” District of
Columbia U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen said in a statement.  Media groups and government watchdogs had said the Justice
Department interfered with press freedom when it secretly
collected the records from AP reporters and editors over a two-month period in 2012.  Bomb Technician  Sachtleben worked for the Federal Bureau of Investigation
from 1983 through 2008 and was a special agent bomb technician,
according to the Justice Department. After leaving the bureau,
he worked as an FBI contractor until May 2012. He was arrested
on the child-pornography complaint the day after leaving his
contractor’s position, the department said.  He was charged in the child pornography investigation after
he was linked to trafficking in explicit images based on
information traced to him from the computer of another man
arrested for a similar offense.  The child pornography case is U.S. v. Sachtleben, 12-cr-127, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  