-- Genmab Reaches 2009 High on Challenge to Roche: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-23T09:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/genmab-reaches-2009-high-on-challenge-to-roche-copenhagen-mover.html
Genmab A/S (GEN) , the Danish developer of
cancer drugs, rose to the highest price in more than four years
in Copenhagen trading on bets its leukemia treatment will be
able to match a competing product from  Roche Holding AG. (ROG)   Genmab rose as much as 2.4 percent to 223.20 kroner, the
highest since June 2009. The stock rose to 219.10 kroner at
11:15 a.m. in the Danish capital, with trading volume at 76
percent of the three-month daily average.  Genmab, based in Copenhagen, said Sept. 13 that the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  granted breakthrough status for its
leukemia treatment Arzerra, allowing the experimental drug to
move faster to the market. Thomas Bowers, an analyst at  Danske
Markets , said today the status bodes well for the product’s
ability to compete with Basel, Switzerland-based Roche’s GA101
treatment.  “The perception of Arzerra is now shifting,” Bowers,
who’s based in Copenhagen, said by phone. “The view of Arzerra
is changing from a product that the market didn’t rate as highly
as GA101, to a product rated on the same level or perhaps even
higher.”  Genmab is developing Arzerra with London-based
GlaxoSmithKline Plc. Genmab shares have gained 19 percent since
the Arzerra announcement.  Breakthrough status, which the FDA assigns to medicines
that may be superior to existing drugs for life-threatening
medical conditions, will bring Arzerra to the market only “a
few months” earlier than previously expected, Bowers said.  “But it’s a big thumbs up from the FDA and sparks optimism
about the competitiveness of the product once it hits the
market,” said the analyst, who has a buy  recommendation  on
Genmab shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  