-- German Bonds Rise as Draghi Says More Long-Term Loans Possible
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-09-23T15:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/german-bonds-little-changed-after-merkel-win-china-output-data.html
German bonds rose with most euro-area  government securities  after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said policy makers will consider another round of
longer-term loans if required to keep down borrowing costs.  French, Italian and Spanish securities also advanced as
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley
said the economy still needs a “very accommodative monetary
policy.” The extra  yield  investors demand for holding Ireland’s
10-year bonds instead of German bunds fell to the least since
May 2010 after Moody’s Investors Service raised the outlook on
the nation’s debt.  Germany ’s  Angela Merkel  searched for a third-term coalition partner after winning yesterday’s elections.  “The central banks are speaking dovishly at the moment and
that will be supportive to some degree to the core,” said
 Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “There were no surprises
for the market in the election outcome.”  German 10-year bund yields fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.92 percent at 4:49 p.m. London time after
dropping to 1.85 percent on Sept. 19, the lowest since Aug. 30.
The 2 percent securities maturing August 2023 gained 0.22, or
2.20 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,349) face amount, to 100.73.  Europe ’s banks will repay 7.91 billion euros of three-year
loans this week, data released by the ECB on Sept. 20 showed.
That’s the highest level of repayments since May.  Draghi Testimony  “While repayment of central bank credit is certainly a
sign of normalization, the resulting reduction in excess
liquidity can reinforce upward pressures on term money-market
rates,” Draghi said in testimony to the European Parliament in
Brussels. The ECB is ready to use tools “including another
LTRO, if needed,” referring to the central bank’s longer-term
refinancing operations.  The ECB will keep its main  interest rate  at a record-low
0.5 percent at a policy meeting next week, according to
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  France ’s 10-year yield dropped three basis points to 2.43
percent,  Spain ’s slid three basis points to 4.27 percent, while
the rate on similar-maturity  Italian debt  declined two basis
points to 4.26 percent.  Dudley said the Fed may wait “a long time” to raise its
benchmark rate after breaching its 6.5 percent unemployment
threshold.  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of the Netherlands and  Belgium ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  The Netherlands is scheduled to auction as much as 3
billion euros of three-year notes tomorrow.  Outlook Raised  Irish bonds swung between gains and losses after Moody’s
raised the outlook on the nation’s debt on Sept. 20, citing
stability in its access to financial markets. Ireland’s Ba1
grade at Moody’s, one step below investment grade, compares with
BBB+ rankings by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Moody’s change is only a change in outlook, they
still have Ireland at sub-investment grade, but it is a positive
development,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
in Dublin. “It reflects the adjustment that the nation has made
and that’s why we’re seeing a bit of a better performance in
Irish bonds.”  Ireland’s 10-year bond yield was little changed at 3.89
percent after falling to 3.84 percent, the  lowest  since July 25.
The yield spread over 10-year German bunds touched 187 basis
points, the least since May 2010.  Ratings Impact  Investors often disregard changes in ratings. Yields on
sovereign securities moved in the opposite direction from what
ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32 upgrades, downgrades and
changes in credit outlook last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg published in December.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc took 41.5 percent of the
vote in yesterday’s election versus 25.7 percent for the  Social
Democrats  of  Peer Steinbrueck , according to results from all 299
districts. That leaves Merkel short of a majority and needing a
coalition partner to govern Europe’s biggest economy.  “The election is certainly positive for Spain, Italy and
Ireland, because a coalition may be formed that is more positive
toward them,” said Piet Lammens, head of research at KBC Bank
NV in Brussels. “There is a strong positive sentiment toward
Spain, Italy and Ireland and that spreads can narrow more.”  German securities lost 2.4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Irish
bonds returned 7.7 percent and Italy’s gained 4.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  