-- German Stocks Fall as Investors Weigh Merkel’s Victory
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-23T07:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/german-stocks-fall-as-investors-weigh-merkel-s-victory.html
German stocks  declined as investors
weighed Angela Merkel’s victory in yesterday’s election.  LEG Immobilien AG (LEG)  dropped 4.4 percent amid the prospect of
a grand coalition that would see the Social Democrats replacing
the liberal Free Democrats.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  climbed 0.8 percent as
a gauge of carmakers rose the most among the 19 industry groups
in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 0.3 percent to 8,650.93 at 9:20 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . The gauge rose for a third week last week after the
Federal Reserve refrained from reducing its $85 billion of
monthly asset purchases, and investors awaited the outcome of
the German election. The HDAX Index dropped 0.2 percent today.  “Angela Merkel is the clear winner of this election,”
Raimund Saxinger, a fund manager at Frankfurt-Trust Investment
GmbH, which oversees about $22 billion, wrote in an e-mail
before the final results. “Clearer than even the optimists
would have expected. However, in a twist of irony, her combined
backing has diminished as her coalition-partner FDP has not made
it into parliament. If she needs a coalition-partner, it will be
the SPD.”  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc took 41.5 percent,
compared with 25.7 percent for the SPD, led by  Peer Steinbrueck ,
in yesterday’s election, according to results from all 299
districts. That leaves her short of a majority and needing a
coalition partner to govern Europe’s biggest economy.  The FDP, which served as the junior partner in Christian
and Social Democrat-led governments, won less than the 5 percent
needed to enter the Bundestag. Party leaders will meet today to
discuss coalition talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  