-- German Ifo Business Confidence Seen Rising a Fifth Month
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-09-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/german-ifo-business-confidence-seen-rising-a-fifth-month.html
German business confidence probably
increased for a fifth month in September amid signs the economic
recovery is continuing in the euro area, the nation’s biggest
trading partner.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 108 from 107.5 in August,
according to the median of 43 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News
survey. (GRIFPBUS)  That would be the highest level since April 2012.
Measures of current conditions and expectations also gained, the
survey shows.  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, is benefiting from
unemployment near a two-decade low and the end of the 17-nation
euro area’s longest-ever recession. Angela Merkel is poised for
a third term as German chancellor after her Christian Democratic
bloc took the largest share of the vote in Sept. 22 elections on
her track record of shielding the country from the worst of the
region’s debt crisis.  “Merkel can celebrate a personal victory in the German
elections and a strongly improving domestic economy,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “Domestic
demand will need be the main driver of German growth, which in
turn will help the periphery pursue an export-led recovery to
shake off the remnants of the euro crisis.”  Car Sales  Daimler AG, the world’s third-largest maker of luxury
vehicles, said this month that it’s having trouble filling
orders as August sales at an all-time high put premium-car
manufacturers on course for record full-year deliveries.  Porsche AG, the Volkswagen AG unit that builds the 911
sports car, said it will reach a target of selling more than
200,000 vehicles a year in 2015 or 2016, about three years
earlier than initially planned. Investments in expanding and
modernizing factories around its hometown in Stuttgart,  Germany ,
will exceed 1 billion euros ($1.32 billion) by 2018, Matthias
Mueller, the head of the Porsche brand, said on Sept. 5.  German investment in plant and machinery increased for the
first time since 2011 in the second quarter. Unemployment was at
6.8 percent in August.  While the economy is showing signs of growth, the pace is
uneven, according to the Bundesbank. German factory orders,
industrial production and exports all declined in July, and a
preliminary  gauge of manufacturing  for September unexpectedly
dropped.  Growth Risks  “At the start of summer 2013, the German economy didn’t
sustain the rebound from earlier in the year,” the Frankfurt-based central bank said in its monthly report yesterday.
“Company investment confirms the evidence of a solid
foundation, though signs of a dramatic upswing are lacking.”  The Bundesbank predicts the German economy will expand 0.3
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2014. The European Central
Bank forecasts the euro-area economy will shrink 0.4 percent in
2013, followed by growth of 1 percent next year. The currency
bloc’s gross domestic product expanded 0.3 percent in the three
months through June, snapping six consecutive quarters of
contraction.  While “significant” risks remain, “overall I believe we
have turned the corner,” European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said on Sept. 12. “We are seeing
the first signs that the euro-area economy may be turning
around.”  Coalition Talks  A gauge of services in the euro area, based on a survey of
purchasing managers by London-based Markit Economics, climbed
this month to the highest level in more than two years. Investor
confidence in the German economy rose to the highest level in
more than three years, according to a survey by the ZEW research
institute.  Merkel may yet have to form a grand coalition with the
center-left Social Democrats after her current partners, the
liberal Free Democrats, failed to secure re-entry to parliament.  A grand coalition would mean a “stable growth outlook for
the German economy, but don’t expect a fiscal boost,” said
 Holger Sandte , Chief European Analyst at Nordea Markets in
Copenhagen. “It would come without the charm of a new beginning
and only after several weeks of tough negotiations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  