-- German FDP Leader Roesler Resigns After Record Ballot Defeat
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-09-23T13:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/german-fdp-leader-roesler-resigns-after-record-election-defeat.html
German Free Democratic Party chief
Philipp Roesler resigned today after the FDP suffered the
biggest defeat in its postwar history. Christian Lindner, FDP
chairman in North Rhine-Westphalia, may succeed him.  The FDP, which served as the junior partner in Christian
and Social Democrat-led governments, won 4.8 percent in
yesterday’s federal election, less than the 5 percent needed to
enter the Bundestag, the lower house of parliament.  “This was the biggest and worst defeat for the FDP since
its creation,” Roesler, 40, told reporters in Berlin today. “I
take responsibility and told the party leadership that I’m
offering my resignation.”  Lindner, 34, said he wants to lead the party. In North
Rhine-Westphalia,  Germany ’s most populous state, the FDP under
Lindner won 8.6 percent of the votes in a regional election last
year.  “It’s my goal as FDP chairman, if the party congress
affirms me, to give this liberal party its respect back,”
Lindner told reporters in Berlin. “Germany needs a liberal
party and it will be our special task to make this party
respected, competent and successful again.”  The FDP, founded in 1948 by members of liberal parties that
existed before World War II, entered the Bundestag a year later
under Germany’s first chancellor, Konrad Adenauer, a Christian
Democrat. It governed for 13 years in coalition with the SPD,
serving under Helmut Schmidt, before aligning with the CDU in
1982 to start the 16-year reign of Helmut Kohl.  Faith in Lindner  The FDP held the balance of power more than any other party
in postwar Germany’s history. The party’s worst result contrasts
with its best of 14.6 percent gained four years ago, enabling it
to enter into coalition with Angela Merkel’s party.  “We place a lot of confidence and hope in Christian
Lindner,” outgoing health minister Daniel Bahr, a Free
Democrat, told reporters. “He can do it, he’s proved it in
North Rhine-Westphalia in a difficult situation” when he led
the FDP back into the state’s parliament, Bahr said.  Lindner indicated the FDP won’t shift its stance on bailout
policies for the euro region to win back the votes it lost to
the anti-euro Alternative for Germany party, which clinched 4.7
percent at yesterday’s election.  “We’re a party that advanced European integration over
years and decades,” Lindner said, naming Walter Scheel and
Hans-Dietrich Genscher, both FDP foreign ministers, as examples.
“We want Europe to develop into a union of stability.”  Led by Guido Westerwelle, foreign minister under Merkel,
the FDP scored its best federal election result in 2009 with a
promise to lower taxes. The party’s policy pledges were put on
hold by Merkel as the recession of 2009 unfolded and with the
onset of the debt crisis in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  