-- GM Lifted to Investment Grade While Buying UAW Shares
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-09-23T16:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/gm-lifted-to-investment-grade-while-buying-uaw-shares.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  was raised to
investment grade for the first time in eight years and moved to
continue paying back stakeholders from its 2009 bailout with
plans to buy preferred shares held by a union health-care trust.  Moody’s Investors Service upgraded GM to Baa3 from Ba1
today, citing new models for the U.S. market, strength in  China 
and what it calculates as $31 billion of cash, including credit
facilities. It marks the first time the automaker has had an
investment-grade rating since its predecessor lost the
designation in 2005.  “GM has been on a steadily improving operational and
financial trajectory since it emerged from bankruptcy,”  Bruce Clark , senior vice president at Moody’s, said in a statement.
“We think that the disciplines the company has embraced,
combined with the strength of its U.S. product portfolio and a
healthy domestic market, will enable it to stay on that path.”  GM said today it will purchase 120 million preferred shares
held by the United Auto Workers retiree medical trust for about
$3.2 billion, or $27 each. The deal is contingent on GM closing
an offering of senior unsecured notes that it’s starting today,
the Detroit-based automaker said in a statement. It’s the first
unsecured borrowing by GM, separate from its finance subsidiary,
since the 2009 bankruptcy.  GM intends to issue five-, 10- and 30-year securities to
help it buy the shares from the union-retiree health-care trust,
the company said. The bond sale may price tomorrow, according to
a person with knowledge of the transaction who asked not to be
named because terms aren’t set.  The deal, along with U.S. and Canadian governments’ efforts
to reduce their ownership of the automaker, is the latest move
to pay back stakeholders from its 2009 bankruptcy as the
company’s position has improved dramatically.  CEO’s Strategy  GM slipped less than 0.1 percent to $36.82 at 11:44 a.m. in
 New York . The shares surged 28 percent this year through Sept.
20, outpacing the 20 percent increase for the  Standard & Poor’s 
500 Index.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson is pushing GM toward
several ambitious mid-decade goals, including increasing North
American operating margins, stemming European losses and
boosting sales in China.  “Good things happen when you build great cars and trucks
and deliver strong financial results,” Akerson said in a
statement. “Today’s news from Moody’s further underscores that
this is exactly what we are doing.”  Less Costly  The company has been paying a 9 percent annual  interest
rate  on the preferred shares held by the union trust and the new
debt would presumably be at a cheaper interest rate. GM didn’t
specify how much new debt it was seeking.  GM Financial’s $750 million of 4.25 percent notes due May
2023, its longest maturity bonds outstanding, traded at 95.25
cents on the dollar to yield 4.87 percent in August, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. Those securities are ranked Ba3
at Moody’s and BB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  was returned to investment-grade status by
Fitch in April 2012, by Moody’s in May 2012 and earlier this
month by S&P.  Replacing the UAW trust’s preferred shares with new bonds
is essentially refinancing GM’s debt at less cost, Joseph Phillippi, principal of consulting firm AutoTrends Inc. in
Andover,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview.  “I’m sure they can save 200 or 300 basis points,” he
said. One hundred basis points equals 1 percentage point.  The new offering would mark GM’s first unsecured offering
since emerging from bankruptcy, the automaker said in an e-mail.  ‘Very Expensive’  Dan Ammann, GM chief financial officer, had signaled the
automaker’s desire to get out of paying the 9 percent interest
on the preferred shares.  “That is a very, very expensive piece of paper,” Ammann
said Jan. 15 during an investor presentation. “We’d quite like
to get that out of the  capital structure  and you should assume
that we’d be planning to do that at the first available
option.”  The UAW medical trust currently holds 260 million shares.
GM said it expects to record costs of about $800 million in the
third quarter because of the transaction. GM has the ability to
call the remaining preferred shares, issued as part of the 2009
bailout, at the end of next year for $25 apiece. At $27 per
share, GM is paying the trust an 8 percent premium to speed up
the transaction.  Cash Management  GM’s efforts to repurchase the trust shares early “is a
strong indication that management is very comfortable with the
launch of the” new pickups “and the associated incremental
profit,”  Joseph Amaturo , an analyst with Buckingham Research
Group, said today in a note to clients. GM redesigned its high-margin Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra large trucks.  “Additionally, we believe management’s desire to fund the
repurchase with issuance of unsecured debt is an indication that
they want to keep a sizable gross cash balance that could be
eventually used for the initiation of a dividend” or
“traditional share repurchase.”  The U.S. Treasury Department has reduced its stake in the
automaker to 7.3 percent as part of a program to sell all of its
shares as soon as this year. The Treasury’s stake is down from
32 percent in December when the government announced it was
selling $5.5 billion of its stock back to GM and planning to
sell the rest on the market in 12 to 15 months.  The U.S. said  this  month in a report it had recovered $35.4
billion of $51 billion invested in GM. With the remaining stake
worth about $3.8 billion, the U.S. would probably lose about
$11.8 billion.  Growing Confidence  Canada is also looking to exit its ownership in GM. The
Canadian and Ontario governments earlier this month agreed to
sell 30 million GM shares worth about $1.1 billion to Bank of
America Corp. and Royal Bank of Canada in a block trade,
reducing their stake by 21 percent to 110 million shares.  The governments are exiting GM as investor confidence has
risen while the company introduces 18 new or redesigned vehicles
in the U.S., transforming its lineup into one of the freshest in
the industry from the one of the oldest. The restructured
company held its initial public offering in 2010 at $33 a share.  GM, armed with some of its best vehicles in a generation,
has benefited as U.S. industry sales of new cars and light
trucks totaled 1.5 million in August, the most in one month
since May 2007. The seasonally adjusted annualized selling pace
exceeded 16 million for the first time since October 2007,
signaling robust demand.  Light-vehicle sales in the U.S., where GM is the market
leader, will probably rise to 16.1 million next year, the
average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Moody’s said it expects the U.S auto sector to remain
healthy, enabling GM to make progress in improving its North
American margins.  “GM is entering a robust phase of its new product
introduction cycle in  North America , and market response has
been positive,” Moody’s said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  