-- Goldman Said in Talks for Stake in Brazil Toll Collector
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-09-23T14:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/goldman-said-in-talks-for-stake-in-brazil-toll-collector.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s private-equity fund and General Atlantic LLC are in talks to buy a 12.75
percent stake in  STP -- Servicos & Tecnologia de Pagamentos SA ,
the Brazilian electronic-toll-collection company, two people
with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Toll-road operator EcoRodovias Infraestrutura & Logistica
SA hired Banco Itau BBA SA to sell its stake in Osasco-based STP
for about 250 million reais ($114 million), the people said,
asking not to be identified because the negotiations are
private. The talks, which include additional potential buyers,
are preliminary and may not lead to a deal, the people said.  The number of vehicles traveling  Brazil ’s toll roads rose
4.2 percent in the past 12 months, according to Brazil’s
Association of Highway Concessionaires. STP sells Sem Parar and
Via Facil tags, which car owners use to pay tolls and parking
fees.  CCR SA (CCRO3) , the biggest toll operator by revenue, and CCBR
Catel Construcoes do Brasil Ltda are STP’s biggest shareholders,
with a combined 73.25 percent, according to data on STP’s
 website .  STP said last month it agreed to sell a 10 percent stake to
Raizen Energia SA, a joint venture between Royal Dutch Shell Plc
and Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, for 250 million reais, in a
capital increase that will dilute holdings of most existing
shareholders when completed. Highway-concession company Arteris
SA will retain its 4.68 percent stake after the deal, which must
still to be approved by Brazil’s antitrust regulator.  FleetCor Acquisition  FleetCor Technologies Inc., a Norcross, Georgia-based
provider of fuel cards and workforce payment products to
businesses, said on Sept. 10 it agreed to acquire DB Trans SA, a
provider of payment solutions for independent truckers in Brazil
and also an electronic-toll-collection company.  STP, EcoRodovias and Itau declined to comment, according to
officials who asked not to be named in keeping with company
policies.  Andrea Raphael, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, declined to
comment in a e-mailed statement. Pat Hedley, a spokeswoman for
General Atlantic, said the company’s policy is not to comment on
investments it may be considering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  