-- Gold Seen Dropping by Citigroup, Morgan Stanley on Fed Taper
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-09-23T12:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/gold-seen-by-citigroup-extending-drop-in-2014-as-fed-will-taper.html
Gold will extend losses as the U.S.
economy improves, according to Citigroup Inc. and Morgan
Stanley, which said the Federal Reserve’s surprise decision to
hold stimulus for now will help prices only in the short term.  Bullion may drop below $1,250 an ounce before the end of
the year as economic data strengthens and investors expect the
Fed to start reducing its asset purchases, Citigroup analysts  Ed Morse  and Heath Jansen said in a report today. Bullion will
average $1,250 next year, down from $1,405 in 2013, they wrote.
Morgan Stanley expects bullion to average $1,200 to $1,350 in
the coming year before trending lower, it said in a report.  The metal is heading for the first annual drop in 13 years
as signs of a U.S. recovery hurt gold demand while stocks and
the dollar climb. Gold advanced on Sept. 18 after the Federal
Open Market Committee refrained from paring stimulus, counter to
economists’ expectations for a reduction. The rally prompted
Societe Generale SA to advise selling the metal.  “The postponement of the tapering decision by the FOMC
represents only a short-term reprieve for gold,” the Citigroup
analysts wrote. “Does this mean the end of the downtrend in
gold? In our view, the fundamental and clear answer is no.”  The Fed said on Sept. 18 that policy makers need to see
more signs of labor-market gains before reducing its $85 billion
of monthly  asset  purchases. Gold jumped 4.1 percent in  London 
that day, the most in 15 months.  Waning Appetite  “The postponement is only delaying the inevitable,”
Morgan Stanley analysts including Peter Richardson said in their
report. “The longer-term narrative for gold remains in place --
waning investor appetite for a risk and inflation hedge,
challenged physical demand and a rising U.S. dollar.”  Gold for immediate delivery declined 0.3 percent to
$1,322.56 by 1:12 p.m. in London. The precious metal tumbled 21
percent this year as the Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index gained 2.6
percent and global stocks climbed 14 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised investors to buy gold on a
higher risk of inflation after the Fed’s decision last week,
according to a note on Sept. 20. There is strong retail gold
demand in Asia, JPMorgan said.  Bullion rose 70 percent from December 2008 to June 2011 as
the U.S. central bank pumped more than $2 trillion into the
financial system by buying debt, increasing concern that the
dollar will be debased. Fed Bank of St. Louis President James
Bullard said Sept. 20 that a small taper may occur next month.  ETP Holdings  Citigroup’s annual forecasts for gold were revised higher
from $1,358 for 2013 and $1,145 for next year, according to its
report. The delay in tapering may prompt a  temporary rise  in
holdings in exchange-traded products, the analysts said.  Gold held in ETPs dropped last week even after U.S.
stimulus was maintained, declining 0.4 percent to 1,933.1 metric
tons, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Holdings are at
the lowest in more than three years. Fed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said there is no set timetable for tapering.  “We maintain a fairly pessimistic outlook for gold as a
result of the increased probability of a timetable for the
ending of QE,” Morgan Stanley’s analysts wrote, referring to
quantitative easing. “Our price profile now acknowledges that
the annual average peak in the price of gold was achieved in
2012 with minimal prospect for recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  