-- Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley Estimates Cut by Atlantic
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-09-23T12:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/goldman-sachs-morgan-stanley-estimates-cut-by-atlantic.html
The biggest U.S. banks’ fixed-income trading revenue will probably fall 20 percent in the
third quarter from a year ago on lower volumes, according to
Richard Staite, an analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP.  Staite cut his estimate for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s per-share earnings 18 percent to $2.47 and Morgan Stanley’s 25
percent to 38 cents, according to a research note today. Staite
also cut his estimate at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  by 14 percent to $1.05.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, and Barclays
Plc have told investors that third-quarter trading revenue will
probably drop from a year earlier. Jefferies Group LLC said last
week that revenue from fixed-income trading plunged 88 percent
in its fiscal third quarter that ended Aug. 31 compared with the
same period in 2012.  “July and August were very slow months as investors sat on
the sidelines waiting for more clarity on Fed tapering, Syria
and the emerging-market slowdown, and we believe the weakness
has extended into September,” Staite wrote in a note, referring
to uncertainty about when the  Federal Reserve  would slow its $85
billion-a-month bond-buying program. “In contrast September
2012 was very active in rates and foreign exchange due to
improvements in the Eurozone.”  Mortgage production revenue at the biggest banks will
probably be down 55 percent, Staite added. That’s because the
third quarter in 2012 was “a strong period for both volumes and
margins,” he said.  1,800 Jobs  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. mortgage lender, said
last week that it’s cutting about 1,800 jobs in its home-loan
production business as rising interest rates curb demand for
refinancing. Chief Financial Officer Timothy Sloan said Sept. 9
that the San Francisco-based bank may originate about $80
billion in home loans during the third quarter, a 29 percent
decline from the three months that ended June 30.  Staite previously cut his estimates for JPMorgan by 14
percent and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  by 10 percent following their
comments at a conference, he wrote. Wells Fargo’s estimates were
held flat.  “We think Bank of America will show better underlying cost
and revenue trends than its major peers,” Staite said.  Atlantic Equities has an “underweight” recommendation on
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , U.S. Bancorp, and Wells Fargo, a “neutral”
rating on Goldman Sachs, and an “overweight” recommendation on
Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan and PNC Financial Services
Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  