-- Goldman Sachs Said to Expand Electronic Bond-Trading Sessions
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-09-23T15:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/goldman-sachs-said-to-expand-electronic-bond-trading-sessions.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has added
trading sessions and increased the money it makes available to
buy securities on its electronic bond-trading platform as the
industry grapples with changes in market structure, according to
a person briefed on the decision.  Goldman Sachs will hold two daily sessions on its platform,
up from twice weekly when it started last year, and will offer
$300 million in guaranteed liquidity, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the change hadn’t been publicly
announced. The platform, known as GSessions, was halted last
month amid a lack of demand, the person said.  Corporate bond dealers and investors have started
electronic-trading platforms as they seek to reduce costs and
improve their ability to convert investments into cash amid new
capital rules. The world’s biggest dealers have cut inventories
of corporate debt by three-quarters since the 2007 peak, leading
to concerns that waning liquidity provides greater potential for
market disruptions.  While clients have been wary of trading on so-called
single-dealer platforms run by one bank, the sell-side hasn’t
agreed on parameters that would allow one multidealer platform
to emerge, according to two people involved in the market.  Goldman Sachs began trading on GSessions in June 2012,
after a year of development. The expansion will allow clients to
trade 35 bonds -- including investment-grade and high-yield
securities -- each day, the person said. GSessions is housed
within the New York-based bank’s credit-trading unit and remains
a small part of that group’s revenue, according to the person.  Technology Shifts  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment. The Financial Times reported the changes to Goldman
Sachs’s system yesterday.  The corporate  bond market  is unsuitable for full electronic
trading, according to a study last month by McKinsey & Co. and
Greenwich Associates. The bond market has more securities
compared with listed stocks and its issues trade at a lower
frequency, making a full transition to computer-based buying and
selling unlikely, the consultants said.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager, set up
an internal electronic bond-trading system that would match
orders from buy-side investors, allowing them to bypass Wall
Street dealers. The system failed in April because it couldn’t
attract a critical mass of customers, even as small dealers
stood ready to aid trading. The New York-based firm said in
April it would instead route trades through MarketAxess Holding
Inc.’s electronic system.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  revamped its electronic brokering system,
called Bond Pool, last year, offering sessions based on client
interest.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Citigroup Inc. announced
plans to start electronic bond-trading platforms this year.  While technology and shifts in market structure have added
to the appearance of fixed-income market liquidity, they have
added little depth, according to a July  report  by the Treasury
Borrowing Advisory Committee. Trading volumes of investment-grade debt dropped in August to the lowest since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  