-- Goldman’s McClymont Named Sotheby’s CFO; Sheridan Leaving
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-09-23T20:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/goldman-s-mcclymont-named-sotheby-s-cfo-sheridan-leaving.html
Sotheby’s (BID) , the New York auctioneer
under pressure to improve returns, said Patrick McClymont, a
partner at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is replacing its chief
financial officer of 17 years, William Sheridan.  A 1991 graduate of  Cornell University , McClymont has been a
managing director in  investment banking  at Goldman since 1998,
Sotheby’s said in a release.  Andrew Gully, a Sotheby’s spokesman, said the move is
unrelated to corporate activism by investor  Daniel Loeb , whose
Third Point LLC has taken a 5.7 percent stake in the auction
house, according to an Aug. 26 filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  The hedge-fund company “intends to engage in a dialogue
with members of the board or management” that may relate “to
potential changes of strategy and leadership,” the filing said.  “Bill and Sotheby’s came to a mutual agreement that he
would no longer serve as CFO after being at Sotheby’s for 17
years,” Gully said in a phone interview.  McClymont takes over Oct. 7. Sheridan will remain at the
company until the end of the year, according to the release. The
company said on Sept. 11 that it’s “conducting a thorough
review of its capital allocation and financial policies.”  Investor Pressure  Michael Plummer, a former chief operating officer at rival
Christie’s financial services group, said the replacement is a
consequence of Loeb and other activist investors pressuring
Sotheby’s.  “They are probably looking at how they use their capital
and how they access capital markets, and if they can be more
aggressive on that front,” said Plummer, a principal of
 Artvest , a  New York  company providing investment advice on the
art market.  McClymont, 44, previously advised Sotheby’s on “strategic
and financial matters,” the company said in a filing today with
the SEC.  Like Sheridan, he is to receive a base salary of $600,000.
McClymont’s annual bonus could be as much as $1.3 million, with
a signing bonus of $325,000. Sotheby’s will also reimburse the
banker for professional fees of up to $25,000 for negotiating
the package.  Under his severance agreement, Sheridan will receive $2.2
million and 18 months of additional medical and dental coverage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ; Katya Kazakina in New York at 
4837 or  kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 