-- Gold Seen Spurring Clean-Power Output Amid Resource Drain
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-09-23T06:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/gold-seen-spurring-clean-power-output-amid-resource-drain.html
Gold, prized for jewelry and stowed
in bank vaults, will increasingly be used to boost energy output
and clean up water for drinking, the  World Gold Council  said.  The metal’s properties have the potential to improve solar-cell efficiency, enhance the performance of fuel cells and
remove impurities from water, Trevor Keel, head of technology at
the WGC, said in an interview. Gold is already used in some
catalytic converters to curb pollution from cars, he said.  As increased demand for energy and water saps global
resources, utilities and manufacturers are seeking ways to save
both by introducing new technologies. Gold, which is corrosion-resistant and highly conductive, can be used as a catalyst to
improve the efficiency of processes such as water purification.  “People automatically say gold’s too expensive to use in
these technologies, but that’s not actually true,” Keel said in
 London . “If you use it in a small enough quantity and it brings
you a big enough benefit, it’s always going to be worth using.”  Gold is currently cheaper than platinum, which is used in
similar applications. The price of gold, considered a haven in
times of economic upheaval, has dropped more than 20 percent
this year after global growth began to strengthen.  Nanoparticles in the metal can detect and remove pesticides
and heavy metals from drinking water, according to Keel.  “We’re now at a point where we’re going to see more and
more commercialized processes in this sector,” he said. “It’s
driven by a desire to more effectively clean up pollution using
the best materials for the job.”  The particles can also help convert solar energy to
electricity, according to the London-based WGC, which has
invested in solar-technology company Oxford Photovoltaics Ltd.
In fuel cells, they can improve electrical conductivity, Keel
said, citing Ford Motor Co.’s use of a gold-based coating for
the devices, which produce electricity from a chemical reaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net  