-- Governors Burn Surpluses on Tax Cuts Amid Campaigning
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-09-23T15:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/governors-burn-surpluses-on-tax-cuts-eying-re-election.html
Florida  Governor Rick Scott shows
how governors in at least nine states are approaching re-election campaigns next year by touting surpluses and pitching
tax cuts, sometimes relying on one-time revenue to fund the
breaks.  The 60-year-old Republican toured the state this month to
highlight a proposed $500 million decrease in taxes and a
projected $845.7 million surplus. State economists attribute
most of that to money carried over from last year’s budget.  Revenue topped forecasts in 30 states, partly because
wealthy taxpayers shifted income into 2012 to avoid higher
federal rates, according to the National Association of State
Budget Officers. Some governors seized on the extra money as
evidence of fiscal skill. The tax breaks give them material for
the campaign trail, even as state-finance analysts warn they’re
built on faulty budgeting and could force deep cuts after the
elections.  In addition to Scott, Republicans Scott Walker of
Wisconsin, John Kasich of Ohio, Paul LePage of  Maine , Terry Branstad of  Iowa , Sam Brownback of  Kansas  and Nikki Haley of
South Carolina have all trumpeted proposed or already-accomplished tax cuts. Democratic governors Andrew Cuomo of New
York and Mark Dayton of  Minnesota  are also pushing to reduce
taxes before facing voters next year.  Apportioning Money  “We’ve cut taxes every year for three years,” Scott told
reporters on his five-city “It’s Your Money” tour. Since
taking office, Scott has expanded corporate income-tax breaks
and reduced property taxes and sales taxes for manufacturing
equipment. He said Florida had a $3.7 billion deficit when he
took over and now has a surplus, with revenue headed for a
record next year.  “We need to make sure we give it back to the taxpayers,”
said Scott.  Democrats accuse the governor  of trying to buy votes and
failing to fully restore 2011 education cuts. Half the residents
in a June poll said Scott didn’t deserve re-election.  “The average Florida family is hoping their kid gets a
better education,” said Joshua Karp, a Democratic Party
spokesman. “They’re not looking for another big giveaway to
special interests.”  For others such as Donna Weaver, an unemployed computer
specialist in Miami, Florida’s cuts had more material
consequences. Her jobless benefits ended last year after Scott
and the Republican-led legislature scaled back the aid in 2011.  “They took away the little money I was getting,” she
said. “It’s just cruel. I’m still looking for work.”  Unsupportable Strategy  The revenue bump doesn’t indicate a robust rebound,
according to analysts such as Donald Boyd, a senior fellow with
the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in  Albany , New
York. Boyd said most stemmed from residents trying to avoid
federal tax increases.  “The most recent trends simply cannot continue,” Boyd
said. “They’re not supported by any kind of ongoing underlying
economic fundamentals.”  Federal tax rates for couples earning more than $450,000
annually rose to 39.6 percent in January from 35 percent last
year, after Congress allowed many cuts enacted under President
George W. Bush to expire. An increase on capital gains to as
much as 23.8 percent also passed. As a result, wealthy residents
pushed income into 2012, Boyd said.  Creating Jobs  Personal income-tax revenue in 46 states surged 20 percent
in the April to June period compared with last year’s second
quarter, according to preliminary data cited by the institute.  Some governors used surpluses to partially restore funding
for services such as education after reductions. Several states
reduced debt and increased reserves drained thanks to the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.  In  Ohio , Kasich and the Republican-led legislature built up
a rainy-day fund and cut taxes by $2.7 billion over three years.
Kasich, a former budget panel chairman in the U.S. House of
Representatives, pledged to erase levies on income when he ran
for governor in 2010. He wants to keep lowering rates.  “Cynics would say we do this because we’re trying to get
votes,” Kasich said at an Aug. 30 event near Columbus promoting
the cuts. “I know as these taxes go down and encourage work and
investment, we can do much better.”  Ohio may be overestimating the benefits, as job growth is
slowing, Marcy Block, an analyst at New York-based Fitch
Ratings, said in a Sept. 10 report. The forgone revenue may
“lead to structural imbalances,”  she said.  Cuts Accommodated  State budget chief Timothy Keen said the spending plan has
accounted for less cash and doesn’t rely on growth that might
result from tax reductions.  Walker, LePage and Brownback have each signed bills that
trigger tax cuts if revenue rises faster than forecast.  After enacting a two-year budget in June that incorporates
almost $1 billion of tax reductions, Walker, 45, is considering
more, said Tom Evenson, his spokesman. Last month, the  Wisconsin 
revenue department reported that fiscal 2013 tax collections
surpassed projections by $71.5 million.  That was the result of “tough, but prudent, decisions,”
the governor, a potential presidential candidate in 2016, said
in a statement.  Iowa’s Branstad said in a July e-mail to supporters that
his state eliminated a $900 million deficit and instead has a
$900 million surplus. He also touted “the largest tax cut in
Iowa history,” after covering changes to property taxes with
the excess revenue.  Budget Hawks  In addition to Branstad and Walker, Republicans Kasich,
Scott, LePage, Brownback, Haley, Susana Martinez of New Mexico
and Rick Snyder of  Michigan  have each credited tax cuts and
fiscal discipline for deficit-to-surplus rebounds. Each won
major tax changes this year and is up for re-election in 2014.  Florida’s projected surplus comes from improving sales-tax
receipts as well as funds carried over from the prior year, said
Amy Baker, director of the state’s economic research office.  Nan Rich, a Democrat and former state senator running for
governor, said Scott’s rollbacks favor corporations.  “Instead of using those funds to restore the cuts to
education and begin to pay for other critical needs that were
slashed from the budget during the recession, Rick Scott is
playing politics,” Rich, 71, said in a statement.  Democratic governors Cuomo and Dayton also floated tax
cuts. Both have seen budgets improve after raising rates on top
earners.  Cuomo, 55, extended an increase on residents with million-dollar incomes this year to finance targeted tax cuts.  Dayton, 66, has said he hopes to use his surplus to lower
business taxes after reducing debt.  A slowdown in collections  may throw a wrench in plans for
election-year tax cuts.  “The ‘bubble’ in income-tax receipts most definitely would
be short-lived, and in fact should lead to slower growth” this
year, Rockefeller Institute’s Boyd said in a Sept. 18 report.
“State officials should be cautious about using any
unanticipated revenue for ongoing spending increases or revenue
reductions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  