-- Lala Said to Seek at Least $700 Million in Mexican Milk IPO
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-09-23T22:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/grupo-lala-said-to-seek-at-least-700-million-in-mexico-milk-ipo.html
Grupo Lala SAB, Mexico’s biggest
dairy producer, is seeking to raise at least $700 million in an
initial public offering this year, two people with direct
knowledge of the transaction said, as sales of milk, cheese and
yogurt grow twice as fast as the country’s economy.  The size and timing of the sale are subject to change based
on market conditions, according to the people, who asked not to
be identified because the details are confidential.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA)  are managing the sale, according to a  preliminary prospectus 
filed today with the Mexican stock exchange.  Lala, led by Chairman Eduardo Tricio Haro, started six
decades ago as a dairy farmers’ collective in northern Mexico
and now  controls  more than half of Mexico’s milk market along
with competitor Ganaderos Productores de Leche Pura SA,
according to company and government reports. Mexico’s dairy
market has grown at annual rate of 5.3 percent since 2007 to 155
billion pesos ($12.1 billion) in sales last year, according to
data in the prospectus attributed to Euromonitor.  “The dairy market is an oligopoly here in  Mexico ,” Jorge Lagunas, who oversees about $200 million in stocks at Grupo
Financiero Interacciones SA, said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. “This is going to be a very good consumer-sector
option” for investors.  Lala declined to comment on the IPO filing due to legal
restrictions, according to an outside spokesman who asked not to
be identified per company policy.  Record Issuance  Mexico’s economy grew at a rate of 2.6 percent from 2007
through last year.  Lala joins at least five companies planning Mexican stock
offerings, a pipeline that would extend this year’s record
equity issuance. Airline Controladora Vuela Cia. de Aviacion SAB
raised at least $346 million in an initial public offering last
week.  Torreon-based Lala said it will use the proceeds in part to
invest in a bigger fleet of trucks and improved capacity to
distribute refrigerated foods. The company also plans to prepay
debt and could pursue acquisitions in Mexico, Central America
and elsewhere, according to the prospectus.  Lala already has operations in Central America and the
U.S., according to its  website . In 2009, it purchased Dallas-based National Dairy from  Dairy Farmers  of America Inc. for an
undisclosed amount.  Mexicans consumed 15.1 billion liters of milk last year,
compared with 10.9 billion liters produced, leaving room for
Lala’s domestic output to steal share from imports, according to
the prospectus.  Milk Trucks  Lala on its own has 53 percent of formally tracked milk
sales, according to the prospectus, which cites data from AC
Nielsen.  Tricio Haro increased his visibility earlier this year when
he led a group of investors in acquiring a 20.2 percent stake in
Grupo Aeromexico SAB, Mexico’s largest airline. The group bought
most of it from Citigroup Inc., according to a Feb. 12 statement
from the airline.  Lala has 17 production plants and 161 distribution centers,
with its fleet of milk trucks serving a half-million stores and
other outlets, according to data provided in the prospectus
through June 30.  Sales rose 6.2 percent to 40.3 billion pesos ($3.15
billion) last year, an increase the company says was due
“principally to organic growth in Mexico.”  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization -- a measure of profit known as Ebitda -- rose 16
percent to 4.76 billion pesos, which Lala attributed to a
reduction in overhead costs. Ebitda as a percentage of revenue
rose to 11.8 percent from 10.8 percent.  Such a margin is above that of at least two food
distributors traded in Mexico. Gruma SAB, the world’s biggest
tortilla maker, had an Ebitda margin of 8.2 percent last year.
Mexico City-based Grupo Bimbo SAB, the world’s largest baker,
had a margin of 9.2 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  