-- Gundlach to Manage $450 Million for Prudential’s Jackson
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-23T19:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/gundlach-to-manage-450-million-for-prudential-s-jackson.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , manager of the
top-performing DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund, is expanding
to variable annuities by subadvising a fund modeled after his
flagship for Prudential Plc’s Jackson National Life Insurance.  DoubleLine received a $450 million mandate from Jackson for
the Curian/DoubleLine Total Return Fund, which plans to invest
more than half its assets in mortgage-backed securities,
according to a statement today from Los Angeles-based
DoubleLine. The fund, to be run by DoubleLine Chief Executive
Officer Gundlach and President Philip Barach, can also bet on
 junk bonds , bank loans and credit-default swaps.  “This mandate marks the continuing institutional interest
in DoubleLine’s investment services and our channel
diversification into the variable-annuity space,” Ron Redell,
president of DoubleLine Funds Trust, said in the statement.  The push into variable annuities helps diversify
DoubleLine’s client base amid speculation that the three-decade-long bond bull market may have ended. Gundlach has also expanded
offerings by opening a floating-rate mutual fund, an equities
small-cap growth fund and an income-oriented closed-end fund.
DoubleLine subadvises mutual funds for firms including
RiverNorth Capital Management LLC and Alma Capital Investment
Management.  Gundlach’s $35.4 billion  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX) 
lost 0.2 percent this year through Sept. 20 to beat 89 percent
of similarly managed funds and advanced 6.9 percent in the past
three years to outperform 97 percent of peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund had its third straight month of
net withdrawals in August, as clients fleeing bonds pulled $1.1
billion, according to Morningstar Inc. estimates.  Variable Contracts  Variable annuities let savers invest in stocks, bonds and
other assets while deferring tax payments. The products can
provide a guaranteed account value or income stream. Manager
options within Lansing, Michigan-based Jackson National’s
platform include BlackRock Inc., Pacific Investment Management
Co. and Invesco Ltd., according to a regulatory filing earlier
this month.  The unit of London-based  Prudential (PRU)  was the largest seller
of individual U.S. variable annuities in the first six months of
this year, according to data from industry group Limra.  Newark ,
New Jersey-based rival  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the top seller
in the first half of 2012, fell to No. 3 this year as the
company reduced some guarantees on the products to help profit
margins.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, has also been
retreating from the savings contracts.  In Jackson’s Elite Access platform, “advisers are provided
with a combination of traditional and alternative asset classes
to help address individual financial goals and develop
diversified  retirement plans ,” Alison Reed, senior vice
president of product and investment management, said in the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  