-- IGT Branding Has Linkup With ‘Avatar’ Creatures
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-09-23T20:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/igt-s-new-branding-push-includes-linkup-with-avatar-creatures.html
(Corrects company name in first paragraph.)  International Game Technology (IGT) , the
world’s largest maker of slot machines, will feature its IGT
logo more prominently on gaming devices and websites to better
connect its brand with consumers.  The new campaign includes painting IGT vans that service
casino clients blue and a new slot machine tied to the blue
world of the “Avatar” film characters, the Las Vegas-based
company said today in a statement.  “This is so much more than a logo change,” IGT Chief Executive Officer Patti Hart said in a statement.  IGT faces increasing competition in slot machines and
weaker betting by consumers. The company paid as much as $500
million for Double Down Interactive last year in a bid to
capture players of casino-themed social media games on Facebook.  “Our industry is in a state of flux,” the company said in
publicity materials, citing “more competitors, new technologies
and more demanding players.”  Casinos and their suppliers are trying to link online games
with land-based properties. More than 360,000 people
participated in an online poker tournament on IGT-affiliated
websites in July. Winners received a free trip to  Las Vegas ’
Casino del Sol Resort, which features IGT games on its website.  Earlier this year, the company fought a proxy battle that
resulted in one dissident director from New York-based Ader
Investment Management being elected to its board.  IGT, whose business dates back to the 1950s, unveiled the
branding changes today at the industry’s annual Global Gaming
Expo in Las Vegas.  The  shares  fell 0.5 percent to $20.96 at 12:45 p.m. in  New
York . They had risen 48 percent this year through Friday
compared with a 15 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  