-- Miliband Would Halt U.K. Company-Tax Cut to Aid Small Business
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-09-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/miliband-would-halt-u-k-company-tax-cut-to-aid-small-business.html
Opposition Labour Party leader Ed Miliband pledged to halt a planned cut in U.K.  corporation tax 
for big companies if he wins power in 2015 to reduce levies that
hit smaller businesses harder.  In his keynote address to supporters at the party’s annual
conference tomorrow, Miliband will announce plans to reverse the
reduction in corporation tax to 20 percent from 21 percent due
to take effect in April 2015, according to extracts released by
his office. That would raise 340 million pounds ($545 million)
in the 2015-16 fiscal year from about 80,000 businesses, letting
Labour lower so-called business rates on commercial premises.  “They used to say ‘a rising tide lifts all boats,’”
Miliband will say in his speech in Brighton, southern  England .
“Now the rising tide just seems to lift the yachts.”  Business rates are a local tax calculated on property
values. They place a proportionally larger burden on companies
with high property costs relative to their income. Labour would
cut rates on premises with an annual rental value of 50,000
pounds or less, aiming to benefit 1.5 million shops, pubs and
hi-tech businesses by an average of 450 pounds over two years.  Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has
been steadily cutting the main company-tax rate, taking it down
from 28 percent when the government took office in 2010, with
the stated aim of “creating the most competitive corporation-tax regime” in the Group of 20.  Miliband will argue that most jobs in the future will be
created by a large number of small businesses, not a small
number of big companies.  New Focus  As Britain’s economy recovers from recession, Labour has
switched its focus onto whether voters feel they are suffering
from the effects of inflation in what Miliband has dubbed “the
cost-of-living crisis.”  In an echo of the line made famous by  Ronald Reagan  in the
1980 U.S. presidential debate with  Jimmy Carter , Miliband will
say, “At the general election in 2015, you should ask yourself:
am I better off now than I was five years ago?”  He will attack Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron 
and Osborne for doing a “lap of honor” highlighting economic
growth.  “But you make the judgment: we have the slowest recovery
for 100 years, 1 million young people looking for work, more
people out of work for longer than any time in a generation,
more people than ever before working part-time because they
can’t find full-time work, and the longest fall in  living
standards  since 1870,” he will say  Poll Lead  With 20 months to go before the next election, Labour has
found its poll lead over the Conservatives narrowing as
 Britain’s economic recovery  builds momentum. One YouGov Plc
survey last week showed the Tories running neck-and-neck with
the opposition party.  In the speech, Miliband will also announce plans for new
housing and to help school-leavers find jobs, as well as green-energy commitments.  He will also address his party’s relationship with labor
unions, which founded it more than 100 years ago and pay
subscriptions for “affiliated” members.  Miliband wants union members to join as individuals, which
may cost Labour 1.2 million pounds a year in lost payments for
members of the Unite union alone, its general secretary,  Len McCluskey , said on Sept. 10.  The 619,000-member GMB union has already said it will cut
the funding it gives Labour in membership dues to 150,000 pounds
from 1.2 million pounds a year.  Union leaders are angered at moves to weaken the link
between the party and organized labor and have accused Miliband
of worrying too much about newspaper headlines and barbs from
Cameron’s Tories.  McCluskey received loud applause from delegates in the
conference hall today and told a meeting of party activists that
Miliband is listening to him and his colleagues.  “For too long within our own party we’ve felt uneasy,
we’ve felt not wanted and that’s got to change,” he said. “In
the last few years, since  Ed Miliband ’s been in charge, I’ve
noticed a warmer reception for trade unions at Labour Party
conference.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Brighton, England at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Brighton, England at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  