-- Tim Sale Decision Seen Roiling Brazil’s Wireless Market
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-09-23T20:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/tim-sale-decision-seen-roiling-brazil-s-wireless-market.html
The financial troubles of  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  are prompting Barclays Plc and BTIG LLC to predict
the company will sell  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  in  Brazil , altering
the balance of power in the fifth-largest wireless market.  A breakup of the nation’s second-biggest carrier, spreading
its assets and subscribers among its rivals, is the most viable
option because Brazilian regulator Anatel is unlikely to approve
an outright merger of Tim with a single large competitor, said a
team of Barclays analysts led by Jonathan Dann. An outsider such
as as  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  could also buy a stake or all of Tim,
said Walt Piecyk, an analyst at BTIG in  New York .  Divvying up Tim would be a boon for Brazil’s three other
major mobile-phone providers -- Telefonica Brasil SA,  America
Movil  SAB and Oi SA -- since removing a competitor would ease
pressure on price competition. The government would also find
that scenario more palatable than allowing one Brazilian
operator to acquire all of Tim’s 73 million customers, said
Richard Dineen, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Anatel has to look at the implications structurally -- is
this going to serve consumer interests better? Will investments
improve?” Dineen said. “Consolidation could be good if
stronger players are made and are more able to invest in the
sector.”  Tim’s press office at its Rio de Janeiro headquarters
referred all questions to Telecom Italia, where a spokesman in
Milan declined to comment.  Negotiations Resumed  Telecom Italia’s biggest shareholders, including
Telefonica, have resumed negotiations over their six-year
investor accord that can be revoked this month, people familiar
with the matter said today. The investor pact can be dissolved
by the end of this week -- or else it will be extended through
February 2015, with another exit window in August 2014.  Tim rose 3.4 percent to 10.11 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo , valuing the company at 24.4 billion reais ($11.1
billion).  Tim’s success in subscriber gains has made it the best
option for its Italian parent company to raise money, said  Robin Bienenstock , a London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. The carrier is the top Brazilian telecommunications pick
among analysts, with 13 buys, seven holds and no sells. That’s
because of its aggressive pricing and push to be the first to
offer data and text messaging to a wider audience, said Renato
Pasquini, manager of Latin American telecommunications at  Frost
& Sullivan  in Sao Paulo.  Debt Target  Telecom Italia needs to reduce its debt by at least 2.2
billion euros ($3 billion) this year and longer-term must raise
7.3 billion euros to avoid a crippling credit downgrade to junk,
Barclays said. The Milan-based carrier is considering selling
shares to outside buyers, people familiar with the matter said
last week. Its biggest shareholder, Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
may double its holdings by buying out other investors or may
take part in a capital increase on the condition that Tim be
sold, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the discussions are private.  “The interest in consolidation for the sale of Tim has
nothing to do with how Tim is performing in the market -- it has
to do with the leverage that exists within its parent company in
 Europe ,” Piecyk said. “Nothing has to change at Tim. The need
for a sale has everything to do with the parent and nothing to
do with how Tim is operating.”  Rather than try to raise more capital, Barclays prefers for
Telecom Italia to sell Tim, which would “imply immediate
proceeds, reducing leverage and avoiding a dilutive rights
issue” for the European company, according to Dann’s note on
Sept. 16.  Cash-Flow Generation  Tim is the fastest-growing mobile phone operator in Brazil
with a 27 percent share as of July, behind only Telefonica
Brasil’s Vivo brand with 29 percent, according to data compiled
by consulting group  Teleco . Tim was the first to offer unlimited
calls, and its cheap prices have lured customers from other
operators, Pasquini said.  “It’s working well -- the company is growing and its  cash-flow  generation is improving,” Pasquini said.  Telefonica Brasil’s parent company, Telefonica, would stand
to gain a third of Tim’s market share if it assumed control of
Telecom Italia and split up and sold parts of Tim, creating a
three-player market, Dineen said. While the Spanish company
already owns a 10.4 percent stake in Telecom Italia,  Anatel 
currently requires Telefonica to recuse itself from Telecom
Italia’s strategic decisions in Brazil. Telefonica spokesmen in
Spain and Brazil declined to comment.  “Telefonica gets the benefit of an increased stake in a
recapitalized Telecom Italia and gets the upside of a sale of
Tim,” Dineen said. “It’s obviously the way they’d prefer it to
play out.”  Anatel’s Stance  Telecom Italia climbed 3.4 percent to 59 euro cents in
Milan. Telefonica slid less than 1 percent to 11.27 euros on the
Madrid exchange.  The question is whether Anatel will allow just three
players, since regulators around the world have debated whether
that number is enough to sustain healthy competition. The U.S.
government blocked  AT&T Inc. (T)  in 2011 from acquiring  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit to preserve a four-carrier market. In
 Germany , European Union regulators are reviewing Telefonica’s
merger of its local unit with Royal KPN NV’s E-Plus division, a
bellwether case on the continent since it would reduce the
market to three companies.  Tim is free to do whatever type of merger or deal it wants,
with the terms submitted to Anatel for review beforehand, a
press official at the agency said. Anatel would examine how a
transaction would affect competition and market concentration,
he said.  DirecTV (DTV)  Interest?  “It’s unclear if the regulator is ready to allow
consolidation in the market,” Piecyk said of Anatel. “You’d
have to look to an external buyer for Tim.”  Those potential buyers also don’t have a clear path to take
Tim. Vodafone is occupied with the $130 billion sale of its
Verizon Wireless stake to partner  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
AT&T Inc., which has said it’s interested in entering the
European market, already has a partner in  Latin America  through
its 9 percent ownership of America Movil.  DirecTV -- which offers satellite service in Brazil, has
bought assets there such as wireless airwaves in the past and
had been interested in buying  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Brazilian unit GVT
earlier this year -- could be a candidate to buy Tim, Dineen
said.  Simon Gordon, a Vodafone spokesman; Darris Gringeri, a
DirecTV spokesman; and  Mark Siegel , an AT&T spokesman, declined
to comment.  Tim had risen 19 percent this year in Sao Paulo trading
through last week, compared with a 41 percent drop for Oi and a
1.4 percent increase for Telefonica Brasil. America Movil, which
owns the Claro brand in Brazil, has slid 14 percent in Mexico
City.  “Tim is at the peak of its value,” Pasquini said. “The
company’s evolution in the Brazilian market was terrific.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  