-- Independent Scotland May Scrap Plan to Raise Pension Age to 67
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-23T10:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/independent-scotland-may-scrap-plan-to-raise-pension-age-to-67.html
Scotland may resist plans by the
U.K. to raise the state pension age to 67 by 2028 should the
country win independence, the Scottish government said today.  Scottish pensioners will also get stronger guarantees on
pension increases than the U.K. is planning for at least the
first parliament after independence, the government said in a
 policy paper  published today. There would be better protection
for pensioners on low incomes and those relying on a state
pension based on their spouse’s contributions, it said.  “The rapid move to 67 is a concern,” the government said
in the paper. “On average, Scots currently enjoy fewer years in
retirement than the U.K. average due to lower life expectancy. A
precipitate move to set the state pension age at 67 will reduce
still further the number of years that Scots, on average,
receive the state pension.”  The proposal is part of a series on what the government in
Edinburgh would do should the country opt for independence, the
flagship policy of the semi-autonomous administration run by the
Scottish National Party. A referendum on whether  Scotland  should
quit the U.K. will be held on Sept. 18 next year. All major
opinion polls showing more voters want to keep the status quo
than leave the 306-year-old U.K.  Aging populations and falling birth rates are forcing
 developed countries  to raise the state retirement age to cut the
rising costs of pension benefits. The U.K. originally proposed
to increase the pensionable age for men and women to 66 by 2026
and to 67 by 2036. Now, it will be 2020 for 66-year-olds and
between 2026 and 2028 for 67-year-olds.  London Response  The cost of not raising the state pension age to 67 from
2026 is an estimated 6 billion pounds ($9.6 billion), according
to the  Department for Work and Pensions  in  London .  “Pensions spending per head is already higher in Scotland
than in the rest of the U.K.,” the department said in a
statement e-mailed yesterday. “In future Scotland will have a
higher proportion of elderly people.”  The proportion of the Scottish economy spent on pensioner
benefits is projected to rise to 10.6 percent over the next 50
years from 7.1 percent. In the U.K. as a whole it’s forecast to
rise to 9.4 percent from 7.1 percent, according to DWP data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  