-- Indian Stocks Drop for Second Day on Monetary Tightening Concern
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-09-23T11:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/india-s-nifty-futures-drop-after-rbi-s-surprise-rate-increase.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks declined, with the
benchmark index posting its biggest two-day loss in a month, on
concern the central bank may take more steps to quell inflation
after unexpectedly increased borrowing costs last week.  State Bank of India  plunged 5.3 percent, sending the S&P
BSE Bankex to its biggest retreat in three weeks. Engineering
company  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  slumped 4.1 percent, completing its
biggest two-day drop in four months. Property developer DLF Ltd.
plunged 6.5 percent, the worst performer on the 13-member
measure of property developers. The rupee slid for a second day.  The Sensex fell 1.8 percent to 19,900.96, with volumes 37
percent less than the 30-day average at the close. The measure
dropped 1.9 percent on Sept. 20 after the  Reserve Bank of India 
raised its  main rate  for the first time in two years. Nomura
Holdings Inc. said that day the central bank will boost funding
costs further to curb consumer-price gains that have averaged 10
percent this year. .  “There’s speculation of an increase in the repurchase rate
before the next policy meeting” in October, U.R. Bhat, the
Mumbai-based managing director of Dalton Capital Advisors  India 
Pvt., said by phone today. “Banks declined on concern their
non-performing loans will climb if interest rates move higher
from here. Property companies with unsold inventories, too, will
bear the brunt of higher borrowing costs.”  State Bank  plunged to 1,654.65 rupees, the most since May
23. State-run Bank of India and  Bank of Baroda  tumbled at least
7 percent, the top losers on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
today.  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  plunged 8.2 percent, taking its two-day
decline to 16 percent.  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC)  lost
4.2 percent, the lowest price since Sept. 6.  ‘Under Pressure’  Bad loans at lenders climbed to 3.9 percent of total
lending as of June 30, the highest level in at least six years,
from 2.4 percent in March 2011, according to an Aug. 22 report
from the RBI. State-run banks account for a “disproportionate
share” of the surge in soured debt, according to the report.  “Banks relying on wholesale funds will find the going
rough and their margins will come under pressure,” Dipen Sheth,
head of institutional research at HDFC Securities Ltd., said on
Bloomberg TV India. “Given the trajectory of  interest rates 
that is now suggested, things will remain tight.”  Larsen & Toubro fell to 812 rupees. DLF slumped to 141.65
rupees, pacing declines in the S&P BSE India Realty Index. The
two-day, 11 percent loss in the gauge is the most since January
2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Raghuram Rajan , who took charge of the RBI on Sept. 4,
increased the benchmark rate by a quarter point to 7.5 percent
amid the weakest economic growth since 2009. All 36 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey forecast no change. The move, which came two
days after the U.S. Federal Reserve decided to keep stimulus,
will arm Rajan against the inevitable paring of the bond-buying
program, said Vikas Babu, a trader at  Andhra Bank  in Mumbai.  Fed Purchases  Federal  Reserve Bank  of St. Louis President  James Bullard ,
a voter on policy this year who has backed record stimulus, said
the Fed may make a small cut to bond purchases in October after
its narrow decision this week to refrain from reducing its $85
billion in monthly asset purchases.  Overseas investors  bought a net $215 million of domestic
shares on Sept. 20, data from the regulator show. That took this
year’s net inflow to $13.4 billion, the second-highest among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg. Concerns the Fed would scale
back stimulus prompted foreigners to  pull  $3.7 billion from
Indian equities in the three months ended August, sending the
Sensex to an 11-month low on Aug. 21.  The Sensex has risen 2.4 percent this year in rupee terms
and is valued at 13.8 times projected 12-month earnings, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It has lost 8.9 percent this year in
dollar terms. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index trades at 10.7
times, the data show.  The CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of India
lost 2 percent to 5,889.75. India VIX, which gauges the cost of
protection against losses in the Nifty, increased 9.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  