-- India Leader Warns Parties Against Incitement After Deadly Riots
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-09-23T09:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/india-leader-warns-parties-against-incitement-after-deadly-riots.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  called on politicians to avoid stoking religious tensions
before elections after police arrested several local lawmakers
for inciting the worst Hindu-Muslim rioting since 2002.  The government will ensure those found guilty are punished
for the riots earlier this month that killed 50 people in
 India ’s most populous state, Singh told leaders of state
governments and the main political parties at a conference in
New Delhi today. Local governments must act quickly to prevent
such outbreaks of violence, he said.  “Sometimes anti-national forces succeed in inflaming small
differences between various communities,” Singh, 80, said in a
speech. “Such forces are a big challenge for our democratic
system.”  The clashes raise concern that violence could spread to
other regions in the country of 1.2 billion people before
elections that must be held by May. Conflicts between voters
fragmented along caste and religious lines have plagued Hindu-majority India since it became an independent nation in 1947.  The violence may have started when a Muslim mob killed
Hindu youths who had stabbed a Muslim man to death, according to
a Sept. 17 report  published  by a team of academics from the
Centre for Policy Analysis, a group based in  New Delhi . More
than 25,000 people, mainly Muslims, are living in refugee camps
about 110 kilometers (68 miles) from New Delhi in  Uttar Pradesh ,
a state in northern India with 200 million people.  ‘Polarize Society’  “Communal forces seem to have got emboldened and are
trying to polarize society,” Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde
said in a speech at the same event today. “The minor incidences
tend to escalate into major incidents of violence leading to
displacement of affected communities.”  Police arrested two state lawmakers from the main
opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  and accused them of making
inflammatory speeches at rallies before the violence erupted,
Uttar Pradesh Inspector General of police R. K. Vishwakarma.
Party leaders have denied the claims and blamed other political
parties for causing the violence.  The BJP, which counts Hindu nationalists among its core
supporters, is vying to unseat Singh in the elections. This
month it picked  Narendra Modi , chief minister of Gujarat state
who is banned from the U.S. over his handling of 2002 anti-Muslim riots that killed more than 1,100 people, as its prime
ministerial candidate.  India’s main opposition was “actively involved” in the
violence and played a role in “spreading lies and rumors” that
led to the riots between Muslims and Jat community in
 Muzaffarnagar , the Centre for Policy Analysis report said. The
BJP stands to gain through polarizing Hindu and Muslim voters in
Uttar Pradesh, it said.  The consolidation of the vote of the mostly Hindu Jats will
bring “huge electoral dividends,” the report said, noting that
the state has the biggest representation in parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  