-- Lixil Said to Be in Talks to Buy Grohe for 3 Billion Euro
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-09-24T02:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/lixil-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-grohe-for-3-bln-euro.html
Lixil Corp., a Japanese toilet
maker, is in advanced talks to buy German bathroom-fixtures
company Grohe Group for more than 3 billion euros ($4 billion),
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  The companies may announce an agreement as early as this
week, said the people, asking not to be identified because the
negotiations are private. An initial public offering remains an
option because no final deal has been reached, they said.  Shares of Lixil, which bought bathroom-fixture maker
American Standard Brands this year, fell the most in almost two
years in  Tokyo  trading. TPG Capital and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
which bought Grohe in 2004 for a reported $1.84 billion from BC
Partners Ltd., helped expand the company’s reach into  Asia  in
2011 when they bought control of  China ’s  Joyou AG. (JY8)   “The addition of Grohe would be complementary from a
global expansion and product line development point of view,”
said Mark Brown, an analyst at JI Asia Research Ltd. “What we
don’t know is how big the cost will be, and how they will fund
it?”  Lixil is a subsidiary of  Lixil Group Corp. (5938)  that also sells
construction materials. The company said last month it’s
considering overseas alliances and acquisitions to more than
double sales to 1 trillion yen ($10 billion).  Shares Decline  Shares of Lixil Group fell as much as 5.8 percent, the most
since November 2011, to 2,054 yen. The stock traded at 2,067 yen
as of 11:09 a.m. in Tokyo.  Grohe spokeswoman Ulrike Heuser-Greipl said the exit
process including a potential sale or IPO is still ongoing and
declined further comment. Miyuki Otomo, a spokeswoman for Lixil,
based in Tokyo, declined to comment on Grohe when contacted by
 Bloomberg News  today. Representatives for TPG, Geberit and
Credit Suisse declined to comment.  Japanese companies are targeting overseas expansion as the
nation’s population shrinks. SoftBank Corp. acquired control of
Sprint Nextel Corp., the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, in
July. Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. reached a deal to buy the
Lucozade and Ribena drink brands from GlaxoSmithKline Plc for
1.35 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) this month.  Lixil Group had  285 billion yen  of long-term borrowings
outstanding at the end of March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company is rated a fifth-highest A+ by Japan’s
Rating & Investment Inc. and had  40 billion yen  in bonds
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Private-equity firms are now tapping low borrowing costs
and rising equity markets to exit investments made before the
financial crisis in 2007.  TPG, the private equity firm run by  David Bonderman  and
 James Coulter , and Credit Suisse have been exploring a dual-track sale and listing process since April, people familiar with
the preparations said at the time. Grohe, which is based in
Dusseldorf and calls itself Europe’s largest provider of
sanitary fittings, had also drawn interest from companies
including Swiss competitor  Geberit AG (GEBN) , the people said.  Wall Street Journal Deutschland reported the advanced talks
with Lixil yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  and
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  