-- JPMorgan Joins Gates Foundation, Drugmakers in Fund
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-09-23T13:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/jpmorgan-joins-gates-foundation-drugmakers-in-investment-fund.html
(Corrects second paragraph to show Canada, Germany and
Children’s Investment Fund Foundation are among those
contributing the $94 million.)  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation formed an investment fund that will
back late-stage development of technologies to fight killer
diseases in low-income countries.  A group of investors including the Canadian and German
governments and the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation
committed $94 million to the fund. The International Finance
Corp.,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
foundation,  Storebrand ASA (STB)  and JPMorgan Chase also invested. The
Global Health Investment Fund will tackle diseases including
malaria, tuberculosis and HIV, as well as maternal and infant
mortality, according to a statement.  The private financing seeks to address the fact that global
health funding barely grew last year. The U.S. and other
governments cut their aid to programs in developing nations by
4.4 percent, according to the Institute for Health Metrics and
Evaluation.  “The Global Health Investment Fund demonstrates the
potential for innovative collaborations and thoughtful financial
structures to mobilize new sources of capital for social
challenges,” said  Jamie Dimon , chairman and chief executive
officer of JPMorgan Chase. “This product brings a diverse group
of investors together around the shared objective of developing
life-saving technologies in a financially sustainable way.”  Given the risks of investing in the clinical development of
new technologies, the Gates Foundation and the Swedish
International Development Cooperation Agency will partially
offset potential losses in the fund, which will seek a financial
return for investors by targeting technologies with public
health applications in both developed and emerging markets.  Lion’s Head Global Partners LLP, a London-based asset
manager specializing in sustainable development, will be
responsible for originating, managing and exiting the fund’s
portfolio investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  