-- JPMorgan Says Emerging Stocks to Rally as Turkey Upgraded
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-09-23T12:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/jpmorgan-says-emerging-stocks-to-rally-as-turkey-peru-upgraded.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. upgraded
equities in Turkey, Peru and South Africa, saying the  Federal
Reserve ’s decision to keep monetary stimulus intact would spur
emerging-market stocks for the rest of the year.  Investors should add  domestic cyclical  stocks listed in
Istanbul, Johannesburg and Mumbai, which underperformed their
benchmarks since June, JPMorgan analysts including  Adrian Mowat 
said in the e-mailed report dated Sept. 21. The New York-based
investment bank downgraded Russian stocks on falling oil prices.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index jumped 2.2 percent the most
in more than two months, on Sept. 19, the day after the Fed
refrained from trimming its $85 billion monthly quantitative-easing program. Turkey, South Africa and India, which are facing
among the biggest current-account deficits in  developing
countries , “are the main beneficiaries” of the move, JPMorgan
said.  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  are among its
top-10 emerging stock picks.  “The Fed is allowing investors to ‘temporarily’ relive the
happy days of QE-driven EM bonds and equities,” JPMorgan said
in the report. “The switch to bullish EM equities was built on
bearish positioning and improving cyclical data in EM.”  The investment bank raised Turkey and Peru to overweight,
joining Mexico, Thailand, the Philippines and Taiwan.  South
Africa  was raised to neutral and Malaysia was cut to neutral.
The MSCI gauge was little changed at 1:13 p.m. in London.  Russia Downgrade  Lower oil prices are a downside risk for Russia, JPMorgan
said, lowering the country and Colombia to underweight, on par
with Brazil. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell for a second day in Moscow,
losing 0.6 percent to 1,468.08. Crude oil in New York has fallen
3.1 percent this month, trimming the quarterly gain to 8.1
percent.  “Oil price is on thin ice given the receding threat of a
military action by the U.S. and supply appears to be improving,
particularly in Iraq and Libya,” JPMorgan said.  The U.S., France and the U.K. want a United Nations
resolution this week that provides enforcement of the terms of
the Sept. 14 Geneva accord between the U.S. and Russia to rid
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime of chemical weapons.  Equities in Thailand and the Philippines should advance,
along with Indonesia, where the “key risk” stems from an
“overvalued” rupiah and declining foreign-exchange reserves,
according to JPMorgan. The investment bank lowered Taiwanese and
Korean financial-services stocks to neutral from overweight
after higher  interest rates  helped them outperform. The Kopsi
Finance Index has gained 5 percent this year in Seoul, compared
with a 0.6 percent increase for the broader measure.  JPMorgan also advised investors to “stay away from policy-risk sectors that are value traps,” including Chinese financial
companies, Brazilian banks, Indian materials and energy
companies and utilities in various countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  