-- JPMorgan-to Pay CFPB, Barclays, Fed `Hedging’: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/jpmorgan-to-pay-cfpb-barclays-fed-hedging-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, is paying $389 million in penalties and
restitution to settle regulators’ claims that it unfairly
charged customers for credit-monitoring products.  The New York-based bank will pay $60 million to the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency and $20 million to the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in penalties for improperly
billing customers for the “add-on products,” the agencies said
in a statement Sept. 20. JPMorgan has already paid $309 million
in refunds to more than 2.1 million customers, CFPB Director
 Richard Cordray  said in a statement.  An investigation started by the OCC revealed that JPMorgan
enrolled customers in credit-monitoring programs that were sold
as add-ons to credit cards from October 2005 through June 2012,
the consumer bureau said. The bank began charging customers for
the programs before obtaining the necessary written
authorization, the regulators said.  The consumer bureau, created by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010,
is conducting an industrywide inquiry into various aspects of
the add-on market.  Bill Wallace, the bank’s head of operations for consumer
and community banking, said in an e-mailed statement that the
company’s Chase Bank unit had stopped new enrollments in the
products in mid-2012.  “Any mistakes like these are regrettable and we are
committed to ensuring our partners and vendors hold themselves
to the same high standards that our customers expect of us,”
Wallace said in the statement.  The bank still faces a CFPB investigation, disclosed last
month in a regulatory filing, over credit card debt sales.  Compliance Action  Barclays Cybercrime Suspects Arrested Over $2.1 Million Theft  London police arrested eight men in connection to a 1.3
million pound ($2.1 million) computer-aided robbery from a
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  branch in the capital.  The money was taken from the Swiss Cottage branch via the
bank’s computer system in April, the Metropolitan Police said in
a statement Sept. 20. Barclays has recovered a “significant
amount” of the stolen funds, police said.  The men, who are between 24 and 47, were arrested Sept. 19
and 20 and are in custody in a London police station. Searches
were carried out at addresses across London where cash, jewelry,
drugs and credit cards have been found.  The Sept. 20 arrests marked the second time in a week that
London police announced arrests over suspected bank hacking. The
Met said on Sept. 13 it detained twelve men over an attempt to
hack into  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  computers, preventing a theft
potentially worth millions of pounds.  Banks face cyber-security threats from increasingly
sophisticated hackers trying to steal customer identities or
access funds. In the Barclays case, police said a man posing as
an information technology engineer had installed a device in the
local branch that allowed the group to remotely transfer money
to accounts.  “Barclays has no higher priority than the protection and
security of our customers against the actions of would-be
fraudsters,” Alex Grant, a managing director for fraud
prevention at the bank, said in a statement. “We can confirm
that no customers suffered financial loss as a result of this
action.”  Co-Op Deal With Regulator Cited as Bailout Obstacle by Creditors  The parent of Co-operative Bank Plc, which is seeking
capital after losses, may avoid being forced to rescue the
lender thanks to an accord it struck with regulators last year,
according to bondholders.  Co-Op Group Chief Executive Officer Euan Sutherland said in
a letter to an unidentified bondholder, which was seen by
 Bloomberg News , that the Financial Services Authority agreed not
to classify the firm as a “mixed financial holding company.”
That would mean Co-Op can’t be forced to inject capital into the
lender, Mark Taber, the organizer of a group of bondholders,
said in a separate letter dated Sept. 19 to the Prudential
Regulation Authority, or PRA, which along with the  Bank of
England  replaced the FSA as the banking industry’s regulators
this year.  Co-Op Bank must raise 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) to
plug a capital hole after losses incurred following its
acquisition of Britannia Building Society in 2009. The FSA
granted the waiver to the parent before the completion of a
planned purchase to acquire 632 branches owned by  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  last year, Sutherland wrote in the letter.  Liam Parker, a spokesman for the PRA, declined to
immediately comment on the contents of the page-long letter
dated Sept. 18.  “The FSA granted a three-year waiver from CGL being
considered a mixed financial holding company and put the matter
beyond doubt,” Sutherland wrote in the letter. “That waiver
remains in force.”  Telfer to Pay $194,000 Costs in Settlement With Canada’s OSC  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  Chairman Ian Telfer agreed to pay C$200,000
($194,000) in costs and will be banned from arranging for people
to buy shares in companies he promotes for one year in a
settlement over allegations that he violated Canadian securities
laws.  Telfer admitted his conduct fell below standards expected
from his position in  capital markets , Cullen Price, a lawyer
representing Ontario Securities Commission staff, said at a
hearing Sept. 20 in Toronto. Telfer was reprimanded by the OSC
as part of the settlement and will make the payment to cover the
cost of the investigation, Price said.  The settlement is reasonable and appropriate, said Telfer’s
lawyer Kevin Richard.  The sanctions don’t include a prohibition on acting as a
director and officer of a public company, which was among the
potential penalties Telfer faced.  Courts  Unitech Can Claim Deutsche Bank Libor Dishonesty, Judge Rules  Unitech Ltd. (UT) , an Indian property firm, won permission from
a London judge to argue that  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  dishonestly fixed
 interest rates  in a U.K. trial over a derivative contract.  While Unitech can’t use rigging allegations to annul the
disputed interest-rate swap, it can file a counter-claim for
damages caused by the German lender’s alleged attempts to
influence the London interbank offered rate, Judge Nigel Teare
said Sept. 20.  Both the swap dispute and any claim linked to Libor must be
decided at a trial, he said in a written ruling.  U.K. judges have taken differing approaches on lawsuits
related to Libor-fixing allegations, which led to criminal and
regulatory probes across the globe and fines totaling about $2.5
billion for investment banks that tried to manipulate the
interest-rate benchmark for profit.  Unitech lost its first attempt in February to add Libor
allegations to its U.K. lawsuit. Another judge allowed a suit to
proceed against Barclays Plc for fraud related to the benchmark
and swaps. Both decisions were appealed and will be decided in a
joint appeal-court hearing scheduled for October.  “This is a long-standing case of a loan that was made and
never paid back,” said Kathryn Hanes, a London spokeswoman for
Deutsche Bank. Unitech’s “unfounded allegations about Libor are
an attempt to delay payment and divert attention from its
remaining unpaid debt on a swap agreement tied to the loan.”  Unitech’s lawyer, Richard Gwynne, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Swipe-Fee Rules to Remain in Place During Appeal, Judge Says  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s rules for debit-card transaction
fees and processing will remain in place while the central bank
appeals a decision throwing out the regulations, a judge said.  Both the Fed and retailers had asked the federal judge in
 Washington  to keep the current rules in place pending the
appeal.  The Fed is seeking to reverse Leon’s ruling that it wrongly
set the cap on debit-card transaction fees, known as swipe fees,
at about 21 cents for each transaction, and neglected to bolster
competition among payment networks.  The decision by U.S. District Judge Richard Leon’s, unless
overturned on appeal, will force regulators to revisit rules
that bankers said would cost them 45 percent of their swipe-fee
revenue. Lenders collected about $16 billion annually from those
fees before the Fed’s regulation and responded by cutting back
on perks such as rewards programs and free checking to soften
the blow to their profits.  The case is NACS v. Board of Governors of the  Federal
Reserve System , 11-cv-02075, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  Interviews  Buffett Calls Federal Reserve History’s Greatest Hedge Fund  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  compared the U.S.
Federal Reserve to a hedge fund because of the central bank’s
ability to profit from bond purchases while accumulating a
balance sheet of more than  $3 trillion .  “The Fed is the greatest hedge fund in history,” Buffett
told students Sept. 19 at  Georgetown University  in Washington.
It’s generating “$80 billion or $90 billion a year probably”
in revenue for the U.S. government, he said. “And that wasn’t
the case a few years back.”  The central bank has been buying $85 billion of bonds a
month to help the U.S. recover as it emerges from the deepest
slump since the Great Depression. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
other Fed policy makers unexpectedly opted last week to sustain
that pace of asset purchases instead of tapering it, saying they
need to see more signs of lasting improvement in the economy.  The Fed “is under no pressure, none whatsoever to have to
deleverage,” Buffett said. “So it can pick its time, and if
you have somebody wise there -- and I think Bernanke is wise,
and I certainly expect his successor to be -- it can be handled.
But it is something that’s never quite been done on this scale.
It will be interesting to watch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  