-- JPMorgan Chase, 12 More Banks Sued Over Libor
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-09-24T19:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/jpmorgan-chase-12-more-banks-said-to-be-sued-over-libor.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and 10 other international lenders were
sued by a U.S. credit union regulator alleging they illegally
manipulated benchmark Libor interest rates.  The National Credit Union Administration, an Alexandria,
Virginia-based regulator, sued the banks yesterday at a U.S.
court in  Kansas .  Libor, the London interbank offered rate, is a key metric
to set interest rates for trillions of dollars in financial
instruments.  Their alleged manipulation “resulted in a loss of income
from investments and other assets held by five failed corporate
credit unions: U.S. Central, WesCorp, Members United, Southwest
and Constitution,” according to an NCUA statement yesterday.  The banks are accused of giving false information in
response to a daily survey by the British Bankers’ Association,
which asks lenders how much it would cost to borrow money from
each other for various intervals in 10 different currencies.  Borrowing Costs  The misinformation allowed them to “benefit their
investments that were tied to Libor, to reduce their borrowing
costs, to deceive the marketplace as to the true state of their
creditworthiness, and to deprive investors of the interest rate
payments to which they were entitled,” according to the NCUA.  Kerrie Ann Cohen, a New York-based spokeswoman for
Barclays, declined to comment on the allegations.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman New York-based JPMorgan and
Drew Benson, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, also declined to
comment.  Also named as a defendant in the complaint is  Royal Bank of
Canada , that nation’s biggest lender by assets. Rina Cortese, a
spokeswoman for the Toronto-based bank, in an
e-mailed message declined to comment on the NCUA’s allegations.  The regulator yesterday also sued Goldman Sachs & Co.,
Morgan Stanley and seven other financial institutions in federal
court in New York over their sale of $2.4 billion in mortgage-backed securities to two credit unions that later failed.  Later Liquidated  “NCUA’s suits allege the firms made misrepresentations in
connection with the underwriting and subsequent sale of the
mortgage-backed securities,” the agency said yesterday in a
statement. “The corporate credit unions became insolvent, were
subsequently placed into NCUA conservatorship and later
liquidated as a result of losses from these faulty securities.”  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment on those allegations. Mary Claire Delaney, a
spokeswoman for  Morgan Stanley (MS) , declined to comment. Both firms
are based in New York.  “Any recoveries from this legal action will reduce the
total losses resulting from the failure of the credit unions,”
NCUA attorneys said in their Morgan Stanley complaint.  NCUA sued the broker last month in a Kansas federal court
over its alleged sale of $566 million in residential mortgage-backed securities to two other failed credit unions.  The Libor case is National Credit Union Administration
Board v. Credit Suisse Group AG, 13-cv-02497, U.S. District
Court, District of Kansas (Kansas City).  The Goldman case is National Credit Union Administration
Board v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 13-cv-06721, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ). The Morgan Stanley
case is National Credit Union Administration Board v. Morgan
Stanley & Co., 13-cv-06705, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  