-- JPMorgan Said to Face U.S. Mortgage Securities Charges
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-09-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/jpmorgan-said-to-face-u-s-mortgage-securities-charges.html
Charges related to  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s sales of mortgage-backed securities could be filed as
early as today by U.S. prosecutors in  California  who have been
investigating the bank, a person familiar with the matter said.  The bank said last month in a regulatory filing that the
U.S. Attorney’s office in  Sacramento  had parallel civil and
criminal investigations under way. Investigators already have
concluded that it broke civil laws and were examining whether
criminal laws were broken, according to the filing.  “In May 2013, the firm received a notice from Civil
Division stating that it has preliminarily concluded that the
firm violated certain federal securities laws in connection with
its subprime and Alt-A residential MBS offerings during 2005 to
2007,” the bank said in the filing.  JPMorgan last week admitted to violating federal securities
laws and agreed to pay about $920 million in connection with
more than $6.2 billion in trading losses at its  London  offices.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said senior managers
at the bank knew in April 2012 that the bank’s chief investment
office in London was using aggressive valuations that hid
losses.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is still investigating the
trading loss. Alt-A refers to home loans that typically didn’t
require documentation such as proof of income.  Financial Crisis  The probe of the New York-based bank’s securities sales
stems from the work of an Obama administration task force set up
to investigate causes of the financial crisis. The group
includes U.S. Attorney Ben Wagner in Sacramento and  New York 
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman.  Adora Andy, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice Department,
and  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment yesterday on the federal probe.  Schneiderman sued the bank in October alleging that the
Bear Stearns business the bank took over in 2008 defrauded
mortgage-bond investors, who were deceived about defective loans
backing securities they bought.  The bank also faces lawsuits by the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh and other
buyers of the mortgage-backed securities it sold.  The person who said prosecutors will file charges asked not
to be identified because the matter isn’t public. The U.S. is
investigating JPMorgan under the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery and Enforcement Act, according to another person.
FIRREA allows the Justice Department to pursue civil remedies.  The California probe is focused on loans and mortgage-backed securities put together by JPMorgan itself, not the ones
acquired when the company bought Bear Stearns Cos. and
Washington Mutual Inc.’s banking operations in 2008, according
to a person briefed on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  