-- Kenyan Forces Kill Three Gunmen as Mall Siege Leaves 69 Dead
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-09-23T18:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/kenyan-forces-kill-two-militants-after-mall-siege-leaves-69-dead.html
Kenyan security forces killed three
Islamist militants as they sought to end a siege of an upscale
shopping mall in the capital, Nairobi, in which 69 people died
and an unknown number were taken hostage.  Police and army officials occupy every level of the four-story Westgate Mall and the operation to flush out the remaining
gunmen and rescue those held captive may end “soon,” Interior
Secretary Joseph Ole Lenku told reporters today. More than 10
suspects have been arrested for questioning, the  Interior
Ministry  said, without providing further details.  “Evacuating hostages has gone on very well,” Ole Lenku
said after explosions and sporadic bursts of automatic gunfire
were heard at the building this afternoon. “We are very certain
that they are very, very few hostages if any in the building.”  The attack was the deadliest in the country since the 1998
bombing of the U.S. Embassy in downtown Nairobi that killed 213
people. Al-Shabaab, the Somali Islamist militant group, claimed
responsibility for the raid. The group had threatened to strike
Kenya after it deployed troops in Somalia in October 2011 to
fight the militants whom it blamed for a series of kidnappings
and the murder of a British tourist in  Kenya . Al-Shabaab denied
the accusations  The incident began at about 12:30 p.m. on Sept. 21 when
armed assailants burst into the mall, tossing hand grenades and
spraying gunfire. At least 63 people are missing, the Kenya Red
Cross said earlier today. It’s unclear if anyone left in the
building is being forcibly held or hiding.  Female Clothing  The attackers, all of them male and some of whom were
dressed in female clothing, are “a multinational collection”
of people, Kenya Chief of Defence Forces General Julius Karangi
said today.  A series of large explosions and gunfire rocked the upscale
mall at about 1:15 p.m. today. Shortly afterward, dozens of
soldiers, some of them carrying heavy machine guns, and an army
tank were seen at the main access road to the complex as thick
black smoke billowed from the building. The attackers had set
fire to Nakumatt, a retail store, in the mall to create a
distraction and possibly escape, Karangi said. Authorities have
surrounded the building, he said.  The shilling weakened as much as 0.3 percent and closed 0.2
percent lower at 87.55 per dollar on the first day of trading
since the ordeal began. On the Nairobi Securities Exchange, the
FTSE NSE 25 Index dropped for the first time in five days,
falling 0.2 percent to 164.28.  Weak Security  “The risk for an attack on Westgate or another of
Nairobi’s upscale malls was high and well known, but also very
difficult to prevent entirely,” Clare Allenson, an Africa
analyst at Eurasia Group in  Washington , said in an e-mailed
note. “However, the lack of adequately equipped police first
responders and generally poor communication and coordination of
early efforts to secure the building underscores the weak state
of Kenya’s security institutions overall.”  Accelerating growth in Kenya,  East Africa ’s largest
economy, and its reputation as a relatively stable democracy has
made the country a regional hub for companies including  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and the African headquarters for the
 United Nations .  Kenya’s prestige has already been shaken by International
Criminal Court indictments of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his
deputy,  William Ruto , for their alleged involvement in crimes
against humanity. The men are accused of organizing violence
following a disputed election in 2007, charges both deny. More
than 1,100 people were killed in two months of ethnic and
political clashes.  Trial Absence  The court today allowed Ruto a one-week absence from his
trial, which began on Sept. 10, to permit him to deal with the
crisis.  Kenyatta, who lost a nephew in the attack, vowed to hunt
down the attackers.  “We will punish the masterminds swiftly and painfully,”
Kenyatta, 51, said in a nationally televised press briefing
yesterday. Foreigners including four Britons, two French people,
two Canadians, a South African, a Chinese, and Ghanaian poet
Kofi Awoonor are confirmed among the dead.  The Westgate Mall caters to wealthy Kenyans and expatriate
employees with about 80 shops that include cafes, a casino, a
multi-screen movie theater and a children’s play area. Survivors
of the attack hid in air vents, supply closets and washrooms for
hours and found different ways to escape including jumping onto
a next-door building or were escorted by security officials,
some clutching children and crying.  World leaders and United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon have condemned the attacks and offered to help. President
 Barack Obama  called Kenyatta yesterday to express his
condolences and reiterate U.S. support to bring the attackers to
justice, according to a statement from the White House.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  