-- Kenya Raid Is First Regional Strike by New Somali Rebel Head
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-09-24T06:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/kenya-raid-is-first-regional-strike-by-new-somali-militant-chief.html
The attack that killed at least 62
people in a Kenyan shopping mall over the weekend was the first
regional operation undertaken by the new leadership of Somalia’s
al-Shabaab militants following a bloody power struggle.  After months of pressure from African troops against the
al-Qaeda-linked group inside Somalia, Ahmed Godane, also known
as Ahmed Abdi Aw-Mohamed, 34, seized control of the militants in
a June fight that led to the death of several leaders. He’s
pushed the movement to be more flexible, according to analysts
such as Cedric Barnes, the regional director at the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group . The U.S. in June offered a $7
million reward for information on his whereabouts.  Al-Shabaab is “different now,” Barnes said in an interview
yesterday from Nairobi. “It can move fast, it can change
direction at will, it can especially do that now under the
centralized and firm leadership of Godane.”  In recent weeks, al-Shabaab fighters have carried out
several attacks, including a bombing at the Turkish Embassy in
the capital, Mogadishu, the  United Nations  compound and
Somalia’s airports.  As many as 15 gunmen stormed the Westgate mall in Kenya’s
capital, Nairobi, on Sept. 21, after al-Shabaab had vowed to
strike  East Africa ’s biggest economy over the government’s
decision to join the fight against its forces in neighboring
Somalia in October 2011.  Grenades, Gunfire  Throwing hand grenades and spraying gunfire, the militants
carried out the deadliest attack in  Kenya  since the 1998 bombing
of the U.S. Embassy. Kenyan security forces yesterday said they
gained control of the four-story mall, freeing hostages and
killing three of the assailants. At least 63 people are missing,
the Kenya Red Cross said yesterday. Authorities are in control
of the mall and all of the hostages have been rescued, Interior
Secretary Joseph Ole Lenku said yesterday. The death toll was
revised down from an earlier figure of 69 as a result of
“double counted” bodies, Kenya Red Cross said on its Twitter
feed.  Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahedeen, which translates as the
Movement of Jihadi Youth, sprung out of Somali’s Islamic Courts
Union following its defeat in 2006 by troops from neighboring
 Ethiopia . With Somalia not having a functioning government since
the ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991, al-Shabaab
promised stability and gained control of most of Somalia’s south
including parts of Mogadishu.  Waning Fortunes  Over the past two years, its fortunes have waned as the
African Union’s 17,000-member force and a separate U.S.-backed
Ethiopian expedition drove it out of major towns including
Mogadishu and the southern port town of Kismayo, where it earned
revenue from taxation of trade.  Among the Somali public, support for the group has also
faded. About 160 of Somalia’s “most distinguished” religious
scholars this month denounced al-Shabaab, declaring it was “a
religious duty” to turn them in to the authorities, according
to Prime Minister Abdi Farah Shirdon Saaid.  “This is unprecedented in Somalia’s history that a group
of well-respected and internationally based and local scholars
came together and declared a Fatwah and denounced the
organization, and said they were not speaking in the name of
Islam,” Yusuf Hassan Abdi, a member of Kenya’s parliament with
President Uhuru Kenyatta’s National Alliance party, said by
phone from Nairobi.  Excessive Force  They lost support “because of their brutality, their
excessive use of force, the execution of innocent people,” said
Abdi, who uses a wheelchair after being injured in a December
explosion outside a Nairobi mosque.  Since his takeover, Godane has adopted a more radical
agenda -- vowing to enforce Shariah law across the world -- and
turned al-Shabaab into a more hierarchical organization. The
group has also abandoned what Matt Bryden, the director of
Nairobi-based Sahan Research institute, called “the cult of the
suicide bomber” and began staging operations requiring less
sophisticated technology such as guns and grenades as were used
at the Westgate Mall.  “Within al-Shabaab, Godane is known to be a proponent of
the transnationalist faction,” Austin, Texas-based  Strategic
Forecasting Inc.  said in an e-mailed note yesterday. “The
weekend attack in Nairobi could bolster Godane’s leadership of
the transnationalist faction within al-Shabaab, while at the
same time demonstrating that the group has not been defeated and
remains a potent guerrilla threat, despite losing significant
territory.”  Crisis Reframed  The attack may also have been designed to provoke a violent
response by Kenyans toward the roughly 1 million Somalis in the
country, according to Kenneth Menkhaus, a political science
professor at  Davidson College  in  North Carolina .  “If they succeed in provoking a backlash in Kenya, either
heavy handed policies by the government or uncontrolled
vigilante justice of Kenyans against Somalia, they will be able
to reframe the crisis in the region as Somalis against the
foreigners,” Menkhaus, who has published more than 50 articles
and book chapters on Somalia, said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  