-- Kenya Moves to End Islamist Militant Siege of Mall After 69 Die
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-09-23T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/kenya-moves-to-end-islamist-militant-siege-of-mall-after-69-die.html
Kenya ’s government said it’s close
to ending a siege by Islamist militants of an upscale mall in
the capital that left 69 people dead after security forces
killed three gunmen and freed an unspecified number of hostage.  Police and army troops occupy every level of the four-story
Westgate Mall in Nairobi and the operation to flush out the
remaining gunmen may go into the night, Interior Secretary
Joseph Ole Lenku told reporters yesterday. More than 10 suspects
were arrested for questioning, the Interior Ministry said,
without providing further details.  “We are at the tail-end of the problem,” Ole Lenku said
in an interview aired by the British Broadcasting Corp. “We
have really cornered the building, we have taken control of the
building. It is very unlikely there are any hostages.”  The attack that began on Sept. 21 was the deadliest in the
country since the 1998 bombing of the U.S. Embassy in downtown
Nairobi that killed 213 people. Al-Shabaab, the Somali Islamist
militant group, claimed responsibility for the raid. The group
had threatened to strike Kenya after it deployed troops in
Somalia in October 2011 to fight the militants whom it blamed
for a series of kidnappings and the murder of a British tourist
in Kenya. Al-Shabaab denied the accusations.  The incident began when armed assailants burst into the
mall, tossing hand grenades and spraying gunfire. At least 63
people are missing, the Kenya Red Cross said.  Female Clothing  The attackers, all of them male and some of whom were
dressed in female clothing, are “a multinational collection”
of people, Kenya Chief of Defence Forces General Julius Karangi
said yesterday.  A series of large explosions and gunfire rocked the upscale
mall at about 1:15 p.m. yesterday. Shortly afterward, dozens of
soldiers, some of them carrying heavy machine guns, and an army
tank were seen at the main access road to the complex as thick
black smoke billowed from the building. The attackers had set
fire to Nakumatt, a retail store, in the mall to create a
distraction and possibly escape, Karangi said. Authorities have
surrounded the building, he said.  The shilling weakened as much as 0.3 percent and closed 0.2
percent lower at 87.55 per dollar on the first day of trading
since the ordeal began. On the Nairobi Securities Exchange, the
FTSE NSE 25 Index dropped for the first time in five days,
falling 0.2 percent to 164.28.  Weak Security  “The risk for an attack on Westgate or another of
Nairobi’s upscale malls was high and well known, but also very
difficult to prevent entirely,” Clare Allenson, an Africa
analyst at Eurasia Group in  Washington , said in an e-mailed
note. “However, the lack of adequately equipped police first
responders and generally poor communication and coordination of
early efforts to secure the building underscores the weak state
of Kenya’s security institutions overall.”  Accelerating growth in Kenya, East Africa’s largest
economy, and its reputation as a relatively stable democracy has
made the country a regional hub for companies including  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and the African headquarters for the
United Nations.  Kenya’s prestige has already been shaken by International
Criminal Court indictments of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his
deputy, William Ruto, for their alleged involvement in crimes
against humanity. The men are accused of organizing violence
following a disputed election in 2007, charges both deny. More
than 1,100 people were killed in two months of ethnic and
political clashes.  Hunt Attackers  Kenyatta, who lost a nephew in the attack, vowed to hunt
down the attackers.  “We will punish the masterminds swiftly and painfully,”
Kenyatta, 51, said in a nationally televised press briefing on
Sept. 22. Foreigners including six Britons, two French people,
two Canadians, a South African, a Chinese, and Ghanaian poet
Kofi Awoonor are confirmed among the dead.  The Westgate Mall caters to wealthy Kenyans and expatriate
employees with about 80 shops that include cafes, a casino, a
multi-screen movie theater and a children’s play area. Survivors
of the attack hid in air vents, supply closets and washrooms for
hours and found different ways to escape including jumping onto
a next-door building or were escorted by security officials,
some clutching children and crying.  World leaders and United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon have condemned the attacks and offered to help. President
 Barack Obama  called Kenyatta on Sept. 22 to express his
condolences and reiterate U.S. support to bring the attackers to
justice, according to a statement from the White House.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  