-- Kerry Sets Stage for Obama Visit to UN With Mideast Meetings
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-09-23T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/kerry-sets-stage-for-obama-visit-to-un-with-mideast-meetings.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
laid the groundwork for President  Barack Obama ’s speech at the
 United Nations  tomorrow by meeting with Arab officials to
discuss Syria, Egypt, and the Israeli-Palestinian  peace process .  Kerry is in New York this week to join diplomats and world
leaders who are taking up issues from development and disease to
global conflict at the annual opening of the UN General
Assembly. The bulk of his time and attention may be focused on
tensions between the U.S. and  Russia  over terms for Syria’s
handover of its chemical weapons.  The top U.S. diplomat held one-on-one meetings yesterday
evening with officials from Egypt, Jordan, the United Arab
Emirates and  Saudi Arabia , as well as with  Catherine Ashton , the
European Union’s foreign policy chief.  UAE Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed and Kerry
reaffirmed the importance of the U.S. insistence on a binding,
verifiable removal of Syria’s chemical weapons, according to a
State Department official who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Russia has rejected a U.S. and European plan to call for
enforcement, including the possible use of military force, in a
UN Security Council resolution on the handover and destruction
of the chemical arsenal held by Bashar al-Assad’s regime.  Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal emphasized his
country’s support for U.S. efforts on Syria’s chemical weapons,
the State Department official said.  Discussed Iran  The two also discussed Iran, the official said, with Kerry
reassuring the minister that U.S. policy is to use the dual
tracks of diplomacy and economic sanctions to prevent Iran from
acquiring nuclear weapons. New Iranian President Hassan Rohani
is scheduled to speak at the UN tomorrow after winning election
on a vow to improve relations with the world.  In a meeting with Jordan’s  King Abdullah , Kerry discussed
the rising number of extremist groups in Syria and the danger
they pose to Syria, Jordan and the region, according to the
official.  Kerry’s discussion with Egyptian Foreign Minister Nabil Fahmy concentrated on the the need to show progress toward a
democratic transition after the military-led ouster of elected
President Mohamed Mursi if the U.S.-Egypt relationship is to
prosper, the official said.  Kerry didn’t raise the prospect of U.S. military aid to
Egypt being cut or canceled, the official said, though the Obama
administration has said it is reviewing its support. Kerry told
Fahmy that Congress, which oversees the aid, wanted to see
progress, the official said.  Kerry also raised concerns about the numbers of Egyptians
arrested and how their cases will be dealt with, as well as the
challenges facing civil society groups in Egypt, the official
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  New York  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  