-- Navy Yard Shooter Failed to Disclose Prior Gun Arrest
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-09-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/navy-yard-shooter-failed-to-disclose-gun-s-role-in-2004-arrest.html
The Navy didn’t know that Navy Yard
shooter Aaron Alexis had shot out a Seattle construction
worker’s tires when it awarded him a security clearance in 2008
because of faulty information in an investigative report,
according to a document released yesterday by the Navy.  The July 2007 report by the U.S. Office of Personnel
Management said Alexis was arrested for “deflating” the tires,
without explaining that he had used a firearm in the 2004
shooting incident.  Alexis, a computer contractor who authorities say killed 12
people at the Washington Navy Yard on Sept. 16 before police
shot and killed him, failed to disclose the Seattle incident on
a security questionnaire that asked about criminal offenses,
according to the report. It said that Alexis told investigators
he thought he didn’t have to reveal the arrest because the
charge was dismissed.  Alexis also incorrectly denied having delinquent debts on
the questionnaire when credit reports showed he owed thousands
of dollars in unpaid auto loans, student loans, traffic tickets,
storage-unit rental and other debts, according to the report.
The report was prepared as part of the process for granting
Alexis a security clearance after he enlisted in the Navy in
2007.  The disclosure yesterday of the investigative report added
to evidence of missed signals about Alexis, 34, who had told
Rhode Island police last month that he was hearing voices and
being stalked by unseen harassers.  Police Reports  In response to the Navy Yard incident, Navy Secretary Ray Mabus has recommended to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel that all
future investigative reports conducted by the Office of
Personnel Management include any available police documents,
according to a Navy official who briefed reporters yesterday on
condition of anonymity to discuss the case.  Mabus is also directing his staff to require more senior
officers to assume responsibilities for security management and
the handling of evaluation and fitness reports, the official
said.  A timeline of events involving Alexis from 2004 to 2011,
released by the Navy yesterday, shows the shooter escaped
punishment for minor offenses on at least two occasions.  Alexis received a nonjudicial military punishment in 2008
for an unauthorized absence after spending a night in jail in
 Georgia  following an arrest for disorderly conduct outside a
nightclub, according to the timeline. The penalties were
suspended, which is common for a first offense, the Navy
official said.  Broken Ankle  A year later, Alexis received a second nonjudicial
punishment for drunk and disorderly behavior when he jumped off
a staircase and broke his ankle while reportedly intoxicated,
the timeline said. Alexis appealed the ruling and the punishment
was set aside because of “insufficient evidence to prove he was
intoxicated at the time,” according to the timeline.  In September 2010, the Navy began the process of preparing
to remove Alexis from the service after he was arrested in Fort
Worth,  Texas , for firing a gun in his home. The Navy abandoned
the effort because charges in the shooting incident were never
filed, according to the timeline.  Without charges, there were no grounds for discharging him
at the time, the Navy official said.  Fort Worth police had arrested Alexis after an upstairs
neighbor reported that a bullet came through her floor from his
apartment below. Alexis told officers he was cleaning a gun when
it went off.  Honorable Discharge  In December 2010, Alexis requested a discharge from the
Navy under a reduction-in-force program as the Pentagon sought
to cut personnel costs.  The following month, he received an honorable discharge
with a reentry code of RE-1, “the most favorable code” for re-enlistment, the timeline said.  Hagel acknowledged last week that the military failed to
pick up “red flags” in Alexis’s background.  “Where there are gaps, we will close them; where there are
inadequacies, we will address them; and where there are
failures, we will correct them,” Hagel told reporters at the
Pentagon on Sept. 18.  The 2007 Office of Personnel Management report also said
Alexis had denied on a security questionnaire having delinquent
debts.  Credit Check  A credit check revealed that Alexis had twice stopped
making payments on auto loans after cars were declared total
losses from accident damage, that he owed more than $6,500 in
unpaid student loans, and that he had more than $2,300 worth of
unpaid traffic and parking tickets, among other debts, according
to the report.  Alexis said he didn’t disclose the debts because he thought
he would be able to pay them before arriving at Navy boot camp,
the report said.  In granting Alexis a secret-level clearance in 2008, the
Navy issued “a single caution to the squadron concerning his
negative credit history,” according to the Navy timeline. At
the time it was issued, a secret-level clearance was good for 10
years, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net  