-- Netanyahu Frees Settlers to Return to Home After Murder
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-09-23T09:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/netanyahu-frees-settlers-to-return-to-home-after-murder.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said Jewish settlers could return to an evacuated
disputed home in the  West Bank  city of Hebron after Palestinians
shot and killed a soldier.  “Anyone who tries to uproot us from the city of our
forefathers will achieve the opposite,” Netanyahu said in an e-mailed statement. “We will continue to fight terrorism and
strike at terrorists on the one hand and strengthen settlement
with the other.”  The second killing of a soldier in as many days came amid a
U.S. push to advance Israeli-Palestinian peace talks with
meetings in the U.S. later this month. Palestinians say that
Israeli construction in the West Bank, captured in the 1967
Middle East war, is illegal.  About 500 Jewish settlers live in Hebron, a city of a
quarter-million Palestinians. The soldier’s murder came as
Israelis went to a holy site called the Tomb of the Patriarchs
to mark the week-long Feast of the Tabernacles.  The two murders “don’t represent an escalation,” Israel
Defense Forces spokesman Yoav Mordechai said in an interview
broadcast on  Army Radio . “These are isolated incidents.”  The army was bolstering troops in the West Bank as a result
of the violence and the defense minister plans consultations on
the situation today, Ynet said, without saying where it got the
information.  Economy Minister Naftali Bennett said on his Facebook page
that he has urged Netanyahu to reconsider a planned release of
Palestinian prisoners that was promised in August as part of the
U.S.-brokered resumption of peace talks.  “There is no doubt that the jump in terrorism requires the
government to rethink its path,” Bennett wrote. “It is
unthinkable that a formula of ‘they murder and we free them’ be
instituted.”  The  Palestinian Authority , which distanced itself from the
murder on Sept. 21 of a soldier near Qalqiliya in the West Bank,
didn’t comment on the latest violence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  