-- New York Life Fires Private-Equity Lending CEO
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-23T16:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/new-york-life-fires-loan-unit-ceo-in-personal-investments-probe.html
New York  Life Insurance Co., the
largest U.S. life insurer owned by policyholders, fired Trevor Clark, the chief executive officer of the Madison Capital
Funding LLC unit, for violating policies tied to personal
investments.  Hugh Wade, a co-founder of Madison Capital, was named
acting CEO, the New York-based insurer said today in an e-mailed
statement. New York Life also fired Christopher Williams, a
senior managing director at the unit, the insurer said.  The dismissals, effective today, were for “violating
company policies pertaining to personal investments and personal
business activities,” William Werfelman, a New York Life
spokesman, said in the statement. “Our company’s rules are
strict with regard to these disclosures and activities so we can
continue to maintain the highest integrity and performance.”  Clark and Williams had been suspended amid a company probe,
a person familiar with the matter said last week. Attempts to
reach the men weren’t immediately successful through phone
numbers and e-mails obtained in a public-records search.  The men in 2001 helped found Chicago-based Madison Capital,
which provides financing to private-equity firms, according to
New York Life’s website. The business has completed more than
1,100 transactions totaling more than $15.5 billion in net
funded commitments.  The unit offers senior loans and equity co-investments, in
industries including manufacturing and distribution. Madison
Capital targets companies with stable profits and at least $3.5
million of earnings before interest, taxes depreciation and
amortization.  Wade, 52, is a senior managing director at Madison Capital
and previously worked at Bank of America Corp. He graduated from
Marquette University and has an MBA from the University of Notre
Dame.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  