-- Nokia Wins Preliminary Ruling in Patent Fight With HTC
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-09-23T21:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/nokia-gets-mixed-ruling-from-u-s-judge-in-htc-patent-fight.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish company
selling its handset business to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , won the first
round of its U.S. patent-infringement fight against Taiwanese
phonemaker  HTC Corp. (2498)   HTC violated two Nokia patent rights, while no infringement
was found on another patent, U.S. International Trade Commission
Judge Thomas Pender said in a notice posted today on the
Washington agency’s  website . The judge’s findings are subject to
a review by the six-member commission, which has the power to
block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents and is
scheduled to make a final decision by Jan. 23.  The judge found that HTC violated Nokia’s patents for a way
to remove errors in radio signals and another for a process to
deal with different radio frequencies. No violation was found on
a third Nokia patent for a way to transmit data from a computer
to a mobile phone, which  Google Inc. (GOOG)  helped Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC challenge. It was directed at phones running on
Google’s Android operating system.  Nokia was the world’s biggest maker of  mobile phones  before
losing its 14-year title to Samsung Electronics Co. in 2011. It
has sought to use patent licensing to recoup some of the money
it spent on phone innovations. Those patents will stay with
Nokia after it sells its handset business and licenses its
technology to Microsoft Corp. for $7.2 billion.  Espoo, Finland-based Nokia had accused HTC of infringing
nine patents related to mobile phones when it filed the
complaint in May 2012.  Same Technology  One of the patents found to be infringed covers the same
technology that Nokia has asserted against HTC in courts in
 London ; Dusseldorf, Germany; and  Rome , said Mark Durrant, a
spokesman for Nokia.  He said the company was pleased with the two infringement
findings and “we will reserve further comment until we have had
the chance to study the judgment in detail.”  HTC General Counsel Grace Lei said in an e-mail the handset
maker was pleased with the part of the judge’s findings it won.  “We look forward to a final determination by the
commission in favor of HTC on this matter,” Lei said. “In the
meantime, HTC will keep its alternative plans ready to ensure no
business disruption.”  HTC’s Struggles  The case targets HTC phones including the Amaze 4G, One S,
Rhyme and Vivid, as well as the Flyer and Jetstream tablet
computers. Nokia has a second trade case, filed in May, that
targets the HTC One and Droid Incredible. The companies also are
fighting in  Germany .  HTC,  Taiwan ’s biggest maker of smartphones, has struggled
to increase its presence in the U.S. and elsewhere by revamping
its marketing strategy and shuffling executives. The company’s
share price peaked in 2011, and has plunged 89 percent since
then as Samsung and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  became the dominate players in
the $280 billion smartphone market.  HTC had about 2.8 percent of the global smartphone market
in the second quarter, compared with Nokia’s 3.1 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices,
Including Mobile Phones and Tablet Computers, 337-847, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  