-- Norwegian to Confront Boeing on Dreamliner as Glitches Mount
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-09-23T16:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/norwegian-to-confront-boeing-on-dreamliner-woes-as-issues-mount.html
Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  said it
plans to confront  Boeing Co. (BA)  about the increasing number of
technical difficulties on its new 787 Dreamliner jets that are
increasingly disrupting operation of long-distance flights.  “We are going to tell them that this situation is far from
good enough,” Anne-Sissel Skaanvik, a spokeswoman for the
Fornebu, Norway-based carrier, said by e-mail. “We have not had
the reliability that we had expected from brand new planes, so
something must happen, fast.”  Norwegian Air has grappled with technical glitches on the
new jet, from cockpit oxygen supply issues that delayed a flight
to New York from Oslo yesterday, to brake difficulties that hit
the second 787 in  Sweden  this month. The malfunctions come after
the global fleet of Dreamliners was grounded after some
batteries on planes operated by Japanese carriers caught fire.  Norwegian, which last year ordered 222 Boeing and Airbus
airliners valued at 127 billion kroner ($21.5 billion), is
flying new routes and opening bases outside the Nordic region as
it steps up competition with state-backed  SAS Group AB. (SAS)   “Our expectation is that their strict quality control
systems rule out ‘snags’ and technical issues before delivery to
the customer,” Skanvik said of Boeing.  The U.S. manufacturer’s flagship airliner, distinctive for
its composite fuselage and electrical architecture, came under
more scrutiny after one caught fire in  London  in July, a blaze
later linked to defective wiring in an emergency beacon widely
used by airlines. The jet made its commercial debut in 2011.  “We are in constant contact with our customer Norwegian,”
Boeing spokeswoman Fiona O’Farrell said by e-mail. “We are
disappointed to have issues so early in our 787 operations and
are working with Norwegian to address them and return each
airplane to service in as timely a manner as possible.”  The Norwegian Air Dreamliner grounded yesterday because of
issues related to oxygen supply has resumed flying.  Passengers en route to  New York  from Oslo were delayed for
four hours waiting for a replacement 787, which also required a
fix after flying in from Stockholm Arlanda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  