-- Obama Endorses Fellow Democrat De Blasio for New York Mayor
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-09-23T21:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/obama-endorses-fellow-democrat-de-blasio-for-new-york-city-mayor.html
Bill de Blasio, the Democratic
nominee for New York mayor, won the backing of President  Barack Obama , who praised the candidate’s pledge to close the growing
gap between rich and poor in the most populous U.S. city.  De Blasio, 52, is running against Republican Joseph Lhota,
58, who headed the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and
served as a top aide to former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. Polls
show de Blasio leading Lhota by more than 40 percentage points.  “Progressive change is the centerpiece of Bill de Blasio’s
vision for New York City,” Obama, a Democrat, said today in a
statement distributed by de Blasio’s campaign. “Whether it’s
ensuring pre-kindergarten is available for every 4-year-old,
expanding after-school programs for every middle-school student
who wants and needs them, making affordable housing available
for more New York families and preserving community hospitals,
Bill’s agenda for New York is marked by bold, courageous ideas
that address the great challenges of our time.”  Former President Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary, the
former U.S. secretary of state, also have backed de Blasio.  Appearing at a news conference in Queens to accept the
endorsement of the county’s Democrats, de Blasio said he was
“tremendously humbled” by Obama’s support and that he hoped
the president would join him on the campaign trail.  Historic Act  “The president has been speaking about the need to address
inequality from the beginning of his candidacy,” said de
Blasio, who was elected public advocate, a city watchdog post,
in 2009. “I think what he did in achieving health-care reform
will go down in history as one of the fundamental acts of
fairness and justice in modern memory. I think it’s an example
of government at its finest.”  Earlier, in his campaign statement, de Blasio lauded
Obama’s address of “big problems with big ideas and big
solutions,” and said he’d emulate that approach to governing.  Obama has weighed in on New York City politics before. Past
endorsements include William Thompson, the Democratic mayoral
nominee against Mayor Michael Bloomberg, in 2009; and incumbents
Nydia Velazquez and Yvette Clarke in their Democratic primaries
for the House of Representatives last year.  In last year’s presidential election, Obama received 80
percent of the vote in New York, where Democrats outnumber
Republicans 6 to 1.  Patrick Gaspard, whom Obama nominated to become the U.S.
ambassador to South Africa in June, is the link between Obama
and de Blasio, said George Arzt, a Democratic consultant not
involved in the race. Gaspard has served as the executive
director of the Democratic National Committee and been an
adviser to de Blasio and his campaign, Arzt said. Gaspard also
served as an acting political director for the Service Employees
International Union.  The 12-year tenure of Mayor Michael Bloomberg, founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, concludes
at end of December. The election is Nov. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  