-- Lockhart Says Fed Policy Should Make Economy More Dynamic
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-09-23T15:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/lockhart-says-fed-policy-should-make-economy-more-dynamic.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart , who has backed the Fed’s $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases, said U.S. monetary policy should
focus on creating a more dynamic economy after a recent cooling
in growth.  “Recently there appears to have been some slowing” in  job
creation , Lockhart, who next votes on policy in 2015, said today
in New York. Payroll gains have averaged just 148,000 over the
past three months, he said.  Lockhart’s comments help explain why the  Federal Open
Market Committee  last week unexpectedly refrained from slowing
its $85 billion monthly pace of bond buying, saying it needs
additional evidence of sustained improvement in the economy. The
decision sent the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  soaring  to a
record close and pushed down the yield on the 10-Year Treasury
note the most since November.  “ Monetary policy  can help deliver appropriately favorable
interest rate conditions that can promote a faster economic
recovery, always in a context of low and stable inflation,”
Lockhart said today to the Blouin Creative Leadership Summit.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said policy makers
must “forcefully” push against economic headwinds as the U.S.
has yet to show “any meaningful pickup” in momentum.  ‘Very Accommodative’  “The economy still needs the support of a very
accommodative monetary policy,” Dudley, who is vice chairman of
the FOMC, said today in a speech in New York. “Improving
economic fundamentals versus fiscal drag and somewhat tighter
financial conditions are pulling the economy in opposite
directions, roughly canceling each other.”  Treasuries rose, pushing the yield on the 10-year note down
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.7 percent at
11:28 a.m. in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6
percent to 1,699.26.  Lockhart said in response to a question after his speech
that he is concerned about the drag on growth caused by the
shrinking labor force participation rate, which fell last month
to a 35-year low of  63.2 percent . The decline is caused by
demographic trends such as retirements by the baby boomer
generation and economic factors such as discouraged workers who
“simply give up” and drop out of the workforce, he said.  “Lower participation may mean somewhat lower potential for
the economy,” he said. “That’s concerning.”  Anecdotal Evidence  Lockhart also said he hears anecdotal evidence that
internal migration has slowed as Americans are less likely to
move for new jobs. Oil and gas firms in the Atlanta  district ,
which includes southern  Louisiana , say they have “tons of
unfilled jobs” for those willing to move there, Lockhart said.  Lockhart devoted most of his speech looking at whether the
 U.S. economy  has become less dynamic in recent years with, for
example, less churning in the labor market and fewer new
startups, with fewer jobs.  “There has been a general atmosphere of uncertainty in the
wake of the financial crisis and recession,” Lockhart said.
“Reduced access to start-up financing and tighter credit have
constrained the flow of new firms. Until recently the collapse
in real estate values all but extinguished an important source
of start-up financing for many entrepreneurs.”  Lockhart, 66, is a former Georgetown University professor
who has led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The reserve bank’s
district includes  Alabama , Florida,  Georgia , and portions of
Louisiana,  Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  