-- Holiday Retail Sales May Jump 4.5% as Housing, Jobs Rise
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-09-23T15:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/holiday-retail-sales-may-jump-4-5-as-housing-jobs-rise.html
Retail sales are projected to
increase as much as 4.5 percent this holiday season, in line
with last year’s gain, as a rise in  home prices  and decline in
joblessness keeps consumers spending.  Total holiday sales are expected to rise to $963 billion to
$967 billion, led by non-store sales from online and catalog
retailers, Deloitte LLP, a New York-based consulting firm, said
today in a statement.  “Rising home prices with steady  job creation  may buoy
consumers,” Daniel Bachman, Deloitte’s senior U.S. economist,
wrote in the note.  Unemployment dropped last month to its lowest level since
December 2008, while sales of homes rose in August and housing
prices have gained 15 percent since last year. Still, many
retailers, from  Macy’s Inc. (M)  to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., missed
second-quarter sales estimates and cut forecasts as consumers
feeling flush prefer to spend their money on bigger items like
cars and home-related products.  “There has been some positive momentum leading into the
fourth quarter this year,” Alison Paul, a retail sector leader
at Deloitte, said in a phone interview. “The well-heeled,
prosperous families continue to be fairly optimistic in
spending. Where you’re going to see some of the struggle is in
the lower-income and lower-middle class.”  Those lower-income households are restraining purchases as
their incomes are restricted by a 2 percentage-point increase in
the  payroll tax . The proportion of Americans living in poverty
in 2012 -- 15 percent-- remained close to a two-decade high and
median household income was stagnant, according to a Census
Bureau report released Sept. 18.  Holiday Hiring  Holiday hiring by U.S. retailers may fall about 6.9 percent
this year amid shaky  consumer confidence  and as stores implement
more efficient practices reducing demand for seasonal workers,
according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. Retailers will
hire about 700,000 temporary staff this year, down from 751,800
last year, the Chicago-based employment consulting firm said
today in a statement. Last year’s hiring reached a 12-year high
and was up 14 percent from 2011, the firm said.  Some retailers have begun announcing holiday hiring plans.
Wal-Mart said today that it would boost holiday hiring to
55,000, a 10 percent increase from last year’s 50,000 seasonal
hires.  Target Corp. (TGT)  said in a post on its website last week last
week it would take on about 70,000 workers, 20 percent fewer
than year a year earlier.  Mobile Shopping  Non-store retail sales are forecast to climb as much as 13
percent and “continue to surpass overall retail sales growth,”
according to Deloitte’s report.  The increase in non-store sales is the smallest since
Deloitte began estimating the figure in 2010. The estimate is
reined-in from previous years, when the forecasts overshot the
actual data, rather than a potential reduction in non-store
sales, Paul said.  Mobile-influenced store sales will account for 8 percent,
or about $66 billion, of in-store sales this holiday season as
shoppers use their smartphones to browse retailers’ sites,
conduct product research and compare prices, Deloitte said.
Customers using their mobile devices are more likely to make a
purchase than other shoppers in the store who aren’t, the firm
said. Shoppers who research their purchases online also help to
boost in-store sales as retailers further integrate their stores
and websites with features like in-store pickup.  Last week, Chicago-based researcher ShopperTrak said sales
in stores may advance 2.4 percent in November and December, the
smallest increase since 2009 as customers visit fewer stores.
Retailers may offer promotions for holiday as early as Nov. 1 to
take advantage of the shorter shopping season, ShopperTrak
estimated.  This year, there are 25 days between the day after
Thanksgiving -- known as Black Friday -- and Christmas, compared
with 31 days in 2012, and four instead of five weekends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  