-- Toll Buys Silicon Valley Land Planned for Luxury Homes
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-09-23T18:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/toll-buys-silicon-valley-land-planned-for-luxury-homes.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest
U.S. luxury-home builder, bought a land parcel in California’s
Silicon Valley for a $100 million project to develop townhomes
and condominiums, according to the broker on the transaction.  The land, sold by Costa Mesa, California-based builder
 Warmington Residential , is a 12.5-acre (5.1-hectare) former
industrial tract in Milpitas, about 6 miles (9.7 kilometers)
north of San Jose. It is permitted for 98 townhouses and 108
condos, Hoffman Co., the broker, said in a statement today.
Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.  Toll Brothers, based in Horsham,  Pennsylvania , has been
competing to expand in Northern California, where land prices
have soared as growth in the technology industry boosts
employment and few parcels are available for construction. The
median home price in Santa Clara County, where Milpitas is
located, rose 19 percent in August from a year earlier to
$647,478, according to DataQuick, a real estate data provider.  “It’s an epicenter in the Bay Area for future growth and
demand,” Cameron Fowler, the Hoffman broker who represented
Warmington, said in an interview.  James Boyd, president of the Western region for Toll
Brothers, and Greg Mix, president of Warmington’s Northern
 California  division, didn’t immediately reply to telephone
messages seeking comment.  Land Constrained  Northern California is among Toll Brothers’s best-performing markets, Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley Jr.
said during an Aug. 21 earnings conference call. For land
buying, “it’s tough out there,” he said.  “Both coasts continue to be the most difficult markets to
find land,” Yearley said. “California is land constrained with
a lot of players.”  The Milpitas project, called Traverse, is expected to start
construction in mid-2014. The development is estimated to cost
more than $100 million, based on the land and infrastructure
improvements, Fowler said.  Toll Brothers controlled 47,200 lots as of July 31. The
average price of the 3,787 homes sold during the quarter that
ended that month was $651,000. The median  price  of new U.S.
homes sold in July was $257,200, according to Commerce
Department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  