-- Tombini Signals Brazil to Keep Currency Interventions Unchanged
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-09-23T17:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/tombini-signals-brazil-to-keep-currency-interventions-unchanged.html
Brazil ’s central bank chief
Alexandre Tombini signaled today policy makers will continue
with their $60 billion currency intervention plan, even after
the real rallied more than any other currency in the world.  “The program is adequate, it’s working well,” Tombini
told reporters and analysts in a conference call today. There is
“no news whatsoever from our side on this issue.”  The real has gained 10.6 percent since the central bank
said on Aug. 22 it would offer $3 billion in swap and credit
line auctions per week. After the  Federal Reserve  surprised
analysts last week by deciding against tapering U.S. stimulus,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the central bank could
curtail its dollar auction program.  “Tombini signaled there will be no changes to the
program,” said  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual
Investimentos. “If the real gains more, you may not have demand
for the auctions but they won’t cancel them.”  Tombini reiterated the central bank has to remain specially
vigilant to prevent a weaker real from fueling inflation through
more expensive imports. The real has weakened 6.9 percent this
year.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 10.06 percent  at 1:50 p.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.34 percent to 2.2030 per  U.S. dollar .  Brazil’s  annual inflation  slowed to 5.93 percent in  mid-September, the first time the rate was below 6 percent this
year.  Central bankers have lifted the key rate 1.75 percentage
points to 9 percent this year after inflation surpassed the
upper limit of their target range for the first time since 2011.  “As far as inflation is concerned, we have made
progress,” Tombini said. “In the last three, four months we
have seen inflation come down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  