-- London Fund Managers More Optimistic About Economy, Survey Shows
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-09-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/london-fund-managers-more-optimistic-about-economy-survey-shows.html
London fund managers and analysts
have become more confident in the  U.K. economy  after recent
indicators signaled a strengthening recovery, a survey found.  Eighty-two percent of 200 investors and analysts polled
expect the economy to improve over the next 12 months, up from
69 percent a year earlier, London-based Capital Spreads said
today. The survey also showed that 62 percent view the recovery
as sustainable and not built on an “artificial housing boom.”  The Bank of England said last week that the recovery is
“taking hold” and increased its growth forecast for this
quarter to 0.7 percent from 0.5 percent. The nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee unanimously agreed at its meeting this
month that the economy currently requires no more stimulus, and
policy maker Ben Broadbent said yesterday recent data has been
strong.  “Investors are beginning to see some light at the end of
what has been a very long and jet-black tunnel,” said Nick
Lewis, head of trading and market risk at Capital Spreads. “It
remains to be seen whether this is more than a housing bubble,
but the City seems cautiously optimistic.”  Government initiatives to boost mortgage availability have
drawn criticism for potentially stoking the property market too
much. A gauge of  house prices  by the Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors rose to the highest in almost seven years in
August.  In a sign that some investors remain cautious, 30 percent
of those polled said the U.K. economy is a bubble based on a
housing boom, though they expect it to grow for the foreseeable
future.  Of the 200 respondents, 6 percent forecast that the economy
will weaken over the coming 12 months, down from 8 percent a
year earlier. The poll was conducted by Populus from Sept. 3 to
Sept. 10 for Capital Spreads, the spread-betting unit of  London
Capital Group Holdings Plc. (LCG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  