-- Monte Paschi Halts Coupon Payments on 3 Subordinated Notes
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-09-23T11:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/monte-paschi-halts-coupon-payments-on-three-subordinated-notes.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA 
said it suspended interest payments on three hybrid notes after
European authorities demanded bondholders contribute to the
restructuring of the bailed out Italian lender.  The world’s oldest bank said in a statement that it won’t
pay interest on about 481 million euros ($650 million) of
outstanding hybrid notes issued through MPS Capital Trust II and
Antonveneta Capital Trusts I and II. Under the terms of the
undated notes, the Siena, Italy-based lender is allowed to
suspend interest without defaulting and doesn’t have to make up
the missed coupons when payments resume.  “In the new world we’re in, bondholders pick up the tab
when they can be forced to,” said  John Raymond , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London. “State aid rules impose losses
where possible.”  European Union Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
told reporters on Sept. 7 the bank should receive final approval
for its restructuring plan within two months. The lender, which
received a 4.1 billion-euro bailout, submitted a revised plan
that more than doubles the amount of new capital it intends to
raise to 2.5 billion euros as it seeks to repay the aid.  Almunia recommended that “cash outflows from the
beneficiary to hybrid capital holders and subordinated debt
holders be prevented to the maximum extent possible,” in a
letter sent to Italian Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni
dated July 16 and seen by  Bloomberg News .  Pay Caps  He also called for executive pay caps and said he was
concerned about the viability of the lender.  Monte Paschi’s 108 million euros of undated, non-cumulative
trust preferred stock issued through Antonveneta Capital Trust
II fell 5 cents on the euro to 41 cents, according to Bloomberg
bond prices. That’s the lowest price since April 23, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  While the bank is halting payments on the bonds that make
up its  Tier 1 capital , the most-junior layer of debt capital
instruments, it also has the equivalent of about 2.6 billion
euros of more-senior  Upper Tier 2 debt  in three issues in euros
and pounds.  While Monte Paschi is making payments on these notes, it
isn’t clear that it will be able to go on doing so, said
Raymond.  Payment ‘Baffles’  “Their continuing to pay these rather baffles me,” he
said. “One would have thought they would defer payments and I’m
not sure the price reflects that.”  The lender’s 591.5 million euros of 4.875 percent bonds due
May 2016 were quoted at 92.9 cents on the euro, a loss of 0.23
cents today, according to Bloomberg prices. The yield on the
notes was about 7.7 percent.  Investors may be betting the bank will buy back the debt
“at or slightly below current trading levels,” according to
Eva Olsson, an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities in  London .
Individual investors in  Italy  hold many of the bonds and have
been an important source of funds for banks in recent years, she
said.  The company’s plans may be given during a conference call
to be held on Sept. 25, according to the note.  “Monte likely will have to raise capital next year and we
view any capital raising exercise in the market as
challenging,” Olsson wrote.  The cost of insuring against losses on Monte Paschi’s
subordinated debt rose, with credit-default swaps covering 10
million euros of the bank’s junior bonds for five years costing
2.1 million euros in advance and 500,000 euros annually,
according to data provider CMA. That signals a 49.5 percent
probability of default within that time.  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  