-- Oracle Team USA Pulls Within 8-6 in America’s Cup With Victory
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-09-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/oracle-team-usa-pulls-within-8-6-in-america-s-cup-with-victory.html
Oracle Team USA  once again held off
 America’s Cup  elimination, defeating Emirates Team New Zealand
by 33 seconds on San Francisco Bay to extend the yachting series
into today.  The victory still left the defending champions, backed by
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Chief Executive  Larry Ellison , trailing 8-6 in the
first-to-nine-wins series. The U.S. team has won five straight
races since New Zealand reached match point last week at 8-1.  The biggest winning comeback in the 162-year-old regatta
occurred in 1983, when Alan Bond’s Australia II rebounded from a
3-1 deficit to win the best-of-seven series, beating Dennis
Conner’s Liberty and ending the New York Yacht Club’s 132-year
hold on the Cup and the longest winning streak in sports.  “We’ve really got a huge wave of momentum now,” Oracle
skipper Jimmy Spithill said in a television interview after
yesterday’s race. “The guys have been working very, very hard.
Again last night, the shore team was there until the early hours
of the morning and the boat’s just going fantastic.”  New Zealand  started the race in good position before Oracle
accelerated to round the initial turn five seconds ahead. Oracle
then increased its lead to about 13 seconds on the downwind leg.  “We were reasonably happy with where we were on the
line,” New Zealand skipper Dean Barker said. “They just
managed to get a bit of momentum right at the start.”  The boats then raced back upwind toward the Golden Gate
Bridge, with Oracle crossing back and forth in front, increasing
the lead to about 19 seconds before the U.S. again held off the
Kiwis on the downwind legs to the finish.  “We’re very upbeat,” Barker said. “We know we can win.
The Oracle boat sailed a pretty flawless race that time and
there were no opportunities to get back into it. So we did a
better job with the downwind, sailing close, but not enough
today.”  The Oracle team trails despite having won eight races in
the series because officials docked the team two points for
rules violations during preliminary competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  