-- Mortgage Bonds Reviving Pre-Crisis Structures, Moody’s Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-09-23T17:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/mortgage-bonds-boost-risk-with-pre-crisis-features-moody-s-says.html
Issuers in the reviving market for
U.S. mortgage securities are creating debt with features not
seen since before the financial crisis that can increase risks
for certain investors, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The expanding ways in which investors in the various slices
of deals will share cash flows from the underlying loans raise
additional “analytical challenges,” Moody’s said today in a
report. The structures are creating debt -- with names including
super-senior support bonds, exchangeable securities, principal-only notes and pool interest-only bonds -- in which investors in
some pieces can have greater losses even with the same levels of
loan defaults and repayments.  After a previous generation of  mortgage bonds  without
government backing helped fuel a global credit seizure, Moody’s
said the quality of the underlying loans in new deals remains
“strong” and their senior-ranked bonds “will only incur
losses in low-probability scenarios.” At the same time, some of
the revived features have been exacerbating the losses in older
bonds, Moody’s analyst Kruti Munisaid.  “You can clearly see a difference in the performance”
based on the structures, she said in a telephone interview.
Muni, who’s based in  New York , wrote the report with Linda Stesney and Peter McNally.  Expanding Complexity  The complexity of new non-agency mortgage bonds is
expanding after  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT) ’s initial deals following the
market’s revival in 2010 kept structures simpler to woo
investors. Issuers and underwriters now may be using more
complicated terms “to match different risk appetites and yield
requirements” and increase demand, Moody’s said.  Sponsors employing the features cited by Moody’s include
 JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co.,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Shellpoint
Partners LLC, and Redwood, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Underwriters that managed structuring of the deals
include JPMorgan, Credit Suisse and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Deals tied to new loans total about $12 billion this year,
up from $3.5 billion in all of last year, Bloomberg data show.
Sales have been building after freezing five years ago amid
tumbling home values and soaring defaults, following issuance of
$1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006.  The transactions have all been linked to prime jumbo home
loans larger than allowed in government-supported programs,
rather than the riskier subprime and Alt-A debt that accounted
for most securitizations before the crisis. For  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for most types of
borrowers, the loan limits range from $417,000 to $625,500.  Excessive Risk  Federal Reserve Governor Jeremy C. Stein  said  in a February
speech that the U.S. central bank’s stimulus measures may be
fueling excessive risk-taking, citing as examples a resurgence
of corporate loans with limited covenants and bonds with
payment-in-kind structures that allow companies to make interest
payments in the form of extra debt.  Mortgage-backed securities can slice up the cash flows from
the underlying loan pools in numerous ways.  Super senior support bonds are created by allocating losses
on the underlying loans to some top-rated debt before other Aaa
bonds. Depending on how early principal repayments get split,
the timing can put either class at more risk amid large levels
of losses, according to Moody’s. Junior-ranked Aaa notes can
also be relatively “thin,” meaning investors in those can be
wiped out quicker than buyers of other pieces, the firm said.  Exchangeable Securities  Exchangeable securities give investors the option of
swapping one type of note for one or more of another. Some
versions can lead to super senior support bonds being created,
Moody’s said.  Principal-only bonds can be tied to “a subset of loans in
the securitized pool that carry relatively low  mortgage rates ,”
allowing other securities to offer higher yields, the firm said.
The low rates on the loans mean they are likely to pay off more
slowly, “leaving the PO bonds with greater exposure to later
losses.”  Pool interest-only bonds “have notional balances tied to
the aggregate principal balances of the loans in the mortgage
pools,” differing from IOs that reference only the size of a
senior class, Moody’s said. They can be more at risk of shorter
lives, offering fewer payments, because of defaults and certain
pool IOs can heighten the risks of losses to other bonds caused
by loan modifications, the firm said.  Doing ‘Homework’  Redwood, which used those notes in a July deal, has a
“done lot to help restart” the market and eschewed other risky
terms,  Michael McMahon , a spokesman, said in an e-mail.
“Investors have sufficient time to analyze structures, and the
investor base does their own homework in the post-crisis
world.”  Spokesmen for other sponsors and underwriters either
declined to comment or didn’t return e-mail messages.  Mortgage-bond issuers including JPMorgan and Credit Suisse
have also introduced terms since the crisis that create new
investor risks, seeking to limit when and how investors can
force repurchases of mortgages that fail to match their stated
quality. The banks are responding to the billions of dollars of
costs for buybacks of loans with flaws they’ve said were often
unrelated to the reasons that borrowers defaulted.  In March, Moody’s criticized the top grades that
competitors assigned to $571 million of JPMorgan securities
because of such terms, after saying a month earlier that
“significant” restrictions probably would limit its rankings
to as high as its Aa tier.  Fitch Ratings ,  Standard & Poor’s ,
Kroll Bond Rating Agency and DBRS Ltd. have said on some deals
they required more loss protection because of weaker repurchase
protocols.  The congressionally appointed Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission and a Senate investigative panel blamed inflated
ratings on mortgage bonds for helping to fuel the worst economic
slump since the Great Depression.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  