-- Total Retreats From European Oil Processing and Sales on Demand
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-09-23T13:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/total-retreats-from-european-oil-processing-and-sales-on-demand.html
Total SA (FP)  is backing out of European
oil processing and sales as home demand shrinks for the region’s
third-biggest oil company and gains in faster growing economies.  “Growth is no longer in the OECD in terms of oil products
but definitely in  emerging markets ,” Philippe Boisseau, head of
marketing and services, told a presentation today in  London ,
referring to the developed-country grouping. Lubricants are a
“booming high margin business” in emerging economies, he said.  Total has vowed to boost profitability in the refining and
petrochemicals businesses by reducing operations in  Europe  by a
fifth through 2017 and expanding in  Asia  and the Middle East.
The company this month unveiled a plan to shut a steam cracker
unit at the Carling petrochemicals plant in eastern France,
while it has acquired gas stations in  Egypt  and Pakistan.  The explorer doesn’t plan to spin off marketing operations
in the near term, Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie
said. Reducing European refining and chemicals will be carried
out “smoothly and smartly,” without any big announcements.  Total plans to cut the proportion of investment in western
and eastern European marketing and services over four years and
raise it in Africa, Asia and the Middle East, according to the
presentation to investors today. Total spending will decline.  Oil-product demand will drop 5 percent in the OECD by 2020
from 2010 and grow 25 percent in other nations, Total said.
Lubricant growth in non-OECD countries will jump 40 percent,
compared with a 5 percent expansion inside the grouping.  Operating Income  Total plans net operating income of $2 billion by 2017 from
$1.3 billion last year, Boisseau said. It expects to have 5,400
retail stations in Africa and the  Middle East  in 2017, from
4,400 last year and seeks a doubling of lubricant sales.  The company failed to sell its Lindsey refinery in the U.K.
and fought with the French government in 2010 over plans to
shutter a plant at Dunkirk. Strikes protesting against the
closing led to nationwide fuel shortages and forced the explorer
to guarantee not to shut another French plant for five years.  Total won’t close a European refinery in the next two years
even as capacity may be cut, Chief Financial Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere told reporters. It pledged to raise its target
for return on average capital employed to 13 percent from 9.5
percent now for the combined refining and chemicals division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  