-- How Obama Was Checkmated by Iran
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-09-23T21:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/how-obama-was-checkmated-by-iran.html
“Down is up and up is down. I feel
like we have passed through the looking glass and are looking
back at a backwards world,” a military historian of the modern
Middle East wrote in a recent note to me about the hectic
diplomacy over Syria and Iran. “Where did all the realists go?
It’s as though the Cold War never took place.”  The logic of familiar things has been overturned. Iran
President Hassan Rohani comes to New York for a meeting of the
United Nations General Assembly preceded by a brilliant
publicity campaign. There was an interview with NBC, with a
female correspondent at that. There was an op-ed article under
his  name  in the Washington Post. His foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, sent Rosh Hashanah greetings to Jews worldwide via
Twitter.  The Iranian president stepped forth in the nick of time,
right as the  Barack Obama  administration was reeling from the
debacle of its Syria policy. We have been here before with the
skilled and tenacious guild that runs the Iranian theocracy.  An attractive cleric with a winning smile, Mohammad Khatami, cultured and literate, preaching the notion of a
“dialogue of civilizations,” was elected president in a
landslide in 1997; he was re-elected four years later. Great
hopes were pinned on Khatami. He delivered an oration at the
Washington National Cathedral, and his ascent was seen on both
sides of the Atlantic as evidence of the mellowing of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini’s revolution of 1979.  But the hopes invested in Khatami were to no avail.  Iran 
pushed on with its nuclear weapons program and with its bid for
greater power in neighboring states. At home, a student
rebellion animated by unmistakable liberal sentiments that broke
out in 1999 was crushed without mercy.  Recalling Khatami  Khatami was either a man powerless to defend the movement
or a faithful son of the Khomeini order who was given leeway by
the regime’s powers that be. He couldn’t defy the supreme
leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, or run afoul of the Islamic
Revolutionary Guard.  The case is now being made that Rohani is no freelancer,
that he is a player of standing in the regime, and that the
olive branch he carries with him has the consent of the supreme
leader himself. The regime has been humbled, brought low by
draconian sanctions, this line of argument goes, and has come to
a reckoning with its weaknesses. There are serious and obvious
flaws in this view.  These begin with Rohani’s biography. As  pointed out  by
Sohrab Ahmari in the Wall Street Journal, Rohani, who was
secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council for 16
years, starting in 1989, “led the crackdown on a 1999 student
uprising and helped the regime evade Western scrutiny of the
nuclear-weapons program.”  Indeed, from 2003 to 2005, Rohani was Iran’s chief
negotiator over the nuclear program. To paraphrase Winston Churchill, who once proclaimed that he hadn’t become the king’s
first minister in order to preside over the liquidation of the
empire, Rohani hasn’t risen to the presidency of Iran to barter
away the regime’s nuclear assets.  The assertion of the Obama administration and its chorus
that the theocracy is now at a low point in its fortunes can be
turned on its head. Iran has been fighting a proxy war with the
U.S. over  Syria , and can be said to have prevailed in that
contest.  The regime of Bashar al-Assad hasn’t fallen; in a moment of
peril for the Syrian dictatorship, Iran dispatched the fighters
of the Hezbollah militia deep into the war. They and the
Revolutionary Guard turned the tide of war in Assad’s favor.  Syria Rescued  The supreme leader and his lieutenants watched an American
leader draw a “red line” in Syria, only to blink when it
counted. Masters of chess -- didn’t they invent the game? --
they had an exquisite sense of Obama’s dilemma.  Rohani had the indecency of shedding crocodile tears for
Syria in his Washington Post article, speaking of it as a
“jewel of civilization” that had turned into a “scene of
heartbreaking violence, including chemical weapons attacks.” So
much of this violence, he doubtless knew, has been the work of
the Revolutionary Guard and Hezbollah, its Lebanese satrap.  Iran’s clerics have nothing to lose from  the diplomacy 
entrusted to Rohani. They bought time for their nuclear program
and for their client regime in Damascus. The theocracy has
erected a deep structure of power. Men such as Rohani are
dispensable. There is a tenaciousness to the theocracy’s bid for
power and to its survival instincts.  Let Obama have his boast about the efficacy of the economic
sanctions imposed on Iran. The theocracy can live with that.
Since its conquest of power in 1979, it has had the perfect
level of enmity with the U.S. -- just enough to serve as the
ideological glue of a regime built on paranoia and xenophobia
without triggering a military campaign that could do it damage.  American officials now say that Iran can’t draw comfort
from the reticence of Obama on Syria, that American vigilance
would be greater on Iran’s nuclear assets than had been the case
thus far over Syria’s chemical weapons.  But on that diplomatic chessboard, and before a big crowd
that has gathered to watch the protagonists in a standoff with
high stakes, it is easy to see the American player being
decisively outclassed. There is cunning aplenty in Persia, an
eye for that exact moment when one’s rival has been trapped.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at Stanford University’s
Hoover Institution. He is the  author  of “The Syrian
Rebellion,” published by Hoover Press.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 