-- Palm Oil May Tumble on Rising Global Supplies, Mistry Says
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-09-23T07:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/palm-oil-may-tumble-on-increasing-global-supplies-mistry-says.html
Palm, the world’s most-used cooking
oil, may slump to the lowest level since 2009 by January as
global supplies of edible oils expand and crude oil weakens,
said Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd.  Futures will probably decline to 2,000 ringgit ($630) a
metric ton in  Kuala Lumpur  if Brazil and  Argentina , the largest
soybean growers after the U.S., harvest bigger crops and Brent
drops below $100 a barrel, Mistry told a conference in  Mumbai 
yesterday. Prices will not drop below 2,200 ringgit in the next
few weeks and will trade from 2,200 to 2,400 ringgit, he said.  Palm, used in everything from candy to detergents, is
poised for a third annual loss, the worst run since at least
1996. Lower cooking oil prices may extend a drop in global food
costs measured by the  United Nations  to the lowest in more than
a year. World palm stockpiles will surge 17 percent to a record
9.2 million tons in 2013-2014 as demand expands 4.5 percent, the
least in 12 years, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.  “The fundamentals of the oilseed and vegetable oils
complex are clearly bearish,” said Mistry, who has traded
vegetable oils for more than three decades. “We cannot expect a
 bull market  in vegetable oil prices any time in 2013-2014 unless
we have adverse weather.”  U.S. Weather  Palm for delivery in December dropped as much as 0.9
percent to 2,279 ringgit a ton on Bursa Malaysia Derivatives,
the lowest level for the most-active contract since Aug. 14, and
was at 2,294 ringgit at 3:13 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur. Futures had
the biggest monthly gain in August since December 2010 as crude
rose to a two-year high, a weak ringgit boosted Malaysian
exports and hot, dry weather hurt the U.S. soybean crop.  Global vegetable oil supplies will expand 7.1 million tons
in the year from Oct. 1, more than the 5.5 million-ton gain in
demand for food and fuel, said Mistry. High crude may boost
demand for vegetable oil as biofuel by as much as 2.5 million
tons, while food demand will rise 3 million tons, he said.  “Despite the expansion of demand due to biofuels I do not
expect a bull market,” said Mistry. “As a result of the
continued high prices of Brent crude oil and the spread, I
believe crude palm oil futures will not trade below 2,200
ringgit over the next few weeks despite rising production.”  Stockpiles in Malaysia and  Indonesia  will begin to rise
from September and increase for several months, and palm will
face more competition from products such as sunflower and
soybean oils, said Mistry.  Expanding Supplies  The high-output cycle, which began this month, may last to
April, said Mistry. He cut forecasts for Malaysian and
Indonesian output for 2013 to 19.2 million tons and 29.5 million
tons. In March, Mistry estimated Malaysian production at 19.5
million tons to 19.7 million tons and that Indonesian output
would top 30.5 million tons.  “The world’s vegetable oil consumers can feel confident of
expanding supply of palm in the years ahead,” said Mistry,
citing increased planting in Indonesia. “We should expect
significant uplift in Indonesian production from 2017 onwards.”  Even if palm declines,  soybean oil  is not expected to
weaken significantly, said Mistry. Soybean oil, a substitute in
food and fuel uses, was at a  premium  of about $207 a ton over
palm today, compared with an average of $299 in the past year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Global production of 10 major oilseeds, including soybeans,
rapeseed and sunflower seed, will be 484.9 million tons in the
2013-2014 season, up 4.5 percent from a year earlier, according
to Hamburg-based researcher Oil World. Supplies will be “more
than sufficient to satisfy the prospective demand from the
global crushing industry,” it said Sept. 17.  Soybean Rally  Soybean prices on the Chicago Board of Trade rallied as
much as 21 percent since Aug. 7 as prospects deteriorated for
the U.S. harvest, which usually starts in September. Futures
traded at $13.1175 today, near a one-month low.  “If South America plantings get off to a good start and
rainfall is near normal, I expect the soya market to decline
sharply from current levels around Christmas time,” said Mistry.
“We must also expect harvest lows between now and November in
the U.S. So far in the soya world, traders have been focusing on
supply and are not looking at demand.”  Production of sunflower seed in Ukraine, Russia and Eastern
Europe exceeded expectations, pushing  sunflower oil  to a
discount to soybean oil, which will continue until June, said
Mistry. That discount will enable sunflower oil to take market
share, he said. Rapeseed oil will trade at a considerably
narrower premium to soybean oil, he said.  India ’s imports of vegetable oils may increase 3.8 percent
to 11 million tons in the season starting Nov. 1, from 10.6
million tons estimated for this season, said Mistry. Consumption
will gain 4.9 percent to 18.1 million tons, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  