-- Palm-Oil Stockpiles Expanding Add to Record Supply: Commodities
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-09-24T19:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/palm-oil-stockpiles-expanding-adds-to-record-supply-commodities.html
Record inventories of palm in
 Indonesia , the largest producer, will add to the biggest global
supply of vegetable oils in history, driving down costs for
makers of everything from food to fuel to soap.  Indonesian stockpiles of the most-used oil derived from
crops will rise 66 percent to 3 million metric tons by the end
of 2013-2014, the U.S. Department of Agriculture says. Global
output of nine oils including soy, peanut and palm will expand
4.3 percent to 167.3 million tons, USDA data show. Dorab Mistry,
a director at Godrej International Ltd. who has traded the oils
for three decades, says futures may drop as much as 13 percent
to 2,000 ringgit ($621) a ton by January, the lowest since 2009.  Palm oil rallied the most in almost three years last month
as hot weather threatened the U.S. soybean crop, which also
yields oil used in food and fuel production. Both commodities
are retreating again on prospects for a record harvest in Brazil
and Argentina, the biggest shippers of soybean oil. Even with
last month’s rally, palm never emerged from the bear market that
began in June 2012 after the highest ever average price the
previous year spurred farmers to extend plantations.  “You’ve definitely got a lot of supply coming in, from
Indonesia in particular,” said Chris de Lavigne, a global vice
president at Frost & Sullivan in Singapore, who advises the palm
oil industry and has tracked edible oils since 2006. “Although
soybeans aren’t coming in at the levels that people expected it,
it’s still going to be a very big crop.”  Lowest Level  Palm retreated 5.6 percent to 2,301 ringgit on the Bursa
Malaysia Derivatives in Kuala Lumpur since the start of January.
It rose 7.5 percent last month as soybeans gained 13 percent,
the most in a year. Rabobank International anticipates an
average of 2,250 ringgit in the last three months of 2013, the
lowest level since the third quarter of 2009.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 raw materials fell 2
percent since the start of January and the MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities advanced 14 percent. The Bloomberg U.S.
Treasury Bond Index lost 2.8 percent.  Indonesian output will rise 8.8 percent to 31 million tons
in 2013-2014 after production more than doubled in a decade, the
USDA estimates. It takes three to four years from planting for a
tree to start yielding oil, according to the Indonesian Palm Oil
Association. Stockpiles will as much as double to 4 million tons
by the end of December, Mistry said in an interview on Sept. 12
in Singapore. He’s known in the industry as Mr. Titanic after
correctly comparing prices in 1998 to the ill-fated liner.  Soybean Oil  Farmers in South America will expand the amount of land
they plant with soybeans, offsetting a smaller-than-expected
U.S. harvest, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a Sept. 11
report. The USDA cut its outlook for the  U.S. crop  by 3.3
percent the next day, while still forecasting a 4.4 percent gain
from the previous season.  Goldman expects soybeans to trade at $10.50 a bushel in 12
months, 20 percent less than now. Combined soybean-oil output
from Brazil and Argentina will expand 9.2 percent to 14.2
million tons in 2013-2014, USDA forecasts show. The global
soybean crop will expand 5.3 percent to a record 281.7 million
tons, the department says.  Standard Chartered Plc predicts a fourth-quarter average of
2,450 ringgit. Chandran Sinnasamy, head of trading at LT
International Futures Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur, who has tracked palm
since 1989, said prices may climb as high as 2,750 ringgit this
year. The commodity trades at a $215 a ton discount to soybean
oil compared with an average of $181 in the past five years.  ‘Bearish Sentiment’  “Despite the bearish sentiment, palm oil is still
supported by the huge discount,” said Chandran. Concerns about
the soybean crop, demand for palm-derived biofuels and lower
 Malaysian stockpiles  year-on-year may bolster prices, he said.
Inventories in the second-biggest producer are 21 percent lower
than a year ago, data from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board show.  Costlier crude oil may curb the slump in palm by making it
more attractive to produce biofuels. West Texas Intermediate,
the benchmark U.S. crude grade, advanced 12 percent this year.
Palm oil is the biggest feedstock for biodiesel after soy and
6.34 million tons are likely to be processed into fuel this
year, 11 percent more than in 2012, according to Oil World, a
research company based in Hamburg.  Indonesia raised the amount of palm-derived biodiesel that
producers must blend into subsidized fuel to 10 percent this
month from 7.5 percent. The requirement will be extended to non-subsidized fuel and industrial users in January and power plants
will be obliged to use supply with a 20 percent blend.
Increasing fuel demand will curb stockpiles, Tong Poh Keow,
chief financial officer of Sime Darby Bhd, the world’s biggest
listed producer, told reporters in Kuala Lumpur on Aug. 30.  Three Decades  Global supply will advance 5 percent to a record 58.1
million tons in 2013-2014, boosting stockpiles by 17 percent to
an all-time high of 9.2 million tons, the USDA says. Production
was 6.13 million tons three decades ago. The oil is used in
everything from  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Maggi noodles to Unilever soap.  A 2011 report from the United Nations estimated that global
plantations covered about 37 million acres (15 million
hectares), an area equal to  Illinois . The commodity, originally
from the rain forests of West Africa, is now mostly grown in the
tropical areas of Asia within 10 degrees of the equator.  Declining edible oil prices are helping to curb  global food
costs  that the UN says fell in eight of the past 11 months. The
Rome-based Food & Agriculture Organization’s index of 11 oils
and fats declined 18 percent in the past  year , compared with a
5.1 percent drop in the overall 55-food gauge.  Trillion Rupiah  Cheaper palm oil is reducing profit for producers, with
Kuala Lumpur-based  Sime Darby (SIME)  expected to report a 5.7 percent
drop in net income to 3.49 billion ringgit in its fiscal year
ending June 30, according to the mean of 25 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of the company are little changed
since the start of January.  PT Astra Agro Lestari (AALI) , Indonesia’s largest publicly listed
producer, will report a 25 percent profit drop to 1.813 trillion
rupiah ($161 million) this year, the mean of 27 estimates shows.
The shares fell 2.3 percent since the start of January, trailing
the Jakarta Composite Index’s 3.2 percent advance.  “Whatever downgrades there have been to the U.S. soybean
crop, the overall supply of oilseeds will still be significantly
higher,” said Pawan Kumar, director of food and agribusiness
research and advisory at Rabobank in  Singapore . “The U.S. crop
is still better than last year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  