-- Pandora Falls 10% as Apple ITunes Radio Draws 11 Million
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-23T20:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/pandora-falls-as-much-as-12-on-apple-s-itunes-radio-competition.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest Web
radio service, fell 10 percent after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said it
attracted more than 11 million unique listeners to its new
iTunes Radio service.  Pandora, with 72 million active listeners, slid to $24.26
at the close in New York. Shares of the Oakland, California-based company have more than  doubled  this year.  Apple is seeking to challenge Pandora and  Clear Channel
Communications Inc. (CCMO) ’s iHeartRadio for listeners and advertisers
after adding the radio feature in updated iOS operating software
for its iPhones and iPads. Customers downloaded the iOS 7
software on more than 200 million devices since its Sept. 18
release and snapped up a record 9 million new iPhone models over
the weekend, Apple said today in a statement.  “Whenever Apple decides to get into a business, it has
proven to be a huge disrupter,”  Paul Sweeney , an analyst with
Bloomberg Industries, said in an interview.  Pandora is looking to vie with radio stations for a larger
slice of $15 billion in local advertising and has opened sales
offices in 29 U.S. cities. Earlier this month, it named digital
advertising veteran Brian McAndrews as chairman and chief
executive officer. Last week it priced an expanded stock
offering and has raised an estimated $378.8 million to finance
growth.  The company sold 15.7 million shares at $25 each in the
offering led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley.
Crosslink Capital Inc., the largest  shareholder , sold 5.2
million. The sale is expected to be completed on Sept. 24,
Pandora said last week.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, rose 5 percent to
$490.64.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  