-- Pengrowth Seen Buying as KNOC Cuts Oversees Losses
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-09-23T20:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/pengrowth-seen-buying-as-knoc-cuts-oversees-losses.html
Pengrowth Energy Corp. (PGF)  and  Canadian
Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  are likely buyers of Korea National Oil
Corp.’s Canadian oil and natural gas properties as the state-run
company retreats from the country it once made a cornerstone of
its global expansion.  Buyers may be drawn to the lower prices the company will
have to consider as it vies with a glut of properties for sale,
said Kyle Preston, an analyst at  National Bank of Canada. (NA)  KNOC,
as the South Korean company is known, said Sept. 6 it was in
initial talks with potential buyers of its Canadian division as
it seeks to boost returns from its foreign businesses.  “KNOC is looking to sell into a very over-saturated
market,” so the price is going to reflect that, said Chris Cox,
an analyst at AltaCorp Capital Inc. in Calgary.  Pengrowth, which operates a small  oil-sands  operation using
similar steam-based technology, might be interested in KNOC’s
assets, Cox said in a Sept. 6 telephone interview from Calgary.
Canadian Natural, known for buying land “on the cheap,” may
want KNOC’s traditional oil and gas properties, he said. The
properties also may appeal to  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE) , which has
operations in the oil sands, Preston said by phone the same day.  KNOC first bought into Canada in 2006 when it acquired oil-sands holdings from  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  for $270 million. It
then paid C$4.1 billion ($4 billion) including debt in 2009 for
Calgary-based Harvest Energy Trust. It was the Anyang, South
Korea-based company’s largest purchase, according to figures
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fiscal Loss  KNOC paid C$525 million for additional Canadian  assets  from
Hunt Oil Co. in 2010.  The South Korean government largely blamed the company’s
904 billion won ($840 million) loss last fiscal year on the poor
performance of overseas investments, including the Canadian unit
Harvest Operations Corp. Choi Hong Seok, a spokesman for KNOC,
declined to specify in a Sept. 6 phone interview which assets
are for sale.  KNOC will probably divest in  Canada  piecemeal as it tries
to sell a money-losing refinery and faces new rules limiting
oil-sands buyers, National Bank’s Preston said. The company will
have to compete with properties for sale in Canada that produce
the equivalent of about 300,000 barrels of oil a day, he said.  “You take into account the lack of interest in oil-sands
assets and the number of oil-sands assets out there for sale as
well, and that makes it that much more competitive,” Preston
said.  First Phase  KNOC’s BlackGold oil-sands holdings in  Alberta , where the
company will inject steam underground to melt the tar-like
bitumen so it can flow to the surface, may be valued at C$1
billion, said Robert Mark, director of research at MacDougall,
MacDougall and MacTier Inc. in Toronto. The project is set to
begin producing next year, with output from the first phase
rising to 10,000 barrels a day, according to Harvest’s website.  In addition to the Canadian companies,  PetroChina Co. (857)  may
be attracted to KNOC’s traditional oil and gas assets in Canada
to expand its position in the country, Cox said. China
Petrochemical Corp. may want to bolster its western Canadian
holdings, MacDougall’s Mark said.  Pengrowth, Canadian Natural and Husky declined through
representatives to comment. Mao Zefeng, a spokesman for
PetroChina, didn’t return messages seeking comment and Lv Dapeng, a spokesman for China Petrochemical, didn’t answer two
calls to his office.  Foreign Takeovers  Pengrowth rose 0.8 percent to C$6.01 at the close today in
Toronto, Canadian Natural fell 0.3 percent to C$32.29 and Husky
climbed 0.7 percent to C$29.13.  KNOC may be able to package its traditional oil and gas
properties for sale, then do a separate deal for the oil sands,
Mark said. Buyers for its oil-sands stake will be limited by
changes announced by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  in December
to Canada’s foreign-takeover law that restrict state-owned
companies from acquiring oil-sands businesses unless there are
“exceptional circumstances.”  Finding a buyer for KNOC’s money-losing Canadian refinery,
Come By Chance, probably will be the biggest priority and
hardest to achieve in a market where struggling plants in  Europe 
and  North America  are closing or converting to storage.  Harvest’s refining and marketing division posted an
operating loss of C$52 million in the second quarter, according
to financial statements from KNOC’s Canadian unit.  “They’re likely going to have a real challenge selling
that refinery,” Preston said.  Newfoundland Refinery  The refinery, located in the nation’s easternmost province
of Newfoundland and Labrador, was part of the Harvest deal.
Profit margins at the plant fell 89 percent in the last four
years, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg from the
company’s financial reports.  KNOC’s island-based refinery can’t tap into cheaper North
American fuel supplies brought by rail and must rely on more
expensive imports. It also lacks the kind of processing units
that can turn crude into the highest-value light-petroleum
products that generate more profit for its competitors, said
Charles Kemp, an industry consultant at Baker & O’Brien Inc. in
 Dallas .  A total pullout by KNOC from Canada would be surprising
given the company’s strategy of building up global oil supplies
to feed domestic consumption, said Terry Marshall, a senior vice
president with Moody’s Corp. in Toronto.  Though there are more sellers than buyers in Canada, deals
can still get done for “quality assets at reasonable prices,”
Jennifer Stevenson, a portfolio manager at Goodman & Co.
Investment Counsel Ltd. in Calgary, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  