-- Pittsburgh’s Top Employer Sells Market-Lagging Debt: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/pittsburgh-s-top-employer-sells-market-lagging-debt-muni-deals.html
University of Pittsburgh Medical
Center is borrowing $225 million this week as hospital
securities trail the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market for the
first time since 2008.  The facility’s debt offerings are among the $3.7 billion of
long-term muni issues scheduled for sale this week, down from
$4.2 billion last week,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  The system, Pittsburgh’s biggest employer, with 14 percent
of its workforce in 2012, is offering $125 million in revenue
bonds through the  Pennsylvania  Economic Development Financing
Authority and $100 million through the Monroeville Finance
Authority to refinance debt, deal documents show.  The center has $3.26 billion in debt, and plans to issue as
much as $315 million each fiscal year through 2018, according to
deal documents.  Moody’s Investors Service ranks the obligations Aa3,
fourth-highest, citing the facility’s “leading and growing
market position in western Pennsylvania.” It changed the
outlook to stable from positive in June because of litigation
with Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania’s second-largest city. In March,
local officials sued the center, saying it’s not a “purely
public charity” and thus shouldn’t be exempt from payroll
taxes.  ‘Financial Risk’  The hospital also “faces considerable competitive and
financial risk over the next two to three years,” said  Standard
& Poor’s , which rates the debt A+, fifth-highest. Its largest
competitor, West Penn Allegheny Health System, has completed a
merger with Highmark Inc., S&P said.  “The competitive insurance market benefits the entire
community but decreases UPMC’s profitability,” Susan Manko, a
spokeswoman for the hospital, said in an e-mail. “It has always
been our strategy to be ahead of the curve. In the midst of
global economic challenges, UPMC has been and will continue to
be strongly positioned.”  Hospital bonds are losing 3.8 percent this year through
Sept. 19, compared with a 3.7 percent drop for the entire
municipal market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
That’s the first time the debt has underperformed since 2008.  Governments are borrowing with  benchmark yields  at the
lowest level since August. Individuals pulled about $1.1 billion
from muni-focused mutual funds in the week through Sept. 18, the
least in six weeks, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  