-- Prudential Picks Jeffrey Gundlach to Manage $450 Million
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/prudential-picks-jeffrey-gundlach-to-manage-450-million.html
Prudential (PRU)  Plc, the U.K.’s biggest
insurer by market value, selected  Jeffrey Gundlach  to manage
$450 million as the company works to win U.S. business from
clients seeking to bet on mortgages.  Gundlach will model the variable annuity offering for
Prudential’s Jackson National Life Insurance on his top-performing DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund, according to a
statement yesterday from Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital
LP. The fund, to be run by DoubleLine Chief Executive Officer
Gundlach and President Philip Barach, can also bet on junk
bonds, bank loans and credit-default swaps.  “We didn’t have a mortgage-focused portfolio on the
platform, so that’s something we wanted to offer,” said Ryan
Strauser, vice president of investment management for Jackson’s
distribution unit, in a phone interview. “That diversification
tool is really what we were looking for.”  The unit of London-based Prudential was the largest seller
of individual U.S. variable annuities in the first half of this
year, according to data from industry group Limra.  Newark , New
Jersey-based rival  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the top seller in
the first half of 2012, fell to No. 3 this year as the company
reduced some guarantees on the products to help profit margins.  Variable annuities let savers invest in stocks, bonds and
other assets while deferring tax payments. Manager options
within Lansing, Michigan-based Jackson National’s platform
include  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Pacific Investment Management Co. and
 Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , according to a filing earlier this month.  ‘Institutional Interest’  The push into variable annuities helps diversify
DoubleLine’s client base amid speculation that the three-decade-long bond bull market may have ended. Gundlach has also expanded
offerings by opening a floating-rate mutual fund, an equities
small-cap growth fund and an income-oriented closed-end fund.
DoubleLine subadvises mutual funds for firms including
RiverNorth Capital Management LLC and Alma Capital Investment
Management.  “This mandate marks the continuing institutional interest
in DoubleLine’s investment services and our channel
diversification into the variable-annuity space,” Ron Redell,
president of DoubleLine Funds Trust, said in the statement.  Gundlach’s $35.4 billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund
lost 0.2 percent this year through Sept. 20 to beat 89 percent
of similarly managed funds and advanced 6.9 percent in the past
three years to outperform 97 percent of peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund had its third straight month of
net withdrawals in August, as clients fleeing bonds pulled $1.1
billion, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  