-- Treasury Futures Hold Gain on Expectations Inflation in Check
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-23T03:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/treasury-futures-hold-gain-on-expectations-inflation-in-check.html
Treasury futures stayed higher
following last week’s biggest gain in almost two years as
analysts said reports in the days ahead will show inflation is
in check as the economy expands.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, was 2.24 percentage points. The average over the past year
was 2.35 percentage points. Treasuries rose last week after the
Federal Reserve unexpectedly refrained from reducing its debt
purchases.  “Inflation is staying low, even though the economic data
are getting better,” said Kim Youngsung, head of fixed income
in  Seoul  at Samsung Asset Management Co., South Korea’s largest
private bond investor with the equivalent of $104.8 billion in
assets. “That allowed the Fed to refrain from tapering its bond
purchases.”  Ten-year futures contracts for December delivery advanced
2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 125 3/8 as of 10:56
a.m. in Singapore, based on electronic trading at the Chicago
Board of Trade. Futures rallied 1 3/4 last week, the biggest
gain since November 2011.  Treasuries trading is closed in  Japan  today for a holiday.
It is scheduled to open as usual in the U.K. and the U.S.,
according to the New York-based Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association’s  website .  Consumption, Inflation  Consumer spending probably rose 0.3 percent in August,
advancing for a fourth month, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists before the Commerce
Department data Sept. 27.  The central bank’s preferred measure of cost increases
probably advanced 1.2 percent in August from a year earlier,
slowing from 1.4 percent in July, the report may say, based on
the surveys.  Other figures this week may show a pickup in orders for
 big-ticket  items other than transportation equipment and an
increase in new-home sales, based on responses from economists.  A Chinese manufacturing index rose to a six-month high in
September, according to data today.  The Treasury Department is scheduled to sell $97 billion of
two-, five- and seven-year notes over three days starting
tomorrow.  Allen Lei, a trader at Hontai Life Insurance Co. in Taipei,
said economic growth is strong enough that he’s staying away
from Treasuries.  “Rates are still going up,” Lei said. “The pace of the
economy is slowing, but it’s still healthy.”  Higher Yields  Lei said he’s buying the bonds of  Russia ,  Turkey ,  Indonesia 
and  Brazil  because they offer higher yields than U.S.
securities.  Ten-year yields will rise to 2.84 percent by year-end,
based on a Bloomberg survey of financial companies, with the
most recent projections given the heaviest weightings.  The  Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index (BUSY)  has fallen 0.5
percent since the end of June, headed for its fourth straight
quarterly loss.  The Fed at a meeting last week stuck to its policy of
buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt a month to
support the economy by putting downward pressure on borrowing
costs.  Investors see a 44 percent chance that policy makers will
increase the federal funds rate target to 0.5 percent or more by
January 2015, based on data compiled by Bloomberg from futures
contracts on Sept. 20. The odds dropped from 68 percent two
weeks earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  