-- Treasuries Rise After Fed Officials Back More Economic Stimulus
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-09-23T21:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/treasuries-maintain-gains-on-expectations-inflation-in-check.html
Treasury 10-year note yields fell
to almost the lowest level this month as Federal Reserve
officials suggested policy makers will maintain the current pace
of bond purchases to sustain momentum in the economic expansion.  Bonds rose for a second day after Federal Reserve Bank of
New York President William C. Dudley said policy makers must
“forcefully” push against economic headwinds. Another regional
Fed bank president, Atlanta’s Dennis Lockhart, said policy
should focus on creating a more dynamic economy. Debate over the
U.S.  federal budget  and the debt  ceiling  is also renewing
concern of a government shutdown, debt default or near-miss that
may roil financial markets.  “The move today is driven by the uncertainty in the
marketplace, the mixed message that the Fed is providing,” said
 Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion at  SEI Investments Co. (SEIC)  in
Oaks,  Pennsylvania . “Until we get a single message, we’ll see a
bid in the marketplace.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.7 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.5 percent
note maturing in August 2023 rose 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face
amount, to 98 9/32.  The yield dropped 15 basis points last week, the steepest
decline since the period ended July 12. The 10-year note yield
fell on Sept. 18 to 2.67 percent, the lowest since Aug. 13.  The Treasury is scheduled to sell $33 billion of two-year
securities tomorrow, $35 billion of five-year notes the
following day and $29 billion of seven-year debt on Sept. 26.  Fed Speakers  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch MOVE index dropped 3 percent to 75.35, the lowest
level since Aug. 12. It climbed on Sept. 5 to 114.19, a two-month high. The 2013 average is 71.83.  Treasury trading volume at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, dropped 17 percent to
$225.5 billion, after surging to $459.9 billion on Sept. 18,
when the Fed unexpectedly maintained the pace of its bond-buying
program known as quantitative easing.  The Fed today purchased $3.7 billion of Treasuries maturing
from June 2019 to July 2020 as part of its stimulus program.  “The economy still needs the support of a very
accommodative monetary policy,” Dudley, who is vice chairman of
the Federal Open Market Committee, said in New York. “Improving
economic fundamentals versus fiscal drag and somewhat tighter
financial conditions are pulling the economy in opposite
directions, roughly canceling each other.”  ‘Strongly Convinced’  “Dudley’s comments were pretty dovish across the board,”
said Jason Rogan, managing director of U.S. government trading
at Guggenheim Securities LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “It’s important to see what their
thinking is and how strongly convinced they are on the non-tapering approach.”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke cited the danger to the
economy from the budget battles as one reason the central bank
decided not to pull back on its monetary stimulus.  “Upcoming fiscal debates may involve additional risks to
financial markets and to the broader economy,” Bernanke said at
a Sept. 18 news conference following the Fed’s two-day meeting.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News had forecast that the
central bank would announce a reduction in bond purchases at the
end of the meeting.  Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen is the leading candidate to
replace Bernanke if he steps down in January, according to a
survey by Bloomberg News. Lawrence Summers, who was seen as the
probable pick and more likely to tighten monetary policy sooner,
withdrew his candidacy.  Harmed Creditability  Lockhart who also spoke in New York, said U.S. monetary
policy should focus on creating a more dynamic economy following
a recent slowing in growth.  Fed Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher said the
central bank harmed its credibility with the decision last week
not to taper $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  “Doing nothing at this meeting would increase uncertainty
about the future conduct of policy and call the credibility of
our communications into question,” Fisher, who doesn’t vote on
policy this year, said he told the FOMC. “I believe that is
exactly what has occurred, though I take no pleasure in saying
so,” he said today in San Antonio,  Texas .  Treasuries have lost investors 2.95 percent this year
through Sept. 20, according to Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond
 index . The securities returned 2.2 percent in 2012.  The market for U.S. government debt has yet to react to any
potential impasse over raising the borrowing ceiling. Treasuries
that mature on Oct. 15 yield negative 0.09 percent, compared
with negative 0.03 percent two weeks earlier. The rate on debt
due Nov. 7 has risen to 0.01 percent from 0.005 percent during
that span.  “People are still regrouping,” said Jim Vogel, head of
agency-debt research at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee .
“People are not going to make any major commitments until next
week’s economic data. There’s no obvious market impact from the
politics, instead it’s the potential drag to the economy. The
range on the 10-year yield is 2.68 to 2.78 percent this week.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  