-- Repsol Issues Debt as Euro Yield Premiums Fall to Three-Week Low
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-23T15:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/repsol-sells-bonds-as-euro-yield-premiums-fall-to-three-week-low.html
Repsol SA (REP)  sold euro-denominated
bonds as the extra yield investors demand to hold investment-grade company notes instead of government debt dropped to the
lowest in more than three weeks in  Europe .  Spain’s largest oil producer marketed 1 billion euros
($1.35 billion) of eight-year securities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average spread on corporate bonds in
euros narrowed 2 basis points last week to 96.4 basis points,
the least since Aug. 27, Bloomberg  bond index data  show.  Companies raised debt as data showed euro-area services and
manufacturing growth accelerated to the fastest in more than two
years in September. Markets were also reassured by German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s overwhelming endorsement from voters,
which puts the leader of Europe’s largest economy on course for
the biggest election win since  Helmut Kohl ’s post-reunification
victory of 1990.  “Merkel’s win has taken away some of the uncertainty and
insures continuity for the European project,” said Luis Merino,
a Madrid-based  fund manager  who helps oversee about 20 billion
euros of assets at InverCaixa Gestion SGIIC SA, the asset
manager of  CaixaBank. (CABK)  “There’s a certain amount of calm and a
window for companies to issue. As the European economy improves,
medium- and long-term rates could rise so now is the time for
companies to sell bonds.”  Repsol issued the bonds through its Repsol International
Finance BV unit to yield 175 basis points more than the
benchmark mid-swap rate. The Madrid-based company’s 1.2 billion
euros of seven-year notes sold in May were priced at a spread of
155 basis points, Bloomberg data show. It was the cheapest deal
for a Spanish company since the euro currency was introduced, a
spokesman for Repsol said at the time.  ‘Good Demand’  Repsol has 2 billion euros of bonds maturing next year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Kristian Rix, a
spokesman for the company in  Madrid , declined to comment on the
bond sale.  “There’s good demand for this deal,” said Jose Ignacio Victoriano, a fixed income manager overseeing about 1 billion
euros of bonds at Renta 4 Gestora SGIIC SA in Madrid. “Repsol
has some refinancing to do for next year and this is a good time
to sell. The German election result is the best we could have
hoped for and especially supports peripheral credit.”  Abengoa SA (ABG) , a junk-rated Spanish developer of solar-thermal
power plants, plans to add another 250 million euros to its
8.875 percent notes due February 2018 issued in January,
according to a person familiar with the plan. The Seville-based
company, rated B2 or five steps below investment grade by
Moody’s Investors Service, is seeking to refinance existing
debt.  The average yield investors demand to hold  speculative-grade  securities fell 16 basis points to 4.79 percent last week,
the lowest since Aug. 20, Bloomberg index data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  