-- Republicans Cower as Cruz Makes His Last Stand
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-09-23T22:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/republicans-cower-as-cruz-makes-his-last-stand.html
Move over  Rand  Paul.  Ted Cruz  may
be cruising to the biggest loss in his short career as a U.S.
senator and surpass you as the pre-eminent conservative in
Congress. The  Texas  Republican is threatening to outfilibuster
his colleague from Kentucky, who last spring seized the floor
for 13 hours to denounce the domestic use of drones in a
thrilling “stand with Rand” moment that had everyone marveling
that we could practice democracy as it was done in the good old
days.  There are a few reasons Cruz could lap Paul this week. Paul
had the bad luck to prevail, winning a clarification that there
are limits on the president’s power to kill Americans “sitting
at cafes” who don’t pose an imminent threat. Cruz’s issue is
hotter: defunding President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law. He
also may be able to boast of going down in a Custer-like valiant
and lonely last stand. Martyrdom is in conservatives’ DNA.  Cruz’s biggest advantage is a doomsday clock ticking down
the hours to a government shutdown. It’s a prop that provides a
dramatic arc to an otherwise unwieldy story involving hard-to-follow congressional procedures. On Sept. 20, the House,
inflamed by its right wing, passed a bill that funds the
government until Dec. 15 but denies money for the Affordable
Care Act. It is a dead letter in the Democratic-controlled
Senate. Enter Cruz, who, to make his point, is going to have to
filibuster the bill he urged the House to pass.  There’s no good end to this for anyone but Cruz.
Republicans will suffer generally if the government shuts down
and they don’t get something for their efforts.  Obamacare  will
still be funded but care for wounded warriors may not.  Presidential Ambition  This gambit, which threatens his fellow Republicans more
than Democrats, would make no sense if Cruz wanted to govern
rather than check off the Senate box on his way to the White
House. He is a Man in a Hurry who doesn’t need friends to thrive
as much as he needs enemies to thwart. Cruz’s hand was barely
off the Bible before he went after the head of the defense
secretary-nominee, Chuck Hagel, for his supposed antagonism
toward  Israel .  On  gun control , Cruz put forward the wrong reading of the
Second Amendment as completely unrestricted and challenged
Democratic Senator  Dianne Feinstein  of  California  to prove
otherwise. Her response was to thank him “for the lecture” and
remind him she wasn’t “a sixth-grader.” Still, the display of
pedantry lit up phones to members, the vote on the background
checks was delayed, and Cruz’s side won. The bill remains dead,
even though there was a mass shooting a few blocks from his
Senate office last week and the devastated parents of the
children massacred in Newtown,  Connecticut , are once again
wandering the halls of Congress begging for passage.  A defeat on Obamacare is just what Cruz needs to solidify
his outsider status. His Ivy League credentials are small data
points in his eloquent narrative of his life, which emphasizes
his journey as the embodiment of the American and -- slight --
Canadian dream.  The son of Rafael Cruz, who fled  Fidel Castro ’s Cuba to
wash dishes in Texas for 50 cents an hour, Rafael Edward Cruz
was born in 1970 in Calgary, where his father had gone to profit
from the oil boom and married for a second time. That boom went
bust and the senior Rafael, now a preacher in a Dallas suburb,
enrolled his son in a conservative debating society where the
younger Cruz memorized the Bill of Rights and excelled at mock
Constitutional Conventions. Cruz’s father wept at his son’s
Senate swearing-in ceremony.  These days, the senator tells his father’s story at almost
every stop in  Iowa  and  New Hampshire , where he is playing to his
real audience, as opposed to his Washington one that is
suspicious of so much ambition.  ‘Facebook Likes’  He isn’t always named but seems to be the intended
recipient of criticism such as this jab from Republican
Representative Tim Griffin of Arkansas who said Senate
Republicans are “good at getting Facebook likes, and town halls,
not much else,” or this from Senator  Bob Corker , who referred to
Cruz’s alma maters in a  Twitter post : “I didn’t go to Harvard or
Princeton but I can count. Defunding box canyon” -- that’s
Southern for the roach motel you can get into but can’t get out
of -- “is a tactic that will fail and weaken our position.”  Cruz flies proudly as one of the uncompromising members
Senator  John McCain  called “wacko birds.”  However the next few days play out, Cruz will be center
stage. He’s said a hundred times that the White House would be
responsible for any shutdown, even as he tries a doomed cavalry
charge right into one.  For the rest of the  Republican Party , what stands between
them and Cruz’s suicide mission is Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid . For once, that might be the best place for them to be.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 