-- Rubenstein Pledges $250,000; Boozy Coeds: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-09-23T15:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/rubenstein-pledges-250-000-boozy-coeds-d-c-scene.html
“It’s my first night on the
town,” said Washington’s new Irish ambassador, Anne Anderson,
at Saturday night’s Wolf Trap Ball.  In a strapless maroon gown, she danced to  James Brown  with
Franklin Lowe, an American medical doctor she calls her
“partner.”  “What else am I supposed to call him at my age?” asked
Ireland’s first woman ambassador, 61, who just presented her
credentials to President  Barack Obama  last week in a green
outfit she said was made by an Irish designer.  This isn’t her first time blazing trails for women: she
said she made women’s issues a top priority during her post as
Ireland’s envoy to the  United Nations .  She and others ventured out on a rainy night to Vienna,
Virginia, for the annual gala, the outdoor performing-arts
center’s largest fundraiser, and a favorite among diplomats.  The French Embassy was this year’s patron, and the Wolf
Trap stage, where guests dined, was turned into the Palais
Garnier opera house complete with Degas scenes, giant fleur-de-lis, and a sparkling Eiffel Tower.  Wolf Trap Opera Company Young Artist Mireille Asselin
dazzled with her aria from Gounod’s “Romeo et Juliette.”  French Ambassador Francois Delattre and his wife, Sophie,
dined on sea scallops, beef Rossini and caramel souffle with
 Sean O’Keefe , the chairman and chief executive of EADS North
America.  Congressman Jim Moran, Virginia Democrat, sported a new
beard. He said he was holding on to it, despite collegial
ribbing.  Breast Cancer  Nancy Goodman Brinker, the founder of Susan G. Komen for
the Cure, told the crowd at Friday night’s Honoring the Promise
gala that four different types of  breast cancer  had recently
been identified. Her organization was investing $24 million in
research into this new discovery.  The $1.5 million raised at the gala at the Kennedy Center
will help with this endeavor.  David Rubenstein , the gala’s
founding chairman, challenged the audience to raise a further
$500,000. He pledged $250,000 if everyone else would help Komen
reach its $2 million goal by month’s end.  Victoria Reggie Kennedy accepted the Betty Ford Lifetime
Achievement Award from Susan Ford Bales, Democratic Senator
Patrick Leahy of Vermont and his wife, Marcelle. Kennedy’s late
husband, Senator  Edward Kennedy , died of cancer in 2009.  Caterpillar’s Kathryn Dickey Karol, a vice president of
global government and corporate affairs, was presented with the
Global Leadership Distinction Award for the Caterpillar
Foundation’s $2 million grant to Komen to fund screening
programs in Latin America.  Actress and health advocate Fran Drescher joked about her
own brush with uterine cancer.  “I’ve been in the stirrups more than Roy Rogers,” she
said.  Kool & the Gang closed out the program with “Ladies
Night” as pink confetti exploded from the stage.  Dance Club  Across town at The Hamilton, Revolution LLC Co-Founder
 Steve Case  and Motion Picture Association of America Chairman
 Chris Dodd  were helping long-time bachelor Mark Ein, 48 and the
founder of Venturehouse Group, celebrate his Saturday nuptials
to Sally Steibel, 28 and a policy analyst.  It wasn’t a bachelor party, but a boozy coed dance club
atmosphere. Prince hits pulsated while childhood photos of bride
and groom shone on the wall.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Warwick
Thompson  on London theater,  Martin Gayford  on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 