-- Saab Cuts Defense Electronics Jobs Amid Military Sales Slowdown
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-23T13:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/saab-cuts-defense-electronics-jobs-amid-military-sales-slowdown.html
Saab AB (SAABB) , the Swedish maker of
Gripen fighter jets, said it will try to shift as many as 175
employees from its defense-electronics unit to other positions
in the face of lower military spending.  Saab will reduce defense-electronics staffing at its
Gothenburg facility by 150 to 175 employees, or around 15
percent of the unit’s total, the Stockholm-based company said in
a statement today.  “The measures being presented today within Business area
Electronic Defence Systems are crucial in order to ensure that
Saab will achieve its long term targets,” it said.  The company cut its 2013 profitability forecast in July,
saying sales won’t grow and that earnings before interest and
taxes, excluding one-time items, will decline to about 6.6
percent of revenue. The defense-electronics and missile-making
Dynamics units were particularly hurt by the slowdown.  “Reduced business volumes have resulted in under-utilization of resources and staff,” Micael Johansson, head of
the defense-electronics unit said in the statement. “We must
constantly adapt our business to ensure that we stay
competitive.”  Saab shares were up 0.2 percent at 3:15 p.m. in  Stockholm ,
valuing the company at 14.4 billion kronor ($2.3 billion). The
stock has declined 2.2 percent this year.  Saab will end the sale of some products to adjust to the
more austere sales environment as it targets 500 million kronor
in earnings improvements in coming years, it said in July.
Affected Staff will be urged to take up other positions in the
company or, if they choose to leave, will benefit from company
support initiatives, it said today. The reductions should be
completed by April, spokeswoman Helene Lindstrand said by phone.  It is too early to say what businesses the employees may be
moved into, she said, with discussions only now starting. The
costs, which she would not disclose, are not material,
Lindstrand said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  