-- Scene Last Night: Ackman Boosts Oxford MBA Scholarship
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-09-23T19:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/scene-last-night-ackman-boosts-oxford-mba-scholarship.html
Can’t get your arms around  Bill Ackman ’s bet against Herbalife? Now’s your chance to be one of
the people for whom Bill Ackman pays tuition so they can change
the world.  On Sunday night Ackman’s  Pershing Square Foundation  held a
reception at the Park Avenue Armory to get the word out about
its new scholarship at the Said Business School at Oxford
University.  The event drew the kind of people that cluster around the
 Clinton Global Initiative : Ghislaine Maxwell, an Oxford graduate
who’s making a CGI “commitment” on Wednesday concerning the
oceans; Paul Farmer, co-founder of  Partners in Health , which
recently built a teaching hospital in  Haiti ; and Adam
Wolfensohn, son of former World Bank President James Wolfensohn,
who invests in renewable energy.  Also attending was  Stephen Schwarzman  of  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , who recently gave $300 million to send 200 master’s degree
students a year to  China .  The Pershing Square Foundation has made a $6.6 million
gift, joined by $4.6 million from Oxford, to create the Oxford
Pershing Square Graduate Scholarship. Starting in September
2014, as many as five students a year will have their MBA paid
for, after they complete a master’s degree in a non-business
domain that focuses on needs in poor areas of the world.  Dean’s Dreams  Peter Tufano, dean of the Said Business School, said he
learned the value of this particular combination while running
his own nonprofit,  Doorway to Dreams Fund .  “The people I’ve hired at my nonprofit, they have domain
expertise and most have some kind of management qualification,”
Tufano said. “Not only do you need to understand the problems
the poor face when they try to amass savings, you need to figure
out process engineering, in order to create a system that will
work with a set of banks, or regulators, to implement these
things on a large scale.”  Tufano came to Oxford after 22 years teaching at  Harvard
Business School , and in just eight weeks created the 1+1
program. It pairs a one-year master’s with the one-year MBA that
the Said Business School offers, unlike the two-year model found
in  North America .  Ackman, a former student of Tufano’s at Harvard Business
School, and like him an all-Harvard-educated man, came on board
after a few conversations.  “The problem with the traditional MBA is that after you’ve
borrowed, you have to get a job to pay your loans back,” Ackman
said. “Business training is valuable for social entrepreneurs,
but they can’t afford it.”  Salty Water  Tufano wants to attract “Rhodes-like candidates” who are
past the Rhodes scholarship’s age-cutoff of 25. One model is a
1+1 graduate who studied water policy, then wrote a business
plan in his MBA year for a low-cost instrument developed in an
Oxford lab that measures salinity. The market is shrimp farmers
in  Southeast Asia .  “He’s a very high performer, who in this case is bridging
science, policy and management skills,” said Tufano. “He looks
and feels a lot like a Rhodes Scholar.”  Of course earning the prestige of the Rhodes may take time.  “They’ll need several Nobel Prizes and some
presidencies,” said Allan Goodman, president and chief
executive officer of the Institute of International Education,
which administers the Fulbright program.  Ackman said his foundation, which he formed with his wife,
Karen Ackman, has given more than $200 million in the past five
years.  He wants the scholarship recipients “to eliminate pyramid
schemes,” he joked. “No, it’s whatever their passion is. There
are plenty of problems to solve.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Warwick
Thompson  on London theater,  Martin Gayford  on art.  To contact the writers on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  and on Twitter at
@amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 