-- Schindler Names Napoli Chief to Replace Tinggren
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-09-23T19:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/schindler-names-napoli-chief-to-replace-tinggren.html
Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  named Silvio Napoli as Chief Executive Officer of the Swiss elevator maker to
replace Juergen Tinggren, who will leave the post after 2 years
to join the board of directors.  Napoli, who has been on the company’s executive committee
with responsibility for the Asian region since 2008, will start
in January, the Ebikon-based company with a market valuation of
15.7 billion francs ($17.2 billion) said in an e-mailed
statement today. Napoli joined Schindler in 1994 and held
various positions including vice president  South Asia , CEO of
Schindler’s Indian operations and head of corporate planning.  The new CEO’s knowledge of Schindler’s Asian operations may
help to boost the elevator maker’s profitability and finetune
its expansion strategy after an Aug. 13 profit forecast cut
because of costly investments in China and  India . The shares
dropped as much as 7.1 percent that day, the most in two years.  Schindler said at the time that it sees profit of around
550 million francs to 600 million francs this year, including a
155 million-franc charge on its investment in  Hyundai Elevator
Co. (017800)  That compared with an earlier forecast of as much as 790
million francs. Profit fell 78 percent to 40 million euros in
the second quarter. In contrast, Helsinki-based rival  Kone Oyj (KNEBV) 
said second-quarter sales grew 14 percent on strong China
demand.  Profitability in the second quarter was below market
estimates because of the cost of new products and factories in
new markets, as well as pricing pressure, Kepler Cheuvreux
analyst Oliver Girakhou said at the time.  The Swiss company will start production at the world’s
largest escalator plant in Jiading, China, at the end of this
year, as well as expanding production in India, Slovakia and the
U.S.  Schindler has risen 3.6 percent in Zurich trading this
year, trailing the Swiss Market Index, which is up 18 percent.  Tinggren, who became CEO in Oct. 2011, will join the board
of directors, pending a shareholder vote in March next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  