-- SEC Sues Filmmaker Lawrence Robbins for Insider Trading
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-09-23T18:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/sec-sues-filmmaker-lawrence-robbins-for-insider-trading.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission filed and settled an  insider-trading  lawsuit against
Lawrence Robbins, an independent filmmaker, for trading on tips
he received from a friend involving drug-company acquisitions.  Robbins agreed to pay more than $1 million, including a
$865,000 disgorgement and a $150,000 penalty, without admitting
or denying the claims in the complaint, the SEC said today. He
also consented to be permanently barred from future violations.  The SEC alleged that Robbins, of New York, reaped illicit
profit by trading on illegal tips about the April 2008
acquisition of Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. by  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  and the 2009 purchase of Sepracor Inc. by
 Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma (4506)  Co. The SEC accused him of getting the
tips from his business partner, John Michael Bennett.  “Robbins plotted with his business partner to perpetrate
an insider-trading scheme that enabled him to invest a portion
of his illegal profits in their film production company,” said
Sanjay Wadhwa, Senior Associate Director of Enforcement for the
SEC’s New York office.  Robbins, his friend Bennett, an independent film producer,
and a third man,  Scott Allen , a former Mercer LLC investment
adviser who the U.S. said was the source of the inside
information, made at least $2.6 million in the scheme, according
to the complaint.  Illegal Profit  SEC says that Robbins earned $1.12 million in Millennium
and more than $338,000 in illegal profit by trading in Sepracor.
The SEC said that the settlement, which is subject to court
approval, “takes into account Robbins’s current financial
condition.”  Both Bennett and Allen were sued by the SEC and also
charged with insider trading by the  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney’s
office. Both men pleaded guilty. The SEC said its case against
Allen and Bennett continues.  The Robbins case is SEC v. Robbins 13-cv-06694, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Bennett, 11-cr-00927, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  