-- Selloff in Eike Batista’s OSX Bonds Is Just the Beginning
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y ,   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-09-23T19:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/selloff-in-eike-batista-s-osx-bonds-is-just-the-beginning.html
Eike Batista ’s  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  is
falling like never before in the  bond market , and the prospect
of a legal dispute over $800 million of collateral is a signal
to Citigroup Inc. and Galloway Capital Management LLC that the
worst is yet to come.  OSX’s $500 million of 9.25 percent notes due 2015 have
slumped 7 cents to an unprecedented 79 cents on the dollar this
month on speculation  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , the
oil producer controlled by Batista, won’t have the money to
charter the tanker that secures the shipping unit’s notes. An
OGX default would likely prompt OSX creditors to begin the
process of seizing the ship to recoup their money.  While the ex-billionaire is selling assets and negotiating
with OGX bondholders to buy the oil producer more time, OSX
creditors face deeper losses because their ability to quickly
take control of the vessel may be hampered by  Brazil ’s court
system, Citigroup and Galloway said. Brazil ranks  143 out of 185 
economies when it comes to settling insolvencies, according to
the World Bank. The process takes about four years, more than
twice as long as in the U.S., while recovery rates average 15.9
cents on the dollar versus 81.5 cents.  “What lies ahead is the potential for a deterioration of
the credit amid a lack of expediency and urgency within the
Brazilian legal system,” Ulisses de Oliveira, a  money manager 
at Sao Paulo-based Galloway, which oversees $400 million of
assets, said in an e-mail. OSX “bondholders could very well get
bogged down in Brazilian legal battles with equity holders,
quasi-sovereign creditors and local general creditors trying to
get a hold of real assets to satisfy their own claims.”  OGX Plunge  OSX declined to comment on the prospect of the ship’s
seizure and the performance of their bonds. OGX declined to
comment in an e-mailed response to questions. EBX Group Co., the
parent to both companies, didn’t respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  OGX’s $2.56 billion of bonds due in 2018 have plunged 69
cents this year to 20.3 cents on the dollar on speculation the
company will run out of cash after failing to deliver the oil
output that Batista promised. That would pave the way for what
would be the biggest-ever corporate default in  Latin America ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Batista created OSX to supply, charter and run vessels for
OGX, which last week fired Chief Financial Officer Roberto Monteiro. The company is negotiating with bondholders to secure
additional capital.  OGX said today that it appointed Paulo Narcelio Simoes
Amaral, a former telecommunications executive, to replace
Monteiro as CFO.  Lawyers Hired  If OGX can’t raise more money, or if the oil field the ship
is going to proves unproductive, OSX bondholders will probably
try to seize the vessel. The ship is anchored off the coast of
 Rio de Janeiro , Bloomberg ship-tracking data show.  OSX bondholders have already hired law firm Bingham
McCutchen LLP to help them navigate the process of taking
control of their collateral, according to two people briefed on
the arrangements who asked not to be identified because they’re
not authorized to speak publicly.  Timothy Desieno, a partner at Bingham, declined to comment
on the law firm’s business with OSX.  OSX’s bonds will probably fall further, Bevan Rosenbloom,
an analyst at New York-based Citigroup, said in report to
clients dated Sept. 16.  ‘Seizure Process’  “We believe the process of collateral seizure is uncertain
and could take time which would mean bonds not receiving coupon
payments up to 12-18 months,” Rosenbloom wrote. “Such action
would not occur in a vacuum and will likely involve many other
parties, including both other creditors and other OSX and EBX
entities as debtors, thereby adding to risk that any seizure
process could be long and protracted.”  Rosenbloom declined to comment beyond the report.  Miami-based  World Fuel Services Corp. (INT)  sued OSX and EBX last
week for 19 million reais ($8.6 million) in unpaid obligations
tied to fuel provided to transport the ship from  Singapore  to
Brazil, according to court filings. The company is requesting
that a Rio de Janeiro-based judge block the ship, known as
OSX-3, from leaving Brazilian territorial waters.  OSX has asked state-development bank BNDES and federally
controlled Caixa Economica Federal, Brazil’s fourth-largest bank
by assets, to extend maturities on debt due next month for at
least a year, newspaper  Folha de S. Paulo  reported last week
without saying how it got the information. OSX is also in
negotiations with Banco Votorantim SA and Banco Santander Brasil
SA, which provided guarantees for the loans, and oil and gas
industry supplier Techint Group, which it owes at least $100
million, according to Folha.  ‘Unfair Treatment’  BNDES President  Luciano Coutinho  said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York  on Sept. 18 that the
country has the institutions and the market mechanisms in place
to handle a large-scale restructuring in an orderly fashion and
in a way that respects all stakeholders.  “So far, I have no indication of unequal or unfair
treatment between creditors,” Cuoutinho said. “The behavior of
Mr. Batista has been so far fair and correct. This is a good
example of how trouble in a big group is being resolved through
market mechanisms.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries climbed one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 221 basis points at
3:36 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years climbed five basis points to 162 basis points.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real strengthened 0.5 percent to 2.2 per  U.S. dollar .
Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January were
unchanged at 9.24 percent.  Brazil  ranks below  countries including  Egypt , Argentina and
 Pakistan  when it comes to weaknesses in existing insolvency law
and procedural and administrative bottlenecks that slow
bankruptcy processes, according to the  World Bank ’s Doing
Business project.  OSX’s notes have declined from a record high 105.7 cents on
the dollar earlier this year after the company failed to issue a
second bond in March and OGX canceled leases for other vessels.  “Thus far OSX’s bonds have fallen purely from a
combination of a failure of the company to place new financing,
the return of OSX-2 in particular, and the increase in the
credit risk perception of OGX,” Galloway’s Oliviera said. “The
market hasn’t started pricing any Brazilian legal risk at all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  