-- Republicans Mull Tactics That Risk Government Shutdown
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-09-24T14:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/senate-panel-leaders-fault-republicans-on-spending-gambit.html
House Republicans  are considering
alternatives to deny funding for the health-care law that could
extend the spending debate past a Sept. 30 deadline, raising the
risk of a federal government shutdown.  The Senate is set to hold a test vote tomorrow on the
legislation passed by the House to cover federal spending
through Dec. 15, and choke off funds for President  Barack Obama ’s health law. The next fiscal year begins Oct. 1.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said the Senate will pass
a spending measure without defunding the health law. In
response, House Republicans are mulling language that would
hinder the law’s implementation, to be added when the Senate
sends back the measure, according to congressional aides.  The disagreement probably will continue through the
weekend, adding pressure on Congress to agree on a spending
bill, or begin closing some government operations.  Reid said today Republicans are harboring resentment over
not winning the presidency or the Senate majority in 2012,
fueling their opposition to the health-care law.  “It’s time to set that anger aside,” Reid said.
Republicans should “stop fighting old battles” and work with
Democrats to prevent a government shutdown.  Senate Democrats  are considering a proposal that would
continue government funding through mid-November, a month
shorter than the House version.  ‘Wasting Millions’  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the No. 2 Democrat in
the chamber, said he supports a Nov. 15 measure and it would
leave time to consider catch-all spending known as an omnibus.  “We are repeating last year’s budget over and over
again,” said Durbin, who is chairman of the Senate panel that
funds the Pentagon. “That is a waste of federal money. At the
 Department of Defense , we are wasting millions if not billions
by just repeating last year’s budget.”  The spending debate continues the partisan battle over the
health-care law, which passed without Republican support in
2010. Republicans have tried without success to repeal or chip
away at it since.  The House and Senate are starting to debate an increase in
the federal borrowing limit, which could be reached sometime
after the middle of next month, according to the Treasury
Department.  House Republican leaders are discussing options for the
spending measure once the Senate removes the defunding language.  Republican Options  One option in the House would eliminate the medical-device
tax, which is expected to raise about $30 billion over the next
decade, according to two Republican aides, who asked not to be
identified because the plans aren’t final.  The repeal has 261 House co-sponsors. Adding the language
to the spending bill would be a test for several Democrats.
Senators  Mark Begich  of Alaska,  Kay Hagan  of  North Carolina  and
 Mark Pryor  of  Arkansas , all of whom are seeking re-election in
2014, have previously backed a similar measure as a non-binding
amendment to the budget resolution.  Republican Senators  John McCain  of Arizona and  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  yesterday said the stopgap legislation
should include a repeal of the medical-device tax.  Republicans are also considering a delay in implementing
the federal data hub, which connects state health exchanges with
federal agencies including the  Internal Revenue Service , to
verify uninsured individuals shopping for health insurance.  Eliminating Subsidies  Among options being considered is eliminating subsidies
that members of Congress would receive to buy insurance on the
exchanges under Obamacare, the Republican aides said.  A delay of the independent payment advisory board is also
under consideration, they said. The advisory board created under
the Affordable Care Act must recommend policies to Congress to
help Medicare provide better care at lower costs, according to
the White House.  Another leadership aide who asked not to be identified said
Republican leaders are not ruling out passing a clean spending
measure. The House plans are in flux and will depend on what
Republican members would back.  Reid said yesterday that he was open to changes to improve
the health-care law, although he’s said the spending measure is
the wrong forum for that debate.  “A vast majority of Americans, including those who
disapprove of the health-care law, want Congress to work to
improve it, not to tear it down,” Reid said.  ‘Damages Jobs’  Republican Senator Ted Cruz yesterday said “nothing
damages jobs more than Obamacare,” and reiterated his pledge to
do everything he can to keep the defunding language intact.  Cruz sought consent to have the Senate pass the House
measure unchanged or to have all amendments --- including to
strip the health care language -- subjected to a 60-vote
threshold. Reid objected to both efforts.  “There’s a tendency in this town towards brinkmanship,”
Cruz said, adding that Reid missed an opportunity to take a
shutdown “off the table.”  Other Senate Republicans have criticized linking the health
care law to the spending fight. McCain, for instance, has called
such efforts a political “suicide note.”  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said he would vote
to end debate on the House bill because it would force Democrats
to defend the health-care law and remove funding. He also will
oppose the tactics backed by Cruz to delay action on the stopgap
spending measure.  ‘Rare Opportunity’  “This is a rare opportunity to defund the law with a
simple majority,” McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said.“ We
should have that vote.”  “I just don’t think filibustering a bill that defunds
Obamacare is the best route to defund Obamacare,” he said.  Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , the No. 2 Republican in the
chamber, also backs the House bill and won’t block a measure
that cuts off funding for the health law, according to Megan
Mitchell, a Cornyn spokeswoman.  Federal offices have begun planning for the possibility of
a government shutdown.  Part of House Republican leaders’ strategy is to time a
vote on increasing the debt-limit that could satisfy many of the
Republican members’ demands if the Senate prevails in keeping
Obamacare funded.  The House this week may start considering a measure to
suspend the U.S. borrowing limit for one year instead of raising
it by a specific amount, and attach provisions including a delay
in the health law for one year, according to a proposal
distributed by party leaders to members and obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  Obama and congressional Democrats have said they won’t
negotiate attaching spending cuts or changes to the health care
law as part of any debt ceiling increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  