-- Shinhan Is Among Bidders for Woori Finance’s Regional Banks
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-09-24T06:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/shinhan-among-bidders-for-korea-s-stake-in-woori-regional-banks.html
South Korea  received a first round
of offers to buy  Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000) ’s two regional banks
as part of the government’s latest attempt to privatize the
nation’s biggest financial group by assets.  Seven potential investors submitted preliminary bids for
Woori’s Kwangju Bank unit and four made offers for Kyongnam
Bank, Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. said by e-mail yesterday,
without naming them. Shinhan Financial Group Co. said it made an
offer for Kwangju and  Industrial Bank of Korea (024110)  said it was among
the bidders for Kyongnam. The total stakes to be sold may be
valued at about $2 billion, according to  Kyobo Securities Co. (030610)   South Korea said in June that it will sell Woori’s assets
separately after failing to attract buyers for its 57 percent
stake three times since 2010. The government has lumped the
assets into three groups as it tries to recoup taxpayer money
spent more than a decade ago to bail out the weakest banks.  “The number of interested parties may signal smooth
sailing for the first stage of Woori’s privatization,” said
Sohn Joon Beom, an analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co. in
 Seoul . “The government will be able to get enough bids to
finally complete the sale” of the local lenders.  Shares of Woori Finance fell 0.4 percent to 12,600 won at
the close of trading in Seoul. The stock has gained 6.8 percent
this year compared with a 0.5 percent increase in the benchmark
 Kospi Index. (KOSPI)   Private Equity  A consortium of  private equity  funds and businessmen based
in Gyeongnam province submitted a preliminary bid for Kyongnam
Bank, Yun Jong Soo, a spokesman for Changwon Chamber of Commerce
& Industry, which represents the group, said by phone yesterday.
A group of businessmen based in Gwangju city and Jeonnam
province lodged an offer for Kwangju Bank, the Gwangju Chamber
of Commerce & Industry said in an e-mailed statement.  DGB Financial Group Inc. (139130)  submitted bids for both banks, as
did  BS Financial Group Inc. (138930) , the companies said in separate
regulatory filings today.  The government is seeking to sell 57 percent of each
lender. Its Kyongnam Bank holding may be worth about 1.2
trillion won ($1.1 billion) and its stake in Kwangju Bank may be
valued at about 1 trillion won, according to Hwang Seok Kyu, an
analyst at Kyobo Securities. Prices may go up if competition
intensifies, Hwang said.  Recouping Bailout  Kyongnam Bank, based in the southeastern industrial city of
Changwon, had 31 trillion won of assets as of December,
including 1.97 trillion won in equity capital, according to
Financial Services Commission data. Kwangju Bank, based in the
namesake southwestern city of Gwangju, had 20 trillion won of
assets, including 1.34 trillion won in equity capital, the FSC,
the regulator leading the asset sales, said at the time.  The regional banks were folded into  Woori Finance  in 2001
after the government created the holding company for lenders
rescued after the Asian financial crisis in 1997-1998. The
government spent 12.8 trillion won to bail out Woori and has
recouped 5.7 trillion won through share sales including an
initial public offering, the FSC said in June.  The government plans to name preferred bidders for the
regional banks by the end of December and complete the sale by
the first half of 2014 after spinning off the lenders from Woori
Finance, the financial regulator said at the time.  Woori Finance last month asked for bids for its brokerage,
asset management, savings bank and life insurance businesses,
setting an Oct. 21 deadline for initial offers. Its flagship
 Woori Bank , credit card business and other units will be sold
next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  