-- Shipping Lenders Toughen Oversight After Worst Rout in 23 Years
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-09-23T05:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/shipping-lenders-toughen-oversight-after-worst-rout-in-23-years.html
Shipping lenders are tightening
rules on who their clients can trade with after the industry’s
worst rout in at least 23 years.  Banks are threatening to cancel loans if ship owners do
business with customers they perceive to be at risk of failing
to honor contracts, according to the Baltic and International
Maritime Council, whose members control 65 percent of the global
fleet. That means some shipping companies are being forced into
shorter contracts from a smaller pool of clients, said Peter Sand, an analyst at the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based group.  The value of merchant ships plunged as much as 80 percent
since 2008 as the industry’s biggest-ever building program
created a glut of capacity. The vessels are typically used as
collateral on loans. At the same time, banks curbed lending to
set aside more capital following the global recession.  “Five years ago, you always called your shipbroker in the
morning,” Sand said by phone Sept. 16. “Now you call your ship
banker in the morning. If you do not sign up with blue chips,
the banks might not approve your loans.”  The ClarkSea Index, a gauge of industrywide earnings,
averaged $9,258 a day this year, the lowest level since at least
1990, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the largest shipbroker. The
price of a five-year-old Capesize, which typically haul iron ore
and coal, fell to $30 million at the end of November, from
$153.5 million five years ago, according to data from Simpson,
Spence & Young Ltd., a shipbroker in London.  Iron Ore  The surplus of ships available to transport iron ore, coal
and grains expanded to the biggest since at least 1986, Clarkson
said in August. The glut of supertankers is the largest since
the mid-1980s, according to Fearnley Consultants AS, a maritime
research company in Oslo.  “Banks are imposing a degree of discipline on the market
that doesn’t exist when times are good,” said Stephen Cogley,
an attorney at Quadrant Chambers in  London  who specializes in
trade and arbitration. “If you’re a blue-chip trading party
with a low history of default, you may find that’s a very
attractive proposition to be contracting with.”  HSH Nordbank AG said Sept. 20 it prefers shorter contracts
so that ship owners can lock in higher rates later. “A very
careful view on the quality of the charter is of tremendous
importance,” especially for dry-bulk carriers, Christian
Nieswandt, the bank’s global head of shipping for domestic
clients, and Ingmar Loges, global head of shipping for
international clients, said in a statement.  Renowned Charters  The Hamburg-based bank said Aug. 30 that its loans to the
shipping industry fell by 1 billion euros ($1.35 billion) to 26
billion euros in the second quarter.  Deutsche Schiffsbank, a unit of  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , reduced its
exposure at default in the shipping industry to 17 billion euros
in the second quarter from 18.3 billion euros in the first three
months of the year, according to a company presentation.
Exposure at default is a calculation of losses in the event of
borrowers defaulting.  “Like banks, borrowers are interested in charters with
renowned partners and which cover the costs of loan servicing,
provided that this is possible in the current market,”
Commerzbank said in a statement. “Customers and banks have the
same interest when making charters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  