-- Singapore Makes Firms Consider Citizens Before Hiring Foreigners
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-09-23T05:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/singapore-introduces-framework-for-hiring-its-citizens-fairly.html
Singapore  will impose new rules
prodding companies to consider locals before hiring foreigners
for professional jobs, according to the Ministry of Manpower.  The city state will set up a job bank where companies are
required to advertise positions before applying for so-called
employment passes for foreign professionals, it said. The
advertisements must be open to all Singaporeans.  “Even as we remain open to foreign manpower to complement
our local workforce, all firms must make an effort to consider
Singaporeans fairly,” Acting Manpower Minister Tan Chuan-Jin
said in a statement today. “‘Hiring-own-kind’ and other
discriminatory practices that unfairly exclude Singaporeans run
against our fundamental values of fairness and meritocracy.”  Singapore tightened restrictions on foreign workers for a
fourth straight year in February, in part because of voter
discontent over congestion, rising property prices and greater
competition for jobs and education. The curbs have led to a
labor crunch and rising wage costs for companies, which the
government has said will probably hurt growth in  Southeast
Asia ’s only advanced economy.  Local Talent  Responding to feedback from Singaporeans that some
companies are hiring foreigners over citizens, Tan and Deputy
Prime Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  met with senior management
in a number of financial companies to emphasize that they should
make a concerted effort to develop a local talent pipeline, the
manpower minister said in Parliament in March.  “We must set expectations about what is acceptable and
what is not,” Tan said today. “It requires persuasion,
explanation and leading by example. The worst employers must be
taken to task.”  Singapore will also raise the minimum pay for employment-pass holders to S$3,300 ($2,600) a month in January, according
to the statement. The job bank will be set up by mid-2014, it
said. Companies with 25 or fewer employees will be exempt from
the new rules, as well as jobs that pay a fixed monthly salary
of S$12,000 or more, according to the statement.  The government will also identify firms “that have scope
to improve,” such as those with a lower concentration of
Singaporeans at the professional, managerial and executive
levels, compared to their peers, or those that have faced
nationality-based discriminatory complaints, the ministry said.  Foreign employment growth in Singapore slowed in the first
half of 2013 from a year earlier and the  labor market  will
remain tight for the rest of 2013, the ministry said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  