-- SNB Jordan Says Franc Cap ‘Indispensable’ to Limit Risks
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-09-24T05:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/snb-jordan-says-franc-cap-indispensable-to-limit-risks.html
The Swiss franc is still highly
valued and the central bank’s currency ceiling remains essential
for safeguarding the economy, Swiss National Bank President
Thomas Jordan said.  Citing the risk of deflation and a recession, the SNB set a
cap of 1.20 francs per euro in September 2011 after investors
anxious about the region’s sovereign debt crisis pushed the
franc close to parity.  “The cap was set at a level at which the franc was still
highly valued,” Jordan said yesterday at a reception in honor
of the KOF economic institute in Zurich. “Today the franc is
still a highly valued currency. The cap remains an indispensable
tool of our  monetary policy  to limit downside risks.”  An easing of market stress has allowed the franc, popular
as a haven, to depreciate 1.8 percent against the euro this
year. It was little changed at 1.2294 per euro at 7:53 a.m. in
Zurich. Against the dollar it stood at 91.09 centimes.  The 17-nation currency bloc will contract 0.4 percent this
year, according to the  European Central Bank ’s forecast. By
contrast,  Switzerland  will grow 1.5 percent to 2 percent in
2013, the SNB said at its quarterly policy review last week. The
central bank also stuck with the cap, citing the possibility of
 Europe ’s debt crisis intensifying again.  The SNB spent 188 billion francs ($206 billion) on buying
foreign currencies last year to defend the cap. SNB policy
makers have stressed that without the cap, Switzerland would
have suffered a severe recession.  Fine-Tuning  “Monetary policy can be used to damp cyclical
fluctuations,” Jordan also said. “It is not suitable for
short-term fine-tuning of the economy,” he said, adding that
this also applied to the cap.  ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said in April the
SNB’s cap on the franc was acceptable so long as it didn’t
create spillover for other countries.  The  Social Democrats , the second-biggest party in
Switzerland’s lower house of parliament, last week said the
franc was still too strong,  according to a statement  on their
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  