-- Somalia Asks Barclays to Review Closing Money-Transfer Account
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-09-23T12:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/somalia-asks-barclays-to-review-closing-money-transfer-account.html
Somali Prime Minister Abdi Farah
Shirdon Saaid asked  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to reconsider its decision to
close the accounts of the nation’s money-transfer services.  “It will directly affect millions of entirely innocent
Somalis for whom remittances from overseas are absolutely
vital,” Shirdon wrote in the letter to Barclays Chief Executive
Officer  Antony Jenkins  today. “This is how they feed their
families, clothe their children and treat their illnesses.”  Barclays said in May it would close the account Dahabshiil
Holdings Ltd. uses to send money back to  Somalia , citing the
lack of “strong anti-laundering governance structures.” That
date was moved from July 10 to Aug. 12 and then to Sept. 30,
after British lawmakers lobbied the London-based lender.  The Central Bank of Somalia estimates that remittances
account for 60 percent of the Horn of Africa nation’s foreign-exchange earnings. The appeal by Shirdon comes as at least 69
people were killed in a shopping mall in the Kenyan capital
Nairobi by al-Qaeda-linked gunmen from Al-Shabaab, the Somali
Islamist militant group. While acknowledging Barclays’s
“legitimate concerns” over money-laundering and terrorism,
Shirdon said the bank’s decision will exacerbate the situation.  “Rather than countering terrorist activity, the move will
merely play into the hands of groups like Al-Shabaab by damaging
Somali economic activity and forcing unemployed youth into their
arms,” Shirdon said in the letter to the Barclays CEO.  Bank Compliance  Barclays said it has been engaging with the British
government and the remittance industry over its provision of
banking services and has provided customers with additional time
to find alternatives.  “As a global bank, we must comply with the rules and
regulations in all the jurisdictions in which we operate,”
Barclays said in an e-mailed statement today. “We remain happy
to serve companies who, in our opinion, have sufficiently strong
anti-financial crime controls and who meet our amended
eligibility criteria.”  Barclays said of the four remittance companies for Somalia
it had asked to find another bank, at least one had already done
so.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second largest bank by assets, handles
as much as a third of the $1.5 billion sent home annually by
those living abroad to Somalia, according to Dubai-based
Dahabshiil.  “If the accounts closure goes ahead, Barclays will be
condemning millions of Somalis to terrible poverty,” the prime
minster said in the letter. “Somali lives may even be lost as a
result.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  