-- Sony, War Memorial, DMCA, Lubin: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-23T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/sony-war-memorial-dmca-lubin-intellectual-property.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  won a federal judge’s
ruling that it doesn’t infringe a patent owned by defense
contractor  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)  for image sensors
used in video cameras and security systems.  L-3 filed the suit in federal court in  Delaware  in August
2011, seeking a  jury trial , unspecified damages and a permanent
injunction against infringing products.  In a Sept. 19 opinion, U.S. District Judge Richard Andrews
said Tokyo-based Sony didn’t infringe patent 5,541,654. He said
the Sony also didn’t infringe under patent law’s doctrine of
equivalents, which finds infringement in an item that operates
the same way as a patent describes.  The case is L-3 Communications Corp. v. Sony Corp., 1:10-cv-00734-RGA, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  WIPO Says It Added China’s Patent Collection to Patent Database  The World  Intellectual Property  Organization, a United
Nations agency, has expanded its patent database with the
addition of  China ’s national patent collection, the Geneva-based
organization said in a Sept. 20  statement.   About 3 million documents from China were added, bringing
the database to about 32.5 million documents. Patent
applications made under the international Patent Cooperation
Treaty are available in full-text format on the day of
publication, and may be searched in multiple languages, WIPO
said.  The database included English-language bibliography data
for Chinese patents and patent applications from 1985 to 1995,
and from 1996 onwards in both English and Chinese.  WIPO said Chinese residents filed 415,829 applications in
2011, the most of any country in the world.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Korean Memorial Sculptor Awarded $685,000 Over Stamp Image  The sculptor who created figures of weighed down soldiers
at the  Korean War Veterans Memorial  in  Washington  will receive
almost $685,000 in royalties for the unauthorized use of the
image, a federal court ruled yesterday.  Frank Gaylord , who designed the stainless-steel models
known as The Column, had won a copyright-infringement case
against the U.S.  Postal Service  for its use of the sculptures on
a  stamp  issued in 2002 marking the 50th anniversary of the
armistice. The service had paid $1,500 for rights to a
photograph of the soldiers covered in snow.  Gaylord appealed after he was awarded $5,000 for the use of
his copyright. A federal appeals court said that award didn’t
take into consideration how much Gaylord would have demanded in
negotiations before the image was used without his permission.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit said in
May 2012 that the lower court should consider the outcome of a
hypothetical negotiation over total sales, including to
collectors and commercial merchandise.  In its ruling yesterday, the lower court looked at the
value of the unused stamps using this image that were purchased
by collectors and commercial merchandise sold by the U.S. Postal
Service that featured an image of the stamp. Gaylord didn’t
include the value of stamps actually used to send mail, and the
court didn’t award any damages in that category.  The Postal Service derived an estimated $5.4 million from
the stamps that were collected and not used as postage, and
almost $331,000 from the sales of related merchandise, according
to the court ruling.  The court applied a 10 percent royalty rate to these
amounts and awarded Gaylord $540,000 in damages for stamps
bought by collectors, and $33,092 for merchandise using the
stamp’s image. He was also awarded pre-judgment interest of
$111,752, bringing his total award to $644,844.  The case is Frank Gaylord v. U.S., 1:06-cv-00539-TCW, U.S.
Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  Home Birth Dispute Brings in MPAA and EFF Over DMCA Request  A dispute between a  Massachusetts  physician and an Illinois
doula over the safety of home birth brought the Electronic
Frontier Foundation in on one side, and the  Motion Picture
Association  of America on the other.  The doula -- a non-medical childbirth assistant -- failed
in her request that the court dismiss the copyright suit.  Dr. Amy Tuteur is the author of “ The Skeptical OB ,” a
blog that opposes and warns of the dangers of home birth. Gina
Crosley-Corcoran, the doula, is the author of the blog “ The
Feminist Breeder ,” and a proponent of so-called natural birth.  The two bloggers have feuded over the safety of home birth,
and in December, Crosley-Corcoran posted a photograph of herself
giving the middle finger and stating she posted it to give
Tuteur “something else to go back to her blog and obsess
about.”  Tuteur copied the photo and posted it on her own blog
without Crosley-Corcoran’s permission. The doula filed a
takedown request to Tuteur’s Internet service provider, claiming
her copyright on the photo was infringed. Tuteur filed a counter
notice protesting the infringement claim.  The Internet service provider told both parties it was up
to them to pursue legal action. Tuteur shifted her blog to a new
service provider and again used the photo. Crosley-Corcoran sent
a second takedown notice and Tuteur submitted a counter notice.  Lawyers for Crosley-Corcoran then attempted unsuccessfully
to broker a settlement. Instead, Tuteur filed suit in federal
court in Massachusetts in January, accusing the doula of making
misrepresentations and interfering with her business
relationships with her  Internet service providers .  Crosley-Corcoran sought to have the case dismissed. The
 Motion Picture Association of America  came into the case as a
friend of the court supporting Crosley-Corcoran while  San
Francisco ’s  Electronic Frontier Foundation  and the  Digital
Medial Law Project  from  Harvard University  filed briefs on
Tuteur’s behalf.  The organizations filing court briefs addressed the issue
of the takedown notice, and the proper test of what is required
of a copyright owner before the filing of such a request.  U.S. District Judge Richard G. Stearns said in his Sept. 10
ruling that Tuteur properly pleaded that Crosley-Corcoran made
“a knowing and material misrepresentation” in her takedown
requests and refused to dismiss the suit.  The judge also rejected Tuteur’s argument that the
copyright owner needed to go beyond belief that infringement
occurred in order to file a DMCA complaint.  The case is Amy Tuteur M.D. v. Gina Crosley-Corcoran, 1:13-cv-10159-RGS, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  ‘Undie Run’ Renamed, Reset for Same Time as Church’s Conference  A conflict over the trademark for a clothing brand means
delegates to the annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in  Salt Lake City  will be surrounded by
thousands of runners in their underwear around the conference
site on Oct. 6,  according to  the Salt Lake Tribune.  Organizers of the Undie Run ran into opposition from  San
Diego ’s The Dew LLC, which uses the  Undie Run  name with events
to promote its products and raise funds for charity, the
newspaper reported.  Initially race organizers called off the event, which was
set for Sept. 22. They renamed it the Utah Underwear Run and
scheduled it the same weekend as the church’s conference,
according to the Tribune.  Nate Porter, founder of the event, said it couldn’t be
postponed until later in October because it would be too cold
for runners clad only in their underwear, the newspaper
reported.  Lubin’s Former Subsidiary Agrees to Surrender Trademarked Goods  A  Georgia  company organized as a subsidiary of a 215-year-old French perfume house has agreed to surrender all goods and
promotional materials bearing the French company’s trademarks.  Lubin  North America  Inc. was sued in federal court in
Atlanta Aug. 15 for trademark infringement in August by  Lubin
SARL , of Paris. According to court papers, the French company
was founded in 1798, and created fragrances that were the
favorites of the Empress Josephine.  Atlanta-based Lubin North America was accused of using the
marks without authorization following the termination of its
license in March 2013. The French company said it had the
exclusive worldwide rights to use the Lubin trademarks and to
sue for infringement.  Investigators for the French company found Lubin-marked
products continued to be sold and that the company’s trademarks
continued to be visible in images of the defendants’ store
posted on Facebook Inc.’s social media site.  The French company demanded an end to the alleged
infringement and damages in excess of $2.5 million.  Under an agreement filed with the court Sept. 9, the
defendants agreed to quit using the Lubin marks in any way, and
to surrender all remaining Lubin inventory and promotional
materials at its stores in Tennessee and Georgia, and to provide
an accounting of all sales of any Lubin-branded products and
transactions entered into by Lubin North America. The agreement
made no mention of money damages.  The case is Lubin SARL v. Lubin North America Inc., 1:13-cv-02696-AT, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia
(Atlanta).  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 