-- South Korea Receives Initial Bids for Woori’s Two Regional Banks
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-09-23T09:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/south-korea-receives-initial-bids-for-woori-s-two-regional-banks.html
South Korea received a first round
of offers to buy  Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000) ’s two regional banks
as part of the government’s latest attempt to privatize the
nation’s biggest financial group.  Seven potential investors submitted preliminary bids for
Woori’s Kwangju Bank unit and four made offers for Kyongnam
Bank, Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. said in an e-mailed
statement today, without naming them.  Industrial Bank of Korea (024110) 
said it was among the bidders for Kyongnam, and Shinhan
Financial Group Co. said it made an offer for Kwangju.  South Korea said in June that it will sell Woori’s assets
separately after failing to attract buyers for its 57 percent
stake three times since 2010. The government has lumped the
assets into three groups as it tries to recoup taxpayer money
spent more than a decade ago to bail out the weakest banks.  A consortium of private equity funds and businessmen based
in Gyeongnam province submitted a preliminary bid for Kyongnam
Bank, Yun Jong Soo, a spokesman for Changwon Chamber of Commerce
& Industry, which represents the group, said by phone.  A group of businessmen based in Gwangju city and Jeonnam
province lodged an offer for Kwangju Bank, the Gwangju Chamber
of Commerce & Industry said in an e-mailed statement.  The government is seeking to sell 57 percent of each bank.
Its Kyongnam Bank holding may be worth about 1.2 trillion won
($1.1 billion) and its stake in Kwangju Bank may be valued at
about 1 trillion won, estimated Hwang Seok Kyu, an analyst at
 Kyobo Securities Co. (030610)  Prices may go up if competition
intensifies, Hwang said.  Kyongnam Bank, based in the southeastern industrial city of
Changwon, had 31 trillion won of assets as of December,
including 1.97 trillion won in equity capital, according to
Financial Services Commission data. Kwangju Bank, based in the
namesake southwestern city of Gwangju, had 20 trillion won of
assets, including 1.34 trillion won in equity capital, the FSC,
a government regulator leading the sales of Woori Finance
assets, said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  