-- S. Korea Tax Debate Ignites as Revenue Gap Hampers Park: Economy
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-09-24T05:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/south-korea-tax-debate-ignites-as-revenue-gap-hampers-president.html
Seven months after taking office,
South Korean President Park Geun Hye’s election promises
threaten to unravel as revenue shortfalls ignite a debate on tax
increases to pay for her welfare and  defense spending  plans.  A budget plan for 2014 is due to be submitted to the
National Assembly by Oct. 2, as Park chases 135 trillion won
($126 billion) over five years to fund her pledges. The
president is likely to comment on her promises at a Cabinet
meeting on Sept. 26, her spokeswoman Lee Mi Yon said today.  South Korea ’s fiscal deficit widened to a record 46.2
trillion won in the first half as slower growth dented revenue,
leading some lawmakers in Park’s ruling Saenuri party to say
that tax increases could be needed to fund the extra spending.
Any move to push up levies would risk dragging down the
president’s popularity and sapping momentum from  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy as policy makers try to cement a recovery.  “If the government starts raising taxes, it’s likely to
hit big business and high-income individuals,” said Jeon Young Jae, a Seoul-based economist at Samsung Economic Research
Institute, adding that higher corporate taxes could “damp
momentum in production.”  The government aims to sustain the pace of  economic growth 
after a 1.1 percent expansion in the second quarter that was the
fastest in more than two years. The Kospi index of stocks has
climbed about 12 percent from this year’s low in June as
exporters such as Samsung Electronics Co. weather the decline in
the yen that aids rivals in  Japan .  ‘Last Resort’  The Kospi index was roughly unchanged at 2:38 p.m. The won
was also unchanged at 1074.15 per dollar.  While Park aims to provide more support to an aging
population, narrow an  income gap  and bolster the military, she
said during her election campaign that raising taxes would be a
“last resort.” Instead, she aimed to use measures such as a
crackdown on tax dodging and the cash economy, and cuts to
government spending in other areas, to find the cash.  Last week, she told ruling and opposition party leaders
that increasing taxes would be possible “under a national
consensus,” according to Yeo Sang Kyoo, a ruling party
lawmaker.  Park will preside over the Cabinet meeting on Sept. 26
instead of the prime minister and will probably comment on her
election pledges to expand pensions for the elderly and support
for people with four major diseases, including cancer and
cardiac disorders, said Lee, the president’s spokeswoman. Lee
declined to elaborate.  ‘Road Map’  The government may not stick to her welfare pledges,
including pensions for the elderly, due to revenue constraints,
 Chosun Ilbo  reported yesterday, citing unnamed government
officials.  “The government seems to have no road map,” another
ruling party lawmaker, Kim Tae Ho, said at parliament committee
on Sept. 13. “Most people agree you can’t raise enough money”
through targeting  tax evasion  and looking for savings within
 government spending , the lawmaker said.  For his part, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok has said that
the government should focus on efforts such as reducing tax
exemptions and cracking down on the cash economy before turning
to tax increases.  In an interview in  Seoul  on Aug. 28, Hyun said he “cannot
say” whether the government will achieve a goal of balancing
its books by 2017, citing factors including the decline in  tax
revenue . “All I can say is that fiscal consolidation is the
most important issue that the government keeps in mind.”  Support Falls  Already, the government has struck controversy over taxes.
A revised  tax code  announced by the  finance ministry  on Aug. 8
was scrapped by Park four days later after complaints from
members of the public and politicians that it favored the
wealthy and conglomerates. The president said her administration
hadn’t intended to thin the wallets of low and middle-income
earners.  South Korea’s main opposition party has boycotted the
current session of parliament since Sept. 2 over allegations
that the national spy agency meddled in the presidential
election in which Park won.  Park’s support rate fell to 60.9 percent on Sept. 20 from a
record high of 69.5 percent on Sept. 10, after steadily
recovering from 45 percent in late March, according to a survey
by Seoul-based pollster Realmeter.  Household Debt  “If the public starts believing that Park is backtracking
on her pledge to increase welfare and favoring conglomerates,
her approval ratings could take a hit,” said Choi Chang Ryul, a
professor of liberal arts at Yong In University, south of Seoul,
and a political commentator.  The South Korean economy faces headwinds, with record
 household debt  and a sluggish housing market weighing on
consumption. A slowdown in business investment prompted Park to
consult with business heads last month on regulatory changes
that could help create jobs and boost wages. In the longer term,
officials also face the challenge of an aging population.  The nation’s fiscal deficit will widen to 1.8 percent of
gross domestic product in 2013 from 1.4 percent last year, the
government forecast in May when the parliament approved an extra
budget to help spur growth.  “The government will be in a perennial tug-of-war over
fiscal restraint for a long time as it deals with the aging
population and increasing welfare costs,” said Jeon at Samsung
Economic Research Institute.  Standard & Poor’s  said in a statement today it affirmed
South Korea’s long-term ratings at A+, reflecting the country’s
“favorable” policy environment and “sound” fiscal position,
and net external creditor status.  Later today in  Europe , data may show that German business
confidence increased for a fifth month in September amid signs
the economic recovery is continuing in the euro area, according
to a survey of economists by  Bloomberg News .  Other data in the U.S. may indicate  consumer confidence 
slipped in September while the pace of gains in  home prices  in
July picked up, Bloomberg surveys showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  