-- Soybeans Slump to 1-Month Low on U.S. Dry Weather; Grains Rise
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-23T18:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/soybeans-slump-to-1-month-low-as-u-s-crop-improves-grains-rise.html
Soybeans dropped to a one-month low
on speculation that dry weather in the U.S. Midwest will help
maturing crops rebound after conditions deteriorated. Corn and
wheat rose.  The weather will be mostly dry and warm over the next two
weeks, T-Storm Weather LLC said in a note to clients. Soybean-crop conditions  deteriorated  for five straight weeks and are the
worst so far this season. About 50 percent of fields were in
good or excellent condition as of Sept. 15, compared with 64
percent on Aug. 11. The U.S. Department of Agriculture will
publish its weekly update on crop ratings later today.  “The weather, at least in the extended outlook, looks
warmer,” Mark Schultz, the chief analyst for Northstar
Commodity Investment Co., said in a telephone interview from
 Minneapolis . “That means more harvest will pick up. Most of
these beans are going to make it to maturity.”  Soybean futures for November delivery slid 0.6 percent to
settle at $13.0775 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade, after falling to $13.055, the lowest since Aug. 23.
Prices dropped 4.8 percent last week.  “The U.S. soybean harvest has commenced, and the early
yield results seem to be holding up better than expected,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) , said in a report today. “The oilseed market will be
torn between mounting U.S. harvest pressure, changing production
estimates and strong export-sales results.”  Soybeans rallied for six weeks through Sept. 13 as crop
 conditions  in the Midwest worsened, government data show.  Corn futures for December delivery rose 0.5 percent to
close at $4.5325 a bushel in Chicago. Prices slumped 1.7 percent
last week, the third straight decline.  Wheat futures for delivery in December climbed 1.1 percent
to $6.535 a bushel on the CBOT.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  