-- Soybeans Trade Near One-Month Low on U.S. Crop Prospects
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-09-23T12:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/soybeans-trade-near-one-month-low-as-u-s-crop-prospects-improve.html
Soybeans were little changed after
falling to near a one-month low earlier amid speculation dry
weather in the U.S. Midwest will aid maturing crops and
harvesting, after recent rains slowed a drop in crop conditions.  The Midwest is forecast to remain mostly dry in the next
three days, according to  World Ag Weather . Drier weather this
week will favor harvests, with no significant cold-weather
threat, DTN wrote in a Sept. 20 report. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  will publish its weekly update on crop conditions
later today.  “Last week’s rains are expected to have improved late-planted soybeans,” Paul Georgy, the president of broker
Allendale Inc., wrote in a market comment. “The crop conditions
report this afternoon could show an improvement.”  Soybeans for November delivery slipped less than 0.1
percent to $13.1475 a bushel by 7:15 a.m. on the Chicago Board
of Trade, after earlier falling to $13.0775, the lowest level
since Aug. 23. Futures dropped 4.8 percent last week, and have
declined in six out of seven sessions.  “The U.S. soybean harvest has commenced and the early
yield results seem to be holding up better than expected,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) , said in a report today. “The oilseed market will be
torn between mounting U.S. harvest pressure, changing production
estimates and strong export sales results.”  Soybeans rallied for six straight weeks through Sept. 13 as
crop  conditions  in the Midwest deteriorated amid hot, dry
weather, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.  Harvest Estimate  The USDA cut its domestic harvest estimate to 3.149 billion
bushels this month, still 4.4 percent more than last year’s
drought-curbed harvest. Soybean output in  India  is seen at 11.6
million to 11.8 million metric tons in 2013-14, from 10.6
million tons a year earlier, Vijay Data, president of the
Solvent Extractors’ Association of India, said Sept. 20.  Corn for December delivery retreated 0.6 percent to $4.4825
a bushel, while wheat for delivery in December rose 0.1 percent
to $6.4675 a bushel. Milling wheat for November delivery traded
on NYSE Liffe in Paris was unchanged at 185.75 euros ($251) a
ton.  “Grain futures are slightly lower as weather conditions
improve for harvest this week,” Georgy wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  