-- Statoil Frustrated at Castberg After Finding Gas Not Oil
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-09-23T08:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/statoil-frustrated-at-castberg-after-finding-gas-not-oil.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s biggest
energy company, made a second natural-gas discovery near the
 Barents Sea ’s Johan Castberg oilfields, failing to boost crude
reserves at a project delayed by rising costs and taxes.  The Iskrystall find may hold as much as 25 million barrels
of oil equivalent in gas, Statoil said today in a  statement .
After the Nunatak gas discovery, which wasn’t commercially
viable, it’s the second of four wells to be drilled around Johan
Castberg’s twin fields in an attempt to add to the 400 million
to 600 million barrels of crude in estimated reserves.  “Our main goal was to find oil in Iskrystall, but
unfortunately it did not materialize,” Gro Haatvedt, Statoil’s
senior vice president for exploration in  Norway , said in the
statement. “We still believe we can prove more oil resources in
the Johan Castberg area and will continue our exploration effort
with two more wells in the Skavl and Kramsnoe prospects.”  Statoil fell 0.4 percent to 134.7 kroner at 10:09 a.m. in
Oslo trading.  The company in June delayed an investment decision at
Castberg, putting a planned pipeline and terminal at the North
Cape on hold, after costs escalated and Norway unexpectedly
imposed higher taxes on oil producers. The company and partners
 Eni SpA (ENI)  and Petoro AS are now studying cheaper solutions to
develop Castberg, which comprises the Skrugard and Havis finds.  “It is necessary to conclude the remaining exploration
wells and ongoing work on field development plans until the
partners are ready to make an  investment decision ,” Haatvedt
said today. Stavanger-based Statoil will now move the West
Hercules rig to the Skavl prospect, 5 kilometers (3 miles) south
of Skrugard.  Norway’s oil industry is expanding into the Arctic waters
of the Barents Sea in an attempt to compensate for dwindling
crude production from aging fields in the  North Sea , set to fall
for a 13th consecutive year in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  