-- U.S. Stocks at Risk With Government Shutdown Looming
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-09-23T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/stocks-at-risk-with-government-shutdown-looming-before-a-default.html
Even as the U.S.  stock market  roars
to new highs, helped last week by the  Federal Reserve , a risk is
rising from another corner of Washington.  Hardening positions on the federal budget and borrowing
limit, and recent political setbacks suffered by both President
 Barack Obama  and Republican congressional leaders as they go
into the fight, are raising the odds of a government shutdown,
debt default or near-miss that could roil equities markets.  “We are in for another ugly confrontation,” said Howard Ward, the chief investment officer for growth equity at Rye, New
York-based Gamco Investors Inc., which oversees about $40
billion. “Even though everyone knows the impasse will be short-lived, it is a sad reminder of how dysfunctional Washington has
become. It will be a catalyst for taking profits after the
recent run-up.”  Forty percent of global investors surveyed in a Sept. 10
Bloomberg poll said they would pull back on U.S. markets in the
event of a government shutdown, which many economists say would
be less damaging than a debt default.  “This is a sleeper issue right now, but it could really
come to the fore,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York. “There is a risk
of the stock market selling off a thousand points over two or
three days.”  A protracted standoff on budget issues, even if a default
or government shutdown is averted, could cut economic growth by
a full percentage point in the fourth quarter, Rupkey forecasts.  ‘Additional Risks’  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cited the danger
to the economy from the budget battles as one reason the central
bank decided not to pull back on its monetary stimulus.  “Upcoming fiscal debates may involve additional risks to
financial markets and to the broader economy,” Bernanke said at
a Sept. 18 news conference on the Fed action.  So far, financial markets haven’t been shaken by the
prospects of an impasse, with the  Standard & Poor’s  500 stock
index up 20 percent this year as of Sept 20, putting U.S. stocks
on pace for the best annual gain in four years.  Credit default swaps tied to U.S. Treasury notes, which
typically go up as investors’ perceptions of creditworthiness
deteriorate, traded Friday at about 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, according to data provider CMA. That compares
with the average price of 41 basis points over the past three
years.  Next Thing  “Investors are just toggling over from the Fed meeting to
the debt ceiling,” said  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New
York-based fund manager at Federated Investors Inc., which
oversees about $364 billion. “The cliché is that the market can
only focus on one thing at a time and next month this is going
to be the thing.”  The last time Obama and Congress were at a stalemate over
the debt ceiling, in 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered the
government credit rating. Bond investors weren’t dismayed and
yields went down while equity markets were briefly rattled.  The S&P 500 stock index fell 16.8 percent between July 22,
2011, when talks on a broad deal faltered, and Aug. 8, the first
trading day after the government’s AAA debt was downgraded.
Every stock in the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  fell on Aug. 8. The index
rebounded to close with a gain of about 12 percent for the year.  Now, Obama is stepping up his rhetoric in urging Congress
to pass legislation to avert a debt default or government
shutdown, warning in a Sept. 20 speech that Republicans risk
creating “profoundly destructive” consequences for the U.S.  Undermining Confidence  With the economy in the second quarter of this year growing
at a tepid 2.5 percent annual pace and slowing to 2 percent in
the third quarter, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News , a lengthy debate over the
budget could undermine the confidence of businesses, investors
and consumers, Rupkey said.  “What I’m really afraid of is the economy going on pause
as we wait for these clouds of uncertainty to lift,” he said.
“It’s turning on the TV every night and hearing the angry
exchanges on both sides that creates the uncertainty.”  Not all analysts think a lengthy stalemate would inflict as
much damage.  Chris Hyzy, who helps oversee about $325 billion as chief
investment officer of U.S. Trust, said he expects “ripples or
speed bumps, not significant giant potholes” in the markets,
anticipating a “3 to 4 percent, maximum 5 percent” pullback in
the S&P 500 under a protracted budget battle.  Temporary Setback  “Any market drawdown would be temporary in nature.
Sentiment is still skittish across the board,” Hyzy said.
“We’ve seen the Polaroid photo before; we’ve gotten ourselves
through it in a much more difficult time than we are today, and
we are further and further away from the credit crisis with much
healthier balance sheets.”  With House Republicans now demanding the permanent
defunding of Obama’s signature health-care law as the price for
even a temporary measure to keep the government open through
Dec. 15, Chris Krueger, a Washington analyst for Guggenheim
Securities LLC, put the odds of a government shutdown in the
next two weeks at four in 10. Funding to operate the government
runs out with the Sept. 30 end of the federal fiscal year.  A government shutdown in early October driven by partisan
intransigence would hit financial markets mindful of another
potential crisis just weeks away: The U.S. government will
exhaust its borrowing authority and go into default by mid- to
late October unless Congress and Obama can agree to raise the
legal debt limit.  “As serious as a government shutdown would be, it is
nothing compared to what could happen if Washington fails to
raise the debt ceiling,” Krueger said.  Party Revolt  Obama enters the fight diminished by revolts within his own
Democratic Party over his threats of military action in Syria
and potential nomination of  Lawrence Summers  to head the Federal
Reserve. His job approval, at 45 percent in the Gallup Poll for
Sept. 9-15, is in the same territory as  George W. Bush  in the
comparable period of his presidency, immediately after  Hurricane
Katrina  devastated New Orleans.  Congressional Republicans, held in even lower esteem by the
public, are riven by ideological conflicts. Earlier this month,
House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio had to pull his plan for a
stopgap funding measure from consideration as rank-and-file
Republicans deserted him. Last week, he won backing from party
members for a temporary funding bill that would eliminate the
health-care law -- a condition the White House has said it would
never accept.  Weak Position  “Both sides, the president and the House Republicans, are
dealing from a position of weakness, and that makes it hard,”
said former House Speaker Dennis Hastert, an Illinois
Republican.  Obama says he won’t make concessions to Republicans to
raise the borrowing limit.  Republicans are “not focused on you, they’re focused on
politics, they’re focused on trying to mess with me,” he said
on Sept. 20 at a  Ford Motor Co. (F)  plant near Kansas City,
Missouri, hours after the House voted to finance the government
through Dec. 15 and choke off funding for the health-care law. A
“faction on the far right of the Republican Party” is willing
to put the  U.S. economy  at risk, he said.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, who
has helped broker compromises with the White House, is consumed
with a tough primary challenge and is trying to avoid the role
of dealmaker, said  Stan Collender , a onetime Democratic
congressional budget aide.  Recalling Clinton  Neither Obama nor Boehner bring the same political strength
to the negotiating table as former President  Bill Clinton  and
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who agreed to balance the federal
budget in 1997 after a struggle that included two government
shutdowns, said Collender, a partner at Qorvis Communications.  Clinton was both more popular during the comparable period
of his presidency and had more skill at persuading the public of
his views, Collender said. Obama’s 45 percent job approval in
the Gallup Poll compares with  58 percent  for Clinton on Sept.
25-28, 1997.  Boehner doesn’t have the same loyalty from House
Republicans as did Gingrich. Gingrich “had the ability to go
back and sell the deal to his conference,” said Hastert.
“Sometimes there were people who would straggle, but by and
large they would buy in.”  Congress’s job-approval rating is near an all-time low, at
 19 percent  in a Gallup Poll taken Sept 5-8.  “You would think that would prompt a serious introspection
and motivate them to take bipartisan action to do what is right
for the country,” said former Senator  Olympia Snowe , a Maine
Republican who often tried to forge bipartisan coalitions.  Fearing Challenge  Snowe said her former colleagues worry more about the
possibility of a challenge from a more ideological opponent in a
party primary.  While the bond market wasn’t fazed during the 2011 conflict
over raising the U.S. debt limit, stock investors turned
pessimistic when efforts collapsed to reach a broad deal to
address long-term fiscal challenges.  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes declined to 2.61 percent
on Aug. 2 of that year, from 3.18 percent on July 1, 2011, and
continued to fall to 1.88 percent at year-end.  Research published earlier this year by the New York
Federal Reserve Bank concluded that the standoff might have had
a bigger impact on credit markets had it not been for a flood of
funds out of Europe driven by the continent’s debt crisis.  “The relatively benign effects of the 2011 U.S. debt-ceiling crisis on U.S. financial markets appear to have been
serendipitous, as the U.S. and European debt crises occurred
concurrently,” the  authors concluded . “Money funds
nevertheless reacted to the increased riskiness of Treasuries by
dramatically decreasing the maturities of Treasuries held in
their portfolios during the debt-ceiling crisis. This behavior
suggests that we can’t be sure that the effects of future fiscal
crises on financial markets will be similarly benign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 