-- Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed as Partners Group Climbs
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-09-23T07:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-as-partners-group-climbs.html
Stocks in Switzerland  were little
changed, after the Swiss Market Index posted a third weekly
gain, as investors weighed the German election result.  Roche Holding AG, the world’s largest maker of cancer
drugs, declined 0.5 percent, for the biggest drag on the
benchmark gauge.  Partners Group Holding AG (PGHN)  gained 1.5 percent
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation for the
money manager. Phoenix Mecano AG added 1.3 percent after raising
its target payout ratio for dividends.  The  SMI (SMI)  lost 0.1 percent to 8,094.02 at 9:37 a.m. in
Zurich. The measure rose 0.8 percent last week and has surged 19
percent this year as central banks around the world pledged to
leave interest rates low for a prolonged period. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also retreated 0.1 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
today was 19 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  German chancellor Angela Merkel won 41.5 percent of the
country’s vote in her bid for a third term as leader of Europe’s
largest economy, according to results from all 299 districts
after yesterday’s election. That still leaves her short of a
majority, with Merkel needing to find a coalition partner after
the former partners the Free Democrats failed to win seats in
the lower house of parliament.  In  China , the world-second largest economy, a private
 manufacturing index  rose to a six-month high in September. The
first reading of 51.2 for a Purchasing Managers’ Index released
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics compared with a 50.9
median estimate from 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The gauge was at 50.1 in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  