-- Labour Will Increase Demands on U.K. Banks If It Wins Power
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-23T12:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/u-k-labour-plans-bigger-bank-levy-to-extend-free-child-care.html
Labour announced plans to step up
demands on banks if it wins the next general election as the
U.K. opposition party seeks to boost flagging  poll ratings .  Under a Labour government, big companies including banks
would be required to take on a local apprentice for every worker
from outside the European Union they hired, while a levy on
lenders would be increased to fund an extension of free child
care, said the party’s Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls .  “We have a global financial system which is hugely
important located in  London ,” Balls said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua at his party’s annual
conference in the south-coast city of Brighton today. “For that
to work, you need an approach to migration which has tough
controls but allows skilled workers in an internationally
competitive sector to come in and work here.”  With 20 months to go before the next election, Labour is
seeking to rebuild its lead over Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservative Party. Recent polls have suggested that is
narrowing as  Britain’s economic recovery  builds momentum, with
one YouGov Plc survey last week showed the Tories running neck-and-neck with the opposition party.  The apprenticeship plan was announced by Labour leader  Ed Miliband  yesterday as part of an effort to reduce immigration
and deal with youth unemployment. The Conservatives pointed out
that under EU law such apprenticeships would have to be offered
to any European citizen. The Institute of Directors described it
as a “daft policy” that would make it harder for businesses to
hire people.  Not Enough  Balls said the apprenticeship plan was part of the party’s
program to strengthen the economy.  “I’m not going to start negotiating what makes our economy
stronger for the future,” he said. “We talk to banks and
finance houses and business all the time. But if you’re saying
that companies should be able to play no role in training and
skills, that isn’t good enough.”  The conference was reminded today of its divisions over its
relationship with labor unions. Len McCluskey, the general
secretary of the Unite union, who two weeks ago suggested he
might cut party funding by 1.2 million pounds ($1.9 million) a
year, spoke to argue for more  government spending . “Our party’s
credibility shouldn’t mean keeping in with the bond markets at
all costs,” he said.  Miliband left the stage before McCluskey spoke. As the
union leader finished his remarks, he received louder applause
than had Chuka Umunna, the Labour business spokesman who
preceded him.  Child Care  Under other Labour plans announced today, three- and four-year-old children in families where all adults are in work would
be entitled to 25 hours of free care under the plans, up from 15
hours currently.  The levy  on bank balance sheets is set at 0.105
percent in order to raise at least 2.5 billion pounds ($4
billion) a year. Labour is seeking to generate an extra 800
million pounds.  “For the first time, parents will be able to work part-time without having to worry about the cost of child care,”
Balls said in his speech to the conference. The governing
 Conservative Party  responded that Labour had pledged to spend
its levy on banks more than 10 times over on different policies.  Independent Audit  Separately, Balls asked the  Office for Budget
Responsibility , Britain’s non-partisan fiscal watchdog, to audit
his spending plans to ward off criticisms they’re unaffordable.
He told delegates Labour needs to demonstrate credibility on its
spending plans before the 2015 election.  Balls also warned Labour that if the party wins in 2015, it
will have to accept some of the spending reductions made by the
current coalition government.  “There will be no spending spree for the next government,
not with a deficit this big,” he said in the interview.  The start of the conference has been overshadowed by the
publication of a memoir by Damian McBride, who worked alongside
Miliband and Balls in the Treasury under  Gordon Brown  when
Labour was last in power. The book, “Power Trip,” details how
McBride worked on Brown’s behalf to undermine Prime Minister
 Tony Blair  and punish political opponents, often by spreading
misinformation.  Balls was this morning repeatedly questioned about his
relationship with McBride and denied he was involved in any
briefing against colleagues.  “People know that Ed Miliband and I have been doing things
in a very different way for some years now compared to those
Blair-Brown days,” he said. “There was awful personal smearing
which we both condemned absolutely, but there was a wider
antagonism, rows about policy, factionalism, which went on over
the last 15 years, and that has changed. We’re not going back to
those days. Those were bad times and they’re gone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Brighton, England, at
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in Brighton, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  