-- U.S. Solar Group Offers Peace Plan to Avert Trade War
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-09-23T18:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/u-s-solar-group-offers-peace-plan-to-avert-trade-war.html
A solar-energy group is offering a
plan to resolve a trade dispute between the U.S. and  China ,
saying import duties currently in place are crippling the
industry in both nations.  The Washington-based Solar Energy Industries Association
today announced a  proposal  to eliminate tariffs on solar gear
and establish a fund to help U.S. manufacturers with
contributions from China.  “The problem we have right now is that the trading rules
are not working well,” John Smirnow, vice president for trade
and competitiveness for the group, known as SEIA, said in a
phone interview. “Solar has a very complex global supply
chain” and relying on the existing system to settle trade
disputes isn’t working, he said.  Tensions between the U.S. and China, the world’s two
largest economies, over clean-energy production have threatened
to erupt into a trade war within the last year, with both sides
imposing duties on imports. The price of polysilicon, the main
ingredient in solar cells, has dropped 57 percent since 2010, as
both nations grapple for market share.  A spokesman from China’s embassy in  Washington  didn’t
immediately respond to e-mail and phone requests for comment on
the U.S. industry proposal.  The U.S. Commerce Department a year ago set penalty rates
for Chinese producers, including Suntech Power Holdings Co. and
 Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , after determining the companies had benefited
from government subsidies and had “dumped” their products onto
the U.S. market at below the cost of production. The American
unit of Bonn-based  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  brought the complaint.  China Duties  In July, China began imposing duties as high as 57 percent
on U.S. polysilicon imports.  The U.S. solar-energy industry, which includes
manufacturers as well as installers of solar panels, has been
caught in the crosshairs. While import duties on Chinese-made
solar cells have benefited some U.S. manufacturers, they have
made the finished panels more expensive, harming panel
installers and consumers who face higher prices for the finished
product, according to Smirnow.  At the same time, Chinese manufacturers face higher prices
as they seek to avoid U.S. duties, he said. Since the tariffs
set by the Commerce department last year apply only to Chinese-made solar cells, solar panel manufacturers in the Asian nation
are buying cells at a premium in  Taiwan  and putting together the
finished panels in China before shipping them to the U.S.,
Smirnow said.  Manufacturers’ Fund  The U.S. industry plan would abolish the U.S. duties on
solar cells from China, as well as China’s tariffs on U.S.-made
polysilicon. Instead, China’s solar-energy companies would
establish a fund in the U.S. that American solar-cell
manufacturers could draw from to help them “scale-up,” Smirnow
said. While the size of the fund would be negotiated based on
market estimates, it would probably be in the hundreds of
millions of dollars over the next three years, he said.  Chinese manufacturers would also fund a Solar Development
Institute, which would benefit U.S. solar-energy manufacturers
and help develop collaboration between the U.S. and Chinese
industries on issues including research and standards, the U.S.
group said in a statement.  “Currently Chinese companies are paying a premium to get
their products into the U.S. market,” according to Smirnow.
Payments to the fund -- combined with the abolition of U.S.
 import duties  -- would provide Chinese manufacturers with a
cheaper option than having to purchase solar cells in Taiwan or
another nation, he said.  The compromise plan is similar to a settlement in which the
U.S. agreed to pay into a Brazilian fund to help the South
American nation’s cotton industry rather than face stiff import
duties, Smirnow said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  