-- U.S. Startups Freed to Solicit Funds Fight SEC Over Disclosures
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/u-s-startups-freed-to-solicit-funds-fight-sec-over-disclosures.html
Startup companies that celebrated
the passage of a U.S. law allowing them to solicit investors
more openly say regulators may undercut that move by
requiring detailed disclosures of their fundraising.  An 80-year-old ban on advertising private investments ends
today, allowing businesses to make public pitches to certain
investors. At the same time, the Securities and Exchange
Commission is weighing whether to require companies to file
advance disclosures of those efforts. Failing to file could
trigger a one-year disqualification from selling shares.  Startups say the SEC’s proposal was written with more
established companies in mind. The cycle of fundraising at
younger companies can be less predictable, relying on chance
introductions and pitches at meetings of investors known as demo
days.  “The market place is feeling a little unsure and insecure
about how to move forward, particularly when they rely on
venture fairs and demo days,” said Catherine Mott, a Pittsburgh
investor who formerly led the Angel Capital Association. “This
flies right in the face of the JOBS Act.”  The JOBS Act, the acronym for the Jumpstart Our Business
Startups law, passed Congress in 2012 with the goal of
deregulating how emerging companies raise money. The law
jettisoned advertising restrictions intended to help ensure
small investors aren’t lured into out-sized risks.  Eligible Investors  For the first time, companies raising money outside of a
public offering will be able to advertise that they’re seeking
funding. The pool of eligible investors will remain restricted
to only those considered sophisticated enough to evaluate the
risk, or wealthy enough to absorb a loss. The SEC defines such
“accredited investors” as having with annual income exceeding
$200,000 or net worth of $1 million excluding a primary
residence.  Private offers are the biggest source of funding for small
companies. The U.S. market for such securities was $903 billion
last year, according to an SEC analysis published in July. The
median amount raised was just $1.5 million.  The SEC voted in July to lift the advertising ban. At the
same time, it proposed new rules intended to mitigate the risk
of fraud created by allowing riskier ventures to solicit
investors more directly.  The proposal would require companies publicizing their
fundraising to file a form 15 days before seeking capital, a
change from the current rule of that asks for the disclosure 15
days after of the first sale of shares. Any written advertising
materials would have to be submitted to the SEC.  More Information  The form increases the amount of information companies must
disclose, including additional details on how they will use the
money. A company that fails to file the form could be banned
from conducting a similar offering for a year.  “Basically, this is a booby trap, and lots of people are
going to blow it,” said Joe Wallin, a partner at Davis Wright
Tremaine LLP in  Seattle  who represents early-stage companies and
investors, and blogs at  Startuplawblog.com .  The proposal has also raised questions about whether
business owners may run afoul of the new rules by participating
in demo days, regional events where entrepreneurs field
questions about their ventures and seek funding from private
investors, Mott said in a phone interview. Demo days and similar
events at universities can be advertised by e-mail or the
Internet, Mott and others said.  Technical Violation  The demo days events “technically violate” existing rules
against advertising private investments, Heath Abshure, the
president of the North American Securities Administrators
Association, said Sept. 17 at a small-business committee meeting
sponsored by the SEC.  “I’d like the SEC to either define general solicitation
more clearly so entrepreneurs are very clear what they have to
do, or carve out demo days and venture fairs,” Mott said in a
phone interview.  SEC Chairman Mary Jo White said this week the commission
would consider criticisms on the proposal, which passed last
month over opposition from the agency’s Republican
commissioners, including Daniel M. Gallagher. White has said the
SEC will monitor how companies use advertising and whether it
contributes to more fraud.  State securities regulators say the additional rules are
needed to help address the risk of fraud. Private offers were
the most common product leading to enforcement actions in 2011,
according to the securities administrators group. Such
investment offers typically come with limited disclosures about
a company’s management and financial reporting, and the
securities can be illiquid or restricted from resale.  ‘Grandma and Grandpa’  “The investor I am concerned about is the one who flicks
on his computer, and whoever has the slickest website can sell
directly to that person,” Abshure said at the SEC meeting.
“I’m talking mom and pop, grandma and grandpa, retail
investors.”  The SEC’s proposal has attracted critical feedback from
startups and investment portals such as AngelList LLC, which
matches entrepreneurs with potential investors, and SecondMarket
Holdings Inc., a platform where private shares are traded.  Adam Lieb, the founder of Seattle-based Duxter, a social
network for gamers, said he wouldn’t use the new option to
advertise for investors if he had to file a form 15 days in
advance of the offering. He’d also worry about having to file
advertising materials, such as Twitter posts or a blurb on the
news website TechCrunch, with the regulator.  “It takes back a lot of what was cool about the JOBS Act
and the idea of, ’let’s make it easier for entrepreneurs to
raise money from more people, faster, easier’” Lieb said in a
phone interview. “The new proposed rules kind of claw a lot of
that back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  