-- U.S. Repo Open: Current 5-Year Note at Lowest Rate, -0.34%
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-23T11:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/u-s-repo-open-current-5-year-note-at-lowest-rate-0-34-.html
The following is a summary of early trading in the 
market for U.S. repurchase agreements, or repos, in  New York . All repo rates 
are for overnight transactions at the bid side of the market as reported by 
GovPX Inc., a unit of ICAP Plc, the world's largest inter-dealer broker.  Lowest Repo Rate as of 8 a.m. New York time:  The current five-year note opened at the lowest repo rate: -0.34 percent.   All Rates:   Current two-year note: 0.04 percent.  Old two-year note: 0.05 percent.  Current three-year note: 0.04 percent.  Old three-year note: 0.05 percent.  Current five-year note: -0.34 percent  Old five-year note: 0.06 percent.  Current seven-year note: -0.03 percent.  Old seven-year note: -0.05 percent.  Current 10-year note: 0.05 percent.  Old 10-year note: 0.08 percent.  Current 30-year bond: 0.06 percent.  Old 30-year bond: 0.03 percent.  The bid for a security is the price that is quoted and available for 
immediate sale of an asset. The offer is the price available for immediate 
purchase of an asset.  Current issues are the most recently issued securities, and old issues are 
those sold previously with the same maturity.  Specific  Treasury securities  in the greatest demand are considered to be 
``on special.'' Firms that want to borrow them are willing to lend money 
overnight at rates below those on general collateral or other Treasuries in 
exchange for them.  Behind the Numbers  Securities firms use repos to borrow money to finance positions in 
Treasury, corporate and mortgage-backed securities. They also borrow securities 
on reverse repos to make deliveries of sales of securities the dealers don't 
own, and engage in speculative repo trading based on expectations for the 
future direction of  interest rates .  Current 5- and 10-year notes often trade at the lowest repo rates because 
they are widely used as hedges against positions in corporate, mortgage and 
global debt.  General Collateral  Delivery repos: 0.06 percent. The collateral is sent to an investor's bank 
against receipt of funds.   Triparty repos: 0.09 percent. A clearing bank acts as a third party to 
make sure there's adequate collateral behind the repo and that it conforms 
throughout the life of the transaction to the investor's requirements, 
providing the customer with an additional layer of safety.  Securities firms are willing to pay higher rates to borrow money through 
triparty repos because they can allocate leftover collateral remaining at their 
clearing bank late in the day as backing for the transactions, saving on 
delivery costs.  Rates on general repos, or those backed by non-specific collateral, are 
usually set slightly below federal funds levels.  Treasury Bills  The three- and six-month Treasury bills opened at 0.08 percent.  Federal Funds  Federal funds, the overnight interbank lending rate, opened at 0.09 
percent, according to ICAP, within the  Federal Reserve 's target range of zero 
to 0.25 percent.  For Related News and Information:  To contact  Bloomberg News  for this story:
   newsdev@bloomberg.net  