-- Undocumented Immigration in U.S. Seen Rising With Economy
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-23T18:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/undocumented-immigration-in-u-s-seen-rising-with-economy.html
The number of undocumented
immigrants in the U.S. may be increasing after dropping off for
several years, a new study shows, offering the latest sign the
economy is slowly improving.  “The sharp decline in the U.S. population of unauthorized
immigrants that accompanied the 2007-2009 recession has bottomed
out, and the number may be rising again,” the Washington-based
 Pew Research Center  said in the  study  released today.  The analysis, which comes as legislation to revise
immigration policy is stalled in Congress, underscores the
central role that economic conditions play in the flow of
immigrants to the U.S.  “When the  U.S. economy  has been strong, we’ve seen large
numbers of unauthorized immigrants coming, and when the economy
weakens there tend to be decreases,” Jeffrey Passel, a senior
demographer at the center and one of the report’s authors, told
reporters on a conference call.  Using government data for its analysis, Pew estimates there
were 11.7 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S. as of
March 2012, with 60 percent in six states:  California ,  Florida ,
 Illinois ,  New Jersey ,  New York  and Texas.  Mexicans represent 52 percent of the undocumented
immigrants, the study said. In 2012, they totaled an estimated
6.1 million, down about 1 million from 2007.  2007 Peak  “The leveling off of the unauthorized population and the
unauthorized Mexican population suggests that the people who
wanted to leave, may already have left,” Passel said.  The study found that the number of undocumented immigrants
peaked at 12.2 million in 2007, the final year before the
recession was in full swing, and fell as low as 11.3 million in
2009, breaking an upward trend that had held for decades.  Knowing precisely whether the numbers are on the rise again
is difficult because the survey data used has margins of error,
Passel said.  Among the top states for undocumented immigrants, only
 Texas  kept adding during each of the years from 2007 to 2011,
according to the study. The five other states all experienced
peak numbers in 2007, followed by declines the next year or two.  The decreases happened as the U.S. economy suffered through
its worst recession since the Great Depression, sending the
 unemployment rate  to a 26-year high of 10 percent in October
2009. The rate was 7.3 percent last month after the economy grew
2.5 percent in the quarter that ended in June.  Prospects for passing immigration-law changes have
languished in Congress amid partisan battles over spending and
health care. The House Republican majority has rejected a
comprehensive plan passed June 27 by the Democratic-controlled
Senate. The chances for enacting a law by year’s end dimmed
after House leaders said they would consider a series of bills
instead of one comprehensive measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  