-- Hungary Set to Cut Rates to Record Low as Fed Maintains Stimulus
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-09-23T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/hungary-set-to-cut-rates-to-record-low-as-fed-maintains-stimulus.html
Hungary ’s central bank will
probably cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low after
inflation slowed and the U.S. Federal Reserve refrained from
paring monetary stimulus.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank in Budapest will reduce the two-week deposit rate to 3.6 percent from 3.8 percent, according to
15 of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Three expect a cut to
3.7 percent, one to 3.65 percent and one to 3.55 percent. The
central bank will announce the decision at 2 p.m.  Monetary-policy makers slowed the pace of easing last month
to 20 basis points after 12 consecutive monthly quarter-point
cuts as they seek to safeguard financial stability and the
attractiveness of local assets. Central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said Sept. 11 that “loose” monetary policy in
developed countries and a central bank plan to boost corporate
lending in Hungary are expanding rate-setters’ room to maneuver.  “Fundamentals such as weak growth and nose-diving
inflation remain supportive, and it’s unlikely that recent
market developments are ‘frightening’ enough for the dovish
Monetary Council to stop cutting rates,” analysts led by
Mariann Trippon at  Intesa SanPaolo SpA (ISP) ’s CIB Bank in Budapest,
said in an e-mail.  The forint traded at 298.71 per euro at 5:34 p.m. in
Budapest, little changed from Sept. 20. It has weakened 0.2
percent in the past month. The yield on the benchmark government
bond maturing in 2023 dropped 88 basis points to 5.86 percent
yesterday after reaching 6.74 percent on Sept. 5.  Rate Guidance  The benchmark interest rate may fall to between 3 percent
and 3.5 percent, Matolcsy said on July 23. Forward-rate
agreements indicate that investors see it dropping to as low as
3.35 percent in the next three months.  Hungarian policy makers were split on how much to cut rates
last month, with five Council members supporting the 20 basis-point reduction and two voting for a 10 basis-point cut,
according to the minutes of the meeting, published Sept. 12.  Rate setters cited subdued economic growth and the slowest
inflation in almost 40 years as driving rate cuts, while
stressing that financial stability and Hungary’s risk assessment
may limit the scope of easing.  Second-quarter  economic growth  slowed to 0.1 percent from
the previous three months, compared with 0.6 percent in January-March. The  inflation  rate was 1.3 percent in August, the slowest
in more than 39 years, remaining below the central bank’s 3
percent medium-term target for a seventh month.  The forint will remain below 300 per euro in the short term
as long as international  market sentiment  remains “calm” even
as the central bank keeps lowering the interest rate, Karoly Bamli, currency trader at Commerzbank AG’s Budapest unit said in
an e-mail yesterday.  “The question is how long will the market tolerate the
diminishing carry and the loosening of domestic fiscal policy,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  