-- Turkey Gas Grid Operator Palmet Hires Advisers for IPO Next Year
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-09-23T06:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/turkey-gas-grid-operator-palmet-hires-advisers-for-ipo-next-year.html
Palmet Enerji AS, a Turkish group
with interests in power generation and gas trading, hired
Garanti Yatirim Menkul Kiymetler AS and  BGC Partners (BGCP) , Inc. to
sell as much as a 20 stake in an initial public offering.  Istanbul-based Palmet plans to hold the share sale in the
first or second quarter of 2014, its chairman and chief
executive officer Doganay Samuray said in an interview in his
office in Istanbul on Sept. 20. The company is amending its
articles of association to comply with the Ankara-based capital
markets regulator’s legislation, he said.  Palmet Enerji operates two gas grids, one in eastern
Erzurum province and the other in the western industrial town of
Gebze, and has a total electricity production capacity of 126
megawatts. The company also has a wholesaler unit, Gazport AS,
which buys gas from suppliers including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s
Turkey unit and from a joint venture between  Norway ’s Tiway Oil
AS and Turkey’s state oil and gas company Turkiye Petrolleri AO
to sell to industrial clients and retail users.  “We will soon apply to the regulator for listing
permission,” said Samuray, the company’s majority owner. “I
think interest in our shares will be good as we have seen in a
50 million lira ($25 million) bond sale earlier this month,” he
said.  Bond Sales  Palen AS, the gas grid operator in Erzurum, plans to sell
30 million liras of bonds after its sister company Palgaz AS,
operating in Gebze, sold two-year bonds on Sept. 5, Samuray
said. “Those bonds were snapped up by investors as this was the
first bond in  Turkey  by a gas grid operator and we have a clear
picture of future cash flow for investors.”  Palmet plans to grow its consolidated sales about 40
percent this year after it got $300 million in 2012, Samuray
said. The company’s earnings before interest, tax, amortization
and depreciation, or Ebitda, will probably rise to $40 million
this year from $34 million last year, he said.  A group of banks in Turkey will sign a deal to lend Palmet
$400 million for the 283-megawatt hydroelectric Eric power
plant, to be built as a cascade of four dams on the Karasu
river, one of the tributaries of the Euphrates, in eastern
Erzincan province, Samuray said. The plant’s cost will be $537
million, he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  also lent Palmet $75 million last week
for a project to more than triple power capacity at the Delta
power plant near Istanbul to 200 megawatts from 62 megawatts,
Samuray said. The expansion will cost $130 million, he said.  “After the Delta expansion and Eric power plants are
completed in four years, our total power capacity will rise to
547 megawatts,” he said. “This will help triple our EBITDA to
as much as $150 million.”  Palmet could be interested in expanding its gas grid
operations by acquisitions should there be opportunities,
Samuray said. There are more than 60 gas grid operators in
Turkey and loss makers in the industry, where retail sale prices
are adjusted by the regulator every five years, may need to
consolidate after the latest tariff adjustment was imposed at
the beginning of this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  