-- Wanda to Invest $8.2 Billion in Park, World’s Largest Studio
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-23T01:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/wanda-to-invest-8-2-billion-in-park-world-s-largest-studio.html
Dalian Wanda Group, founded by
 China ’s richest man Wang Jianlin, said it plans to invest 50
billion  yuan  ($8.2 billion) to build an entertainment park in
the eastern Chinese city of Qingdao.  The 540-hectare (1,334-acre) Qingdao Oriental Movie
Metropolis park, which is scheduled for completion in 2017, will
include a movie museum, wax museum, exhibition center, yacht
club and hotels, the company said in a statement yesterday. The
complex will also house 20 studios including the world’s largest
studio at 10,000 square meters, it said.  Billionaire Wang said in an interview this month that he
was in talks with overseas movie chains following a $2.6 billion
purchase of the second-largest U.S. cinema operator AMC
Entertainment Holdings Inc. last year. At the time, it was the
biggest acquisition of a U.S. corporation by a Chinese company.  Dalian Wanda Group wants to build hotels in as many as 10
major cities around the world including projects planned for
 London  and  New York , Wang said at the interview. He didn’t name
the investment banks or targets, and said he had been in talks
with “several” companies over the past year.  He said he wants to build five-star hotels at a rate of 15
per year. Wanda has 40 hotels.  Wang’s closely held Dalian Wanda Group is the owner of the
country’s biggest commercial land developer. It also develops
shopping malls and runs department stores, luxury hotels and
movie theaters. Over two decades, he has built 72 shopping
centers throughout China called “Wanda Plazas,” anchored by
his company’s department stores, office buildings and cinemas.  The Dalian Wanda conglomerate is owned by Wang and his son
Wang Sicong. The 58-year-old has a net worth of $13.5 billion,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  