-- Why the U.S. Needs the UN, and Vice Versa
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-23T19:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/why-the-u-s-needs-the-un-and-vice-versa.html
Canny U.S. diplomacy, or barely
redeemed gaffe? Russian opportunism, or sincere effort to stave
off war? Syrian feint, or desperate gambit by a regime running
scared? Whatever one thinks about how the U.S. and  Russia 
reached their agreement to destroy Syria’s chemical weapons
arsenal, one thing is clear: It couldn’t have been achieved in
the absence of a strong international consensus against the use
of chemical weapons.  Strengthening the ability of the United Nations to identify
and enforce the world’s collective will should be high on
President  Barack Obama ’s foreign policy agenda, beginning with
his trip tomorrow to the UN General Assembly.  Widespread support for the  Chemical Weapons Convention  gave
the U.S. a rallying point for its effort to hold Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad accountable for brutalizing his
people. It also gave Syria and its patron Russia a face-saving
way to avert a U.S. strike: They weren’t knuckling to pressure;
 Syria  was merely signing a treaty that almost all of the world’s
nations had already joined. On paper, at least, that outcome is
exactly the kind of result hoped for by champions of collective
security.  For the U.S., this peacekeeping impulse can reduce the need
to spend diplomatic capital or deploy military might. Yet two
obstacles make the UN less effective than it could be: first, a
creaky Security Council that has become paralyzed by division;
and second, the U.S. tendency to punt on treaties or to exempt
itself from provisions it doesn’t like.  The fight over the text of a Security Council resolution on
the enforcement of the Syria agreement is the latest evidence of
the stalemate among its five permanent members. Since 2011,
Russia and  China  have  vetoed  three resolutions on Syria, with
Russia also preventing a vote on resolutions condemning chemical
attacks and calling for humanitarian relief efforts.  Granting the permanent members a veto was the price of
getting them to endorse collective security in 1945. Yet
Security Council membership now represents a much smaller slice
of the world’s population and leaves out big economic players
such as Japan and  Germany  (the second and third biggest UN
funders) as well as emerging powers India and  Brazil . Even by
the council’s most important criterion -- the ability to
safeguard international peace -- the current membership comes up
wanting.  How to expand  the council is one of the most critical
challenges facing the United Nations. You won’t find any mention
of it, however, in Obama’s four previous speeches to the annual
General Assembly. The U.S. should be leading the campaign to
build consensus on the process for admitting new members, what
the mix of permanent and elected members should be, and what
powers they should have.  Yes, it is a thorny issue. Yet  there are ways  of
safeguarding the interests of the existing permanent members
while strengthening the Security Council’s legitimacy. At the
very least, it is a goal commensurate with U.S. power and
influence. The longer the U.S. waits to begin, the more
ineffective and illegitimate the Security Council will come to
seem, and the more U.S. interests will be damaged.  The U.S. can also help its cause by not taking such an a la
carte attitude toward norms, treaties and international
obligations. The national exemptions carved out by U.S.
legislators from the Chemical Weapons Convention are a case in
point. Saying the U.S. can refuse challenge inspections or the
use of international labs to test samples makes it harder to
enforce those requirements on others, just as failing to ratify
the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty -- as Obama  pledged  the U.S.
would do in 2009 -- makes it harder to enlist other countries in
the fight against nuclear proliferation. Increasingly, the U.S.
must weigh its neuralgia about national sovereignty against the
benefits that can come from  pooled sovereignty , when states
agree to share decision-making powers.  Sometimes the U.S. has to take on the so-called
international community to do what’s right -- for instance, the
fight against the UN General Assembly’s infamous 1975 “Zionism
is a form of racism” resolution. (The U.S. eventually  won  that
battle in 1991.) Other times -- as recent weeks have shown -- it
takes the threat of unilateral U.S. action to get the UN and the
rest of the world to uphold the principles they claim to honor.  Yet the basic point holds: More international agreement is
better than less, and more ways of encouraging and enforcing it
are better than fewer. As the benefits of the global taboo
against chemical weapons have shown, the U.S. has more to gain
than to lose from the support of robust international norms.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 