-- Wincanton Rises on Valero Deal to Transport Fuel: London Mover
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-09-23T16:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/wincanton-rises-on-valero-deal-to-transport-fuel-london-mover.html
Wincanton Plc (WIN)  climbed 3 percent
after the transporter of products ranging from groceries to
cement extended a contract with the largest independent
petroleum refiner,  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , for five years.  Wincanton will transport more than 2 billion liters (528
million gallons) of fuel a year to more than 1,000 U.K.
locations under the deal, the company said in a statement today.
Wincanton, which supplies logistics and transport services to
customers including  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Britain’s biggest supermarket
chain, and Marks & Spencer Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest
clothing retailer, rose 3 pence to 103.25 pence in London.  “We like Wincanton because there’s significant recovery
potential in it,” Steve Woolf, an analyst at Numis Securities,
said by phone. “Contract renewals and increasing scope of work
with their customers is positive for the business longer term.”
Woolf recommends buying the shares and has a target price of 120
pence for the stock.  Under Chief Executive Officer Eric Born, Chippenham,
England-based Wincanton, has  won  extended contracts in the past
six months with clients including  William Morrison Supermarkets
Plc  and cement company Cemex. Wincanton returned to profit in
the fiscal year through March following two years of losses.  The share price has more than doubled in 12 months, giving
the company a market value of about 126 million pounds ($202
million). Of five analysts who follow the company and share
their findings with Bloomberg, four recommend buying the stock
and one suggests selling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in  London  at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net 
WIN LN <Equity>
TSCO LN <Equity>
MKS LN <Equity>
VLO US <Equity> 