-- Bangladesh Garment Protests Enter Fourth Day
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-09-24T05:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/two-hundred-bangladesh-factories-shut-on-labor-unrest.html
Bangladesh  labor protests entered a
fourth day after overnight negotiations failed to end a dispute
over low wages as garment factory owners reopened plants that
supply companies including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Shipping Minister Shajahan Khan met last night with factory
owners and labor leaders in an effort to end demonstrations that
forced about 400 of the country’s 5,000 garment factories to
close yesterday. Thousands of workers seeking to more than
double their monthly pay to $104 blocked traffic today in Dhaka,
the capital, Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police Abdul Oadud said
by phone.  “I hope the workers will get back to work,” Khan told
reporters after the meeting ended early today. He promised to
boost security for factories that employ 3.6 million people,
mostly women, and account for 78 percent of the country’s export
earnings.  The labor unrest comes five months after the collapse of
the eight-story Rana Plaza factory complex killed more than
1,000 people in the worst industrial accident in the South Asian
country’s history. The lowest wages in  Asia  after Myanmar have
helped spawn a $19 billion Bangladeshi manufacturing industry
that supplies global retailers with cheap clothes.  Minimum Wage  Khan said he asked a panel known as the  Minimum Wage  Board
to complete and submit a new salary structure for workers to the
government by November, a month earlier than the previous
deadline. He didn’t say how much wages might be increased.  Factory owners urged law enforcement agencies to tighten
security in all industrial areas where garment factories are
concentrated, Khan said.  Khan is known for his influence over workers as he is
simultaneously vice president of the Jatiya Sramik League, the
labor unit of the ruling Awami League party, and executive
president of the Bangladesh Road Transport Worker Federation.  Seven factories suspended production today as protests
continued, Ekattor TV reported. Workers yesterday pelted
factories with bricks, blocked a highway, set fire to a
warehouse and clashed with police as they fired tear gas.  H&M Support  Hennes & Mauritz AB, (HMB)  Europe’s second-biggest clothing
retailer, joined the IndustriALL Global Union in backing the
workers’ pursuit of increased compensation.  “We strongly support the workers demand for higher
wages,” H&M spokeswoman Andrea Roos said by e-mail.
“Bangladesh is an important sourcing market for H&M and we have
on various occasions and also together with other clothing
companies, urged the government to raise minimum wages in the
 textile industry  and to revise wages annually.”  IndustriALL supports the workers’ “justified demands,”
Jyrki Raina, IndustriALL’s general secretary, said in an e-mail.  At least 70 people, including six police officials, were
injured in clashes in Gazipur and Savar, two industrial belts on
Dhaka’s outskirts, Mosharraf Hossain, assistant superintendent
of industrial police, told reporters yesterday. Retailers
including Wal-Mart, H&M,  Inditex SA (ITX)  and Gap Inc. source goods
from Gazipur, according to Murshedy.  ‘Ludicrous’ Offer  The protesters demanded a minimum monthly salary of 8,114
taka ($104), up from 3,000 taka now, Murshedy said yesterday. At
a Sept. 17 meeting with labor leaders and government officials,
the factory owners proposed increasing the monthly basic salary
by 600 taka to 3,600 taka. Bangladesh last raised the minimum
wage in 2010.  “If the owners had given workers a little more, we could
have avoided violence,” said Nazma Akhter, a labor organizer
and president of the Sommilito Garments Sramik Federation, a
garment workers group. She called the offer from the factory
owners “ludicrous.”  Wal-Mart, Target  Monthly manufacturing wages in Bangladesh average $74, only
higher than the $53 workers receive in Myanmar, according to an
annual survey by the Japan External Trade Organization released
in December. The annual total pay burden of a Bangladesh worker
amounted to $1,478, compared with $4,577 in neighboring  India ,
it showed.  International retailers have been under pressure to improve
conditions in Bangladesh’s apparel industry. Retailers that sold
garments made at the building that collapsed in April failed to
agree on compensation after talks earlier this month, with
 Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) ’s Primark unit saying it will pay
more short-term aid.  Of 29 brands that were invited to the meeting in Geneva,
only nine attended, according to IndustriALL. One of the
absentees, Benetton Group SpA, said the meeting wouldn’t provide
a framework to address compensation.  Safety Pact  A group of North American retailers, including Wal-Mart and
 Target Corp. (TGT) , said in a  pact  announced in July that it will set
safety standards by October and refuse to buy from factories
deemed unsafe. The garment industry’s expansion has been marred
by factories operated in buildings with poor electrical wiring,
an insufficient number of exits and little fire-fighting
equipment.  A separate accord signed by H&M and Inditex,  Europe ’s
largest clothing retailer, pledged at least $60 million over
five years to monitor safety in Bangladesh plants. The European
plan obligates companies to ensure their factories have the
capital to make necessary repairs.  Raul Estradera, a spokesman for Inditex, declined yesterday
to comment on the unrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  