-- Won Rises to Highest Since January on Inflows; Bonds Advance
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-09-23T07:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/won-rises-most-in-three-weeks-on-foreign-inflows-bonds-climb.html
South Korea’s won rose to the
strongest level in almost eight months as the  Federal Reserve ’s
unexpected decision last week to maintain its record stimulus
fueled inflows to local markets.  Government bonds  climbed.  Overseas funds bought more local equities than they sold
for the 19th straight session as South Korean markets reopened
after a three-day holiday. The Fed on Sept. 18 said it will keep
buying $85 billion of bonds each month. Economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  had predicted a $5 billion reduction. The won has
gained 6.3 percent this quarter, Asia’s best performance, as
foreigners added to $5.9 billion of net purchases of shares this
month through Sept. 17, stock exchange data show.  “After the Fed’s surprise, we expect foreign investors to
keep buying South Korean shares,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a
currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “As the won
is expected to strengthen further, traders are wary of possible
intervention by authorities to slow the pace of its gains.”  The won advanced 0.9 percent from Sept. 17 to 1,074.15 per
dollar in onshore trading in  Seoul , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It touched 1,074.13, the strongest level since
Jan. 25. Local markets were shut Sept. 18-20 for public
holidays. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, from Sept. 20 to 6.74
percent.  Monitor Flows  South Korea will continue to monitor capital flows and
external risks to it financial markets after the Fed’s decision,
Vice Finance Minister Choo Kyung Ho said yesterday in Seoul. The
U.S. central bank’s move may have a limited impact on Asia’s
fourth largest economy, which will maintain its fiscal health
and current-account surplus, Choo said.  The yield on  South Korea ’s 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016
fell four basis points to 2.8 percent, the lowest level since
June 18, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.  The government sold 741 billion won ($690 million) of the
20-year sovereign notes at a yield of 3.63 percent, the  finance
ministry  said on its website today.  South Korea aims to diversify the number of central banks
that hold its bonds, Gwak Bum Gook, director general at the
finance ministry’s treasury bureau, said in an interview in
Sejong today. Monetary authorities in advanced economies of
Northern Europe have been increasing purchases of the nation’s
Treasury bonds and tend to hold longer maturities such as 10-year notes, Gwak said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  