-- X5 Drops on Seventh Continent Acquisition Report: Moscow Mover
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-09-23T15:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-23/x5-drops-on-seventh-continent-acquisition-report-moscow-mover.html
X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE) , the food
retailer owned by Russian billionaire Mikhail Fridman, fell to
the lowest in more than two weeks after  Kommersant  reported it
may acquire Moscow-based competitor OAO Seventh Continent.  The shares retreated as much as 3.1 percent and closed 1.9
percent down at $16.40 per depositary receipt in  London , the
lowest since Sept. 4. Investors traded about 112 percent of the
three-month daily average of securities.  Seventh Continent owner  Alexander Zanadvorov  is seeking at
least $2.4 billion for the chain, which had sales of about $2
billion last year, Kommersant reported. X5 may acquire lease
rights for 130 stores in Moscow totaling 450,000 square meters,
the newspaper said, citing two people familiar with the matter.
Gregory Madick, X5’s head of investor relations, declined to
comment on “market rumors” as did a spokeswoman for Seventh
Continent.  Buying Seventh Continent would be “negative” for X5 as
the company “has been facing operating difficulties in its key
formats,” analysts at VTB Capital said in a note today.  X5 lost the title of  Russia ’s largest retailer by revenue
this year to  OAO Magnit. (MGNT)  While X5 has expanded mainly through
acquisitions, Magnit has focused on growing without them. X5’s
market value has fallen 27 percent in the past year to $4.4
billion. Magnit has added 76 percent to $29.7 billion.  X5 may agree to pay $550 per square meter a year for
Seventh Continent’s premises, according to Kommersant.  The transaction would give Seventh Continent an enterprise
value that’s at least 10.9 times 2012 earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to analysts at
Okritie Capital. X5 trades at about 7 times, the analysts said
in a note.  Ilya Yakubson, chief executive officer of food retailer OAO
Dixy Group, said by phone today that while his company was asked
by Seventh Continent to make a bid, Dixy refrained from further
talks as it deemed organic growth more cost-efficient.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  