-- ‘Mega’ Public Pensions Beat Small Funds in 2012: Wilshire
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/-mega-public-pensions-beat-small-funds-in-2012-wilshire.html
Investment returns earned by “mega”
public pensions, with assets of more than $5 billion, topped
those of the smaller plans by almost 1 percentage point last
year, according to Wilshire Associates Inc.  Big government-employee pensions reported median returns of
13.43 percent for the year. Funds with less than $1 billion in
assets, which don’t invest as much in so-called alternatives
like private equity,  hedge funds  and real estate, had median
returns of 12.47 percent, according to Wilshire.  “Large and mega plans outperformed small plans because of
greater exposure to other classes, such as international stocks
and alternatives, versus the traditional U.S. equity and U.S.
bonds,” said Robert Waid, a managing director at the  Santa
Monica , California-based consulting firm.  The disparity underscores one rationale for consolidating
smaller funds, which has been proposed in Pennsylvania. Before
he left office, Jack Wagner, the state’s former auditor general,
said that merging 2,600 municipal plans into a single statewide
system could help them achieve higher investment returns. Two-
thirds of the local funds he audited have 10 or fewer members.  Consolidation would also lower administrative expenses and
help reduce the need for taxpayers to cover obligations to
retirees, Wagner said in September. Eugene DePasquale replaced
Wagner as auditor general on Jan. 15.  Costly Plans  “ Pennsylvania  has too many smaller and underfunded
municipal pension plans that could cost taxpayers millions of
dollars to maintain,” Wagner said in his September  statement .  The Keystone State has more than 3,200 local government
pensions for police officers, firefighters and nonuniformed
workers, about a fourth of all municipal pensions in the U.S.
DePasquale’s office audits 2,600 of the plans, with combined
assets of $10.2 billion. It doesn’t review about 600 county and
municipal funds.  Among the pensions audited last year, Wagner said 52 had
assets to cover less than 50 percent of their liabilities,
making them “severely distressed.” Another 234 plans were
“moderately distressed,” with an aggregate funding ratio of 53
percent, Wagner said in a report.  Nationwide, state and local pensions with less than $1
billion of assets had a median allocation of 10.6 percent of
their holdings in international stocks and zero in alternative
investments last year, according to Wilshire.  Risks Spread  Public pensions with assets of more than $5 billion had a
median allocation of 22.3 percent in international stocks and
9.6 percent in alternatives, according to Wilshire.  The  MSCI EAFE Index (MXEA) , which measures stock performance in
developed markets outside the U.S. and  Canada , returned 6.63
percent in the fourth quarter, while the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  lost 0.38 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. For
the year, the MSCI index  returned  almost 18 percent, trailed by
the S&P at 16 percent.  “Larger plans are better able to diversify and thus reduce
overall plan risk,” said Waid at Wilshire, which advises
investors and pensions.  For the quarter ending Dec. 31, public pensions with assets
of more than $5 billion had a median return of 2.45 percent,
beating corporate pensions, foundations and endowments, and
union retirement funds of all sizes, according to Wilshire.  Profits Assumed  Many state and local government pensions count on annual
investment returns of 7.5 percent to 8 percent to pay benefits
for teachers, police and other employees.  In the 10-year period through Dec. 31, public pensions with
more than $5 billion in assets had a median return of 7.96
percent, compared with a 7.36 percent median for all public
funds, according to the consulting firm.  Foundations and endowments with more than $500 million in
assets had the best 10-year median return, at 8.22 percent,
Wilshire said.  Wilshire’s report, compiled by its Trust Universe
Comparison Service, covers more than 1,500 institutional
 investment trusts , including corporate plans, foundations and
endowments, union retirement funds and public pensions. They
have combined assets of more than $2.75 trillion, according to
the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 