-- AB InBev Part of Record Flurry of Obama Antitrust Suits
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-04T16:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/ab-inbev-part-of-record-flurry-of-obama-antitrust-suits.html
The lawsuit challenging  Anheuser-
Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s $20.1 billion proposed takeover of Grupo Modelo
SAB is part of a record-breaking U.S. docket of civil antitrust
cases, reflecting the Obama administration’s greater willingness
to intervene in markets, according to some antitrust scholars.  “It represents an attitude of more skepticism of the
efficiency benefits of merging that are often claimed by the
parties in the transaction,” said John Connor, a professor of
industrial economics at  Purdue University . “There’s been a
greater willingness to challenge mergers than there was” in the
administration of former President  George W. Bush .  The Justice Department’s suit to block the AB InBev-Modelo
merger is the seventh antitrust case currently in litigation.  “That’s the most ever at one time,”  Gina Talamona , a
department spokeswoman, said in an interview. “If the parties
are not willing to offer a remedy or enter into a settlement
that resolves our competitive concerns, we are prepared to
litigate.”  Antitrust officials in the  Bush administration  placed less
emphasis on the market impact of mergers and focused instead on
pursuit of criminal price-fixing, said Albert Foer, president of
the Washington-based American Antitrust Institute, a nonprofit
group that advocates for market competition.  High-profile cases initiated by Bush-era regulators include
an investigation of a conspiracy to fix the price of liquid
crystal display panels that resulted in criminal convictions of
eight companies, including AU Optronics Corp., the largest
Taiwanese producer of LCD panels.  ‘Criminal Cartels’  “The Republican approach has tended to focus on criminal
cartels,” Foer said. “There’s a lot more variety of cases now
than one would have seen in the Bush administration.”  “I don’t know if they would have brought a beer case,”
said Foer, whose group published a paper skeptical of consumer
benefits from the AB InBev-Modelo combination.  The  Justice Department  argues in its lawsuit that AB
InBev’s proposed acquisition of Modelo would probably result in
higher prices for U.S. beer buyers.  AB InBev in a statement on Jan. 31 called the filing
“inconsistent with the law” and said it will contest the
department’s allegations in court.  The other antitrust cases now being litigated include
Bazaarvoice Inc.’s proposed acquisition of PowerReviews Inc. and
electronic book pricing agreements involving Apple Inc. and
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit.  Pricing Agreements  The Justice Department also is challenging most-favored-
nation hospital pricing agreements involving Blue Cross Blue
Shield of  Michigan , alleged inflation of swipe fees charged to
merchants who use the American Express Co. payment network and
an alleged agreement by  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  not to hire people working for
Intuit Inc.  In addition, the Justice Department and  New York  state
Attorney General have sued a joint venture formed by Coach USA
Inc. and City Sights LLC alleging that the entity, known as Twin
America LLC, has reduced competition and led to higher prices in
the New York City tour-bus market.  All seven of the lawsuits are still in pretrial
proceedings. Only one case brought by the Obama administration
has been tried, according to the Justice Department.  In that case, U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell in October
2011 ruled H&R Block Inc.’s acquisition of 2SS Holdings Inc.,
violated antitrust laws, killing its proposed $287.5 million
purchase of the maker of TaxAct products.  Two months later, AT&T Inc. announced the end of its
$39 billion bid to buy T-Mobile USA Inc. following a lawsuit by
the Justice Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  