-- Macquarie Falls After Profit Forecast Disappoints: Sydney Mover
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-05T06:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/macquarie-says-full-year-profit-may-rise-10-on-market-revival.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s
biggest investment bank, fell the most in almost nine months
after forecasting full-year earnings below analyst estimates.  The  stock  dropped 4.1 percent, the biggest decline since
May 7, to close at $A37.16 after the Sydney-based bank cut the
outlook for its fixed-income, currency and commodity trading
business. The decline pared its six-month  advance  to 48 percent.  Full-year earnings will rise about 10 percent as improved
market conditions boost dealmaking, Macquarie said today. Chief
Executive Officer  Nicholas Moore , who joined banks including  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in cutting jobs as trading and
merger fees dwindled, has steered the bank toward more stable
businesses such as lending, leasing and fund management.  Given that Macquarie’s shares have “run strongly in recent
months, some near-term share price weakness is likely,”
Deutsche Bank AG analysts led by James Freeman said in a note to
investors after the announcement.  Net income will rise to about A$803 million ($838 million)
for the year ending March 31 from an eight-year low of A$730
million a year earlier, Bloomberg calculations based on the
company’s forecast show. Macquarie was expected to post full-
year adjusted earnings of A$838.5 million, according to the
median of 12 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Be Conservative  The bank’s forecast for  profit growth  is subject to market
conditions, the completion of transactions, and impairment
testing, Macquarie said in a regulatory filing today. A greater
than 10 percent increase in profit is probable if improved
 market conditions  persist, the bank said. It is scheduled to
report full-year earnings on May 3.  “Macquarie would want to be conservative at this stage,”
said  Angus Gluskie , managing director at Sydney-based White
Funds management, which oversees more than $350 million
including Macquarie shares. “There is no point projecting a big
uplift in earnings at this time.”  Macquarie said full-year profit at its fixed-income,
commodity and currency trading  unit  will probably be broadly in
line with a year earlier, compared with expectations for a rise
in October.  It still expects the fund management, banking, securities
trading and investment banking operations to report higher full-
year earnings. The corporate and asset finance business, which
ranges from aircraft leasing to auto lending, will probably be
in line with a year earlier, it said.  Improving Signs  “Since our result announcement for the first half of the
2013 financial year, market conditions have shown some signs of
improvement, however client activity remains subdued for  capital
markets  facing businesses,” Moore said in the statement.  Global investment banks are seeing a return to profit
growth as trading income climbs.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, said on Jan. 16 that fourth-
quarter earnings more than tripled to $5.60 a share, helped by a
 stock-market rebound . The result surpassed even the highest
estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Macquarie said its cash equities business remained
marginally profitable with expenses declining while deal
activity was picking up at its investment bank.  The company’s investment-banking fees reached a two-year
high of $174 million in the last three months of 2012, according
to New York-based consultant Freeman & Co.  Macquarie has been shrinking its equity trading and
investment banking units to concentrate on businesses such as
corporate lending, aircraft leasing, automobile financing and
 fund management .  It had 13,549  employees  on Dec. 31, down 1,079 from a year
earlier, company statements show. Operating expenses fell 10
percent last quarter from a year earlier, the bank said.  Macquarie, regulated by Australia’s banking watchdog, had
A$3.3 billion in  capital surplus  above minimum requirements on
Dec. 31. It expects its  tax rate  to rise to more than 30 percent
in the year ending March from 28 percent a year earlier due to
the strength of its U.S. business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  