-- Taiwan Dollar Advances Most Since September on Recovery Optimism
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-02-04T08:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/taiwan-dollar-advances-most-since-september-on-recovery-optimism.html
Taiwan ’s dollar rose the most since
September and bonds dropped after data from the U.S. and China
signaled a global economic recovery is gathering pace, boosting
demand for riskier assets.  The currency snapped a three-day loss as exchange figures
showed global funds bought $273 million more Taiwanese stocks
than they sold today. U.S. payrolls rose by 157,000 in January,
according to a Feb. 1 official report. China’s services
industries grew the most since August last month, according to
government data yesterday. Taiwan will appoint central bank
Governor Perng Fai-nan to a fourth five-year term, Fan-Chiang
Tai-chi, a presidential office spokesman, said last week.  “Risk-taking sentiment is prevailing as the  U.S. economy 
continues to improve,” said Sam Chang, a fixed-income trader at
Yuanta Securities Co. in Taipei. “Perng will probably continue
his policy of stable  interest rates  and exchange rates in his
new term.”  The  Taiwan dollar  rose 0.3 percent to NT$29.58 against its
U.S. counterpart in Taipei, the biggest gain since Sept. 14,
according to Taipei Forex Inc. It reached NT$29.70 on Jan. 29,
the weakest level in more than four months.  The central bank has sold the local currency near the close
on most days in the past 10 months, according to traders who
asked not to be identified. Under Perng’s 15 years at the helm,
the Taiwan dollar gained about 11 percent against its U.S.
counterpart, compared with a 22 percent appreciation in the
Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia  Dollar Index , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  China Data  China’s non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index rose
to 56.2 in January from 56.1 in December, the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
& Purchasing said in a statement yesterday. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a gauge
of expected swings used to price options, dropped 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 4.4 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 0.875 percent bonds due January 2018 rose
one basis point to 0.91 percent, the highest level in four weeks,
according to Gretai Securities Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  