-- Manchester City Draws 2-2 With Liverpool; Spurs Beat West Brom
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-02-04T00:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/manchester-city-draws-2-2-with-liverpool-spurs-beat-west-brom.html
Manchester City salvaged a 2-2 home
draw with Liverpool to leave the defending champion nine points
behind Premier League soccer leader Manchester United. Tottenham
won 1-0 at 10-man West Brom.  Edin Dzeko opened the scoring for City yesterday before
 Daniel Sturridge  and  Steven Gerrard  put Liverpool ahead.  Sergio Aguero  scored from a tight angle with 12 minutes remaining after
 Pepe Reina  rushed out of his goal.  “We didn’t play well,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  said
in an interview with Sky Sports. “We were so nervous, I don’t
know why. But 13 games to the end is a long way. It’s not over
yet. I think we can recover nine points.”  Manchester United has 62 points atop the standings with
City on 53 and Chelsea 46. Fourth-place Tottenham moved to 45
points after Gareth Bale’s 67th-minute goal secured the win at
West Brom, which had Goran Popov red-carded. Liverpool and West
Brom are seventh and ninth, respectively.  City started strongly at Etihad Stadium and Reina had to
knock the ball over from  David Silva ’s shot. Sturridge then had
a chance at the other end but was blocked by  Pablo Zabaleta .  City, which sold  Mario Balotelli  to AC Milan last week,
took the lead through Dzeko in the 23rd minute. James Milner
crossed from the left for the striker to score from close range.  Former City player Sturridge was prominent in the Reds’
attacks and he tied it six minutes later, firing past goalkeeper
 Joe Hart  from outside the penalty area for his fourth goal in
six games since joining from Chelsea. The goal was met with
protests as the home team was unhappy that Liverpool had played
on when Dzeko was down injured after  Daniel Agger ’s tackle.  Gerrard Strikes  Just before halftime, Zabaleta was involved in a mix-up
with Hart and narrowly avoided scoring an own goal as the Reds’
approach work stretched the home team.  Visiting captain Gerrard put Liverpool ahead in the 73rd
minute, chesting the ball down before slamming a long-range shot
across Hart and into the net.  Aguero made it 2-2 five minutes later, scoring from an
acute angle after Reina rushed far out to the side of his goal,
leaving the net unguarded.  Sturridge almost scored in the closing seconds, forcing
Hart into a save as City held on for a point.  Bale Threat  At the Hawthorns, Bale came closest to breaking the first-
half deadlock when West Brom goalkeeper  Ben Foster  tipped his
shot over. Spurs lost Jermain Defoe because of an ankle injury
before the interval and the striker will miss England’s
exhibition match against Brazil in two days.  Just after halftime, Popov was red-carded when he spat in
the direction of Tottenham’s  Kyle Walker  after the pair
confronted each other. The visiting team then began to dominate
possession and Bale scored with 23 minutes left, slamming a
left-foot shot into the net from just outside the penalty area.  “Other results went our way yesterday and that gave us a
big chance to capitalize,” Bale told Sky Sports after scoring
his 11th league goal this season. “Thankfully we did.”  West Brom manager Steve Clarke said the sending off was the
turning point of the match.  “I’m absolutely disgusted with Goran’s behavior,” Clarke
told reporters. “One of the group has let the players down. It
changed the whole complexion of the game.”  Two days ago,  Manchester United  won 1-0 at Fulham, Arsenal
beat Stoke 1-0 and Chelsea lost 3-2 at Newcastle. Everton and
Aston Villa drew 3-3, while Wigan and Southampton tied 2-2.
Reading beat Sunderland 2-1, West Ham had a 1-0 victory against
Swansea and last-place Queens Park Rangers drew 0-0 with Norwich.  QPR has 17 points, four behind Aston Villa and Wigan in the
other relegation positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  