-- Hang Seng on Balance Volume Signals Fall: Technical Analysis
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-02-04T00:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/hang-seng-on-balance-volume-signals-fall-technical-analysis.html
The  Hang Seng Index (HSI) ’s longest winning
streak in 2 1/2 years may falter as a technical  indicator  shows
last month’s surge in stock prices isn’t being matched by a
similar increase in volumes.  The on-balance volume for the world’s fourth-biggest equity
market declined last week while the Hang Seng rose 0.6 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On-balance volume,
developed by Joseph Granville, shows whether volume is going
into or is being withdrawn from a security. Granville is a
technical analyst who has been publishing the Granville Market
Letter from  Kansas City ,  Missouri , for about 50 years.  “This shows us the upward momentum of the market has
weakened and the probability of a significant drop has
increased,” Muhammad Alfatih, a technical analyst at Jakarta-
based brokerage PT Samuel Sekuritas  Indonesia , said in a phone
interview. The  Hang Seng  may drop 7.3 percent within the next
month to the index’s next support level at 22,000, close to the
current 100-day moving average, he said.  On-balance volume is calculated by comparing the change
from the previous day and adding or subtracting the volume based
on the direction of the change. If the closing level is higher
on a given day, the total daily volume is added to the previous
day period. If the closing level is lower than the previous day,
the total daily volume is subtracted.  On-balance volume on the Hang Seng Index fell to minus 863
million on Feb. 1 from 2.34 billion on Jan. 25, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg starting Dec. 3.  The Hang Seng retreated through the final two trading days
of last week as an official report showed  China ’s manufacturing
expanded at a slower pace in January, missing economists’
estimates. The gauge climbed 4.7 percent last month, its fifth
monthly advance and the longest such streak since July 2009.  Investors have poured $39 billion into equity mutual funds
around the world this year, more than double the amount for the
comparable period in 2012, according to data from Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  