-- Anglo American Platinum Posts Loss on Strikes, Surging Costs
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-02-04T15:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/anglo-american-platinum-posts-loss-on-strikes-surging-costs.html
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the
biggest producer of the metal, reported a loss for 2012 and
continues to suspend its dividend as sales of refined platinum
fell and cash operating costs rose.  Anglo American Platinum had a so-called headline loss
excluding one-time items of 1.47 billion rand ($166 million), or
5.62 rand a share, from a profit of 3.57 billion rand, or 13.65
rand a share, the Johannesburg-based company said in a statement
today. The average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a loss of 5.59 rand a share. The company last
year skipped its interim dividend.  The company, controlled by  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and known as
Amplats, last month proposed to shut four mine shafts to curb
costs and stem losses spurred by a two-month strike last year.
The plan, which would cut about 7 percent of global output, was
put on hold following criticism from the South African
government. The postponement allows for talks with the
Department of Mineral Resources and unions.  “We need to take action to turn this business around,”
Chief Executive Officer Chris Griffith said on a conference call
today. “Primary supply challenges will continue in 2013.”  Local analysts use headline earnings as the  benchmark 
measure of company performance. Amplats reported an attributable
loss of 6.68 billion rand compared with a profit of 3.59 billion
rand. Cash operating costs increased 21 percent to 16,364 rand
per refined ounce, it said.  Output Drop  Refined platinum production at its operations declined 8.8
percent to 1.77 million ounces, while total platinum group
metals output fell 6.7 percent to 3.5 million ounces.  “It is a very difficult time for the company,” Ryan Wibberley, a trader at Investec Asset Management, said by phone
from Cape Town. “It is disappointing not to see a dividend,
although it isn’t a surprise.”  The shares were  little changed , closing 0.1 percent lower
at 447.55 rand in Johannesburg.  Part of Amplats’s restructuring proposal included the sale
of the Union operation. The company has received expressions of
interest for the mine as well as for Pandora, Griffith said.  Debt at Amplats, which has 12 billion rand in undrawn
committed credit facilities, rose by 7 billion rand last year
and should start to decline from 2014, Finance Director Bongani Nqwababa said.  “We get preferential rates on our credit lines of around 6
percent,” Nqwababa said in a telephone interview. “It’s
unlikely we’ll go to the debt capital market.”  Anglo American will report an underlying loss in respect of
Amplats of $225 million for the year through December, it said
in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  