-- Hannover Re Says Full-Year Earnings to Remain Little Changed
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-02-04T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/hannover-re-says-full-year-earnings-to-remain-little-changed.html
Hannover Re, the world’s fourth-
biggest reinsurer, said it expects earnings to remain little
changed this year as tougher competition weighs on growth rates.  “Market conditions are increasingly competitive,” Chief
Executive Officer  Ulrich Wallin  told reporters at the Hanover,
Germany-based company’s headquarters on Feb. 1, when reiterating
a profit target for this year. “As the results of the January
renewal rounds are satisfying, we expect a good financial year
in non-life reinsurance.”  The reinsurer forecasts full-year profit to reach about 800
million euros ($1.1 billion) this year, little changed from a
target set for 2012. Global losses from natural catastrophes
were cut in half in 2012, according to an estimate published by
Munich Re, helping bolster earnings at insurers and reinsurers
who help them shoulder risks for clients.  Hannover Re shares have climbed 47 percent over the past
year, valuing the company at 7.2 billion euros.  Natural catastrophes caused $160 billion in losses and $65
billion in global insured losses in 2012, down from $400 billion
and $119 billion, respectively, in the previous year, according
to Munich Re, the world’s largest reinsurer.  Hannover Re (HNR1)  said it increased its budget for major losses
in 2013 by 65 million euros, reflecting higher premium volumes
in non-life reinsurance. Premiums renewed in January rose 1
percent, with the “moderate” increase reflecting
“significantly more intense competition,” it said.  About two-thirds of the property and casualty reinsurance
contracts of carriers such as Munich Re, Swiss Re Ltd. and
Hannover Re are typically up for renewal in January. The
remainder is renewed in April and July.  Munich Re is scheduled to report preliminary 2012 figures
on Feb. 5 before markets open in  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  