-- Argentine Markets Freeze Prices for 60-Days Amid 26% Inflation
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-04T20:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/argentine-markets-freeze-prices-for-60-days-amid-26-inflation.html
Argentine supermarkets, including
local units of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Carrefour SA (CA)  and  Cencosud
SA (CENCOSUD)  agreed to freeze prices for 60 days amid inflation that
accelerated last year to the highest in the hemisphere.  The United Supermarkets Association agreed to keep prices
unchanged in their stores until April 1 during a meeting today
with Interior Trade Secretary Guillermo Moreno in Buenos Aires,
according to a statement from the Argentine Chamber of Commerce.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has defended her
government’s official data that shows consumer prices rose 10.8
percent last year compared with private estimates of 25.6
percent. The government’s alleged underreporting of inflation,
which began under Fernandez’s predecessor and husband,  Nestor Kirchner , prompted the  International Monetary Fund  to censure
the South American nation on Feb. 1 for the first time in the
Washington-based organization’s history.  “They’re trying to hold down inflation, but we’ll see what
happens once the agreement ends,” said Susana Andrada, director
of Buenos Aires-based consumer watchdog Center for Consumer
Education in a telephone interview. “They may be able to
control prices of 300 goods, but then we may face some shortages
as retailers keep goods off the shelves.”  IMF Censure  Fernandez has used price freezes as recently as two years
ago to try to keep prices stable, a policy that hasn’t worked
and that led to some shortages in the past, according to
Andrada. Argentines see prices rising 30 percent over the next
12 months, according to a poll released Jan. 16 by Torcuato Di
Tella University.  While the IMF’s censuring of  Argentina  won’t have an
immediate effect, it takes the country a step closer to
sanctions that include expulsion. In response to the censure,
Argentina said that a nationwide inflation index will be
unveiled in the fourth quarter of this year.  Opposition lawmakers, who began to release private
estimates to protect economists from fines for calculating their
own indexes in May 2011, are scheduled to release January’s
inflation on Feb. 14.  Andrada said that consumers foresee higher prices given the
drop of the peso in the parallel market where Argentines turn to
purchase foreign currency when they can’t get approval to buy
dollars at the official rate.  While the official rate for the peso fell 13 percent in the
past 12 months to 4.9818 per dollar, the currency in the blue
chip-swap, an operation used to buy and swap assets traded in
Argentine pesos and U.S. dollars, has weakened 40 percent to
7.8043 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  