-- Harmony Gold Profit Climbs as Costs Decline, Prices Increase
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-02-04T15:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/harmony-gold-profit-climbs-as-costs-decline-prices-increase.html
Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) ,  Africa ’s
third-largest producer, said profit rose 28 percent as costs
dropped and prices received for the metal climbed even as its
biggest operation was shut due to strikes. The stock rallied.  Earnings excluding one-time items advanced to 680 million
rand ($77 million), or 1.58 rand a share, in the quarter through
December from 529 million rand, or 1.23 rand a share, in the
prior three months, the Johannesburg-based company said in a
statement today. The average estimate of five analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was for earnings of 1.05 rand a share.  Gold output dropped 9 percent in the December quarter from
the previous three months because of work stoppages and violence
at Harmony’s Kusasalethu mine, its largest. The operation, which
is in Carletonville,  South Africa , has been shut since then for
safety, and Harmony has until March 7 to complete a review with
unions that may lead to the mine’s closure.  “It’s very difficult not to agree to law and order and
safety no matter what side of the fence you are on,” Chief
Executive Officer Graham Briggs said on a call today. The
agreement Harmony and labor unions are working on should allow
for “lasting and sustainable engagement,” he said.  Harmony  rallied  7.7 percent, the most in almost 18 months,
to 61.80 rand by the close in Johannesburg.  Kusasalethu Agreement  About 6,000 workers including contractors at the mine could
lose their jobs, the company said in a Jan. 7 statement. About
200 employees will perform maintenance on the mine during a 60-
day review process that may lead to the closure of Kusasalethu.  Briggs said the pact it’s negotiating with workers will
allow for greater union involvement. “If a particular union
wants to engage with us, then we have a mechanism which is going
to be sustainable and avoid crisis we’ve had in labor,” he
said.  Illegal meetings and marches by the Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union, or AMCU, whose
representatives have been reluctant to negotiate with the
company, contributed to unrest that kept Kusasalethu closed,
Briggs said last month.  The AMCU now represents 62 percent of employees at the
operation, while the  National Union of Mineworkers  represents 28
percent, Briggs said last month, citing figures that are in the
process of being verified.  AngloGold Split  John Paulson , a billionaire whose hedge fund is the largest
shareholder of  AngloGold Ashanti (AGL) , on Feb. 1 said Africa’s
largest producer of the metal might increase in value if it were
to split its South African operations from international assets.  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the world’s fourth-biggest producer of
the metal, last year announced a spin off most of its South
African mines, to be listed as a separate company, Sibanye Gold.  “We can operate in this environment,” Briggs said,
referring to South Africa. “If AngloGold would split into two
that might create some good opportunities for us. When you look
at strategy you have to look at all the options.”  Operating costs dropped 127 million rand, mainly because of
lower summer electricity tariffs, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  