-- Hartford to Buy Back Shares, Repay Debt, After Sandy Loss
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-02-04T23:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/hartford-financial-posts-46-million-loss-on-superstorm-claims.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the insurer that divested life units, said the company
will buy back shares and reduce debt after posting a fourth-
quarter loss on claims from superstorm Sandy.  The insurer will buy back as much as $500 million in stock
and cut debt by $1 billion, according to a statement today from
Hartford, which is based in the Connecticut city of the same
name. The  net loss  of $46 million, or 13 cents a share, compares
with profit of $118 million, or 23 cents, a year earlier,
Hartford said in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee , 58, is counting on
home, auto and commercial coverage as he narrows the focus of
the firm. He has divested assets including Hartford’s life
insurance, retirement-plans, broker-dealer and individual-
annuities origination units in deals that freed up more than $2
billion in capital.  The sales help with “critical goals for the Hartford,
including paying down debt, returning capital to shareholders
and further strengthening our financial flexibility to take
actions to reduce risk in the legacy annuity liabilities,”
McGee said in the statement.  Hartford said it won approval from state regulators to pay
a $1.2 billion dividend from Connecticut life insurance units to
the parent company. The insurer fell 17 cents to $24.53 at 5:20
p.m. in New York. The firm gained about 28 percent in the past
year.  Hartford’s capital plans will “improve its financial
flexibility modestly in the next couple of years via reduced
debt leverage and improved fixed-charge coverage,” analysts at
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a statement.  ‘Something Drastic’  A year ago, billionaire hedge fund manager  John Paulson 
told McGee on Hartford’s earnings call to “do something
drastic” to improve the company’s share price. Paulson,
Hartford’s largest  shareholder  at the time, urged the CEO to
split the firm into property-casualty and life insurance.  Core earnings, a measure of profit excluding some investing
results and discontinued operations, may be $1.38 billion to
$1.48 billion this year, Hartford said in the statement. That
compares with the average estimate of $1.42 billion in a
Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts.  Full-year profit slumped to $350 million from $712 million
in 2011 as the insurer recorded losses tied to hedges and the
cost of retiring investments made by Allianz SE during the
financial crisis.  Book Value  Sandy cost Hartford $350 million net of reinsurance in the
fourth quarter, reducing profit at the property-casualty
business to $80 million from $137 million.  Hartford paid out 109 cents for claims and expenses for
every premium dollar it took in during the period. Book value, a
measure of assets minus liabilities, fell to $46.59 per share on
Dec. 31 from $48.13 three months earlier  Sales of commercial policies declined as Hartford increased
prices for standard commercial renewal coverage by 9 percent in
the fourth quarter, the insurer said. Sales of auto and
homeowners policies were little changed in the period.  Core earnings in the fourth quarter were 54 cents a share.
Analysts estimated adjusted earnings of 28 cents, the average of
19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  McGee is working to reduce risks tied to variable annuities
as  low interest rates  and stock-market volatility have pressured
results from the retirement products. Hartford said in November
it would offer to pay some clients to give up the contracts.  “The major management actions taken to simplify the
business model around a market-leading P&C franchise and away
from capital-market sensitive businesses should result in
consistent operating results,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts led by Christopher Giovanni said in a Jan. 15 research
note, referring to property-and-casualty coverage. They
 recommended  investors buy the shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  