-- Asiacell Jumps in Baghdad After Biggest Mideast IPO Since 2008
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-02-04T11:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/asiacell-jumps-in-baghdad-after-biggest-mideast-ipo-since-2008.html
Asiacell Communications PJSC (TASC)  jumped
as much as 10 percent on the first day of trading after Qatar
Telecom QSC’s Iraqi unit completed the biggest Middle East
initial share sale since 2008.  The shares rose to 24.2 dinars before paring gains to 23.25
dinars at the close on the  Iraq  Stock Exchange in Baghdad. A
total of 32.9 million shares were traded, according to data from
the bourse.  Asiacell raised 1.49 trillion dinars ($1.3 billion), the
most for an IPO in Iraq and the largest in the Middle East and
North Africa since  Saudi Arabian Mining Co. (MAADEN) ’s share sale more
than four years ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Qatar Telecom raised its stake in Asiacell to 64.06 percent from
60 percent, the company said in a statement today.  “We believe that the Iraqi market is about to enter a
period of rapid broadband and data growth,” Qatar Telecom’s
Chairman Sheikh Abdullah bin Mohammed Al Thani said in the
statement. Asiacell plans 3G and 4G services in Iraq, Managing
Director Faruk Rasool told Dubai-based Al Arabiya TV today.  The share sale helped double the market value of the bourse
from $4.66 billion last year, Taha Ahmed Abdul-Salam al-Rubaye,
the bourse chief executive officer, said last month. Iraq’s two
other main mobile-phone operators,  Zain Iraq (ZAIN) , a unit of  Kuwait ’s
Mobile Telecommunications Co., and Korek Telecom, part-owned by
 France Telecom SA (FTE)  -- must also sell 25 percent of their shares
on the bourse to comply with their licenses.  Foreign Investors  “There is demand for Asiacell shares, and the quantity
that was sold is considered good, knowing that this is the first
session,” Muhammad Mahdi Salih, a broker for al-Abrar brokerage
company, said in an interview in Baghdad.  Foreign investors bought 70 percent of the offering and
Iraqis the remainder, Rabee Securities, the sole organizer of
the IPO, said in a statement yesterday. The IPO, which closed
Feb. 2, was fully subscribed, as the company sold all 67.5
billion shares at a minimum of 22 dinars each.  Sulaymaniyah-based Asiacell obtained a 15-year mobile
telecommunications license in 2007 and had 43 percent market
share by revenue at the end of September, with 9.9 million
individual and corporate subscribers.  The value of Asiacell shares, the only telecommunications
company on the  Baghdad  bourse, is 49.9 percent of the exchange’s
total market capitalization, according to Rabee Securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  