-- Tata Seeks Investors for Clean-Energy Expansion: Corporate India
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2013-02-05T04:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/tata-seeks-investors-for-clean-energy-expansion-corporate-india.html
Tata Power Co. (TPWR) , India’s second-
largest generator, is seeking investors to help its renewables
unit more than double capacity in five years and acquire
projects at home and overseas.  The unit of India’s largest business group, which plans to
spend about 17.5 billion rupees ($328 million) annually, may
also consider selling shares in Tata Power Renewable Energy
Ltd., Rahul Shah, chief of business development at the
generator, said in a telephone interview from Mumbai. The
company plans to build 2,000 megawatts of wind, solar, hydro and
geothermal plants from a total of 852 megawatts last year.  Tata Power, part of the group led by Cyrus Mistry, is
planning to boost clean-energy generation to a fourth of its
capacity as coal prices increase and the costs of alternative
sources decline. A shortage of fossil fuel used in thermal power
projects has prompted  India  to grant incentives to wind and
solar plants to cut chronic blackouts that the government says
shaves about 1.2 percentage points off annual economic growth.  “Even though the profitability of clean energy projects is
still not on a par with thermal energy at the moment, in the
long run, this would be a profitable bet,” said Sitaraman Iyer,
a Mumbai-based analyst with MSFL Research. As the cost of clean-
energy drops, “growing in renewables would make sense for Tata
Power.”  Energy Costs  Tata Power’s  shares , which have fallen 11 percent in the
past year, dropped 0.3 percent to 100 rupees in Mumbai at 9:50
a.m. The benchmark Sensex index has advanced 12 percent in the
trailing 12 months.  The company expects to profit from “acceptability” of
wind and solar generation at a time when the gap between
conventional and  renewable energy  costs is “narrowing
significantly,” Shah said.  Government incentives, such as lower tax rates and cheaper
raw materials, are driving down prices of clean energy and may
help the company attract investors, said Iyer.  The average per-unit cost of wind power in India is now on
a par with coal-fired electricity, Shah said. The cost of solar
power is expected to drop by 10 percent, according to Shah.  Developers’ bids in recent auctions for coal-fired power
stations have ranged from $49 to $78 a megawatt-hour, compared
with tariffs for wind farms of between $66 and $105 a megawatt-
hour, according to Ashish Sethia, India country manager for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Installed Capacity  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the top arranger for renewable-
energy stock offerings last year, forecasts more than $395
billion in annual investments in renewable energy by 2020,
Stuart Bernstein, the Goldman partner overseeing its renewables
unit, said on Jan. 18.  Tata Power, which has 7,700 megawatts of installed
capacity, will expand wind generation by as much as 200
megawatts a year and solar by as much as 50 megawatts a year,
according to Shah. The Mumbai-based company will also bid for
projects overseas, including  South Africa  and the  Middle East ,
adding a total of 2,000 megawatts of clean-energy capacity in
five years, he said.  “Renewable projects are also attractive because these can
be set up in 18 to 20 months compared to the four to five years
it takes to build a thermal plant,” said MSFL’s Iyer.  Tata Power has wind ventures in South Africa, after being
selected in May to build two projects, Shah said. The country’s
auction of renewable-energy capacity also drew  Suzlon Energy
Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s largest wind-turbine maker, in an earlier round.
The company said Feb. 1 it received approval to build a 138-
megawatt project.  Tax Benefit  At home, wind installations topped 3,000 megawatts for the
first time in 2011, a 138 percent increase in two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Those investments were driven by a tax benefit called
accelerated depreciation and a subsidy known as generation-based
incentive, which boosted project returns, helping wind compete
with other forms of energy. The incentives expired on March 31
and the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy is seeking Cabinet
approval for them to be reinstated, according to Joint Secretary
Tarun Kapoor.  Tata Group , which also owns Corus Group and Jaguar  Land
Rover , has invested in geothermal projects in Australia and
 Indonesia  with Sydney-based  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)   Indonesian Coal  Tata Power  reported  a loss of 838 million rupees in the
quarter ended Sept. 30, citing higher costs at its 4,000-
megawatt Mundra power station. To ensure supply for the plant,
the company in 2007 bought 30 percent stakes in two coal mining
units owned by Indonesia’s  PT Bumi Resources. (BUMI)   Tata Power’s unit plans to finance 70 percent of all
project costs with loans and 30 percent with equity from the
parent company, Shah said. It may also consider selling stakes
to financial institutions and companies to raise funds, he said.  The company’s fuel costs have risen 25 percent since the
financial year ended March 2008, while its total debt rose 200
percent in the same period, according to a January  presentation 
to investors on the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  