-- Aurizon Delays Coal Rail Opening on Flood-Damaged Tracks
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-02-04T03:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/aurizon-delays-coal-rail-opening-as-flooding-damages-tracks.html
Aurizon Holdings Ltd.,  Australia ’s
biggest transporter of coal by rail, delayed the opening of two
tracks that carry the fuel for producing power and steel to
Gladstone port in Queensland after floods damaged the system.  The Blackwater rail network, which carries the second-
largest tonnages in Queensland, is expected to reopen by the end
of the week, Mike Carter, the executive vice president of the
Aurizon network, said in an e-mailed statement. The line, which
transports coal to Gladstone, was shut on Jan. 26 and was
forecast to be closed from seven to 10 days, the company said
Jan. 29.  Xstrata Plc, the world’s biggest shipper of thermal coal,
Rio Tinto Group and Yancoal Australia Ltd. said they may miss
shipments because of the network damage. The Moura line will
start to reopen on Feb. 18, with the last section, which serves
the Baralaba mine operated by Cockatoo Coal Ltd., set to open
Feb. 25, Aurizon said. The track was shut on Jan. 25.  “On the Moura system, we have experienced track damage in
a variety of locations, with approximately 3 kilometers (1.9
miles) of full earthworks formation washout between Stirrat-
Clarke and Earlsfield,” Carter said. “Recovery will require
the full replacement of all track and earthworks in these
locations.”  One of two coal-ship loaders at the port of Gladstone
resumed operations on Jan. 27, an e-mailed statement from harbor
authorities said on Jan 29. Kylie Lee, a spokeswoman for
Gladstone Ports Corp., didn’t immediately respond to a phone
message and e-mail seeking comment about stockpiles at the port.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net 
AAL LN <Equity>
COK AU <Equity>
BHP AU <Equity>
RIO AU <Equity>
XTA LN <Equity>
AZJ AU <Equity> 