-- Australia December Home-Building Permits Unexpectedly Fall
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-04T01:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/australian-home-building-permits-unexpectedly-fell-in-december.html
Australian home-building  approvals 
unexpectedly declined for the second time in three months in
December and help-wanted notices dropped, underscoring a weaker
domestic economy.  The number of  permits  granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments fell 4.4 percent from November, when they rose a
revised 3.4 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. Job advertisements dropped for an 11th month in January,
capping the worst skid since the 2009 global recession.  The local currency declined initially as investors edged up
wagers that the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will lower  interest
rates  tomorrow. Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board reduced the
overnight cash-rate target to 3 percent in December, matching a
half-century low, as they try to revive industries including
construction to rebalance economic growth and extend 21
recession-free years.  “Interest rates cuts aren’t getting traction with
potential home owners,” said  Joshua Williamson , a senior
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney who is among a minority
forecasting the RBA will lower borrowing costs tomorrow.
“Households have become less sensitive to interest rates so
we’re calling for further reductions in borrowing costs. The
trend now suggests that employment growth will start to slow.”  Currency Falls  The local dollar traded at $1.0427 at 12:51 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0428 before the release. Traders are pricing in a 21
percent chance the RBA will cut rates to a record-low 2.75
percent tomorrow, according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg,
up from 18 percent before the release.  Job advertisements fell 0.9 percent in January, after
declining a revised 2.8 percent in December, an  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  report showed today.  Australia’s jobless rate rose in December as the nation
posted its worst back-to-back years of job growth since the 1997
Asian financial crisis. Unemployment climbed to 5.4 percent as
the number of workers fell by 5,500 in the month.  The level probably rose to 5.5 percent in January, matching
the highest since April 2010, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of the government’s monthly
employment report Feb. 7.  Home-loan growth in December dropped to the weakest annual
pace since records began in 1977, central bank data showed Jan.
31.  The central bank lowered rates by 1.75 percentage points
between November 2011 and December last year.  Building approvals in December advanced 9.3 percent from a
year earlier, today’s report showed. That compares with
economists’ forecast for a 14.9 percent rise year-over-year.  Approvals to build private houses fell 3.3 percent to 7,213
in December from the previous month, the report showed.
Approvals for apartments and renovations declined 5.4 percent to
5,347.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  