-- Baby Boomers Sicker Than Parents’ Generation, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-02-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-04/baby-boomers-sicker-than-parents-generation-study-finds.html
Baby boomers  have more chronic
illness and disability than their parents, as their sedentary
habits and expanding girth offset the modern medicine that
enables them to live longer, a study said.  Baby boomers, the 78 million Americans born from 1946
through 1964, engage in less physical activity, are more
overweight and have higher rates of hypertension and high
cholesterol, according to a study released yesterday in  JAMA
Internal Medicine .  The study, among the first to compare the generations,
shows that baby boomers aren’t as healthy and active as most
would believe, said  Dana E. King , the lead author. They become
sicker earlier in life than the previous generation, are more
limited in what they can do at work and are more likely to need
the use of a cane or walker, the research found.  “The results of this study say you become sicker sooner
and you are burdened with chronic disease and are taking
medications yet you live longer,” King, a professor of family
medicine at West Virginia University School of Medicine in
Morgantown, said in a Feb. 1 telephone interview. “We are not
as healthy as we think. There needs to be a new emphasis and
continued attention to programs to improve healthy lifestyles in
this age group.”  Researchers in the study analyzed data from the U.S.
 National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys  from 2007 to
2010, looking at baby boomers, and from 1988 to 1994, evaluating
the previous generation. They focused on people ages 46 to 64
years during the survey periods. The researchers compared the
two groups’ lifestyle, health status, presence of chronic
disease and disability.  Physical Fitness  Almost 40 percent of the boomers are obese, compared with
29 percent a generation ago. Fifty-two percent said they got no
regular physical activity versus 17 percent of their parents,
according to the study.  The results are a “wake-up call,” said Susan Reinhard,
senior vice president of  AARP’s Public Policy Institute  in
 Washington .  “We have to cherish the longevity we’ve been given as a
gift,”  she  said in a telephone interview. “We have to fight to
live well not just live long. We’d like to believe that 60 is
the new 40, but you can’t be that 40-something if you are just
sitting on the couch.”  The  mortality rate  of those age 59 in 2005, the leading
edge of the baby boom, was 14 percent lower than 59-year-olds in
1997, according to a previous study cited by the authors.  Chronic Disease  While fewer baby boomers were smoking or had emphysema than
their parents’ generation, more had high  blood pressure  and high
cholesterol and were taking medicines to treat those conditions,
according to the study. Reinhard said the cholesterol finding
may be skewed because doctors didn’t routinely test for
cholesterol 20 years ago.  King said more studies are needed to find how to improve
the health of the boomers. Previous generations grew up in a
time with fewer electronics and labor-saving devices, and walked
or rode bikes more regularly.  “Do we need more availability of fitness classes at work,
do we need more bicycle lanes in more cities,” he said. “What
is the most effective way? We don’t have the answer to that
question to both motivate and make an impact on the healthy
lifestyle profile of this generation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  